RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE HAPPY NEW YEAR 1938 Vol. XXV JANUARY, 1938 No. 1 Start the New Year Right! Buy a new "Caterpillar" Tractor for agricultural purposes—or for road work in cities or counties and you will never be sorry. Most successful cities and counties own "Caterpillar'' Tractors and road machinery for road building and maintaining purposes. The prosperous farmer is the "Caterpillar'' Farmer! Write for literature—we'll be glad to send it. LANDES TRACTOR & EQUIPMENT CO. Distributors 245 West South Temple Street—Salt Lake City, Utah Remodel Your Home Without Mortgaging It! Do it With Small Monthly Payments Call Us for Detailed Information SUGAR HOUSE LUMBER AND HARDWARE CO. Phone Hyland 555 M. O. Ashton, Mer. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Fun For Breakfast A Gleam of pleasure in the morning is just as important as proper nourishment. Food eaten with real enjoyment does you more good. Serve Breakfast that refreshes your disposition, jogs up your spirits, brightens up your morning. Come to our stores for happy breakfast ideas. 0. P SKAGGS Efficient Service FOOD System STORES "A Surety of Purity" $20,000.00 ON DECEMBER 31, 1937 DESERET FEDERAL SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION 44 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah Nephi L. Morris, President J. E. Kjar, Secretary PREPARE NOW FOR WINTER BLUE BLAZE HEAT BE BEAT BLUE BLAZE COAL CO. 1102 Walker Bank Bdlg. Salt Lake City, Utah Arden RED CAP Milk FINE FLAVOR AND EXTRA QUALITY Call Wasatch 80 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine yy / THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXV JANUARY, 1938 No. 1
CONTENTS
To Mary Kimball.....................................Claire Stewart Boyer 1 Frontispiece—Mary Connelly Kimball.......................................... 2 Mary Connelly Kimball............................May Booth Talmage 3 Mary..................................................Annie Wells Cannon 6 Excerpts from Editorials.............................Mary C. Kimball 6 We Resolve...........................................Myrtle Wentworth 7 Address...............................................Heber J. Grant 12 To President Heber J. Grant..........................Gladys Quayle 15 President Grant in Holland and Scandinavia............Ramona W. Cannon 16 No Beauty Is.........................................Anna Prince Redd 18 Ingenious Jane......................................Lottie Hammer Singley 20 Utah State Conference of Social Work.................................... 25 Social Work In An Age of Change.....................Arthur L. Beeley 26 Good Health and Nutrition...........................Jean Cox 29 Memorial on the Plains..............................Vesta Pierce Crawford 32 The Children's Reading..............................Florence Ivins Hyde 33 The Lotus Eater.....................................Mabel S. Harmer 35 Roses With Our Bread................................La Rene King Bleecker 38 Martha McChesney Berry..............................George Gardiner 42 Appreciation........................................Valerie Peck 46 "If There's Ever A Time"............................Roberta Flake Clayton 47 Happenings..........................................Annie Wells Cannon 48 Notes To The Field..................................................... 49 Notes From The Field................................Julia A. F. Lund 51 Editorials: Greetings.................................................. 54 1938 Ahead............................................................ 55 The 1937 American Girl................................................ 56 Erratum............................................................... 56 Music Department—Mendelssohn.......................Beatrice F. Stevens 57 Lesson Department..................................................... 59
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 980
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
"Everything to Furnish the Home"
THE GREATEST VARIETY AND LARGEST STOCK OF
Living Room, Dining Room and Bedroom Furniture in the Intermountain Territory
400 Suites to Choose From
Granite Furniture Co. Out of the High Rent District
The Home of THE ROUND OAK RANGE AND AMERICAN BEAUTY WASHER
Quality and Service Come First—We Deliver Everywhere
MURRAY SUGAR HOUSE PROVO
PEERLESS LAUNDRY
Complete Laundry Service
Snow White Clothes
A New Venture in Home Industry
Mormon Handicraft
Your patronage will bring employment and added income to many of our own people. A handmade article has a peculiar dignity. It is individually designed and created. Beautiful handmade articles at attractive prices at
MORMON HANDICRAFT Bureau of Information, Temple Square
Open every day from Monday to Saturday 9:30 A. M. To 5 P. M.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
1184 East 21st South Hyland 2182
FISHER'S VITAMIN D BREAD Book Store
The Deseret Book Company is YOUR book store, established to serve you. We are especially qualified to supply your needs in the following lines:
@ Church publications Supply special energy food. For @ Paper, pencils, and other supplies radiant vitality serve it abundantly at every meal @ Books for general reading @ Personalized greeting cards Buy it from your grocer
We specialize in serving by mail. A product of the
DESERET BOOK American Lady Baking Company COMPANY "FOUR WAYS BETTER" 44 East South Temple 29 Bishop's Building
TOO HOT FOR ME!
BE SURE YOU RECEIVE THE ONE AND ONLY GENUINE
UTAH SPRING CANYON COAL
1—Starts Quicker. 2—Burns Longer. 3—Less Soot. 4—Less Ash
"ASK YOUR DEALER"
Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty
Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders
Temple and Burial Clothes
Variety of Grades and Prices
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY
Open Daily—9 A. M. To 5 P. M.
Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Is your best and most economical heating fuel. There is no Substitute for Quality
The Big Home-Owned Bakery Telephone Wasatch 3286
@ Supplementary teaching aids @ Gifts for all occasions
Get acquainted with our many services.
TO MARY KIMBALL By Claire Stewart Boyer
"Blessed are the meek," I read, "For they shall inherit the earth," "Blessed have you been," I said, "For gentleness gave you birth; And through the years humility Has graced your unfaltering way— Moonlight to your ability, And art to the words you say;
"Blessed are they that nobly bear, From out the celestial sphere, Essence that all of us can share— A boon to the now and here! Your meekness is an aureole, Divine credential of your soul."
MARY CONNELLY KIMBALL
The Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XXV JANUARY, 1938 No. 1
Mary Connelly Kimball By May Booth Talmage
THE glorious life mission of Mary Connelly Kimball closed on Wednesday, November 24, 1937, after a little more than three score years spent in the field. Her Honorable Release bore the signature of the Great Master, and her lovely spirit was permitted to go home—home to the God who gave it; home to the mother who bore her in the flesh; home to the husband, blessed and beloved, to whom she was joined in holy matrimony not "until death doth you part," but for "Time and for all Eternity."
Perhaps to none save those who have served as missionaries in our Church, can the words "Honorable Release" convey their full significance. To finish one's mission with honor is to achieve the highest ambition of any missionary who accepts the responsibility of his assignment as a sacred trust. Those who know Mary Kimball best, know full well that to her life's mission was no less sacred. Her conception of the meaning and purpose of life was clearly conveyed in an article she wrote entitled "Work," published in Volume 12 of The Young Women's Journal, the closing quotations of which run thus:
"We are not here to play, to dream, to drift, There is hard work to do, and hands to lift. Shun not the struggle, face it, 'Tis God's gift."
"Arise, therefore, and be doing, and the Lord be with thee."
Throughout the years, Mary's life has exemplified the dominant thought here expressed. There has ever pulsed through her veins the desire to do more than her share of the world's work, to help lift the loads of others, to accept life's struggles as a veritable gift from God. We who are left with aching hearts and tear dimmed eyes, as Saints in foreign lands are left when times of parting come, still can rejoice that another mission is completed gloriously and honorably.
IN writing of Mary my purpose is not to write a biographical sketch, but to pay a heart tribute to one whose friendship has been one of life's choicest gifts. May I paraphrase my own words written to our beloved Dr. Karl G. Maeser: Gladly would we lay at the altar of her memory a tribute worthy of the theme, but there are
4
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"thoughts that lie too deep for tears" or words. My association with Mary Connelly Kimball has been of the closest for upward of two score years. It began when she came as a girl with the Mutual officers of the 21st Ward to attend the first course in guide work offered by the General Board to the stake and ward officers of the old Salt Lake Stake. What a help and an inspiration she was at that early age, with her brilliant mind, her spirituality and her willingness to contribute to the fine discussions of that pioneer work! Her qualities of leadership, plainly evident then, developed continuously until the time came when one felt she belonged to that company of great ones whom Carlyle designated as "living light-fountains which it is good and pleasant to be near. The light which enlightens.... Not as a kindled lamp only, but rather as a natural luminary shining by the gift of Heaven; a flowing light-fountain, as I say, of native and original insight,.... In whose radiance all souls feel that it is well with them."
HOW blessed were Mary's friends whose privilege it was to be often within the radiance of her presence! My admiration deepened for her splendid mentality through many years together on the General Board of Y. W. M. I. A. Her work on this board was done with a painstaking thoroughness that left need neither for explanation nor excuse. She was never one to shirk the long and arduous journeys to conventions nor to complain of the hardships ofttimes attendant. She had the rare gift of tact and sympathetic understanding which put any hostess at her ease. Her attendance at conventions was eagerly sought, both because of the uplift of her pleasing personality and the satisfaction her efficient help afforded to the workers who were hungry for the riches of her well stored mind. This long training through ward, stake and general associations, proved a fitting preparation for the work on the General Board of the parent woman's organization—the Relief Society. In both the Y. W. M. I. A. and Relief Society groups she was the capable, efficient editor of their respective magazines, yet shared to the fullest the regular arduous activities of these international governing boards.
DURING the years of teaching in the district and high schools of Salt Lake City, she adorned her profession and was not alone admired and respected by her co-workers but won the affection of all who were fortunate enough to be her pupils. In addition to these positions of responsibility and trust, Mary found time for things purely social and cultural. As a valued and valuable member of the Ensign and the Authors' Clubs her contributions to each were unexcelled, and her charming hospitality proved another evidence of her versatile and abundant gifts. In the language of one great writer concerning another, "One wonders just what she might not have been or done had occasion required."
ONE hesitates to express a choice as to which of her talents stood first. Surely to win the love of those in the school room—and to become eminent in an honored profession is no mean ac-
MARY CONNELLY KIMBALL
5
complishment. To be "adored" by girls and women in all departments of our Church organizations and to influence them to strive for splendid womanhood is an achievement greatly to be desired. To sway the hearts of young and old by tongue and pen to righteous living, is a precious gift vouchsafed to few. Yet, great as were all these gifts and talents, it was not for these that my deepest love went out to my friend. Her outstanding attribute was her absolute faith in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, as evidenced by her unswerving adherence to, and observance of the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. Her almost unparalleled affection for and devotion to her mother during the latter's lifetime endeared her to all. Their beautiful companionship was the embodiment of one's highest ideals, and furnished a masterpiece to hang in the gallery of one's memory. To her father she was ever the unselfish, considerate, intelligent daughter that made her companionship with him the joy of his life as he is often wont to say. She evidenced always unusual tenderness and strong affection for children in general and for Agnes in particular. The beautiful romance that surrounded her courtship and marriage, rather late in life brought a warm glow to many hearts. The esteem and affection existing between the two seemed almost akin to worship during the all too short period before her distinguished husband received his final call. The courage and fortitude Mary showed through the severe ordeals of parting with her mother and her husband were truly heroic.
LOYAL and devoted to her friends, she was literally as "true as steel." How often during the years has she brightened my home with blossoms from her lovely garden, or by a radiant smile or word of cheer left uplift and encouragement far greater than she knew. One friend said to me, "Since my husband's death I could scarcely have endured my loneliness had it not been for Mary—she calls me every day to learn if all is well." What devotion from one whose busy life made every moment precious! Mary is loved for the joy she took in serving others, for her modest unassuming nature, which testified so strongly of her greatness, of her integrity, her dependability, her tactfulness and of her desire always to say kind and helpful things. One of her last requests was that she be not eulogized. These are but the sincere expressions of a friend whose life has been richly blessed through her companionship.
THE funeral services were as she had wished and planned, unostentatious, yet, with a quiet dignity characteristic of herself. If spirits are permitted to hover near until the final rites are over, I am sure Mary's beauty loving soul rejoiced in the exquisite daintiness of her clothing and in the perfection of the blossoms that bore their silent messages of comfort to her stricken loved ones. The heartfelt tributes expressed by her file leader President Louise Y. Robison, by Dr. Middleton, President Spencer Kimball, Dr. John A. Widtsoe and President Heber J. Grant could not with truth and justice have been less glowing, and yet one marvels that in the span of three score years
6
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
one could have earned encomiums so numerous, and of such high order.
In reading the 23rd Psalm and extending his sympathy and blessing, Bishop Joel Richards showed rare sympathy and appreciation of Mary's worth as a member of his ward.
The beautiful music conveyed its own sweet message of hope and consolation, and when the last strains were heard one could imagine Mary's spirit waving a loving farewell, as with her radiant smile she echoed the Master's words: "In my Father's house are many mansions,... I go to prepare a place for you that where I am ye may be also."
MARY By Annie Wells Cannon
Serene she lay, soft-pillowed in chiffon Sweetly silent, so fair to look upon. The scented charm of flowers expressed Her quiet passing to eternal rest. We wonder if you knew when here How very much we loved you, dear.
EXCERPTS FROM EDITORIALS By Mary C. Kimball
"It is an art to be able to do things in a sweet way."
"Happiness is vital to our well being and while it is affected by outward things, its source is ever within."
"Overcoming is one of the most strengthening tonics man knows."
"A fussy individual can destroy the peace, happiness and well being of any group."
"Hardships are not wholly undesirable. Through overcoming difficulties there comes a courage and fortitude that makes for strong character."
"One of the great battles all have to fight is against selfishness. Those who pay tithing become less selfish, learn to give joyously, and learn to practice thrift and economy."
"There is always satisfaction in a thing done well."
"It is a beautiful thing for the living to think in loving appreciation of the dead. Calling to mind their virtues helps to strengthen the virtues of those who remember."
We Resolve By Myrtle Wentworth
MARGOT stared resentfully; first at the figures in her check book and then at the row of figures she had been juggling back and forth on a sheet of paper. It was no use. No matter what sort of mathematics she used, the result remained inexorably the same. Her account was overdrawn exactly thirty-seven dollars and eighty-two cents and Perry would be dreadfully annoyed. The fact that Christmas, with its attendant expenditures, was in the immediate background would make no difference whatever. She had been given fifty dollars for the holiday "racket", as Perry called it, and had been expected to stay within that amount. She glanced over at the divan where Perry lay peacefully sleeping off the excitement of the New Year's celebration. There was no use asking for a new black lace dinner dress now. The bank statement would be here bright and early in tomorrow's mail and she would get her customary "curtain" lecture and make the usual promises to try and do better in the future. She shrugged her shoulders. Well, there was no need worrying about it. All the figuring in the world couldn't change that balance now, and anyway, Perry was an awfully good sort and would end up by forgiving her with a couple of kisses. She turned the paper over and began amusing herself making some New Year's resolutions. That was the timely thing to be doing and she would make some for Perry too while she was about it.
When she had compiled what she considered an excellent list, she went over to the divan and shook Perry by the shoulders. "Wake up, Lazy," she cried, releasing his shoulders for a more effective grasp of his curly brown locks. He partly opened his eyes and stared at her belligerently. "What for?" He demanded, "Isn't it a holiday and wasn't I up half the night?"
"It is and you were, but that isn't any reason for sleeping all through the day. And by the way, Perry, don't ever again let anyone persuade you to wear a paper cap. Ordinarily you look very intelligent, but—well, paper caps just aren't your style."
"Thanks," yawned Perry, "I'll remember," settling down to slumber again as if the whole matter were closed. But Margot was bent on "high resolve" and was not to be thwarted so easily.
"No, you don't," she cried, seizing the pillow from behind his head. "You are going to wake up and make some New Year's resolutions."
"Let's wait 'till tomorrow."
"No, indeed. 'Never put off 'till tomorrow what you can do today.' I'm glad I thought of that."
"You didn't think of it. Aristotle or Benjamin Franklin or somebody else did."
"I mean I'm glad I thought of adding it to your resolutions."
"My resolutions"? Perry was practically awake by now. "Do you mean to say that you are making New Year's resolutions for me"?
8
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Well—I have some suggestions," Margot admitted. "You may add to them, of course, but I believe that I can give you some extremely good help on the subject."
"Thanks," said Perry, with doubtful enthusiasm, "What about your own?"
"Oh, I have a lovely list made up for myself," Margot answered, her dark eyes sparkling. "Just listen. I resolve to get up one half hour earlier mornings—"
"Hooray," Perry interrupted, adding, "So that my husband will not have to fry his own eggs."
Margot ignored the interruption. "Second—Watch my diet more carefully."
"I trust your resolutions apply to yourself alone."
"Don't be alarmed—they do. You shan't be asked to give up a single piece of pie." Glancing back at her paper, she continued, "To do no more gossiping."
"My dear child, you needn't give up all pleasure. Besides," Perry added irrelevantly, "you're much too pretty to spend your time making resolutions."
"Thanks for the last remark. I'm ignoring the first—I suspect fine irony," and Margot went on, scarcely glancing up from her paper. "To cultivate a more cheerful disposition."
"Good girl," was Perry's enthusiastic comment. "Now, if you'll just add 'To always remember to put the lid back on the toothpaste and not to linger on the telephone when your husband is trying to call you from the office,' we'll say it's an excellent job."
"Done," assented Margot cheerfully. "Now shall we start on yours?"
"I resent your air of 'Now this is really important' and besides, I didn't say that I was making any."
"Oh, but you are. It gives one such a noble feeling to make resolutions. I feel better already. But if you don't want to be bothered, I'll make them and you can keep them." She picked up a clean sheet of paper and started with a flourish, reading each item aloud as she wrote it down.
"First: I resolve to be more careful about letting the dog in the house when Margot has just scrubbed the kitchen floor."
"O. K. And we'll pin a copy up where the dog can see it too."
Margot ignored his facetiousness and went on. "Second: I will not bring anyone home to dinner without phoning about it. At least fifteen minutes in advance."
"But darling—you know I just met—"
"Yes," she interrupted, "I know. You just met Harry Jarvis on the street and he was in town for the day only, and it was three flights by elevator back to the telephone. You've been forgiven for that time and the time before, but remember that for the future, you've resolved to do differently." She drew a deep breath and continued, "I will pick up my own pajamas every morning."
"No fair," shouted Perry, "I have for a week."
"Yes, but I've reminded you."
"Very well, from now on I'm a reformed character. Don't you think that three resolutions are enough at one time?"
"Well," said Margot virtuously, "I made four."
"So you did," assented Perry, picking up her paper. "What's all this?" he asked, as his eye caught the figures on the other side.
"Just my accounts," she answer-
WE RESOLVE
9
ed, reaching for the paper with seeming casualness.
PERRY, who knew from long experience that there was seldom anything very casual about Margot's accounts, hung on to the paper. He stared at the figures for a long time and then asked in steely tones, "Am I right in thinking that you have gone nearly forty dollars over your allowance for last month?"
"I—it looks that way," she admitted in a 'just as well have it out now' tone of voice.
"But didn't we agree—"
"Yes," Margot interrupted, "we did. But Julia sent something at the last minute and I had to spend more money on Adele because it was to do for a wedding present as well and—"
"I know," said Perry wearily, "but it's the same every month. It's really getting serious. If we're ever going to save enough money to buy a home, put the twins through college and do some of the other things we've planned, we'll have to start watching our step right now." He turned the paper back again and glanced idly at Margot's whimsical resolutions and then looked suddenly back again at his pretty dark-haired wife. "How's for chucking these resolutions you've made and taking on just one of my making instead?" he asked.
"Let's hear it," was Margot's non-committal reply.
"Could you possibly resolve to stay within your monthly allowance and then stick to it?"
Margot tossed her head. "Of course I can, and I'll do it providing you match it with one of your own."
"Done," cried Perry. "You make it and I'll keep it, even if it means taking that cold shower daily that you think would be good for my constitution."
"Oh no," laughed Margot. "It's nothing so Spartan as that. It's merely that I would appreciate having you home to dinner on time instead of anywhere from fifteen minutes to three hours late."
"Agreed—and the bargain sealed with a kiss—no, with two kisses," said Perry. "Eight hours is long enough for a man to work anyway."
MARGOT did not find it nearly so easy as she had anticipated to fulfill her end of the bargain. Her bank account had a persistent habit of reaching the disappearing point about a week before the end of the month. It seemed that the shops took a malicious delight in featuring highly desirable bargains just at that particular time and as she and Perry had agreed long ago not to have any charge accounts, Margot was forced to look over the pages of alluring newspaper ads with a yearning eye and then determinedly thrust the paper out of sight. She often wondered why her friends took this particular time of the month to invite her down town to lunch and a movie. They didn't seem nearly so attentive at the first of the month when she was amply supplied with the means to pay for these diversions. Each month she determined that she would hold on to sufficient money to see her comfortably through to another pay day and each month little unforeseen expenses came up that simply had to be met. A friend would come in from out of town who must be entertained, or small Bobby's shoes would wear out when she
10
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
had counted on them lasting fully another six weeks. But no matter what came up, Margot drew her purse strings tight. She decided grimly that she would go barefoot—which she meant quite literally, before she would be the first to break the New Year's resolutions.
SHE was not altogether delighted when Georgia Varney called her one bright afternoon in late April and offered to pick her up and take her to the Rossiter auction sale. She knew that she would be tempted almost beyond endurance by the lovely things there and she knew equally well that she wouldn't dare to spend one dollar of the six which made up her slender balance at the bank. Her curiosity to see the home, which was one of the finest in the city, prevailed, however, and when Georgia arrived, she climbed into the smart blue roadster determined to come back empty handed as far as the Rossiter belongings were concerned.
"What would you like?" asked Georgia, as they started out.
"I'd like a Louis XXVII bedroom suite," Margot answered innocently.
"Oh, er, do you suppose they have one?" Georgia asked vaguely.
If the Rossiter home didn't boast a Louis XXVII bedroom suite, it was practically the only thing missing, Margot decided. Georgia acquired a small oriental rug and two lovely cloisonne vases. Just as they were about to leave, Margot espied just the very sort of a secretary that Perry had been wanting for years. It was a splendid model, large enough to hold most of the books and papers that were now scattered in odd corners about the home and yet not too large to harmonize with their furniture. She went up to it and examined the various drawers and shelves with longing. Yes, they certainly needed that piece of furniture but six dollars was six dollars and she knew of no immediate way of making it twenty-six, which was the very least she could hope to get it for. The piece was easily worth more than twice that amount. She knew, of course, that there was that much money in the bank in their joint account and that by the simple act of drawing a check, the coveted piece of furniture might be hers. Suddenly she turned her back upon it. She must go home while resolve was still high within her. Turning to Georgia she said brightly, "If you're ready to go now, I'll carry one of the vases."
MARGOT thought better of herself all afternoon. She had really withstood temptation in a noble way. When Perry arrived home promptly at six-thirty, she greeted him laughingly with, "You'll have to take time out to pat my shoulder. I came dreadfully near to breaking my resolution today—and didn't."
"That's a good girl," Perry beamed. "As a matter of fact, I have been mentally patting my own back all the way home. Martin asked me to stay and meet a customer—some old stiff from the country, but I gracefully handed the job over to James and here I am, "Perry-on-the-spot," right on time for dinner.
"By the way," he said, when dinner had been disposed of and they were cozily seated in front of the living room fire," you didn't tell me what your good deed was for today. Did you pass up one of
WE RESOLVE
11
those powder puff jars that plays a tune when you take off the lid or a new canary to replace the one that Dinah proved to be so fond of?"
"Nothing so trivial, I assure you," Margot answered with dignity. "I had a chance to get a perfectly stunning secretary at the Rossiter's auction sale. You know, one of those combination things we've been wanting so long, but I steeled my heart against it and our bank balance is still intact."
"Oh, Margot," cried Perry, "you surely didn't?"
"Well, of course I did. I only had six dollars. I couldn't possibly get it without going over my allowance. That was your own very firmly put idea, wasn't it?"
"Oh, I know. But in a case like this, when I have been wanting one so badly—couldn't you have used some sense!"
"Sense," broke in Margot, on the verge of tears.
"Oh, I'm sorry," said Perry contritely. "Of course it was splendid of you to pass it up. I know you don't enjoy having my stuff clutter up the whole house any more than I do. I just spoke hastily because I was so disappointed. Let's forget it, dear."
WHEN Perry came home for dinner the following evening, his face wore an expression of such an odd mixture of pain and penitence that Margot exclaimed, "What in the world is the matter, Perry?"
He placed both hands on her shoulders and asked solemnly. "Do you believe that honest confession is good for the soul?"
"If the confession is to your wife and the soul your own—absolutely," she answered with a twinkle.
"Well then—the old stiff from the country that I wouldn't stay to see last night left the biggest order that the company has received so far this year. The commissions would have bought you—"
"Never mind," Margot interrupted. "Let's not harrow up our souls by going into that."
"Do you think," asked Perry, "that it would be very great folly to make resolutions in April?"
"Our New Year's resolutions didn't prove so very wise," answered Margot," perhaps new ones in April wouldn't be so foolish."
"Here goes then—We resolve that Margot will not go over her monthly allowance and that Perry will come home promptly for dinner, with certain exceptions, namely:"
"Never mind, dear. Just leave it at "with certain exceptions," Margot finished.
"Alright. And now when do we eat?"
"The eternal masculine," Margot murmured. "We eat right now and for desert we'll have hasty pudding and humble pie."
Address Remarks of President Heber J. Grant at the Relief Society Conference, Thursday, September 30, 1937
I AM happy to be here this afternoon. This is a marvelous audience. I doubt very much if in any other land or clime an audience of this kind and size could be gathered from the same number of people that you represent. I have an abiding and perfect faith in the Latter-day Saints, and a perfect and abiding faith in the triumph of this great country of ours. It is a land choice above all other lands, so the Lord has declared. I am thoroughly converted to the fact that in no other part of the world except America could the Church of Jesus Christ have been again established on the earth. We should be proud of our heritage, and each and every one of us should be proud beyond our power of expression that God has seen fit to give to us the Gospel of His Son Jesus Christ—the plan of life and salvation—not only the plan of life and salvation in the great hereafter, but that which gives us the laws that if observed in this life will bring health and vigor of body and of mind to us.
I have often said to you good sisters in meeting here, that it fell to my lot to be so intimately associated with the Relief Society from boyhood until my mother retired after thirty odd years' service as president of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society, that I am almost entitled to be called a charter member of the organization. Had it not been for her loss of hearing, I am sure my mother would have been perfectly willing to continue to labor for the advancement of the Relief Society, unless it was deemed wisdom for her to retire. There is absolutely no doubt in my mind that the statement, "It is more blessed to give than to receive" is from God our Heavenly Father. There is no doubt in my mind that the giver shall be had in remembrance before the Lord. I think that the Relief Society has done and is doing today a very remarkable work in this Church, and their work is appreciated very much by the First Presidency of the Church and each and all of the General Authorities.
Now the Church is receiving world-wide publicity. This has not only been. Complimentary and laudatory, but to tell you the truth it has been far, far overdone. We have been given more credit by far than we deserve. We are attempting to get our people not to be satisfied to take charity, if it is possible for them to earn their own living, and even to be ready and willing to make some sacrifice, even though they might be offered a little more in charity than they could earn themselves; we do want them to earn what they receive. We are told we have to earn our bread "by the sweat of the brow." I believe there may be a disposition on the part of some Latter-day Saints to say, "Well, after we get to be sixty-five, we will not have to work any more." I want this body of good sisters to know that I have done just as much work for the past sixteen years, since I passed sixty-five, as I ever did before, and with the blessing of the Lord, if he will let me stay here another fifteen or sixteen years—which I doubt—I want to do just as much, if not a little more, than I have done in the last sixteen years. I am a firm believer that work does not kill anyone, but that laziness does kill a man at an early age. There should be in the heart of every man and woman, the cry, "I am going to live. There is nothing given to me but time in which to live, and I am going to endeavor each day of my life to do some labor which will be acceptable in the sight of my Heavenly Father, and if it is possible, do a little better today than I did yesterday."
I am delighted with the wonderful publicity that has been given and the favorable reports that are being made about our Security Program. At the same time we have to work, and work hard, and more and more diligently, and do our duty better, or we are not going to live up to the reputation that we now have. Our reputation has been so bad in the past that many people felt we were worthy of the same treatment as the Savior, that we ought to be crucified. Today our reputation is getting to be fine, and perhaps better than some of us deserve to have. The Presidency are very anxious indeed, as are all the General Authorities, that to the very best of our ability we live up to our reputation.
I should like to repeat the last sentence from the message of the First Presidency:* "That each individual family shall be helped in its efforts to help itself."
There are many Latter-day Saints today who are actually accepting relief, and they own land. They should cultivate it. I thank the Lord for a Relief Society mother, devoting her time by working with a needle and thread to support herself and me, when bread was good many a time in our home without butter, because we could not buy any butter. We went to bed early (and no boy wants to go to bed
*Note: The message of the First Presidency referred to in this article was published in the November issue of the Relief Society Magazine.
early) night after night because we had plenty of bed-clothes, but no fuel. My mother managed to buy a ton of coal when I was a boy, and it cost $30.00. We also sawed wood for fuel, but quite frequently we did not have the wood to saw. Upon one occasion, when it was raining, the rain was coming into our home through the roof that leaked. Mother had a pan on the floor to catch the water. Bishop Woolley came in and saw the pans on the floor, and he said: "Why, widow Grant, I will put a new roof on this house of yours at once, and I shall take the money from the fast-day donations." Mother said, "Bishop Woolley, you shall do nothing of the kind. When I finish this little piece of sewing that I am working on, I will buy a few shingles and patch the holes in the roof. This place is not worth a new roof, but I am going to keep it without any help from the Relief Society or the Bishopric until my boy can build me a new home."
The Bishop went away and said he was sorry for Widow Grant if she had to wait for that boy of hers to build her a home, for he was surely the laziest boy in the Thirteenth Ward. We cannot always tell what boys or anybody else will amount to. If a boy has a good mother he is apt to be just like her, and if the mother works early and late, the boy is very apt to work early and late too. As a boy I worked many times until midnight, and even until one o'clock in the morning. The Bishop christened me "lazy" because I spent days, weeks, and months throwing a ball against the back of his barn, when he thought I ought to be doing something of value. Thank the Lord for a mother who encouraged her boy's ambitions, even in playing ball, as well as in work. Being an only child
ADDRESS
13
14
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
I was raised like a hothouse plant, and when I joined the baseball club my official name was "Sissy." I remember that I said I would play in the nine that won the championship in the Territory of Utah, and I did it, but I had to practice throwing the ball at the Bishop's barn while in the process of learning to play ball.
Now, I absolutely know if some people would farm their land they could live, and live well, but they will not farm it, because they can get more if they remain on the farming dole. The story has been told of a banker who was approached by one of these good people for a loan. He said: "Certainly. I have often loaned you money, and will be glad to do so again, if you will give me a mortgage on your crop. The man replied: "Oh, I am not raising any crops, but I will give you an order on 'Uncle Sam.' I get more money by being on the dole."
That kind of spirit is not the spirit that should belong to a Latter-day Saint. I hope that is just a story. It seems almost incredible to me that anybody could make such a statement, but I have it from the mouths of presidents of Stakes that there are individuals in their stakes and communities who are "lying down", when, if they would farm their land they could take care of themselves.
SO far as cigarettes are concerned—a person is really and truly not using good judgment who will smoke cigarettes or anything else. Why? Because he is just simply burning up money, exactly the same as though he took the money itself and burned it. He is injuring his physical and mental capacity as well. Those who smoke are to a certain extent destroying those fine qualities of manhood and womanhood—courtesy and kindness. You know that years ago when traveling by train there would be certain sections set aside for smokers; now I would be glad if there was a place for non-smokers. I would be much obliged if there were a small part of the diner where I could go and not have four young girls behind me and two in front smoking cigarettes. I have seen men who smoke whose hands trembled so that they could hardly sign their names. The cigarette creates an appetite for itself, and the habit of smoking cigarettes is one of the hardest and most difficult things in the world to overcome. It is absolutely no good morally, intellectually, physically, or in any other way. The Lord has said: "In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation." It is the will of the Lord to us as a people. Every father and mother should make it their particular business to set an example worthy of emulation in keeping the Word of Wisdom, then the children are free to do as they wish, and if they do not keep the commandment, there will be no charge laid to the parents.
REJOICE in the Gospel. I rejoice in being able to say to you good sisters, than whom there are no better people, you are the salt of the earth. The outlook for American agriculture, in Professor Ogburn's judgment, is by no means a rosy one. Price-fixing arrangements and crop-production schemes, he thinks, are of little value in view of the far-reaching consequences of the increasing application of machinery to agriculture. The social and economic consequences of the tractor and the mechanical cotton-picker, for instance, are disturbing to contemplate.
In concluding his remarks, Professor Ogburn paid tribute to President Roosevelt's ideal of "a national minimum", as a worthy goal toward which social work and political action should be consciously moving. The question: What constitutes a minimum standard of living for the great masses of America, is itself a challenging consideration. More difficult than that, however, will be the reorganization of our social, economic, and political life so as to produce, for all concerned, this national minimum of decency and social justice.
Good Health and Nutrition
By Jean Cox
IN ORDER to understand optimum health or better than average well being, it is well to consider factors which contribute to good health and also determine to a relative degree, what is good health. Is it being able to be around better than when you were acknowledged ill? Is it the ability to work when continually prodded? Is it a fair appetite when foods meet your fancy? Does good health mean restless, fitful sleep or elimination prodded by frequent use of drugs?
Good health is zest for living. It means pleasure in work and a desire to continue additional activity in different kinds of play which provide pleasurable satisfaction and contribute to well being. A person in optimum health is neither physically nor nervously exhausted at the end of an average day. He enjoys food. He is not concerned over his own physical or mental condition. The perfectly well person builds friendships and enjoys social diversions because he has sufficient energy for these activities which contribute so much to desirable human relationships. The person in optimum health has a fine wholesome outlook on life and is willing to cooperate with and help those who need assistance.
FOR improved health standards much credit is due the medical profession. The work of bio-chemists and nutrition experts has also raised the standards of good health. Careful experimentation has provided much positive information on the close relationship of food and well being. While the first experimental studies in nutrition twenty years or more ago dealt largely with deficiency diseases such as scurvy, it is interesting to note that renewed attention is being given to the study of diet-deficient diseases in order to determine other diseases and disease symptoms which result from lack of vitamins A, B, C, and D. Experimental studies receive painstaking consideration in many of the universities and colleges in the United States as well as in many centers of learning in foreign countries. women in the Church have been more faithful than the men have been, and they are noted for being more faithful and energetic, and always have been, than the men. There seems to be something in the very nature of women which is finer, sweeter, better, and more lovable than we men have.
My dear sisters, you know as you know that you live, that there is nothing in all the world that is the equal of this Gospel. You have never heard of any Latter-day Saint missionary in all your lives who ever found that some other Gospel was better. I have for fifty-seven long years been working in this Church—two years as President of a Stake, and fifty-five years this identical month as an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, and I want to bear my testimony that during the fifty-seven years I have never found anything in this Gospel of Jesus Christ that has in the least weakened my testimony as to the divinity of the work in which we are engaged.
I have a desire to bear my testimony. I want to say that it has been the joy of my life that in England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Germany, France, Belgium, Holland, Switzerland, Czecho-Slovakia, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Canada, Mexico, from Portland, Maine, to Portland, Oregon, in the Hawaiian Islands, and in far-off Japan, to have been privileged to bear my testimony that I know, as I know that I live, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the Living God, the Redeemer of the world, that Jesus is our Savior, the head of our Church, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and living God, and that Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow and Joseph F. Smith were also prophets of the true and the living God.
May God help me and you and every soul who has that knowledge of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged to live it so that others, seeing our good deeds, may be led to accept the plan of life and salvation, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in humility, in the name of my Redeemer and Savior, Amen.
TO PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT
By Gladys Quayle
To England's shores a Prophet comes, Without the sound of beating drums; No pomp and show will be displayed— In plainest garb he'll be arrayed— This messenger of God.
The Saints for him have waited long; Now listen to their joyous song, As they proclaim with hearts sincere The Prophet whom they love so dear, The oracle of God.
As Prophets spoke in days gone by With simple speech—their hearts draw nigh, And in this glorious latter day Unite to hear him truth portray, Blessed mouthpiece of their God.
With head erect, and eyes aglow, With hair as white as driven snow; In all humility he'll stand His life a testimony grand, A holy man of God.
*First Prize Centennial Poetry Contest. Courtesy Millennial Star.
ADDRESS
President Grant In Holland and Scandinavia By Ramona W. Cannon
AFTER the Centennial Conference in England, President Grant made a trip of three and a half weeks' duration to Holland, Hamburg, Sweden, and Norway, holding meetings in large halls which were filled to capacity. Perhaps no one in Zion can fully understand what it means to the European Saints to see and hear the President, for whom they feel a veneration almost like that due a heavenly visitor. "One of a city and two of a family," they are accustomed to gather in small groups, frequently in cold and unattractive meeting houses, a mere handful of scattered people, fighting the battle alone, with the rest of their world against them.
From these large gatherings of Saints, friends and strangers, emanated a sense of belonging to something in which one could feel pride. The individuals absorbed a stimulating feeling of group power. In the opinion of President Clark, this uplift, this urge to go forward was the greatest result of the thronged Centennial in England.
President Grant's trip afforded him opportunity to dedicate the beautiful new chapel in Esbjerg, Denmark; to meet the presidents of missions, all the missionaries laboring in these countries, newspaper men, Saints and friends; also to consider chapel facilities, needed repairs, or changes. On an average he spoke an hour at each meeting. On Sundays two gatherings were held, except in Esbjerg where there were three. Missionary and public meetings were also held on week days.
Naturally on a trip of this kind, President Grant and those who were fortunate enough to accompany him, absorbed joy from the beautiful scenery of the countries through which they passed, and information about their various customs and social conditions. Every day was crowded with interest, but in each country certain things stand out in memory with particular vividness.
IN ROTTERDAM, Mr. Max Hirschfeld, representative of one of the steamship lines, who had been entertained by President Grant in Salt Lake twelve years ago, gave a dinner for him in a private room in a hotel. The centerpieces of deep pink roses with an intermixture of other flowers of harmonizing tints, was unusually effective, and the table was elaborately laid with cutlery. With some apprehension we observed at the point of each knife the array of sparkling wine and liqueur glasses usual to a formal European dinner. Also from silver bowls of ice on a serving table extended the slender necks of bottles.
When we were seated, the host arose and made a charming speech of welcome. He recalled Salt Lake vividly, remembered the number of his room at the Hotel Utah, the luncheon he had with President Grant, and an interview with a representative of the Deseret News. He drew from his pocket an old copy of the paper which carried his photograph and the interview. Meanwhile the waiters were serving about twelve varieties of hors d'oeuvres from a small wooden steamship, a sloop, and a sea creature, with smoke stacks, antennae, and other trimmings made of tiny tomatoes, olives, fruits, etc. Glass number one was being filled.
"You will try some orange juice?" urged Mr. Hirschfeld. With true continental leisure the dinner continued, course after course, beautifully served, for three hours, well seasoned with the attic salt of conversation. Strawberry, cherry, grape, and a mixed fruit juice were served in order, and coffee was omitted. Mr. Hirschfeld, the perfect host, remembered that there are several things in which "Mormons" do not indulge.
We had another delightful taste of Dutch hospitality in the home of a friend of the Church, who sprinkled our handkerchiefs with eau de Cologne as we entered, showed us her miniature back garden with flowers, lily pond, and a little tree in the center of a grass plot surrounded by a neatly trimmed hedge about nine inches high. Our hostess spoke quaintly of Sister Grant and Sister Lyman as their husbands' queens, and she served a dinner from some cherished recipes, which was certainly to the queen's taste.
INTERESTING and impressive were all of our experiences, yet most impressive was the light of the Gospel shining in the faces of the large congregations who were sitting in the presence of God's representative on earth, probably for the only time in their lives.
There are things which President Grant, or those who were with him will never forget: The touching beauty of greetings and farewells at stations and meetings; the Danish folk speaking in deep voices and with slightly accented English, "Welcome to Denmark! Come again soon;" the burst of beautiful singing from the choirs, with some songs sung in English in each country; the offerings of fruit and flowers; the speeches accompanying presentation of flowers in the services at Church.
Perhaps a composite of all these speeches, made in different countries and branches, but always in English would be as follows: "Dear President Grant, All our lives we have heard about you. We have sung about you, and prayed for you. We have seen many photographs of you and have dreamed about you. Never did we expect to see you in this life, and to be face to face with you, and have the privilege of shaking your hand. All this has come to pass. We thank you for making your long journey to visit us. We thank you for your kind words of inspiration and testimony. Never can we forget this occasion, and we pray that God may bless you with health and strength and inspiration and a safe return journey."
NO BEAUTY IS
By Anna Prince Redd (Awarded First Prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest)
In my orchard still the shadows deep Held every living thing in sleep; No cricket chirped, no bird-mate called: The silence held me. Quite enthralled I waited with my breath at bay, And listened for the sounds of coming day.
A fragrant, feathery little breeze Stole softly through the blossomed trees Scattering petals, like fine-spun lace, Across my eager, upturned face. Born of the stillness, scarcely heard, A rhythmic, haunting murmur stirred.
My ear, attuned, caught up the sound Of that faint music newly found. It came, was lost, and came again, Like softly falling autumn rain Gently dripping from the trees Upon a bed of rustling leaves.
How could my heart have missed the rhyme Of water falling all the time? But lo! The ecstasy of coming light Dispels the mystic, dreamy night! The wind springs up in sudden rush Spills from its nest a singing thrush,
While changing colors one by one Herald the coming of the sun! At once the dew on new-green grass Is turned to beads of colored glass, And myriads of questing bees Are pilfering my orchard trees!
And there above me, bathed in light, Timpanogos rears its silvery height Nature's benediction to bestow Upon the valley far below, On every lovely, living thing That nestles at its feet in Spring.
There is no silence so profound But part of it is made of sound: No beauty is, of sky or sod, But all of it is made of God.
Ingenious Jane
By Lottie Hammer Singley
JANE vigorously turned the meat grinder as she gazed from her immaculate cream and yellow kitchen window. The wind had been playing hide and seek with the leaves all day, and dark clouds hung low, giving a chill to the autumn air that made one feel the certainty of winter just around the corner. The wind shook the snow-white curtains and made the appliqued designs dance inside as the colorful autumn leaves did outside.
Jane was a tiny thing, possessing more determination and stick-to-it-iveness than most two-hundred pound Scotchmen. Tucked within her was a philosophy of life enviable to the most astute. She was imbued with a power of meeting adversity equaled by few, envied by many. Crystallized to these characteristics and virtues was a strong unwavering faith and a highly developed mother love.
She was preparing the evening meal. There had been a time when it had consisted of from two to four courses. The last few years, however, circumstances had reduced the Harringtons from "T-bone steaks" to their present level of "stew". Her nose unconsciously went up as she emptied the left-over cabbage into the steaming brown mixture of meat and vegetables, for this was the third time this week for its return engagement and the week was yet young. In Jane's mind there were three convincing arguments for its return: Its nutritive value; its savory odor, which did have a cheering effect on a cold blustery night, and of this her husband was badly in need; and last because there was nothing else to cook.
She shook the grate vigorously. The old dependable Majestic boomed forth with its best efforts, throwing a cheerful glow about the kitchen from its open door. She hurriedly placed the kettle on the front part of the stove, and busied herself about putting the kitchen in order. This done she hung her blue and white checked apron on a peg back of the door, tidied her hair and went into the living room to look over the mail.
A pile of letters lay upon the table. She took from it a large imposing brown envelope, opened it and read, "Six dollars overdraft." Six dollars had never seemed so much to Jane. With their five years' savings gone and Bobby's shoes having a way of doing the same thing at the wrong time, with winter coming on and only a few buckets of coal left, and groceries—well, to be exact, the cupboard was bare.
"Why all this worry," soliloquized Jane. "Hasn't Mr. Crawford promised John something, even if it isn't just what he would like. We will just have to put our pride behind us. Things are picking up. Everybody says so. The radio is continually announcing big business increases."
With renewed hope, she opened the four remaining envelopes. She lay their contents out carefully before her. One hundred and forty dollars that must be paid. The butcher, the baker, the candlestick maker, only this time it was the doctor, the coal man, the grocer and taxes.
A lusty wail from the bedroom sent her scurrying, to appear again with arms filled with eighteen pounds of real boy, demanding his bottle with repeated yelps. At this very moment a sudden clatter on the porch revealed Bobby's presence.
"Mother, I'm in the team. I'm tackle. We won! We simply mobbed 'em!"
"Well, it looks like they simply mobbed you," for Bob's shirt hung in ribbons. "Oh, Bob, it's the only good shirt you have. Change into the one you took off this morning, son, and then pick a bunch of marigolds for the dinner table. They are so cheerful.
JANE knew by John's attitude as he entered that evening that his day's search had been in vain. He was a tall angular man, slow of speech, kind, gentle, reticent, and generally uncomplaining. He and his father had once been established in the manufacturing of soaps, a business which had been handed down from father to son for four generations.
She greeted him cheerily and proceeded to put the dinner on. He had little to say and ate poorly. Jane hurriedly put the children to bed, and as she tucked the pink coverlet over her baby boy and kissed her tousled-headed Bob, she suddenly remembered the need of a shirt at once. There was no chance of a new one. She hurried to the basement and with much difficulty made her way through Father Harrington's soap equipment and into Grandmother's trunk.
What a shame the factory had to have been closed. If things had gone as planned they would be well cared for, and Father Harrington had tried so hard. Life was like that but reminiscing would not supply a new shirt. She rummaged through the old trunk until she found a percale house dress, with mingled apologies and thanks to dear Grandmother. She returned to the kitchen and with deft fingers fashioned a shirt and the machine was soon humming merrily.
John looked up from his paper with an inquisitive expression. "Well, you haven't asked me how I got on today. I guess you are tired of it, always know the answer ahead of time."
"Not that, dear, just busy. I knew if there were anything important you would tell me."
"There is something important, Jane. I'm desperate. Two years now, with just a day now and then. Our savings are pretty low by now. I have tramped the streets all day. When I ask for work they look as if they would like to knock me down."
"Don't be discouraged, dear. Things are picking up. Only today different radio programs told of big increases in business."
"Picking up! That's good. Pretty near provoked a laugh. I wish they would follow me a day and see the real conditions. Jane, don't mention things picking up to me again! Did it ever occur to you that radios are used for advertising, and to encourage people to spend what little they have to save the advertiser's hides? Picking up! Bah! With the Government threatening to cut off relief and the night's paper showing thousands in this country out of work now."
"But John, you still have Mr. Crawford's word."
"Words don't fill the stomach."
"Maybe tomorrow Mr. Crawford will find the very thing for you. He knows how competent you are on soaps and their correct mixtures. And you are the cleverest advertiser alive. You're not just the common run!"
"I wish D. T. was aware of that. You know he thinks I'm just another unemployed."
No matter how Jane tried, the conversation had a bad trend, and the evening a bad end. She turned the collar on John's much faded shirt and retired early to cry herself to sleep. John sat into the wee hours with his head in his hands.
NEXT morning found a scant scattering of snow. John was up early and off by eight to try again.
"Would you step into the corner store when you return tonight and bring me a package of soap?"
"Can't do it, dear, got just enough to get me to Mill Town. See you tonight."
He hurriedly kissed her and was on his way. After Jane had buttoned Bob into his new shirt and had him off to school and baby cared for, she dropped into a chair and assumed a very dejected expression. The baby's laundry was piled high waiting to be done. Soap machinery everywhere, yet not a bit of soap to use. How good it would be to have just a handful of the contents of the huge boxes that were so plentiful in their home before the factory closed. She rummaged through the closets thinking that a box might have slipped back of something. She tumbled things about in good fashion but not a bit could be found. What could she do?
Suddenly with a determined air she marched down the basement steps and with all the strength she could muster lugged a box of fat scraps back to the kitchen. She sank upon a chair feeling exhausted and weak. Tears seemed near the surface. The climbing of the stairs with her heavy load had been too much. A sick, weak feeling swept over her. She struggled to gain her composure. Then she realized the reason for her weakness. Her soul soared away to a higher plane. For the moment she was apart from the earth. She seemed to visualize, and half audibly whispered:
"Two tiny arms are reaching for mine, Two tiny lips to my lips I'll press; Two tiny hands in my hair entwine. A tiny form to cuddle and bless. Two tiny——"
The sudden striking of the clock brought her back to reality. "I must tell John. If I knew how he would take it. He is so worried, not being able to do as he would like for us. He loves the other two so! I can hardly wait to see it. Yes, I will tell John tonight. Yes, and I must have soap!"
By ten o'clock she was in the soap business in earnest. She was glad she had majored in chemistry for it was now proving valuable. Seven hours, five tests, and four different grades of soap resulted. That night found her anxious to retire.
When Jane finally broke the news of the "Blessed event," John fairly fumed.
"But John, you were so happy before."
"Times were different then. We're fools to bring little innocent children, we can't provide for, here to suffer with us. We still owe for the baby. He is only thirteen months. What will people say?"
"I don't care what people say. If you don't want him I'll—" Sobs choked her utterance. "Things are picking up. There will be a way."
"The radio says so?" he said, mockingly.
Jane's tears were flowing like flood gates turned loose and John was on his knees beside her, calling himself a brute and begging her forgiveness, trying to explain the condition of his taut nerves.
"Of course I'm happy honey. It's just because I can't give you what you deserve, and what I'd like to see you have. You're the best little manager in the world. Of course there'll be a way. If there are any more as sweet as Bob and the baby, we want 'em all!"
TIME fairly flew. John had been able to pick up a little work which had helped materially, but nothing in his line. What a pity to see a round peg in a square hole. Uncomplaining, patient—anything, even pick and shovel, and it went so against him. What a testimony of love for his little family. It seemed almost sacred.
Jane too had done her part. Day after day she had worked perfecting and improving her soap until she had what she said was the best article she had ever used, even superior to that which Grandfather made, in many respects, and she had many ways to give it a good trial.
One evening the sky was overcast with clouds and some seemed to rest on the horizon. A sharp biting wind from the north suddenly sprang up and from its cutting, penetrating effect one knew it had recently traveled over icy glaciers. A beating downpour of icy hail pounded the earth and continued for half an hour. With its fury spent it died into quiet, soft, feathery flakes.
The family sat huddled in the kitchen and again the phantom "coal" stalked up in their minds. What would have been a peaceful night, protected from the storm was marred by anxiety of what might come. The security of a food supply in the cellar, coal stored, and money in the bank are great comforts in weather like this!
A blue sky greeted the dawn. A white earth lay shimmering beneath the sun's rays. Crystal spirals hung from the eaves and tiny shining jewels lay on the pure blanket of snow. The earth seemed cleansed and gave new hope and courage to the man to try again. How desperately he tried, thinking always of Jane—dear courageous, trusting Jane who was always sure there would be a way. At times his strong heart became as lead, and oft the heartsick cry of the soul of a once strong man went up in silence, "Oh, God, what is wrong with me? Don't let her down."
IT WAS dark when he came up the walk after an unusually discouraging day. He was met by his wife with her finger to her lips. She had put the children to bed early and was busy indeed. On the table lay the necessities—shirts for Bob and a pair of rompers for LeRoy—and last the layette. The piles of fleecy squares and the tiniest dear dresses made mist come to John's eyes.
"How did you do it darling?"
"Flour sacks, and Grandmother's gowns made lovely squares although blue and white stripes are a little addition, and 'White Fawn' is still a little bright on some of them. A pair of voile curtains did the dresses with what stitches I could add for decorations. The shirts—an old undershirt of Grandpa's. They'll never know what a blessing the contents of that trunk have been to us."
He came closer to her. "I guess I should feel ashamed that you had to do it, but somehow I'm not. I don't think I was ever so happy in my life." He reverently drew her into his arms.
John began the next day with the lightest heart he had had in many weeks. As he was making his way home through the bustling crowds he was suddenly seized by the shoulder by Dave Dahlstrom, Crawford's representative.
"John Harrington, I've tried this whole day to get you. I've been to your house twice and could find no one."
"That's odd. Jane never goes away."
"Oh, I saw your wife. She said I must see you. I might as well get to business. I want to make the 'six-fifty.' Boy you're a lucky dog! Didn't take D. T. long to size up those samples. Boy, he's keen about 'em. Says it's the best he's seen. Chemist pronounced them ninety-seven percent pure. With your advertising ability and the radio we ought to put it into every home!"
"What on earth are you talking about, man!"
"Why the soap samples. Oh, I know you're modest," he said as he pulled his watch from his pocket, "but I've got to get going. D. T. has a check for five thousand for you, for the formula. He said to be at his office on the first. Might mean a junior partnership for you old man."
Dave darted off through the crowd leaving John aghast. "Your wife gave me the formula at the house," he called back.
JOHN was home in ten minutes, which was record time. His heart was brimming with beautiful things to say to his wife. A nurse met him at the door. "So glad you've come, Mr. Harrington."
The two doctors and nurse worked silently for hours, passing hurriedly from bedroom to kitchen. He was not allowed to enter. In deep anxiety he paced the floor. It was past midnight when the doctor said he might go in. She looked so white, so very young and defenseless. He quietly approached the bed and knelt beside her. The very room seemed a holy sanctuary. He suddenly realized that he possessed more than the wealth of the earth. She drew his dark head down to her and a weak voice whispered, "Unto you this day a son is born."
John could not speak but through his tears he thanked God for the greatest gifts, and mingled with praise to God came strong hallelujahs from the lusty lungs of his third son.
Utah State Conference of Social Work
THE Annual Sessions of the Utah State Conference of Social Work were held on the Campus of the University of Utah, November 12 and 13, 1937. Authorities in specialized fields, and speakers of national prominence discussed subjects of paramount importance. Mr. D. A. Skeen, President of the Conference, gave the opening address. Other outstanding speakers and their subjects were:
"Government and Labor"—Dean Brimhall, Division of Labor Relations W. P. A., Washington, D. C.
"Social Research as a Basis for Social Planning"—Frances Cahn, Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, University of Utah.
"Planning for a Community"—Roy Sorenson, National Executive Y. M. C. A., Chicago, Il.
"Community's Responsibility for Transients"—Miss Bertha McCall, Director of National Association for Travelers' Aid and Transient Service.
Inaugural address for School of Social Work, University of Utah, "Changing Social Institutions"—Professor W. H. Ogburn, University of Chicago.
"Policies and Procedures in Public Assistance"—Ruth O. Blakeslee, Director of Policies and Procedures, Social Security Board, Washington, D. C.
"Relationship of the Public Welfare Program to other Organized Welfare Programs"—Mr. J. W. Gillman, Director, State Department of Public Welfare.
"What the World Faces Today and Tomorrow"—Professor W. H. Ogburn, University of Chicago.
President Louise Y. Robison, with her usual grace and dignity, presided during the closing session of the Conference.
FRIDAY evening was the formal opening of the School of Social Work at the University of Utah. Preceding the meeting a dinner was held, at which the President and Board of Regents of the University of Utah were the hosts. Among the guests of honor were President Louise Y. Robison, and Professor W. H. Ogburn, of the University of Chicago.
President George Thomas presided at the evening session of the Conference, and made the public announcement of the Amy Whipple Evans Fellowship in the School of Social Work, granted by the General Board of Relief Society.
The following Provisions are suggested:
1. Applicant must satisfy requirements for admission to the School of Social Work at the University of Utah.
2. Applicant must be a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
3. Applicant to be selected by a committee of the Relief Society General Board and Dean of School of Social Work, with special consideration as to personality, character, and scholarship.
4. Applicant's intention shall be to secure a Master's Degree in Social Work, research work to be available to Relief Society General Board.
5. Application must be made on forms which may be obtained from Dean of School of Social Work.
Social Work In An Age of Change
By Dr. Arthur L. Beeley Professor of Sociology and Dean, School of Social Work, University of Utah
THE opening of the school of social work at the University of Utah, was marked by an inaugural lecture, November 13, 1937, by America's most distinguished sociologist, Dr. William Fielding Ogburn, of the University of Chicago. The importance of the event and the high quality of Dr. Ogburn's contributions are such as to warrant the publication of a resume of his remarks on that occasion.
IT might be well to preface the synopsis of Dr. Ogburn's address by a statement as to the nature and scope of modern social work. Broadly defined, it comprises all of those social arrangements, both public and private, for helping handicapped people of every variety and from whatever cause. It is a non-political, non-sectarian enterprise, managed by an ever-increasing body of professionally trained men and women who believe that the social ills of our time can be made to yield to an unselfish, intelligent, and cooperative attack. The ultimate goal of social work is expressed in Professor John Dewey's famous phrase, "A sound human being in a sound human environment."
In launching its new school of social work, the University of Utah is concerned to prepare competent men and women in Utah and the surrounding states, for the major technical services in this new and growing profession. The curriculum of the school is organized on the graduate level, and it is the intention of the present University administration to build a school which shall not only meet the requirements laid down by the American Association of Schools of Social Work, but shall also conserve and promote the unique traditions of community people in the Rocky Mountain empire.
UNDER the title, "Our Changing Social Institutions," Professor Ogburn described the rapid changes that are now taking place in American life; the dislocations incident to the transfer of function from one social institution to another; and the tasks of modern social work in attempting to cope with these consequences. Five social institutions of greatest importance were singled out for analysis—the home, the church, local government, industry, and the state.
Most significant for the welfare and personality development of the individual are the recent changes that have occurred in the structure and function of the American home. One by one such functions as formal education, the learning of a trade, recreation, the preparation of food, and the manufacture of clothing, have been successively taken over by industry and government. The inevitable surrender of these functions, the original performance of which brought members of the family into frequent and intimate association with each other, has weakened the family as a social institution and enfeebled its influence upon its members.
This inevitable change has resulted in a cleavage of the individual's loyalty to a number of other institutions and other groups. One of the most unfortunate losses arising out of these changes is the loss of intimacy among members of the family group. These losses of family function and the corresponding enlargement of industry and the growth of public education have been due, in large part, to the development of science and invention. The applications of steam and electricity to the manufacture of food, clothing, and raw materials, are the fundamental forces which have caused the transfer of function from one social institution to another.
Regrettable as these losses are, their consequences must be faced and adjusted to. Professor Ogburn dealt briefly with the changing functions of the church and showed that in the middle ages, for instance, the church not only ministered to the spiritual needs of the individual, but also dispensed charity and looked after the sick. The church, like the family, however, has now been forced to surrender the education and medical care of its members to other social institutions, chiefly to the state.
The rapid expansion of modern industry, according to Dr. Ogburn, is due, primarily, to the invention of mechanical power, and to the growth of systems of communication and forms of transportation. These developments, in turn, have produced the modern city and the metropolitan supercommunity of our day. These vast aggregations of people, concentrated in comparatively small centers, make it impossible for the individual to enjoy the status and the intimacy that normally characterized his life in the small community. This lack of intimacy in urban life has resulted in an overemphasis upon the externals in personality, such as dress and personal appearance, with a corresponding neglect of character and the finer values. The greater prevalence of vice and crime in urban communities can thus be understood.
Of all the dislocations produced by our changing social institutions, however, none are so significant and far-reaching as those produced in the form and scope of government. The rapid expansion of industry, and the evolution of mass production, for instance, have produced such wide fluctuations in prosperity, that intervention on the part of government has been necessary in order to avert a total collapse of our social economy. The aggregation of capital and the evolution of corporate bodies has given rise to government control and intervention, in the interests of the general welfare. The very structure of the state is challenged by these enlarging units of business enterprise.
American industry and commerce are no longer confined to state boundaries. The intricate network of our present machinery of production and distribution could never have developed under the rigid control of local or of state government. Thus it is that there has been a rapid transfer of governmental control from the local community to the state, and from the state to the federal government. These transitions, however, are as yet incomplete; they call for a program of social engineering and superior statecraft which many political-minded persons are reluctant to approve. This unevenness or "lag" in our cultural development creates innumerable problems which it is the business of social work to overcome and to eliminate.
In such a society, according to Dr. Ogburn, national governments are bound to become stronger and stronger. His apparent leaning toward fascism, however, was more in the nature of a sociological prophecy than it was a personal wish.
IN a second lecture, "What America Faces Today and Tomorrow", delivered before the Utah State Conference of Social Work on Saturday, November 14, Dr. Ogburn dealt with a number of immediate and practical considerations arising out of the recent depression. He was not very optimistic about the permanence of our so-called recovery; the load of unemployment, and the surplus of population are far too large, he believes, to justify any feeling of security, unless plans for a revival of the "heavy" industries are launched forthwith.
The outlook for American agriculture, in Professor Ogburn's judgment, is by no means a rosy one. Price-fixing arrangements and crop-production schemes, he thinks, are of little value in view of the far-reaching consequences of the increasing application of machinery to agriculture. The social and economic consequences of the tractor and the mechanical cotton-picker, for instance, are disturbing to contemplate. In concluding his remarks, Professor Ogburn paid tribute to President Roosevelt's ideal of "a national minimum", as a worthy goal toward which social work and © political action should be consciously moving. The question: What constitutes a minimum standard of living for the great masses of America, is itself a challenging consideration. More difficult than that, however, will be the reorganization of our social, economic, and political life so as to produce, for all concerned, this national minimum of decency and social justice, Good Health and Nutrition By Jean Cox mum health or better than average well being, it is well to consider factors which contribute to good health and also determine to a relative degree, what is good health. Is it being able to be around better than when you were acknowledged ill? Is it the ability to work when continually prodded? Is it a fair appetite when foods meet your fancy? Does good health mean restless, fitful sleep or elimination prodded by frequent use of drugs? Good health is zest for living. It means pleasure in work and a desire to continue additional activity in different kinds of play which provide pleasurable satisfaction and contribute to well being. A person in optimum health is neither physically nor nervously exhausted at the end of an average day. He enjoys food. He is not concerned over his own physical or mental condition. The perfectly well person builds friendships and enjoys social diversions because he has sufficient energy for these activities which contribute so much to desirable human relationships. The person in optimum health has a fine wholesome outlook on life and is willing to cooperate with and help those who need assistance. FOR improved health standards much credit is due the medical profession. The work of bio-chemists and nutrition experts has also raised the standards of good health. Careful experimentation has provided much positive information on the close relationship of food and well being. While the first experimental studies in nutrition twenty years or more ago dealt largely with deficiency diseases such as scurvy, it is interesting to note that renewed attention is being given to the study of diet-deficient diseases in order to determine other diseases and disease symptoms which result from lack of vitamins A, B, C, and D. Experimental studies receive painstaking consideration in many of the universities and colleges in the United States as well as in many centers of learning in foreign countries. Unlike more exact sciences new findings often upset previous conclusions regarding source and function of the somewhat elusive, although fairly definite, vitamins A, B, C, D, and E. However, well trained men and women by hard persistent effort are finding means of solving the difficult unexpected problems and are making research in the fields of animal nutrition of special benefit to humans. Careful study of the fact-finding experiments which have been required to give light on new questions in nutrition or further substantiate older beliefs, inspires the layman to appreciate the almost endless labor of those who work so earnestly to improve the health standards of the individual and race. SCURVY is one of the oldest nutritional diseases. It has been recognized for several centuries. James Lind in 1854 wrote a book on scurvy which gave symptoms and cures. He found that people living on low cost diet without fresh fruits and vegetables developed this disease. Sometimes practically all the sailors on sailing vessels were disabled from this diet deficiency. Lind found that the use of raw potatoes, 30 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cabbage, and lemon or lime juice would cure as well as prevent this painful malady. However, with the better knowledge of the function of food, there are few epidemics of scurvy at the present time. In some cases poor food habits or idiosyncrasies of the individual may cause it. Deficiency of vitamin C in varying amounts results in some degree of scurvy. The term vitamin C is frequently replaced with the term ascorbutic acid which some research workers prefer. Lack of sufficient amount of ascorbutic acid results in soreness of gums, and in advanced stages teeth become loose. Very often there is muscular soreness. While it is comparatively easy to say that vitamins are chemical substances, it is difficult to fully appreciate results of vitamin deficiencies in diets over weeks, months and years. Diets low in vitamins result in lowered resistance, increased difficulty in throwing off infection and most important, in young children normal growth rate is inhibited and very often normal maturity deferred. It is difficult to fully sense the importance of these mystery food elements. Vitamins are food accents according to present standards and like dress accessories are necessary for the completed whole. Unlike dress accessories they are not visible to the eye, yet they are required in a satisfactory meal. As far as known they have no odor. In a health sense vitamins more than any other food division or class represent the mystery of menu building. No matter how elaborate or simple the menu may be it is not health producing without the required vitamins A, B, C, D, and E. These alphabetical names of potent food substances are tremendously important if one's aim is optimum health and well being. Among the best sources of vitamin C are citrus fruits, green peppers, raw spinach, strawberries, and tomatoes fresh or cold packed. Recent discoveries indicate that green bell peppers afford a very rich source of vitamin C. Students of nutrition in England have succeeded in extracting ascorbutic acid or vitamin C from bell peppers and predict that this source will become a real competitor of citrus fruits for this valuable food material. Other good sources are apricots, bananas, cantaloups, watermelon, peaches, fresh or canned pineapple, raspberries, raw cabbage, raw onions, peas, radishes, string beans, raw turnips, wa- ' ter cress, parsley, and apples if not stored too long. Juice of raw turnips and cabbage may be substituted for orange juice for vitamin C in feeding young children. WHILE fever diets are often deficient in vitamin A, this vitamin also needs consideration. Lack of it is shown in lowered resistance, imperfect growth and shortened span of life. Eye sickness results when the diet is deficient in vitamin A. One of the most common results is night blindness. Persons living in isolated camps where it is possible to obtain only a restricted diet, often cannot see the stars. This is often the difficulty when persons have trouble in driving at night. Prolonged deficiency of vitamin A results in more serious eye sickness. Use of milk and milk products will prevent this trouble. One of the functions of vitamin A is that it helps build resistance of the tissues of the eye, ear, nose and throat against infections of different kinds. Vitamin A is present in green leaf vegetables, tomatoes, and whole grains. Other excellent sources are: butter, cream, full cream cheese, egg yolk, liver, fish liver oils, kale, carrots, apricots, and prunes. Good GOOD HEALTH AND NUTRITION 31 sources are whole milk, bananas, cantaloup, cherries, dates, pineapple, hubbard squash, yellow corn, pumpkins, sweet potatoes, kidneys, artichokes, broccoli, lettuce, green peppers, green beans, green leaves of cabbage. ATTENTION should also be given to foods containing vitamin B in order that the appetite vitamin be included in every menu. This vitamin stimulates the appetite as well as aids in digestive processes and promotes growth. Excellent sources of vitamin B are: wheat germ, yeast extracts, dried brewers yeast, whole grain and bran, cereals and bread, egg yolks and turnip greens. Good sources are: milk, liver, kidney, nuts, bananas, citrus fruits, pineapple, raspberries, dried beans and legumes, carrots, corn, sweet potatoes, tomatoes, cabbage, kale, lettuce, peas, spinach, string beans, and turnips. Meats and potatoes also contain some vitamin B. Vitamin D, or the sunshine vitamin, is found in dairy products and eggs produced by animals in sunny pens. It is also found in salmon, oysters, and clams. These food sources can be supplemented by getting out into direct sunlight. Exposure of hands and ear lobes to the sun is approximately the equivalent of a small dose of cod liver oil. NUTRITIONISTS agree that food consumption of only minimum indispensible nutrients will not produce optimum well being. Unquestionably there should be fewer "border-line" health cases which result from inadequate foods. In a country where food is plentiful there should be fewer undernourished children and ailing adults as a result of either ignorance or poverty. Inadequate diets leave their devastating result in stunted bodies, crooked bones, and imperfect teeth. Unhealthy nerves detract from normal pleasures of childhood. Poor physical health too often places children in school below their normal mental group. Adequate foods and improved living conditions result in repair of nerve and of the sheath around nerves. Children more than adults need protein of milk and of eggs to help maintain protein balance. This mixture of phosphorized fats is also necessary for healthy nerves. There is a present need for renewed interest in nutrition problems as faulty economic conditions have necessarily resulted in lowered standards in nutrition. If you desire optimum health, check the average day's menus against the best sources of different vitamins listed. If some of the best food sources are not found in each day's menus, it may be wise to change the manner of spending food money. Frown down upon food dislikes, because warped or one-sided diets are less adequate than balanced ones. If a child objects to one of the essential foods, avoid an issue and substitute another food containing the same elements or serve the food in different form. In case of allergy, don't repeat food for a year, as the tendency may be outgrown during that period. Be open minded to improved health standards and nutrition findings. Unquestionably a greater proportion of adults and children should have more zest for living. VESTA PIERCE CRAWFORD MEMORIAL ON THE PLAINS By Vesta Pierce Crawford (Awarded Second Prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest) No chiseled stone has marked this burial place, No greening square of damp and shaven lawn, Nor bud nor bloom upon the mounded space, ' No path where long remembering steps have gone; Here only comes the wind in lingering mood And storm of dust and sparse infrequent rain, Oh here are loneliness and solitude, No mourner comes this desolate way again; It is by chance I bend the prairie grass And bow my head in silent memory here, Yet shall these sentient moments as they pass Be tribute to your faith, oh Pioneer, For now my weak and doubting heart has found A valiant courage from this hallowed ground! The Children's Reading By Florence Ivins Hyde NO. I—RHYTHMIC PERIOD "Could we give one gift to every child We should choose the love of books.''* —William Fredrick Bigelow. HERE is nothing a child ever learns afterward which will enter into his essence of being as the stories told by his mother. Nothing else so intimately binds children and mother together." This is the conclusion of a woman who has spent her life in the study of children. The experiments of scientists and psychologists of today point to the fact that human destiny is largely shaped by the nurture or neglect of infancy and early childhood. There is truth in the old saying, "Give me the child until he is seven and I care not who has him afterward." Important as we feel the school is in this item of training, the influence of the mother, father and family largely determines the making or the marring of our children, for the greater part of every 24 hours belongs to the home. While the father is important, the mother is fundamental in assuring the stability and success of her children. The home is undoubtedly the greatest single influence during the early years of childhood. Ig is the opinion of many wise and thoughtful teachers that more than any other influence does the home reading of a child determine his destiny. How, then, may we create a taste for good reading and cultivate the habit of reading in the right manner? Courtesy "Good Housekeeping Magazine.” For all parents who would really know books in their relation to growing children, it is a good thing to go back to the spirit of their own childhood and get a first-hand knowledge of books. 'There is no more pleasant hobby, for it carries one into the realm of literature, one of the richest of storehouses and one that is never outgrown. Books may be ornaments, tools, or friends. Why not begin right away to use them to develop the zsthetic and moral side of our children. It is a law of learning that we will learn those things which give us the most satisfaction. Our problem, then, is to give the thing we feel our children need in the way that interests them. One of the surest ways to achieve this end is to teach with stories. Everyone loves a story. It was Christ's method of teaching the fundamental principles of Christianity. At the age of two or three the child needs stories short and simple in plot. Mother Goose rhymes, of course, stir the imagination and train the rhythmic sense. Mrs. Mitchell's collection of "Here and Now Stories”—told by children themselves, about their own adventures—are of the right sort. This age calls for plenty of animal stories which develop sympathy for animal friends. By 5 or 6 years of age a child is ready for other good stories, not too long and still simple. He likes plenty of repetition—repetition which is wearisome to adults; but this story telling must go on, never in a sentimnental way, but in a soft, clear 34 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE voice, in a direct and natural manner. The fairy story now has its place. Not the gruesome tales of giants and ogres, but the type out of which come the influences which sweeten and deepen life. To most children the fairy tale brings the first clear distinction between good and evil, thus awakening and developing a moral sense. Cinderella does this very thing. There is a class of unimaginative people who object to the teaching of fairy tales, preferring to teach useful facts. Yet there seems to be something in children which craves the thing that a good fairy story provides. Hear the beauty in the lines of Anderson's "Pea Blossom." This story has a perfect beginning: "There were once five peas in one shell; they were green, the shell was green, and so they believed the whole world was green also, which was a very natural conclusion." Then the story goes on to tell how after the peas had ripened, they were picked up and shot from a boy's shooter into a crevice near an attic window where lay a sick maiden with no interest in life. One of the peas took root aid grew and brought joy and health to the child. Then the story ends: "But as the young maiden stood at the open garret window, with sparkling eyes and the rosy hue of health on her cheeks, she folded her thin hands over the pea blossom and thanked God for what he had done." This like all other good fairy stories contains a great underlying principle of truth. It is the type which gives "wings to your soul." Without imagination life is at best a dreary thing. As we grow older we may forget these imaginative tales, but they have done their work and we pass almost unconsciously from the "Hansel and Gretel" whose joy is in a magic house of sugar plums, to the more practical problems of life. TOO much emphasis cannot be placed upon poetry. Even at an early age when too young to understand it, a child catches the rhythm of the lines and the sublimity of the thought of a beautiful poem. The story of Hiawatha can be told to a very little child, interspersed with the original lines. Notice the simplicity of this: "And the rabbit from his pathway Sat erect upon his haunches.. Saying to the little hunter,  “Do not. Shoot me, Hiawatha!” Note the beauty of this, speaking of the care of Nokomis for Hiawatha: "Rocked him in his linden cradle, Bedded soft in moss and rushes; Stilled his fretful wail by saying, 'Hush! The naked Bear will hear thee'!" S IT not possible, with some definite plan, to develop in our children an appreciation for the cultural things of life? Remembering always that, "As their dreams are, so are they; They shape in thought what soon they shape in deed. And what they daily hold within They grow to be." Suggested Books: "Golden Goose Book," by Leslie Brooks, is one of the best picture books for children. ""Anderson's Fairy Tales'' has always delighted children. "The Children's Book," by Horrace E. Scudder, is one of the best story collections. If purchasing but one of the — "The Children's Book" is recommended. The Lotus Eater By Mabel S. Harmer CHAPTER VIII SCHOOL began the second week S in September and Helen found herself in a whirl of work and excitement such as she had not experienced since she first began to teach. Her first big assignment was the music festival which was scheduled to take place in October, just one month after the beginning of school. She decided to use an Indian theme and went around home talking so much "Indian" that her brothers de- ° clared they were going to get her a blanket and tomahawk and move her out into a tepee. They were all intensely proud of her, however, when the affair was over and turned out to be what Ted called a "howling success". Every member of the family had given his best efforts to help her and had scoured the town for costumes, properties and scenery until each declared that his friends ran when they saw him coming. "T hope that next time you'll put on a fairy revel and hand each one a couple of yards of cheesecloth and a bunch of daisies," said Marvin at breakfast the day after the performance. "I am completely worn out." "You forget that there won't be a next time," laughed Helen, "but if there were I should be tempted to follow your suggestion." The two boys shuffled off to their customary Saturday holiday revels and Helen and Nina were left alone at 'the breakfast table. "I do think is was sweet of Wendell to get in and help me the way he did last night," Helen continued after the boys had left. "isn't he?" "Oh, yes," assented Nina, with a shrug of her shoulders, "Wendell is thoroughly dependable and er— 'sweet' as you say." "And is that anything against him?" Helen was moved by her sister's tone to inquire., "No. Only I want more than mere dependability in a man." Nina spoke in a low tone as if partly to herself. "I want romance and thrills and everything!" "Well, my dear, I hope you get 'everything', " said Helen seriously and then added in a lighter tone as she arose from the table, "perhaps you will, if you don't get in too big of a hurry." He is so dependable, OR the first time now Dan began to urge her to return home. He reminded her that travel through the mountains would become very difficult, not to say dangerous, after the snow fell. Helen realized this also and decided to have a thorough understanding with Mr. Winters at once as to how much longer they intended to have her teach. When she approached him upon the matter he said, "I have been talking this over with the members of the board and they are most anxious to have you stay for the rest of the school year. You have made such an excellent'beginning here and the festival was so successful that they are willing to make it very much worth your while to finish out the school year." Helen shook her head dubiously. "I’ll let you know soon," she said, half wishing that he had not put the temptation before her again. Within a short time she had decided that she 36 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE might as well stay a few months longer and wrote Dan to this effect. His reply almost shook her decision to stay. He wrote, "My dear, long ago I fought against falling in love with you because I was afraid that you would not be able to face life out in this rugged country. It is alright for the ones who have lived here always but I knew that it wouldn't be fair to expect you to make a go of it. Well, you made a brave try and if you don't come back, I can't blame you too much. I shall love you always. Dan." The letter left her in tears and she was about to pack up and rush back to him but she had given her word to stay now and on thinking it over she decided that it was better all the. Way around if she did stay and accomplish what she had set out to do. With the extra money she could save from an entire year's teaching she could do no end of things to the ranch house. She even visualized a bathroom with green marble fixtures. Surely a year was not too much to sacrifice when it would mean so much to her in the end. Even Dan must be persuaded to see it that way. Having made up her mind to stay, Helen went vigorously ahead with plans for the year's work. She would have been extremely happy in her teaching if she had had Dan's approval but she was quite sure that she could convince him that she had been justified in remaining when she had an opportunity to talk the matter over with him. I WAS the week following her decision to remain for the winter that Helen came home one day to find Danny gone. He was left in the charge of his grandmother during the day and had never before shown any inclination to leave the place without some member of the family. Consequently, he was often left to play out in the yard by himself. Helen refused at first to believe that he was not some place around the house and searched every corner thoroughly, even going through the closets and looking under the beds. When neither the house nor the yard yielded a trace of the little fellow she began to search the nearby streets with fear growing constantly in her heart. She soon decided that she must have more help and started her two brothers off in different directions. Her mother, who had been trying to keep Helen calm by not showing her own fear, suggested, "If you only had someone with a car you could cover the ground much faster, why don't you call Wayne Kent?" Helen had more or less avoided Wayne since the night of his birthday dinner when he had taken her down to see the ocean in the moonlight, although she realized that he had given her no particular reason to do so. Now, however, as she could not reach her father to get their own car, and with only the thoughts of Danny in her mind, she rushed to the telephone and called his office. "My baby is lost," she said, choking up as if uttering the words for the first time made her feel their full import. "Could you come over and take me out in your car to find him?" "Why, of course," he answered full of solicitude. "I’ll come at once." He did not tell her that he would have to cancel an engagement with an important client in order to come, but rushed out to the Burt home and had Helen in his car in fifteen minutes. — "Now which way?" he asked in a businesslike tone. "Is there any place in particular that he liked to go?" "He is very fond of both the beach, and the park but he never suggested going to either one alone," said Helen somewhat relieved to have a steadier THE LOTUS EATER 37 head than her own in charge of the search. "Let's try the park first then since it is the closer," suggested Wayne as they started off. Helen kept a sharp lookout on both sides of the street for a tiny figure in a blue suit but there was no sign of him anywhere along the way. They searched the park from one end to the other with the same discouraging results and Helen felt her throat tighten and her lips quiver. "He never could have gone to the beach alone," she said in a strained voice, "but I don't know where else to go." "Then we'll go to the beach. We're bound to find him if we keep on going, so don't worry." "Don't worry" were futile words to the anxious mother but she felt somewhat comforted by his optimism. It was growing dusk when they turned away from the beach and started back home again. They had searched in every spot where crowds of children were gathered until Helen was sick with disappointment. Her face was white and drawn as they drove along still looking hopefully at every child on the street. If only Dan were here! Surely he would think of something that could be done. Then suddenly she saw Danny. As they were passing a lot only a few blocks from home she saw a small golden head emerging through a gap in a hedge and at her cry, Wayne quickly stopped his car. The tears which she had bravely held back until now, rolled down her cheeks as she held her baby in her arms and kissed him over and over again. "Oh, Danny boy," she cried, "Where have you been? Why did you run away?" He gazed at her solemnly wondering at her tears. Finally he said, "Doggie runned away. I look for him." "The doggie—" began Helen in puzzled tones. Then as she began to understand she looked up at Wayne with a wry smile. "I put his little cloth dog away this morning and he has been searching for it." Then continuing, to the child, "The doggie is home asleep in mother's dresser, Danny. Let's go and get him." As they stopped in front of her house she set Danny down on the ground with the words, "Run in quickly and tell grandmother you are found again. She has been just as much worried as mother has." Danny didn't quite understand what all the fuss was about but he did as he was told and ran up to the house as fast as his chubby legs could carry him. AS he disappeared in the door Helen turned to Wayne and laid her hand upon his arm. 'You don't know how grateful I am," she said in a voice trembling with emotion. He grasped her hand quickly in his and said in a low tense voice, "There's nothing in the world I wouldn't do for you, Helen—you know that, don't you?" She withdrew her hand, her face burning. "I'm sorry Wayne," she stammered, "I think that I had better go in now." He detained her a moment longer, "If you should ever decide not to go back— "But I am going back," she interrupted in a low voice. "Pm sorry it had to happen like this: after what you have done for me. Please forgive me if I go now. Goodbye." She stepped swiftly out of the car and ran up the walk to the house. (To be continued) Roses With Our Bread By La Rene King Bleecker (A sketch of the life of Lella Marler Hoggan, who wrote Keepsakes For The Treasure Chest of Life (1935) and Little Moments Of Eternity (1937). ANY queries have been reM. Ceived from our readers wanting to know more about the author of those delightful essays, "Keepsakes For The Treasure Chest Of Life,' which ran concurrently in 1935, and "Little Moments Of Eternity,' the series just completed in the December number of the Magazine. The latter essays were prepared by request, as were the splendid illustrations by Dora Marler Williams. Mrs. Hoggan and Mrs. Williams, who are sisters, live in Ogden. Their lives are very similar in that they have had to rear families, while perfecting themselves in the work they both love. As children their lives were somewhat primitive. They lived in and near Soda Springs and later Lewisville, Idaho. During the summer they often lived near the forest where their father cut logs for the saw mill. Sometimes they would live in a tent at the foot of a hill. Life took on a spirit of adventure, then, because they could climb after service berries and wild flowers. They thrilled to the rugged beauty all about them and were joyously happy. At that time Lella felt no urge to write. She sensed the mysteries of the whispering pines, the tang of the leaf mould, the flame of the sunset, but though she throbbed with the beauty of it all, her pen was inarticulate. Not until later, when she attended the B. Y. Academy at Provo, did she begin to write the things she had felt and seen. ORA, however, gave early indications of creative ability. When there was nothing else available, she would draw sketches with charcoal on pieces of bark. Throughout her girlhood and later, during married life and motherhood, she found time to sketch and paint the bits of homely, rugged beauty that lay about her in the isolated sections where she lived. At times her urge to create was so great that she sent for correspondence courses, and set avidly to work, spending long hours in perfecting herself in the thing she loved. Though she went through the fiery furnace of toil, sickness and isolation —-suffered the loss of a loved one through death, having to rear her little ones alone, yet nothing could quench the burning desire in her heart. She would, she must, she had to give something to the world through the medium of her deft fingers. In Ogden, where she now resides, on a little blackboard in one of the schools is a picture of Bethlehem, the star, the Wise Men and the camels. This picture is so exquisitely done, that it seems almost sacrilege to erase it. In creating she has found happiness. There is such similarity in the lives of these sisters, that to write of one is almost like writing of both. LELLA MARLER HOGGAN is a name too well known in our Church publications to need an introduction. She has studied all her life. She will go on studying forever ROSES WITH OUR BREAD 39 LELLA MARLER HOGGAN. She has that rare gift which enables her to see the glad things in life—the fine and beautiful things. Lella's life has been full. In talking with her one feels that she has suffered, loved, lived and shared. Her life is crowded with events— beautiful, tragic, humorous events. Events which her skill fashions into stories. Her stories hold one amazed and interested to the end. She has known the hardships of strenuous pioneering work on a ranch in Idaho. She has known interesting years as a student at B. Y. Academy and the L. D. S. University; compensating years as a teacher in Idaho and Utah; absorbing years as sweetheart, wife and mother; sad years of widowhood; satisfying years as a writer, in which her life has been richer and more abundant. She was born in Clifton, Idaho, September 21, 1880. She was the second child in a family of seven. 40 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Her parents were William N. Marler and May Hix. Both were born and reared in the Church. Lella's father was a Southerner, congenial, humorous and with a heart for all humanity. Her mother was of New England ancestry, idealistic and esthetic. Lella says there was never a time when her mother "just kept house". She loved to do fine, intricate needlework, and to paint and read. If she ever sensed the hardships of life in the primitive places in which the family lived from time to time she never complained. Often she taught school in her own home, so that her children would not fall behind in their studies. "T just had to do right," Lella explained. "My mother expected so much of me that I couldn't disappoint her. She was always a constant source of inspiration to me." 'Another thing I could never forget," explained Lella, "was the fact that my grandparents and greatgrandparents had gone through the trials and sufferings of the early Church. I could not fail them. I felt they had sacrificed too much." Lella and Dora are descendants of Ezra Chase and Tirzah Wells Chase, who settled in Harrisville, Utah. Their daughter, Charlotte Chase Hix, Lella's grandmother, was a remarkable woman, with trends similar to her daughter and granddaughters. She did all the things that they have done. Lella has samples of her embroidering and water colors. She taught school in the early days in Harrisville, loved to work and be with young people. She could remember the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum. She at one time attended the Prophet's school, her teachers being Parley and Orson Pratt, whom she ardently admired. But it is not this remarkable woman whom Lella resembles. She loves to tell about her stern great grandfather and his little Quaker wife, Tirzah. For it is Tirzah who lives again in Lella. She was quiet and gentle, always said "thee" and "thine," and always wore Quaker bonnets with ruffles of lace. Lella has the same kind eyes and gentle mouth, the same profile, the same retiring, unassuming nature. DORA MARLER WILLIAMS Somewhere I have read that a truly great person appears never to be ina hurry. Lella is that kind of person. She has time to live, to enjoy her family and friends. She is poised, serene and gentle. It is only when one sums up the amount of work she does that one realizes her ability to keep calm and unruffled. Despite the strain of earning a living and keeping up a home for her family. It is this quality of serenity perhaps more than any other ROSES WITH OUR BREAD 41 trait that has helped her in writing her essays. When asked how she came to write Keepsakes and Little Moments Of Eternity, she replied with a twinkle in her eyes: "When trouble crowded _ too closely in my own life, I had to form some sort of guiding philosophy to help me carry on. When it proved helpful to me, I felt that I had to share it with others. I truly believe what I teach. All the treasures of earth could not buy the blessings my philosophy has brought me." On October 4, 1905, Lella married James D. Hoggan in the Salt Lake Temple. They had been married only five weeks when he went on a three-year mission to Holland. When he returned, they made their home for a time in Lewisville, Idaho, then in Tooele, and later in Ogden. They were very happy and congenial and their marriage relations were sacred and beautiful. "My days are filled with thrills and worries just as all mothers' days are,' Mrs. Hoggan says. 'While my husband was alive we were very happy. Jim was kind and thoughtful, a good father to our five children, and I have only tender memories of our life and work together for twenty-one years. When he died in October, 1926, our faith helped us to carry on. We think of him as being "just away" and we plan our work in harmony with the standards for which he was striving. 'What would Daddy want us to do?' is a question often asked in our home. There have been many crosses and losses since we were left alone, but life still finds us without bitterness and unafraid." "I have tried to help my children stand on their own feet, to be dependable and independent; to instill into their minds that cleanliness, honesty and kindness are the most necessary virtues. We have tried to find the happy side of life and to read good books." Mrs. Hoggan reads humor, poetry, religious books, philosophy and essays. She doesn't have much time for fiction. In her little library at home she has row upon row of books and can find at a moment's notice, anything she wishes in writing her essays. She has written for all the Church publications; "Health Talks" for The Character Builder; letters on child-training for parents' magazines, as well as biographical sketches for the Fred G. Taylor Family's "Book Of Remembrance." Her best work however, has been her essays. In these she has interpreted the teachings of the Gospel. "I was guided by a power higher than: my own. I truly did not write them," she said. "I was only the instrument." Mrs. Hoggan really lives true to her philosophy. It has worked in her life, broadened it, given her "feet of courage" to walk through life unafraid. It has given her "Roses with her bread." Beautiful spiritual roses! Roses that shed fragrance in her life and in the lives of others! The August, 1936 issue of the Improvement Era contains this appealing little poem in which Lella Marler Hoggan has expressed the fervent wish of both herself and her artist sister, Dora: "In winter's cold, in summer's heat we toil Through the long stretches of the day, Dear Lord, give us bread, we pray. And if our task be worthy of the hire, Our measure full and true, Dear Lord, may we not have roses, too?" Martha McChesney Berry By George Gardiner "The joy of a good deed is in the doing of it, not in receiving thanks." IN all the history of America ] there have been few women like Martha Berry. Christians and especially Latter-day Saints, should know the story of this good woman, for she has demonstrated the practicableness of some of the most vital parts of our own religion. The influence of her work has spread far and wide to benefit the common people. While a young woman she founded a home school, the first of its kind in America, at her own expense, at Rome, Georgia. The students of her' school became apostles of a new idea and a better way of life which they had learned at the Berry School. The State of Georgia took up the Berry School idea of education and established other such schools for her rural people. Theodore Roosevelt, after being president of the United States, visited the Berry School. He sail, "This is the greatest practical work for American citizenship that has been done within this decade." Through Miss Berry's earlier visit to the White House he caught the vision and saw that Martha Berry's methods could be extended to other sections of the south and to rural America. As he studied the new idea he conceived in his mind the Country Life Commission. Later he called seven outstanding leaders in America together and appointed each a member of this Commission. They in turn, through education, fostered legislation and by the help of extension services and boy's and —Martha Berry. Girl's clubs gave rural America the new idea. The White House Conference gave further stimulus to the movement which was again taken up by the Youth Movement. MARTHA BERRY had just returned from a finishing school in Baltimore to the fine old Georgia mansion with its stately white pillars and wide terraces. There were negro servants at the mansion to care for the lawns and the flowers and to anticipate her every wish. On this Sunday afternoon, she was looking back to the scenes of her childhood. She wandered down through the pleasant woods to a little log cabin where she and her sister had played with their dolls so long ago. The house was a monument to her happy memories, and she made it a den where she could re-live her youth. She often came to paint the wild flowers and play the old melodeon. One afternoon while she was playing, children came from the nearby tenant farms to peek through the cracks of the cabin. They were very shy, these poor white children, and it was only by tempting them with apples that she could coax them in. Once in, they listened eagerly to the stories she told them from the Bible. "THE next Sunday these children brought others and the next they brought their parents. The little log cabin grew to be a Sunday School home. Some of these MARTHA McCHESNEY BERRY 43 people moved away and asked her to come and start a Sunday School at their new home. Ofttimes the new home would be several miles away over mountain roads. On one of these occasions the cabin had no doors, no windows and part of the roof had fallen in. During Sunday School that morning, the rain came through and soaked Miss Berry's dress. At the close of school she searched out a big tree and told the men if they would fell the tree and split it for the roof she would furnish the nails and make them some lemonade. One of the men hesitated and said, "It mout not rain for a whole month." She replied, "It mout rain next Sunday." The men cut the tree, split it and made the new roof. Many of the mountaineers had never tasted lemonade. They were greatly amused. One of them said he had never heard of a woman, "'bossin' a house roofin' before." AS Martha Berry came to know these people better she saw that Sunday School was not enough. Some of them were hungry for many things. They needed a more varied diet for many of them were suffering from that dreaded pellagra, a disease which results from a limited diet of salt pork and corn bread. They were hungry for education. Less than half of the children in that section had finished the fourth grade in school, a large number could not even read. They knew nothing of nature and failed to appreciate the abundant beauty at their very doors. Like all great women in the cause of humanity, Martha Berry saw that people starve in the presence of abundance and all from the lack of sympathetic help from fellow men. She had the rarest of all human qualities, a desire to give the help that she was able to give to the people who needed it, in the way they needed it. Through the sermon of her deeds she has created a beautiful and peaceful island in a confused and turbulent world. ROM the beginning she shared her artistic feeling and rich enthusiasm with her people. She took the children on long walks, taught them the beauties of the flowers and the woods. She took five of these children to her little log cabin and started a home school, the kind that teaches mountain children a better way of life. The five boys who started this class lived there at the cabin which was furnished from Miss Berry's attic across the way. At the end of the week there was a wash day. But the boys refused to wash their clothes, the bedding and the table linen. They said, "Washing is woman's work. Men do not wash and we are men." Martha Berry was then a slim little aristocrat. Negro servants had anticipated her every wish from the day she was born, yet there was no argument with the boys. She said sweetly that she would do the washing and stepped to the tub of steaming soap suds and took the soiled overalls and started. This did not look right to the boys. They had never seen men wash, neither had they seen women of Miss Berry's type wash clothes. One of the large boys walked up and said, "I ain't never seen men wash clothes, Miss Berry, but sooner than see you do it I'll wash 'em." This incident served to illustrate 44 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE two simple lessons that helped to create the Berry School. The first lesson was, that there are many things we do not do that we ought to do, and the second, there are better ways of doing the things we do. From that day on, spotless white table linen, though of cheap cotton cloth was a matter of pride to the boys. When it was on the table there was a vase of flowers on it. Mountain pride was hard to reckon with; it continued to crop up but it was a valuable asset when turned in proper channels. Some of the boys could not pay tuition and they would not accept charity so ways had to be devised for the boys to bring supplies from home and to work for part of their board and tuition. Some brought chickens, others coarse cloth, one boy brought a span of oxen, one sold his only mule, one mother sold her only cow to help pay her boy's way in school. Many of the boys worked on the school farm, raised stock, made gardens, made furniture, and built school houses to pay their way. These things were part of her plan of education for this was an industrial school. The boys were taught scientific agriculture, including all branches of farming and stock raising. Later, when the school had grown and the girls attended, they were taught scientific home management and child care. The Berry school also taught the good things of the mind and the young people grew to be cultured and self-respecting. The flowers and the spotless linen were in a way a symbol of a new world into which these young people came. When they returned to their homes the community benefited by their attendance at the school. Her students were apostles of a new idea. On week-ends, Miss Berry often went to the homes of the students. One student invited her to stay at his home on such a trip, but he requested to leave school on Friday. He was afraid his mother would not know how to clean the house so he was going home to help her. Every community into which her students returned improved its way of life. Flower and vegetable gardens were planted. Better varieties of food began to wipe out pelagra. Homes that had never had a curtain at the window or a carpet on the floor were made attractive. People came out of the shadows into the sunshine of life. This better way of life spread not only to the mountain sections of the South but to all of rural America. At this time rural life in America was hard and often cruel for children and women especially. The schools were ill suited to the needs of rural life. Many of the ideas that have most improved rural schools originated at the Berry School. It has been truthfully said that "Miss Berry has made a contribution to the youth life of all the world with her great school." NO great work of this character is ever done without tremendous work and patience and understanding. As she says, "People don't always like being improved. Students occasionally riot and teachers don't see what we are trying to do. The joy of a good deed is in doing it, not in receiving thanks." MRS BERRY saw her own fortune being spent to the last dollar. She had undertaken a never ending task and must have help. She needed help of rich and influential friends but had none who were interested. But she did have an ever increasing desire to MARTHA McCHESNEY BERRY 45 help the children of the Georgia mountains. Here she passes that crucial test of brotherly love and sacrifice. In her search for help she was directed to R. Fulton Cutting. He asked her how much commission she was getting for collecting the funds for the school and how much salary she received for directing the school. "I get a thrill in seeing these fine people grow up to be clean, educated and happy people, but I get no money," was her calm reply. She timidly suggested that he might give just enough to help one student go through school. One year, and that would mean so much to the boy. When Mr. Cutting wrote out the check and handed it to her she hoped it might be fifty dollars but prepared herself to be thankful if it were only five. She waited until she was on the street before looking at the check and was immeasurably happy to find that it was five hundred dollars. Ten boys went to school the next year on that check. One boy was earning fifteen dollars per month when he entered school. When he left he was earning fifty. One Thanksgiving, the rest of the men at the creamery where he worked, got drunk and left the Berry School boy alone at the plant. He stayed faithfully and saved the company heavy loss and at the same time upheld the Berry School reputation for dependability. Neither boys nor girls at the school smoke nor drink. The check which aided these boys was the beginning of outside help. The value of the school property is now more than five million dollars. There are more than 30,000 acres of land on the estate. "THERE is a student body of 1000 and many times that - number on the waiting list. Tens of thousands of boys and girls have had their lives enriched by coming in contact with one of America's greatest personalities and with a community life that is a model for a better civilization. ER own state of Georgia built eleven district agricultural and mechanical schools after her pattern. The legislature designated her a distinguished citizen by special resolution. The Roosevelt Memorial Association awarded her the Medal of Honor for Distinguished Service. Seven universities have awarded her honorary degrees. The Pictorial Review awarded her the $5000 prize for advancing the national welfare in arts, letters, and social welfare. But one of the finest tributes and one she must prize most comes from one of her students and speaks for them all. He said, "For thirty-two years she labored unceasingly without salary to give the mountain boys and girls of the South, light and learning. The story of her courage and self-sacrifice, and her struggle to build the great mountain institution which today bears her name forms one of the bright spots in American history." Appreciation By Valerie Peck (McKinley Ward, Wells Stake) HEN asked to talk on this topic at Relief Society Conference my first thought was, "that will be easy. I come home from school on Tuesday, the house isn't very warm, it's lonesome, dinner isn't ready, and we always know that it will be beans or soup, for mother has gone to Relief Society." Speaking more _ seriously, we enjoy having mother attend Relief Society meetings. She comes home with new thoughts and ideas. The lessons cover a variety of stimulating subjects. Mother tells us parts of each of these lessons, and we are benefited thereby. The Theology lessons on the Life and Teachings of Christ we always enjoy. We like very much the comments on the Social Service lessons, and we are delighted with the Literary lessons. Mother tells us the stories and biographies which are always entertaining. Whenever we need help with our themes at school mother usually knows something about each subject. I am sure a great deal of this she learns at Relief Society. I often wonder if one can get too many "'counter-irritants" in life. Let me explain what I mean. When you have a cold, someone puts a mustard plaster on your chest. After this has been on thirty minutes, there is an itching, burning, tingling in the chest, which is very uncomfortable. How can one get rid of this unpleasant feeling? Then mother pulls off the plaster and smears on some cold cream. The blood has been drawn to the chest through a disagreeable process, the counter-irritant soothes. In life we see and hear and contact things that are irritating. We see the girl who is not adverse to a cocktail or two, or a cigarette, or coarse language or a crude outlook on life, or something that makes one feel that life isn't a very fine thing in some respects. Then mother comes along with some thought or ideal, some noble endeavor on the part of some man or woman,—a counter-irritant, and I see that life is not sordid, and unclean, but is hopeful and full of ' opportunity for everyone to attain the high ideal. Such counter-irritants spring into being at Relief Society, and are brought home to us and vitalized. A FEW years ago a great scientist of nature, Luther Burbank, conceived the idea of improving the standards of farm products. His unique scheme in one case was to take what was best in several varieties of potatoes and unite them into one fine blend. People came to call this process of taking an ordinary variety and grafting in desirable traits of other varieties "Burbanking". It has dawned upon me, that, in a measure, is what mother has been trying to do to me. Using me, as I am, as the ordinary scrub variety, she has drawn from the Relief Society ideas that make for noble womanhood and has quietly gone about grafting them into my make-up, "Burbanking" me. The process has not been entirely painless, nor without opposition, and sometimes I have been "Burbanked" in spite of furious resistance. But the process continually goes on until I am beginning to find my outlook upon life taking a new meaning, a new richness, a new lustre, through the "Burbanking" of Relief Society embellishments. No one can come in contact with these, even second-hand, and not be influenced by them. So through the Relief Society "counterirritants" and "Burbankings" I find that the undesirable scrub in me gradually yields more easily each time to the finer, nobler, and more really satisfying things of life To sum it all up, in spite of bear soup, Dad's hard burned biscuits, eaten in a half-heated breakfast nook Tuesday nights, I partake of a sweet uplift that is leading me to "tune in" on the Relief Society spirit for the sheer joy it brings with its fine, noble outlook. "IF THERE'S EVER A TIME" By Roberta Flake Clayton If there's ever a time you suffer alone, Lest the knowledge might add to my woe, And to spare me you smile through unshed tears— God grant that I may know. If there's ever a time when a word from me Would help you on your way, Would give you the courage to carry on— God give me the word to say. If there's ever a time when a lift from me Can ease your load of care And make your burden a little less hard— God grant that I may be there. APPRECIATION 47 Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon JANUARY-—A friendly greeting for the New Year brightens the soul, like sunshine-stars on winter snow. ANTONIA BRICO, director of the New York Women's Orchestra, opened the winter season at Carnegie Hall. This orchestra has achieved meteoric success, and is one of the few not endowed. NORA GREGOR, Viennese actress, was married last December to Prince von Starhemberg. When she makes her debut as Lois Montez in the Vienna theatre she will really be a Princess. AGNES WAHL NIEMAN left the bulk of her fortune of $5,000,000 to Harvard University, without stipulating any particular use for it. As her husband who amassed this great wealth was a journalist, why not a school for journalism? PRISCILLA EVANS of Utah has been elected corresponding secretary of the National Council of Women. She was a delegate to the Council from the National Woman's Relief Society. Mrs. Evans is learned in the law, and has a charming personality. IDA TARBELL, at 80, continues her literary work with a calm philosophy and excellent judgment. OSA JOHNSON continues her explorations and hunting in Africa as she and her husband, the late Martin Johnson, had planned. MELIA EARHART, lost aviatrix, has been given recognition from Mexico for her record flight from Los Angeles to Mexico City in 1935, by a posthumous award of the Order of the Aztec Eagle. The decoration will be placed in Purdue University. MALVINA HOFFMAN received the 1937 award for eminent achievement from the American Woman's Association. Pearl Buck made the presentation. ANN JENSEN TIDD, 95, of Monroe, Utah, died last month. She held a record as a leader in Church work for 81 years. MARJORIE HILLIS, author of "Orchids on Your Budget," is giving entertaining talks on the smartest hats, frocks, coats and shoes, besides giving clever, not costly, ways of entertaining and making a name as a "smart hostess". CAROLYN WELLS, humorist, has written her biography— "The Rest of My Life" in her usual amusing vein. KATHERINE BURTON'S "Sorrow Built a Bridge," story of Rose Hawthorne, the novelist's daughter, and Catherine Carswell's, "The Tranquil Heart', story of Giovanni Boccaccio are wonderful pen portraits in biography. ISEBEL PATTERSON of New York is considered one of the best literary critics of the period;. The greatest among women. Notes To The Field Eliza Roxy Snow Memorial Poem Contest THE committee for the General Board of the Relief Society are pleased to announce the result of the annual prize poem contest for the year 1937. There were 137 poems entered, most of them of unusual merit. It is gratifying to note the increased interest in this contest, and the improvement in poetic fancy and construction. The first prize this year was awarded to Anna Prince Redd, of Provo, Utah, for her very beautiful poem "No Beauty Is". Second prize to Vesta P. Crawford of Salt Lake City, for her tender poem "Memorial On the Plains", and third prize to Kathryn F. Clyde of Heber City, for a lovely poem "Pioneer Cabin." The judges this year were Prof. N. A. Pederson, connected with the English department of the Utah State Agricultural College; Richard Evans, associate editor of the Era and Nettie D. Bradford of the General Board of Relief Society. We are grateful to the judges for their valuable assistance; we congratulate the successful authors, and thank all who contributed to the contest. Annie Wells Cannon Julia A. F. Lund Rosannah C. Irvine Ida P. Beal Rae B. Barker Committee. Work and Business Department 'TO everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under the heaven." "The wise woman looketh well to the ways of her household and eateth not the bread of idleness. She seeketh wool and flax and worketh willingly with her hands. She layeth her hands to the spindle. She maketh fine linen. She stretcheth out her hand to the poor, yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy." Now is the time and season for every leader to look well to the ways of the Work and Business project. The season's gift making and holidays are past and the needs of the ward have largely been cared for, allowing more time and opportunity to devote to this activity. Have you enthusiastically explained and promoted the aim and value of such a project? Has every member in your ward had an opportunity to participate? Are you planning to spend at least two or three lessons on the results of the survey with defiq nite suggestions or demonstrations to show how they can be used to promote a better understanding of home problems? Are you filing all data received to be used in making a final report when called for? The project was planned to help women to see their own needs and to encourage them to provide for the same. Are you extending a hand of helpfulness and a word of encouragement? Social Service Department ONE problem of the good citizen is, how to live successfully and in harmony with his neighbors. Up to a very recent time it was assumed that just the act of living in groups would insure successful individual adjustment. Ona large scale we see the fallacy of such a premise indicated in the contention and conflict among national neighbors. Today, many leading educators are convinced that conscious effort, directed attention, must be given the specific 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE problem of developing social interest. As individuals we see the magnitude of the task and, in the main, stand discouraged. Discouragement will never mend the ill. A better attitude is, "How can I help. I am a citizen. I am part of society. What is my responsibility?" A very interesting and promising project, "Building Social Awareness in School', is being conducted in one of the large school systems of our country. Marguerite and Willard Beecher believe that it is so successfully changing the anti-social feeling of many individuals who were failing to make a useful social adjustment, that they are guiding this project gratuitously. Few mothers are equipped, either in training or time, to help in so large a way the building of good citizens. Always, however, the home has been pointed to as the strength of the nation. Every home is a working laboratory, a small factory contributing its quota of citizens. Shall we be content to leave the main responsibility with school or civic organizations? Suggestive: As a starting point for a worthwhile discussion and in an effort to consciously develop social awareness try this question in your class and again in your homes: Does freedom mean I shall do only as I please? Then, in your mind, grant that same privilege to every person in your community for one week: the grocer, milkman, streetcar conductor, garage man, utilities operators, etc. Carry the discussion to its logical conclusion. It will be readily seen that freedom and security depend on the willingness of each individual to do his share. The hope is that we can stimulate in our classes real thought on the power the home can be in building goad citizenry. Theology WE believe that through the atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel."' So reads the third article of faith propounded by the Prophet Joseph Smith as one of the thirteen articles making a concise presentation of the belief of the Latter-day Saints. In the study of the most excellent lesson VII on the subject, "Christ and the Atonement,' a thorough analysis of this third article will be most helpful. As the years pass, in daily life, one is so apt to take everything for granted, and never consider the great debt of gratitude due the Lord, for our very being, and more than all; for our salvation; but in deeper contemplation truly need we "stand amazed at the love Jesus offered us", in his voluntary sacrifice. Mark well the voluntary fact that your knowledge may be strengthened in His divine Sonship. No human would suffer all the mockings, sorrows and agonies, knowing that a prayer would end them; but the Savior-refused all help, even rebuked the disciple who would defend Him saying "Put up thy sword. Thinkest thou that I cannot pray to my Father and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels?" Some fine music in connection with this lesson such as "Oh, It Is Wonderful," and "Glory to God in the Highest," would be appropriate There are also many pictures by the great masters if copies are available. "Christ and the Pilgrims at Emmaus", by Velasquez; "The Supper at Emmaus", by Veronese, are taken from the memorable story told by Luke 24:25-30. Notes From The Field By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary WEST JORDAN STAKE, BINGHAM WARD West Jordan Stake "THE above picture shows the Bingham Ward Relief Society. This was taken following a bazaar held in this Ward. The sisters, both young and old, are most eager to cooperate in carrying on the Relief Society program, and in aiding the Church Security in its beautification program. The sisters realize that the improvement of Relief Society meeting places does much to stimulate interest in the organization and build up the morale of the members. They have therefore determined to do all in their power to raise funds and help carry on this work. This was the objective of the bazaar held, which had most satisfactory results. Cache Stake "THE Fifth Ward Relief Society is the author of a very delightful little newspaper which carries out the program of the Relief Society. It gives the news of the Relief Society and what it offers the sisters. It also tells what Relief Society does for the individual members. All items of interest pertaining to other Church organizations are listed in this fine little paper, and call attention to the fact that the Relief Society women are following the admonition of the Prophet to safeguard the morals of the people, and to stimulate all to good works. The Cache Stake has done some splendid work in the furthering of the library idea, and very gratifying effects have followed the efforts of the sisters in this particular. The inspiration from associating with wonderful women, and the ideals set forth, makes for fuller and richer lives. 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE TAHITIAN Utah Stake MOST splendid report of the year's activity comes from the Utah Stake. A very delightful social given in the summer of this year offered opportunity for the Stake Relief Society to give a concrete expression of its various activities. More than six hundred women assembled at this time, and awards were made to those having 100% visiting-teaching records during the year and to those realizing the slogan of reading the Relief Society Magazine from cover to cover. There was a large percentage of the women who had a perfect attendance record at the regular meetings. Prizes were given to the Wards who could show the greatest number of women in these activities. There were three Magazine Agents who received more than 100% subscriptions. The splendid entertainment was carefully prepared and conducted with the efficiency characteristic of this enterprising stake. A In October of this year the Utah Stake held its Visiting Teachers' convention, at which time there were in attendance 375 Visiting Teachers. Here again the Wards met in friendly rivalry as to which could show the MISSION most Visiting Teachers in attendance. Following the regular convention a one-act play was presented, and the affair proved to be one of great enthusiasm and interest, a splendid beginning for a most promising' year's work. Tahitian Mission ROM far away Tahiti comes the above picture. Sister M. Maude Woodbury writes that she is very much encouraged with the Relief Society work on these Islands. For the first time in the history of the Mission the lessons for all the auxiliaries are being prepared and sent out to the Saints and Elders in the monthly paper published at Mission Headquarters. A copy of the paper came to the. Office. The lack of books is a serious handicap in conducting the lessons, but the Mission President and those associating with her are doing a splendid work in simplifying the lessons. The Child Guidance lessons are particularly valuable here. The sisters do greatly appreciate the Relief Society Magazine, and the President reads to them the things which she feels will fit their needs best. The choice poems and articles on many phases of life and about many people, and the NOTES FROM THE FIELD 53 NORTH IDAHO news items are of keen interest to these people so far removed. Carbon and North Idaho Falls Stakes HE spirit of Daughter's Day is certainly being typified in the lovely reports that come into the office from the various stakes and wards of the Church. Young women FALLS STAKE are associating with their mothers, and learning the spirit of Relief Society, the inspiration that it is to them in their future work, and the great aids they will get in the broad educational program. The two above pictures, first Carbon Stake, and second North Idaho Falls Stake, are typical of the groups who are participating in this wonderful movement, THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth LOUISE YATES ROBISON.- AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - KATE M. BARKER.- - - - JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - - - - President - - - -: First Counselor Second Counselor Wceneral Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Jennie B. Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Nettie D. Bradford Ida P. Beal Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine Belle S. Spafford Neltie O. Parker RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Manager - - - - - Louise Y. Robison Von. XXV JANUARY, 1938 No. 1 Editorials Greetings HE various seasons of the year have a deep significance. There is an apt comparison between them and human life. Quite unconsciously we surrender ourselves to the impressions and influences of the time, for as Longfellow says: "Time is the life of the soul." The song of the angels, sung two thousand years ago, resounds just as joyously and clearly today as it did on the plains of Bethlehem, and the spirit of the Savior pervades the air at Christmas time. In studying the history of the human family, we find that among all peoples in all ages the first day of the year has been regarded as one among holidays. These days are of great value both in their moral and intellectual influence. The observance of New Year's Day mainly rests on the principle that a good beginning makes a good ending; as the first day is, so will the others be. As Relief Society sisters we have felt the sacred spell of the Christmas spirit. Like, Janus of old, we stand with faces turned both ways. We have looked with grateful appreciation over the achievements ofthe past year. Our minds have been thrilled by the cooperation and devoted service of the women of our organization. Our love and prayers are with them the world over. As one band of united women we greet the New Year with faith and courage in our hearts. Though chaos seems to reign in the affairs of men, we do not doubt. Through all the darkness and despair of today, the light of the Gospel burns steady and true. With calm assurance of its unfailing guidance and power, we face the future with joy. LOUISE Y. ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN KATE M. BARKER General Presidency of Relief Society Assistant Manaper Amy Brown Lyman 1938 Ahead "Be ashamed to die until you have achieved some victory for humanity."— Horace Mann. FINIS must now be written for the year 1937. Like every other year it has brought its successes and joys, its failures and disappointments. The measure of its worth must be, HAS MANKIND PROGRESSED? Have we advanced educationally; has science contributed to well-being; are people more secure; how far forward
has this year brought us? "My Vocation," a recent publication, tells of the work of twenty-five eminent Americans from as many fields of usefulness, who have made very definite contributions to the information, guidance, inspiration and well-being of mankind—men who have shared in progress. Countless numbers there are, not listed in any book who have played equally constructive roles. Are you and I numbered among this group?
This is a season of stock-taking, the inventory time of year. It might be well for us to take inventory of self as well as of our goods and chattels. In taking this inventory let us list fairly our assets and liabilities, our strengths and our weaknesses. Too often in self stock-taking we are prone to magnify our weaknesses and to disregard our strengths. Someone has likened the mind to a closed room in which we live all of our lives. We walk about in this closed room day after day, year after year. On its walls we hang pictures representing our many efforts. We naturally key our lives to these pictures. If we shut our minds in this dark room with only pictures of our weaknesses and our failures before us, we lose confidence in our own abilities, increase our weaknesses and our fears. Thus we lose our power to DO in the program of life.
Why not then emphasize our strengths? Why not in this mind room hang pictures of the best things we have done, the successes that have been ours, holding before us the fine lesson we have given, the successful conference we have held, the life we have enriched, the strengths we have developed. Think of all the things we have done in 1937 of which we may justly be proud. What we have done we can do again with even greater success because of the experience behind us.
Latter-day Saints realize that our strengths are God given. Our Father has told us that we cannot all have all gifts but each is given his special gift or talent and it is expected that we shall use whatever is ours for the good of man. "For all have not every gift given unto them; for there are many gifts, and to every man is given a gift by the Spirit of God." "To some is given one, and to some is given another, that all be profited thereby." (Doc. And Cov. 46:11-12.)
In recognizing we have a strength we take the first step in its conscious development. The second step is putting it to active use. The Latter-day Saint Church provides abundant opportunity to put to use all of the strengths of all of its members for the good of all mankind.
This is a day of unlimited opportunities and alluring possibilities. We approach the New Year with enthusiasm and hope, beneficiaries of all that not only 1937 has given but the years and years that preceded it. Cognizant of our power and responsibility may we value the opportunities that lie ahead making 1938 a better year because we have lived in it.
The 1937 American Girl
A NATION-WIDE "cross section" survey recently made by the General Foods Corporation to discover facts about the coming generation of housewives, shopping at the nation's half million retail stores, brings to light some interesting and encouraging facts about the American girl of today.
Results of the survey were reported by Mr. C. M. Chester, General Foods Chairman, speaking before the seventh annual forum of the Herald Tribune Institute at the Waldorf-Astoria.
Mr. Chester reported that apparently six out of every ten American girls attend church regularly, the percentage of young city church goers being a trifle higher than that of country girls.
"One significant thing that we noticed," Mr. Chester commented, "is the modern girls' ambitions. She seeks self-improvement and financial independence. She wants marriage, children, and a college education, and she is willing to accept sacrifices to achieve her destiny. The 'clinging vine' type of girl apparently is gone from our midst."
Asked what they considered the smallest weekly income that a young couple could get married and get along with, the majority of the girls estimated between $20 and $30, showing them modest in their demands.
The survey indicated 94% of American girls consider a college education more desirable than in their mothers' day, and three-fourths of them feel it is now more important to take an active part in politics. Seven out of ten declare it is more important than ever to save for old age and more than half say it is more important today to own one's home than in former years.
More than half of the girls questioned had taken cookery courses in schools or colleges and three-fourths said it is more important than it has ever been to be a good cook. Mr. Chester in commenting said, "Apparently tomorrow's housewives are going to make husbands eager to come home for dinner!"
Latter-day Saints have taught from the very beginning the importance of high ideals and standards in the home. The mother is the potent influence in the home. Stability of the mother is the dominant factor in the stability of the home. To the degree homes are stable so will the nation be. This composite picture of the American girl of today, who will be the home-maker and mother of tomorrow is most gratifying.
Erratum
In publishing the Magazine Drive Honor Roll an error was made in the report of Harvard Ward, Liberty Stake. The enrollment of this ward is 57, the number of subscriptions secured 60, giving the ward a percentage of 103. Irene C. Brain is the Magazine Agent.
The report of the First Ward of Liberty Stake was omitted. The enrollment of this ward is 125, the number of subscriptions secured 114, giving this ward a percentage of 91. Hilda Staber is the magazine agent. We congratulate both wards.
Music Department
MENDELSSOHN
(Composer of "How Lovely Are Thy Messengers.") By Beatrice F. Stevens
FROM the long list of famous musicians, Felix Mendelssohn stands out as one of the best balanced, most wholesome and beloved personalities. When criticizing his work, we should think of him as possessing great talent rather than as a genius. One writer has said, "His music is bright and genial, clever and pure, manly and refined." His style can be understood and appreciated by the untrained as well as those educated in music. There is a tendency at present to underrate him, but his grandfather, was one of the greatest philosophers of his time. "Formerly," he said, "I was the son of my father; now I am the father of my son." Felix' mother was highly educated, spoke several languages and was an excellent pianist. She gave the first musical instruction to Felix and the other children in the family, often sitting with her knitting while they practiced to see that no time was wasted.
Felix was not the only talented child in his father's family; like Mozart, he had a sister who was also unusually gifted. Fannie Mendelssohn gave up a brilliant musical career when she
FELIX was born in Hamburg, February 3, 1809 and it was afterwards said that on that day, a fairy passed that way and bestowed all the graces upon him. In his life time, though it was not long, he knew what it was to have and enjoy great talent, love, fame and fortune to the highest degree. In childhood he was idolized by fond parents, brothers and sisters who had similar tastes and abilities. Their home was a mecca for talented and scholarly people. Thus he made friends who meant much in his life and perhaps greatest among them was Goethe.
His education was not confined to music but included a liberal university training and extensive traveling. Although surrounded by ease and luxury, the four Mendelssohn children, Fannie, Felix, Rebecca and Paul, were taught the value of hard work by their father who was extremely kind but a wise disciplinarian. Often they crept from warm beds at dawn to work at counterpoint, English, or to practice the Bach fugues.
Felix had considerable talent and love for painting and this influenced his musical compositions to a marked degree. He made his first public appearance as a performer at the age of nine and his talent as a composer was manifested very early in his life. He had written an Opera, choruses and chamber music before he was fourteen and at that time wrote the famous Rondo Capriccioso. At fifteen his first symphony appeared and two years later, his beautiful overture to "A Midsummer Night's Dream". This is one of his most perfect compositions.
When very young, he was responsible for the beginning of the revival of Bach and at nineteen he presented the first complete "Passion According to St. Matthew" by that great master. For this inestimable service, the musical world owes a deep and everlasting debt of gratitude to Mendelssohn.
Everywhere honors were showered upon him and at twenty he reached the pinnacle of success in London. The English people showed enthusiasm and affection for him almost beyond reason. At one time the Queen requested that he name some special favor she might grant him and he asked to visit the royal nursery. There he enjoyed himself entertaining the princes and princesses with music and fun. In 1846 he conducted the premiere of his oratorio, "Elijah", for the Birmingham Festival. This was his gift to the English people.
It was shortly after the death of his father, when Mendelssohn was twenty-four, that real romance and love came into his life. Saddened and greatly depressed by his great loss, he happened one day to be walking on the banks of the Rhine River, when a boat glided lazily by. In it sat a beautiful young girl with her lap full of flowers, and the loveliness of the picture was not lost upon the young man. So strong was the attraction, he immediately set about to find who she was and discovered that her name was Cecile Jeanrenaud. He lost no time in making the acquaintance of the family and found Cecile to be all that his heart said she would be. Her mother, the widow of the pastor of a little French church in the vicinity, was a gentlewoman, and her daughter had been reared in an atmosphere of culture and refinement, although they were in humble circumstances. The attraction was mutual and the two were soon betrothed. In the happy months preceding their marriage, he finished the oratorio, "St. Paul" which had been interrupted at the time of his father's death.
All the attentions showered upon him failed to spoil him. He remained genuine, sincere and unaffected. His was a warm and affectionate nature and his love of friends and family, deep and lasting. We have spoken of his sister Fannie who was so close to him. He never fully recovered from the shock of her death and it marked the beginning of his failing health. He spent the summer, following her death, in Switzerland occupying himself very largely in painting water colors. There are in existence today, thirteen of his large, well executed pictures of Swiss scenery. He was preparing to go to Vienna to hear Jenny Lind sing in his "Elijah" when he was taken suddenly ill and died November 4, 1847.
MENDELSSOHN is not placed in the highest ranks of composers of piano music although he wrote much that was very popular and many pieces have remained favorites. "His organ sonatas are of great value to students and place him in the foremost ranks of organ composers since Bach. He shows far greater originality in his works for orchestra; they are delightful in melody and orchestration. His violin concerto is perhaps better loved than any other; its themes are masterly and its difficulties are not excessive."
"His greatness consists not in the overwhelming effects characteristic of the music of a later day, but in calm, symmetrical beauty. In this he is unexcelled." His two oratorios, "St. Paul," and "Elijah," have brought him greatest fame.
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
Lesson 7
CHRIST AND THE ATONEMENT
Helpful References
In the Bible: Isaiah 7:14; 53:3-12; John 1:29-30, 35-36; 3:14-18; 6:50-51, 53-54; 10:7, 9, 11, 17-18; 11:25-26; 12:32-33, 44, 46; Luke 22:19-20.
In the Book of Mormon: I Nephi 12:11; II Nephi 9:21-22, 25:26; 10:25; Mosiah 4:6-9; Alma 7:12; 34:11-16; Moroni 8:20.
In the Doctrine and Covenants: Sec. 18:11, 23-25; 19:15-19; 29:42, 46; 76:41-44.
In the Pearl of Great Price: Moses 6:62.
Talmage, Articles of Faith, Chapter 4 Talmage, Jesus, the Christ, p. 21. Taylor, The Mediation and Atonement, Brown, Why I Believe in Religion, Chapter III.
1. The Meaning of Atonement.—The word translated as atone in the King James version of the Old Testament means severally to cover over, forgive, pardon, expiate, purify, and pacify. These shades of meaning help us to better understand the translated symbol. Interestingly enough the word atonement occurs but once in the King James version of the New Testament (Romans 5:11), and even there it would have been better to translate it as reconciliation. In the sense used by the Church, atonement comprises "proof of the divinity of Christ's earthly ministry, and the vicarious nature of His death, as a fore-ordained and voluntary sacrifice, intended for and efficacious as a propitiation for the sins of mankind, thus becoming the means whereby salvation may be secured." (Talmage, Articles of Faith, Chapter 4).
2. Why it Behooved Christ to Suffer—President John Taylor after quoting the scripture that it "behooved Christ to suffer" (Luke 24:46) goes on to say, "One great and very striking statement is here made by the Lord Himself, to the effect that it behooved Christ to suffer, and the question at once presents itself before us, why did it behoove Him? Or why was it necessary that He should suffer? For it would seem from His language, through His sufferings, death, atonement and resurrection, 'that repentance and remission of sins' could be preached among all nations, and that consequently if He had not atoned for the sins of the world, repentance and remission of sins could not have been preached to the nations. A very important principle is here enunciated, one in which the interests of the whole human family throughout all the world are involved. That principle is the offering up of the Son of God, as a sacrifice, an atonement and a propitiation for our sins." The doctrine of the Atonement is thus seen to be of supreme interest and importance to the Church. It cannot consistently be ignored in a series of lessons dealing with the ministry and work of the Christ.
3. The Doctrine of the Atonement Much Disregarded in the World.—Unfortunately, the atonement wrought by our Lord is being increasingly disregarded, or rationalized away. It is evident that the world of our day is rapidly departing from the true teaching that Christ gave His life for the sins of mankind. Not only is this so, but even His divine Sonship is denied. To Latter-day Saints who really and truly believe in the revelations of the Christ to Joseph Smith the fact of the atonement can not possibly be doubted. Years ago, Dr. Charles R. Brown commented on the growing disregard for the Atonement as follows: "Yet straight in the face of the spiritual dynamic of the Cross we are compelled to admit that in recent decades this idea of atonement has been neglected and obscured. The main criticism upon the preaching of recent times has not been that men have been preaching mistaken views of the atonement—for the most part they have not been preaching any view. When we scan the sermon topics announced by some metropolitan daily in its church notices for the following Sunday, we rarely find this theme. When we think back upon the sermons we have heard in the last twenty years, we find that our minds have not been directed many times to the fact that 'Christ died for our sins.' As the ground of forgiveness, as a basis for spiritual appeal, as a source of motive for right living, this truth has fallen in many quarters into disuse. This deep diapason stop on the cathedral organ has too rarely been drawn out and the music of worship has suffered loss."
Dr. Brown quotes another prominent gentleman who once said, "The Christian minister who from intellectual difficulties or from lack of spiritual experience, ignores the atonement becomes either nerveless and ineffective, or eccentric and sensational. His message is gone. He either loses heart and becomes dull, or he strikes out and endeavors by his own ingenuity to supply the gap which is made. But from the nature of the case his ministry must cease to be fruitful."
It is refreshing to find yet some influential men in the world who sense the worth and reality of worship which arises from the profound conviction that our Lord did indeed make an atonement for all mankind. Conditions being what they are in our age, Latter-day Saints will find it necessary to proclaim with vigor the doctrine of Christ's atonement.
4. The Doctrine of the Atonement Not Fully Understood.—It is probable that no one fully understands why the atonement of Christ makes it possible for all men to be redeemed from death, and saved upon conditions of repentance and obedience to the principles of the Gospel. God's ways are mainly inscrutable to man and dimly understood. We have to walk by faith and trust that His ways are righteous altogether. It is just as reasonable to observe that man can no more fully understand the atonement than he can fully understand electricity. But he gets benefits of each without full comprehension. It is unreasonable to reject the idea of atonement because we cannot fully explain it.
President John Taylor said, "In some mysterious, incomprehensible way, Jesus assumed the responsibility which naturally would have devolved upon Adam; but which could only be accomplished through the mediation of Himself, and by taking upon Himself their sorrows, assuming their responsibilities, and bearing their transgressions or sins. In a manner to us incomprehensible and inexplicable, he bore the weight of the sins of the whole world; not only of Adam, but of his posterity; and in doing that, opened the kingdom of heaven, not only to all believers and all who obeyed the law of God, but to more than one-half of the human family who die before they come to years of maturity, as well as to the heathen, who, having died without law, will through His mediation, be resurrected without law, and be judged without law, and thus participate, according to their capacity, works and worth, in the blessings of His atonement."
5. The Suffering of the Christ.—We remember the sufferings of Christ, not so much in connection with His crucifixion as in connection with His cross in the garden of Gethsemane. No man has ever undergone agony similar to that experienced by the Christ for the simple reason that no mortal man has ever had the power of mind and body that He had. No mortal man has had the equivalent intelligence and knowledge and spiritual insight possessed by the Christ to be able to feel and bear the sins of all mankind. If it be said that "every large-hearted man is scattered over all creation," meaning, of course, the enlargement of personality to comprehend the interests of others,—what must it have been in the case of the Christ! In the face of His sensitivity to the sins of mankind He had the power, by reason of His divine Sonship, to defy death until, having paid the heavy penalty for all, He voluntarily gave up His life.
In the garden of Gethsemane "he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy. Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death: tarry ye here, and watch with me. And he went a little further, and fell on his face, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt." (Matthew 26:37-39)
The Savior described His sufferings to the Prophet Joseph as follows. "Which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit—and would that I might not drink the bitter cup, and shrink—nevertheless, glory be to the Father, and I partook and finished my preparations unto the children of men." (Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 19:18-19.)
Members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, least of all people, can forget the unselfish sacrifice of the Son of God for all mankind.
Questions
1. Why was the atonement of Christ necessary?
2. Did any of the Prophets understand that Christ was to make an atonement for mankind? Cite scripture and explain.
3. Was Christ punished, as some contend, by making an atonement for mankind? Cite scripture in support of your answer.
Problems Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit.
1. Show that the doctrine of the atonement if rightly understood can be a mighty motive for right living.
2. Point out the effects of the atonement (1) Universally (2) Individually.
Teacher's Topic
LESSON 7
THE PATIENCE OF JESUS
"But that (seed) are they which in an honest and good heart having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience."—Luke 8:15.
"A bruised reed shall he not break."—Matthew 12:20.
PATIENCE is an old, familiar word, with a double meaning. There is the patience which means the calm waiting for something hoped for. Then there is the patience of the uncomplaining endurance of pain and trouble. We speak of having patience with the failings and weaknesses of others. Jesus possessed patience in the highest degree.
He waited in the little town of Nazareth until he was thirty before he began his ministry. Then, instead of using military force of any kind, he chose the slow and toilsome way of conquering by gentleness and love. Through all his life he made but one hundred and twenty disciples. Yet, he said, "Be of good cheer. I have overcome the world." He knew it was not then, but hundreds of years after his death, that, through obedience to his teachings, all the evils of the world would be overcome. With confidence in the ultimate victory of Truth, he waited in patience.
He was patient under tribulation. "He came unto his own, and his own received him not. He knocked at the door of Jerusalem, but the men who kept the door refused to open it. He knocked at the door of Nazareth; the door was opened and then shut in his face." Enemies pursued him. He was criticised, abused, misunderstood, but he never complained nor grew bitter. His patience was never exhausted.
Sometimes his friends did not understand him. They sometimes failed to catch the import of the things he told them. At the Last Supper his disciples quarreled among themselves as to their places at the table. Instead of becoming impatient he took a basin of water and washed their unsandaled feet—a task which was usually performed by slaves. By doing this he taught them what he had been trying to teach them from the beginning, that he who would be greatest among men must be the servant of all.
Many great men have been impatient with mental, moral, or physical weakness in others, because they were strong themselves. They had no patience with the slow of comprehension, with those unable to stand up under economic pressure. They were ready to "break the bruised reed" and to quench the "smoking wick." Not so with Jesus. He could understand the weak; he was considerate with the mentally dull; he was long suffering with the "lost sheep". Matthew, in describing Jesus, uses this quotation from the Old Testament: "A bruised reed shall he not break, and smoking flax shall he not quench."
Discussion Have you ever known a woman to become bitter toward the Church, because she was misunderstood or because of some unfortunate experience with her fellow workers? What lesson could she learn from the character traits of Jesus?
In what ways are we called upon day by day to exercise the patience of calmly waiting and the patience of unruffled endurance under pain and trouble?
Give incidents from the New Testament showing the patience of Jesus.
Discuss Susan B. Anthony's patience in working and waiting for the suffrage for women. How has she been honored recently by the Government?
References: The New Testament; The Character of Jesus—Charles Edward Jefferson.
Literature
LESSON 7
ROMANCE OF AN OLD PLAYHOUSE
IN OUR former lesson, we have seen that from the very beginning the Saints were interested in the drama and that its leaders encouraged its presentation. We also traced the growth of the dramatic spirit among the people in Utah up to the point where President Brigham Young ordered a site to be purchased for the erection of the Salt Lake Theatre.
George D. Pyper says the building of a theatre was not a sudden inspiration but that the decision to build such an edifice became solidified as the President saw the need. He also states that it is only fair to say that John T. Caine and Hiram B. Clawson both urged the project.
At any rate, in July, 1861, excavation for the Old Playhouse began on the corner of First South and State Streets on ground which had been secured from Reynolds Cahoon. Missionaries in the fields of labor were asked to encourage the immigration to Utah of mechanics, artists, and musicians. The author has caused the following passage to be set in italics: "In response to this call there came to Utah many men of unusual capabilities. The wisdom and foresight of Brigham Young found definite expression in the building of the Social Hall, the Bee-Hive House, the Theatre; the famous 'Mormon' Tabernacle, and later the majestic Salt Lake Temple, and in the great love for the arts enjoyed by the people of the intermountain region."
Among the men who were of great importance in building the Old Playhouse, the following are worthy of special mention: William H. Folsom, the architect in charge of the work; Joseph A. Young, superintendent of supplies; William Wolstenholm, foreman of the diggers; Alexander Gillispie, foreman of the eight stonecutters; Henry Grow, foreman of the three millwrights; Joseph Schofield, foreman of the fifteen carpenters. A water-wheel placed in the water ditch furnished the power for hoisting the stone.
"By the time the walls were up," says Hiram B. Clawson, "E. L. T. Harrison, an architect from London, who had been trained in the very best schools, arrived in Utah." This man, working with Architect Folsom, designed much of the interior, patterning it largely after the Drury Lane Theatre in the British Capital. By the time the Theatre was ready for its interior decorations, ox teams had brought George Martin Ottinger, a gifted artist, to the state. The painting of the interior and of the scenery to be used in the Theatre was given into his capable hands.
Mr. Ottinger, assisted by Henry Maiben and William Morris, the latter a decorator from London, painted the scenery for four years. Later the painting work was turned over to Alfred Lambourne.
The following description furnished President Young by the architect, William H. Folsom, will be of interest. "It was commenced July 1, 1861, and completed for temporary use. March 5, 1862. The building is situated on the corner of State Road and First South street. The size of the building on the ground floor is 80 by 144 feet, 40 feet high from the water-table to the square of the building. The roof is self-supporting and hipped all around, with a promenade on top 40 by 90 feet. The south main entrance has an opening of 32 by 20 feet, supported by two Grecian Doric columns. The exterior of the building is Grecian Doric. The auditorium has a parquette and four circles, 60 feet on the outer circle, 37 feet on the inner, and covered with a circular dome in ogee bell form. In the interior, the stage has an opening at the drop curtain of 31 feet front by 28 feet high, and shows 27 feet in flats and 62 feet deep from the footlights, 10 feet proscenium and 40 feet high from stage floor to ceiling. The building is still in progress and will probably be completed the present season."
The author, Mr. Pyper, adds in one of his italicized passages: "You must remember this was eight years before the advent of the Union Pacific Railroad. There were no such things as autos, telephones, gasoline engines, electric power, or any of the agencies that make building easy now-a-days."
Inspiration was shown in the construction of that huge stage. It was so well done that the most elaborate plays of a much later period found plenty of room for their properties and scenic effects.
During the period of the construction of the Theatre, the Civil War began and Johnston's Army was called home. They left in such a hurry that it became necessary for the commanders to dispose of their possessions at extremely low prices. The Old Playhouse became a direct beneficiary. Even the iron from the abandoned army wagons was made into nails with which the historic building was put together. The author has this to say: "Judged from the present period, one would almost be led to believe that Johnston's Army was sent to Utah to assist the Saints in their recreational activities."
Mr. Pyper declares that there was little quibbling over wages among the workmen. "What they did receive was mostly in written promises of future theatre tickets. The experience of Mr. Walter J. Beatie, who afterwards became a son-in-law of Brigham Young, is typical of all who worked on the Old Playhouse. 'I hauled timber all summer,' he says, 'and attended the Theatre all winter, using up the orders received in payment for my work.'"
"When completed the structure stood far above any of its kind in Western America. It was the consummation of a people's desire for the artistic and cultural advantages of life; a monument to the new civilization in the wilderness."
On March 6, 1862, a dedicatory program was given in the Old Playhouse at which President Daniel H. Wells offered the dedicatory prayer and President Young made a speech on the subject, "The Capacity of the Human Body and Mind for Improvement and Development."
"There was nothing lovely in the world," says Mr. Pyper indirectly quoting President Young, "nothing delightful, but the Lord had created it for the good of His children, and it was the abuse, not the proper use of anything that constituted evil. Men could make evil of going to the theatre; they could make evil of anything, but they did not expect to do wrong in going there. Brother Wells, he said, had prayed that the building might crumble to the dust and pass away as if it had never been, sooner than it should fall into the hands of the wicked or be corrupted or polluted; and to that he said, 'amen'."
Other leading brethren made short addresses after which the curtain rose on "The Pride of the Market." The evening closed with dancing on the stage, and the Old Playhouse, though not entirely finished, was ready for use.
In the succeeding chapters, Mr. Pyper reviews for his readers the first performances in the Old Playhouse. On March 8, 1862, the first paid performance was given to a packed house. Despite the fact that many had said that the Theatre was far too big for a small pioneer community, President Young's judgment was justified at once. Hiram B. Clawson and John T. Caine were the first managers and the following men and women had parts in the first performance: John T. Caine, Henry Maiben, Joseph M. Simmons, R. H. Parker, David McKenzie, H. B. Clawson, S. D. Sirrine, R. Matthews, Henry Snell, John B. Kelly, Mrs. Woodmansee, Mrs. Margaret Clawson, W. C. Dunbar, H. E. Bowring, W. H. Miles, Phil Margets, Mrs. H. E. Bowring, Mrs. S. A. Cook, and Mrs. Maggie Thomas (afterwards Mrs. George Romney).
These are the ladies and gentlemen who sixty-six years ago (now seventy-five years ago) made the first move as players in the Romance of an Old Playhouse. For years following, the programs continued to hold many of these names in the long list of plays, to the delighted patrons of the drama."
On Christmas Eve, 1862, President Young arranged another party similar to the dedicatory program in the Old Playhouse. On that occasion he joined in the dance. At a given signal, the orchestra struck up the tune for the "Sir Roger de Coverly" and "a selected group led by President Young, executed the popular English dance."
In charming manner Mr. Pyper calls attention of his readers to the quaint advertisements and announcements which appeared in the printed programs. One, especially, may be of interest:
SPECIAL NOTICE "No Person, Policemen excepted, carrying FIREARMS or other Weapons, will hereafter be admitted into the Theatre. Strangers having no other place to deposit their arms, can leave them with the Treasurer at the Box Office, who will check for, and return them to the owner at the close of the performance."
Mr. Pyper adds: "Those, of course, were exciting days. I distinctly remember, when a boy, seeing a motley collection of pistols lying on one of the gallery tables with cards of identification on each. These had been taken from patrons to be returned at the end of the show."
For the next many years, the Old Playhouse was the center of the drama in western America. Some of the greatest American actors played upon the historic stage. During the early period ten of Brigham Young's daughters appeared with the Irwins in a show which has been well described by Susa Young Gates, an excerpt from whose statement is included in the Romance.
In 1864 the first prestidigitator or necromancer appeared in the Theatre. His appearance indicates that the Theatre was open to all kinds of artistic presentations. In December that same year "Hamlet" and "Macbeth" were first produced in the Theatre that was fifteen hundred miles from large centers of culture. Mr. G. Pauncefort, the Shakespearean actor, was popular and had a prosperous season at the Old Playhouse.
The chapter entitled, "A Cathedral in the Desert" contains many references that are unusually interesting and which reveal the author's tender memories of the details connected with the Old Playhouse. For instance, that battery of 385 oil lamps which had to be turned up and down as the play called for more or less light must be a choice memory, as were the successive installations of gas and electricity, as the world advanced in its knowledge of science.
In speaking of the Greenroom, the author says: "The capacious greenroom, a notable and historic gathering place for the early-day players, was located at the rear of the stage midway between the ladies' and gentlemen's dressing rooms... It housed democratic groups in the day time, and acknowledged a dictatorship at night. When the stock system was discontinued the room was given over to the stars. The stars! One almost tiptoes across the floor when he recalls with reverence the many immortals who have occupied the room. The world will never look upon their like again!
"The list is too long to enumerate here; but one might close one's eyes and see passing in and out of the old greenroom the shadows of all the great players who have crossed the continent between the years 1862 and 1928."
Suggestions for Study
1. A photograph of the Old Playhouse, if one is available, would be interesting. If no other is available, the one in the book could be used.
2. If there is a person in the class or community who has ever been in the Old Playhouse, perhaps that person could give some interesting descriptions.
3. Since the song, "Hard Times Come Again No More," one of President Young's favorites, was used at the dedicatory service, it could be used to give atmosphere to the lesson. In fact, where it is feasible, much of the program found on page 93 could be reproduced.
4. Read the list of plays presented during 1862-3 and comment upon their number and variety.
5. Show that the Prophet Joseph Smith was also in favor of dramatics.
6. How well has Superintendent Pyper presented the picture of the developing theatre? Would you say that his discussion is matter-of-fact or that it has a spirit which leads a reader to the appreciation of what the Old Playhouse meant to the Saints.
Social Service
Lesson 7
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF CITIZENSHIP
Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross, Chapters 28 and 30.
THE term "citizenship" is used to describe the condition of living under government. It implies the right of State protection and the privilege of political and social participation. It is inclusive of all members of a governing organism, minors and adults. In return for the rights of citizenship, a member of a State is under definite obligations to the country in which he lives. He cannot share its privileges without assuming a portion of its responsibilities.
Being a resident of a place may give one the status of citizenship; but—does residence make of one a good citizen? Not at all. A government has a right to expect allegiance and active support, not only for its political institutions, but also for its social activities. In a democracy government has been gradually established by the people of past generations. Its phases are as diverse and broad as the complexities of the civilization which has made it. It is still subject to change. It is the duty of citizenship to either support the existing conditions of Statehood, or to make an effort to change them along the lines of constructive political and social ideology.
The greater the privileges of government, and the larger the amount of freedom granted to citizenship, the more comprehensive the obligations of its citizens become. Without willing participation on the part of all citizens in the essential activities of life involving human relations, neither social nor political progress can go forward.
The present lesson aims to develop an appreciation for this point of view; First, by indicating the importance of each citizen's responsibilities to the proper functioning of life's activities. Second, by encouraging individuals to take their part as essential links in the chain of social life.
All people are born to citizenship, but some relinquish their native birthright and acquire, through naturalization, a new citizenship in an adopted land. But no matter by what method one's citizenship has been established, all members of a State should manifest a live interest in public affairs. However, a spirit of apathy toward civic life frequently exists. It is often justified by the supposition that the duly appointed leaders are responsible for carrying on their own activities. But no leader can promote any activity without having interested people to direct. The two qualities are inter-dependent. Despite this fact, it sometimes happens that leaders prefer an apathetic attitude on the part of those whom they should be guiding. In this case they themselves lack good citizenship. They are not only willing, but anxious that others do not examine their conduct of public affairs lest disapproval of their actions should be expressed.
Generally speaking, apathy contributes to three great faults in social life: First, it allows corruption and unsocial behavior to permeate public life. Second, it thwarts the correction of existing undesirable conditions by allowing affairs to develop and continue unchallenged. Third, it retards the growth of social consciousness in regard to public life, in spite of the fact that such consciousness is necessary to the improvement of social conditions. By examining these three faults we can see why it should be incumbent upon each citizen to take an active interest in public affairs.
In the first place, corruption and unsocial behavior in public life are generally the results of a selfish minority who seek to promote their own private interest at the expense of the welfare of the whole. When public consciousness is blanketed with a spirit of apathy which allows state or municipal officials to conduct public affairs with no other scrutiny than that of their own eyes, it becomes relatively easy for selfish interest and private gain to flourish. But just as cleanliness and sunshine drive away the ravages of death-dealing disease germs, public examination dispels corruption and impotence in public office. Interested participation in behalf of its unities and ideals is indeed necessary to the wholesome maintenance of governmental bonds. If large groups shirk their responsibility in connection with Statehood, too often corruption flourishes. Constructive citizenship therefore requires that each individual exercise an active interest in the public acts of all civic officials.
Such activity is not beyond the average person. There are many avenues open to public interest in everyday life. Open forums permit discussion; newspaper columns invite comment; radio services offer broadcasts. Auxiliary legislative groups, civic, and some church organizations lend themselves to wholesome consideration of civic, and, in some cases, other forms of public life. No citizen needs to remain outside the current of the social stream.
By means of the second fault, or an apathetic attitude which circumvents the challenge of existing conditions, much good may be lost to society. Although, in a democracy, it is the duty of the minority to stand by while the majority is in power, the promulgation of the minority point of view does not need to be silenced. The minority has the right to agitate its own cause within the channels of the law. At times a losing cause, on becoming a winning issue, has proven highly beneficial to social welfare, and has come to be regarded in the light of widely approved thinking. Had the first minority group been so apathetic that existing conditions had remained un-- ' challenged, a majority vote for the issue would have been lost. An example is the case of prohibition in liquor traffic. Even after this measure has been tried and rejected, there is a minority which continues to believe in its efficacy for social welfare. This group has never given up its efforts to point out the virtue of abstinence or to agitate its cause. They believe in the ultimate possibility of its re-enactment and its consequent benefit to society. This example is typical of many others of lesser scope. Issues which are just as vital to the state or community in which one lives are constantly under consideration. A well informed member keeps abreast of these issues; and again, there are many channels open to investigation, and through which he can make his influence felt. An examination of the third fault reveals that an indifferent social consciousness is detrimental to public life. Social consciousness is the byproduct of interest in civic and political affairs. It is the state of awareness which results from such interest LESSON DEPARTMENT 69  Without this awareness in the body of the State organism, the head may do as it pleases. No matter what phase of public life is under consideration, if the members whose business is being conducted are indifferent to the means of procedure, those in charge may indulge in slipshod methods. The social consciousness of the public is always reflected in the actions of the officials. If, as a result of social apathy, conduct which is subversive to society is allowed -to exist, social consciousness may become even more dulled through the effect of contact with that which is evil, or at least undesirable. Thus negative actions may be furthered or allowed to continue without opposition. Active interest in public affairs is as necessary to healthy civic life as is exercise to the development of good muscle tone. Any democracy depends upon its rank and file, and not upon its ruling bodies, for its morale. And certainly a citizenry is defined by its morale. But at times outward appearances do not point to the true standard of citizenship in a community or a country at large. For example: No political party could conduct its campaign on the basis of such character vilification as is in vogue if its members disapproved of such conduct. A well-balanced citizenry could demand a more ethical form of political operations, and one which is more truly representative of party policies. All members should work for a better statement of principles and ideals, and an election campaign which is based upon real information. Also, the exercise of the electoral franchise by mere voting is not a complete discharge of duty. A member of a State should exert himself to use his intelligence and judgment to see that his vote is well considered.. In regard to civic life, apart from politics, we see that moral support and active co-operation are equally important to its state of well being. The recent feat of the three Russians who flew from Moscow over the roof of the world and down the American Pacific coast to southern California succeeded through the cooperation of scientific endeavor, governmental backing, and popular support. By working harmoniously toward a public enterprise, an epic flight, both as to distance covered and difficulty encountered, was completed. Moreover, co-operation was, in this case, extended to international support. The interest of Canadian and American aerial navigation officlals was as necessary to the success of the flight as was that of the Russian government and the people. The active assistance from all of the countries involved was indispensable to the completion of the endeavor. This kind of conduct also constitutes good citizenship—for citizenship has manifold aspects. The ethics of citizenship forms an extensive study in and of itself. Such questions as the use of a nontransferable streetcar transfer by one to whom the transfer was not issued, the evasion of quarantine laws, and the payment of taxes, are all subjects which pertain to citizenship. Any relation which contributes to public activities forms a part of the chain of social life. Individuals contribute to enterprise; enterprise contributes to the social fabric. Similarly the duties to one's church are also the duties of citizenship. Latter-day Saints could not conduct successful auxiliary organizations if their members did not participate actively. Without vigorous auxiliaries, the Church proper could not flourish. And thus the State is dependent upon the many aspects of its social organization. The links in the continuous chain of life are forged from 70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the associations of life. In society, each member forms a link. The chain is no stronger than the active participation of the average citizen. Activities 1. From your county recorder find out what proportion of the authorized voters take part in a regular county election. Do the figures indicate a healthy sharing of civic responsibility? Discuss ways of encouraging those who do not feel the importance of voting to participate in civic life for the benefit of the social activities of the country. 2. Make a list of the duties which the term "constructive citizenship" could imply to you. Child Guidance LESSON 7 SUCCESS AND FAILURE EMERSON has said, "Self trust is the first secret of success." Success is a habit a child gradually acquires in his early life. The infant finds success simply in hammering a block, because it satisfies one of his needs. We found in a previous lesson how frustration or failure in the infant's plans leads to emotional outbursts and often to stubborn, obstinate behavior. Even to adults nothing is more invigorating than achievement of their goals, especially after a difficult struggle. Deep feelings of failure are often the beginnings of mental break-down for those who have not learned how to take their failures. Failure in one task often builds up general feelings of inadequacy in all tasks. A sense of failure in turn makes one less efficient and more liable to fail again. We have known adults with normal intelligence and opportunity, to live lives of such habitual failure that total direct relief is all that could be done for them. Children who fail in school or at their play or chores around home are often called lazy, and lazy they are. But calling them lazy does not tell why they are that way. Laziness is no more a cause of failure than it is a result of it. Children are usually lazy because they have not learned the habit of success. They have not learned the joy of doing something well. It behooves the parent of a lazy child to start him out with tasks the goals of which are not too remote, and the difficulty of which is such that the child can certainly succeed with reasonable effort. Tasks of sufficient difficulty must be provided lest the child find them so easy that he loses all interest. A child with an inferiority complex well rooted in his personality is usually sensitive and shy, generally chooses not to join in with the crowd, expects himself to fail at each new task, does not finish his work promptly, hesitates before doing each new undertaking, and has difficulty deciding what to do next. This picture is the direct result of inferiority feelings. Frequently the compensation or camouflage, covers up the real difficulty, and the parent should look carefully behind all exaggerations in her child's conduct in search of the roots of inferiority feelings. How a child responds to his failure is of greater seriousness than the failure itself. No two children will respond exactly alike to what appears to the parent to be the same failure. Look carefully to the child's reactions to what he tries to do, and learn to detect the degree of frustration he feels in various situations. Watch especially how he feels about others in the family doing better than he does. A child sometimes begins developing inferiority feelings because he compares himself with an older and more mature brother or sister. This is particularly likely if the older one "boos" the younger for not doing so well. The younger one may be equally competent, but the greater maturity of the older one gives him an advantage. Every child is a challenging problem to his parents and should be studied and managed individually according to his specific needs.
Set rules can be set down for preventing and correcting inferiority feelings, but the remainder of this lesson will be directed to some general principles that should serve as a guide to the individual management of the child.
First of all, the child should be thoroughly examined for physical defects which might be the starting point for inferiority feelings. Obvious defects, such as birth marks, crossed eyes, paralyzed limbs or displeasing facial features are likely to have considerable significance to the child because they make him appear conspicuous. Extreme physical weakness, deafness or blindness are also common organ inferiorities. Mild visual or hearing deficiencies often cause backwardness in school work, and in turn, feelings of failure. Whenever possible the defects should be remedied. If they cannot be corrected, the child should be helped to find suitable compensations in the form of activities at which he is more certain of success. Point out to him persons like Thomas A. Edison who was partially deaf and yet achieved great fame as an inventor; John Milton who was blind and yet made significant contributions to literature; and Walter Scott, crippled from paralysis, who also became a great figure in the field of literature. Care must be taken not to urge the afflicted one to attempt the impossible and thereby increase his sense of inferiority.
A next safeguard is to prevent as far as possible other children from making fun of inferiorities of body or behavior. Parents should not call their children "good for nothing" and point out their defects in an unfriendly manner. If deficiencies are pointed out at all, it should be in a kindly manner and should be for the purpose of helping the child to meet them frankly and intelligently. Sarcasm and ridicule as forms of discipline are barbaric and should have no place in the modern home. Shame is a frequently used method that does nothing but add humiliation to a sense of failure, and arouses resentment and hatred. Severe and unjust punishments accomplish the same evil result. Children who are victims of these abuses frequently become cruel to others and attempt to destroy their happiness by disparaging remarks or interference with their activities.
Over-fond parents occasionally fail to let the child grow out of his baby clothes and be like other children. Ridicule is the most natural response of the children from whom he differs. Manners which are seriously affected and different from those of other children in the community are also the butt of much ridicule. A child's happiness in his play group and his general feeling of self-regard are really worth more than pretty curls and unsoiled linens.
As previously indicated, parents should provide tasks that will permit success with reasonable effort. This does not mean for the mother to do the task for the child, since only the successes the child himself earns bring him the satisfactions that are the basis of the habit of success. If the task is too difficult for the child, he is forced to fail; if it is too easy he does not feel the keen delight of achievement. A story is told of a man who was hired to pound logs with the blunt side of an ax for the same pay as actual chopping. By noon he quit the job because there was no challenge in it, no delight from the progress being made.
Occasionally an opportunity should be provided for the child to achieve a great success in order to let him know how success feels. We all know that life means infinitely more to us for days after a great success has followed a hard struggle. Failures are inevitable for all of us, however, and a realization of this fact takes some of the sting out of them. Everyone cannot succeed at every kind of task. Just as various birds and animals have their own way of protecting themselves—one flies, another runs, another climbs—so does each individual usually have a best field in which to succeed, however humble it may be. Because bookish things come hard to a child does not mean he cannot succeed abundantly in the use of tools or at farm work. In some cases, special talents for art or music may permit a child to succeed when ordinary social activities and academic school work are very difficult.
Many children fall into the easy error of feeling inferior all the way around just because they do not excel in everything they try. Failure to excel at one thing should stimulate the child to redouble his efforts to do well at his own line of greatest success. Abilities cannot be leveled out very well by an abundance of practice or training on the child's weak point. Better spend time at what can be done well than to discourage all effort through driving him to do what he persistently fails to do.
Parents should not make unfavorable comparisons between various children in the family. Favoritism is unfair both to the favored one and to the other. If a parent will observe carefully, she will find some one type of thing each child does well enough to deserve commendation, and it is her duty to see that he gets the satisfaction of doing that type of task, provided it is honorable.
In general, group competition is to be preferred to man-to-man contests. Prizes given to the "best" in a group should be replaced by praise or prizes to all who do as well as a certain standard. Those who cannot come up to that standard should be helped to do so, or promptly given another task that is within their reach.
Finally, a defeatist attitude in the mother is contagious. She should generate confidence and success by her own life. She should not shift her frustrations on to the child and expect him to succeed way beyond her level of achievement. Setting the child's sights toward a goal that is too high in order to gratify a mother's unfulfilled ambitions is a frequent source of forced failure and inferiority feelings in the child.
Problems for Discussion
1. Give an example of how a sense of failure can spread from one task to another.
2. Show how one success contributes to the next success, and one failure contributes to the next.
3. How does a parent's or school's failure to provide the child with tasks difficult enough to call forth effort but easy enough for him to see his way clear to accomplishment, contribute to laziness? What would you suggest as a treatment for the lazy child?
4. Discuss three concrete steps a parent can take to prevent or correct inferiority feelings in her child.
[Various advertisements for L.D.S. Business College, magazine binding services, and Beneficial Life Insurance Company appear here]
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXV FEBRUARY, 1938 No. 2
CONTENTS
Pioneer Cabin...............................................Kathryn F. Clyde 73 Frontispiece—First House Built in Utah.................................. 74 We Believe in Obeying, Honoring and Sustaining the Law........Don B. Colton 75 On Lamps................................................Harrison R. Merrill 79 Thinking..............................................Caroline Eyring Miner 81 Rain at Three Cedars....................................Ada Hurst Brown 82 Women's Responsibility to Citizenship........................Elva T. Cowley 86 The Romance of Lace....................................Dorothy Nell Mair 90 My Jewel Box..........................................Ada Mathews Long 91 Love's Old Sweet Song...................................Helen Hinckley 92 Life Is Made of Music..................................Grace Zenor Pratt 95 More Than Bread.......................................Anna Prince Redd 96 Children's Reading....................................Florence Ivins Hyde 103 The Lotus Eater......................................Mabel S. Harmer 105 She Strives to Conquer....................................Lais Hales 109 Winter Garden........................................Vesta P. Crawford 111 The Book God Gave..................................Eva Willes Wangsgaard 112 Lincoln............................................Christie Lund Coles 114 Practical Praying....................................Elsie C. Carroll 115 [Content continues with page numbers]

PIONEER CABIN
By Kathryn F. Clyde (Awarded Third Prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest)
Little log cabin of long ago Bravely weathering rain or snow, Peacefully basking in summer sun, Gradually turning from gray to dun, Worn old logs of yesterday Falling apart in slow decay, Door ajar and windows wide— Seeming to beckon me inside—
When your sagging roof of sod was new And your logs were strong and beams were true And the dusty stones of your hearth were bright With the dancing gleam of your fire-light, When windows were hung with curtains gay And spotless panes caught the sun's first ray— Did you nearly burst with joy and pride For the life and warmth aglow inside?
Did your floor resound with the echo sweet Of happy patter of baby feet? Or your sturdy walls—did they listen in On children's laughter and noisy din? And what of "Her" who was mistress here— Did she love it all and hold it dear? Was she brave and strong with courage true In spite of the endless tasks to do?
Or sometimes, perhaps, at the close of day When her noisy brood was tucked away, Did she sit and sigh? Or didn't she mind The luxuries she had left behind? I hope she was happy to make the best Of you, Little Cabin out in the West. Please, won't you speak? I'm sure you know, Little Log Cabin of long ago!
We Believe In Obeying, Honoring and Sustaining the Law
By Don B. Colton
THE month of February seems to be a very appropriate time to give study to a subject of vital importance, not only to Latter-day Saints, but also to the entire nation. Washington, whose birthday anniversary occurs February 22, was a great exemplar of obedience to law. The revolution which he led was not against law, but was necessary because fundamental rights were being denied to the colonists in America. The rights, which brave Englishmen had wrung from King John at Runnymede and which were granted in the Magna Charta in 1215, were being withheld. Our forefathers fought to sustain law. While slavery precipitated the war between the states, the primary motive of Lincoln and his followers was to sustain the fundamental law of the land which had created an indissoluble union of states. The preservation of the Constitution and the Union was always uppermost in President Lincoln's mind. Obedience to law and especially the Constitution was almost a passion with him.
THE Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has, from the beginning, made emphatic declaration regarding the duty of its members to obey and uphold constitutional law. No. 12 of the Articles of Faith reads as follows: "We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law." The Prophet Joseph Smith, first President of the Church, once said, "the cause of human liberty is the cause of God." Liberty is enjoyed by those who obey law. While the Prophet always contended for the principles of equal rights and protection for all American citizens, he always pursued what he considered a strictly legal course. He frequently stated, "we are anxious to be governed strictly by law."
Brigham Young, the second President of the Church, taught the Latter-day Saints the same doctrine. That he believed the government inspired of God is shown by the following excerpt from one of his many speeches on this subject: "The general Constitution of our country is good, and a wholesome government could be framed upon it; for it was dictated by the invisible operations of the Almighty. He moved upon Columbus to launch forth upon the trackless deep to discover the American continent. He moved upon the signers of the Declaration of Independence, and he moved upon Washington to fight and conquer, in the same way that he has moved upon ancient and modern prophets, each being inspired to accomplish the particular work he was called to perform, in the times, seasons and dispensations of the Almighty."
Every president of the Church, including President Heber J. Grant, has repeatedly exhorted the members to obey the laws of the land as well as the laws of God. Speaking by and large of the people as a whole, I think it can be safely said that Latter-day Saints are a law-abiding, peaceable, and patient people. Of course perfection cannot be claimed, but their whole history has been one of obedience to what they believed to be constitutional law.
SCRIPTURES, both ancient and modern, are replete with the teachings of men of God to obey just laws. Paul, writing to Titus, exhorted him to teach the people to be law-abiding. He said, "Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready to do every good work." In the Book of Mormon, we read, "this people must abide by the law." On August 1, 1831, the Lord said to the Church: "Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land." I have given only one quotation from each of three of the standard works of the Church. Many similar ones could be quoted.
LATTER-DAY SAINTS have learned from the scriptures, from inspired men and from experience how necessary it is to obey law. With such a background one would think nothing more need be said. On the contrary, however, we, like all other citizens, need to be constantly reminded. On every hand we find people, otherwise responsible, who take the position that laws are for those who choose to obey them. Sociologists are agreed that with the breaking out of the World War there came a general breaking down of obedience to and enforcement of law. I commend to the readers of this magazine the first article in the January, 1938, Atlantic Monthly, entitled, "The Collapse of Conscience." We are not so much in need just now of a class conscience as we are an awakening of an individual conscience. "Where personal conscience dies there is no freedom."
Not long ago three young ladies walked out of one of our leading candy and refreshment stores. They were heard to laugh and boast that they had not paid for their refreshments and had escaped without being detected. It seemed to them a good joke. It is surprising how many people, otherwise respectable, are being used to advertise products as harmless when they have never used these products. When do we find now-a-days another Lincoln, who will walk many miles to return a few pennies taken by mistake? Gone, in most cases, is that fine sense of strict, rugged honesty which used to be so often noted in America.
THE enforcement and obedience to the laws of the United States and the states of the Union are among the most vital problems before the people of this country today. It is more vital to the preservation of our free institutions than almost any other question. One great authority recently said, "More than nine thousand human beings are lawlessly killed in the United States each year. (This does not include the number killed in auto accidents.) Little more than half as many arrests follow. Less than one-sixth of these slayers are convicted, and but a scandalously small percentage are adequately punished. Twenty times as many people in proportion to population are lawlessly killed in the United States as in Great Britain. In many of our great cities murder can apparently be committed with impunity. At least fifty times as many robberies in proportion to population are committed in the United States as in the United Kingdom, and three times as many burglaries."
Whatever the value of any law may be, the enforcement of that law, written in plain terms upon our statute books, is not in my mind, a debatable question. Law should be observed and must be enforced until it is repealed by the proper processes of our democracy. The duty to enforce the law rests upon every public official and the duty to obey it rests upon every citizen. "The very essence of freedom is obedience to law. Liberty itself has but one foundation, and that is in the law."
Few people seem to realize the force of the ideas set forth in the quoted paragraphs. If a law is unpopular, it should be repealed, but until then it should be obeyed. Any other course will lead to chaos and anarchy. Even though the processes outlined by the supreme law of the land, the Constitution, to some seem cumbersome and even archaic they should be amended or repealed; never nullified or ignored. The Latter-day Saints especially should be on guard concerning the very foundation of their liberty. Men may honestly believe that certain fundamental changes should be made in our form of government. Let them advocate these changes in the open and not on the pretext that the processes of change are too cumbersome. When principles are at stake there can be no compromise.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN once said, "Let every man remember that to violate the law is to trample on the blood of his father and to tear the character of his own and his children's liberty. Let reverence for the laws be breathed by every American mother to the lisping babe that prattles on her lap. Let it be taught in the schools, in seminaries, in colleges. Let it be preached from the pulpit, proclaimed in the legislative halls and enforced in the courts of justice of the nation, and let the old and the young, the rich and the poor, the grave and the gay of all sexes and tongues and colors and conditions sacrifice unceasingly upon its altar."
I KNOW of no better summary of the whole question than is found in Section 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants:
"We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society.
"We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life.
"We believe that all governments necessarily require civil officers and magistrates to enforce the laws of the same; and that such as will administer the law in equity and justice should be sought for and upheld by the voice of the people if a republic, or the will of the sovereign.
"We believe that religion is instituted of God; and that men are amenable to him, and to him only, for the exercise of it, unless their religious opinions prompt them to infringe upon the rights and liberties of others; but we do not believe that human law has a right to interfere in prescribing rules of worship to bind the consciences of men, nor dictate forms for public or private devotion; that the civil magistrate should restrain crime, but never control conscience; should punish guilt, but never suppress the freedom of the soul.
"We believe that all men are bound to sustain and uphold the respective governments in which they reside, while protected in their inherent and inalienable rights by the laws of such governments; and that sedition and rebellion are unbecoming every citizen thus protected, and should be punished accordingly; and that all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience.
"We believe that every man should be honored in his station, rulers and magistrates as such, being placed for the protection of the innocent and the punishment of the guilty; and that to the laws all men owe respect and deference, as without them peace and harmony would be supplanted by anarchy and terror; human laws being instituted for the express purpose of regulating our interests as individuals and nations, between man and man; and divine laws given of heaven, prescribing rules on spiritual concerns, for faith and worship, both to be answered by man to his Maker.
"We believe that rulers, states, and governments have a right, and are bound to enact laws for the protection of all citizens in the free exercise of their religious belief; but we do not believe that they have a right in justice to deprive citizens of this privilege, or proscribe them in their opinions, so long as a regard and reverence are shown to the laws and such religious opinions do not justify sedition nor conspiracy.
"We believe that the commission of crime should be punished according to the nature of the offense; that murder, treason, robbery, theft, and the breach of the general peace, in all respects, should be punished according to their criminality and their tendency to evil among men, by the laws of that government in which the offense is committed; and for the public peace and tranquility all men should step forward and use their ability in bringing offenders against good laws to punishment.
"We do not believe it just to mingle religious influence with civil government, whereby one religious society is fostered and another proscribed in its spiritual privileges, and the individual rights of its members, as citizens, denied.
"We believe that all religious societies have a right to deal with their members for disorderly conduct, according to the rules and regulations of such societies; provided that such dealings be for fellowship and good standing; but we do not believe that any religious society has authority to try men on the right of property or life, to take from them this world's goods, or to put them in jeopardy of either life or limb, or to inflict any physical punishment upon them. They can only excommunicate them from their society, and withdraw from them their fellowship.
"We believe that men should appeal to the civil law for redress of all wrongs and grievances, where personal abuse is inflicted or the right of property or character infringed, where such laws exist as will protect the same,
On Lamps
By Harrison R. Merrill
MY friend, Ralph Waldo Emerson, has the habit of saying great things in a most entrancing manner. Like the wise men of old, he needs few words in which to couch his weighty thoughts. In his essay on "Art," this major teacher said: "The hand can never execute anything higher than the character can inspire." On the face of it, that is a simple statement, but when one looks all around and even inside it, one discovers that the sentence has hidden recesses in which lie many suggestive meanings. Simple though they were and old as some of them really are, the truths uttered by Jesus, for instance, had to be uttered by a God to make them authentic. "He talks as one having authority—or character," his listeners were wont to say, "and not as the scribes—men without character—repeaters of the law rather than creators of it." We have all, upon occasion, heard some uncelebrated person exclaim, after having heard a speech by a celebrated one, "What did he say that I couldn't say?" What, indeed! Nothing at all that one could not utter with his lips and tongue, but the celebrated one spoke with his life—his character. If one would be a great artist, then one must be first of all a great person. Creative art whether it be sculpture, painting, music, dancing, or architecture, grows up from the soul of the creator.
AND now to my lamps. My friend Emerson caused me to write that preamble; a contemporary friend, bearing testimony, caused me to select as my subject—lamps. Lamps, like almost everything else I can think of in this world, have had a wonderful growth. Many of us can remember the old days when candles were used frequently and the older ones in the community can remember when they were thought to afford a fine light. Many of us know the old time "bitch," that dish of tallow in which a piece of rag was placed as a wick. Beside a bitch, a candle is an excellent light. Kerosene or coal-oil was a wonderful discovery or invention. By means of it, lamps became more efficient. Wicks and burners and chimneys and chandeliers followed in quick succession. These new lamps were very efficient and made the light of a candle seem wholly inadequate. Then came gas lamps and carbide lamps and electric lamps. That was a great day, a little more than half a century ago, when Thomas A. Edison made his first incandescent lamps. It is altogether fitting that an incandescent lamp should be kept burning in Menlo Park, East Orange, New Jersey, in memory of that day, for that kind of lamp has turned "our darkness into day." I visited Menlo Park. To me it is a sacred shrine.
I've always thought it strange that incandescent lamps were so long in coming. The first blacksmith, whoever he was, who made a piece of metal glow, should have thought of the possibility of making glowing metal give off light, but he did not seem to. It remained for Edison to see the possibilities. Gas mantels, mantels for coal-oil lamps, and glowing carbon in electric light globes all came together. Those first electric light globes were poor things, compared with ours of today. A great deal of electricity was required to make the wires glow and even then they gave off more heat than light, but the idea was born and men were on the way toward light-bulb perfection. Today we have these highly efficient mazda, tungsten lamps, some of them gas-filled. We have flash bulbs and flood lights and neon lights. The world has suddenly become beautiful at night instead of black and sinister.
PERHAPS that is sufficient about lamps. I should like to return to my friend's testimony which started this line of thinking. He made the statement that we should strive to be efficient light fixtures in order that the spirit shining through us might shed a more brilliant light. I think his illustration was apt. Many of us, I fear, are still in the candle stage. A pile of grease has to be consumed for a little light. Others are in the coal-oil stage. We require much attention if we are to be of much service. We have to be filled often, cleaned often, lit often, and even then our light is rather poor. Then, again, there are those who are like the early electric light bulb. They receive a full measure of the spirit, but are so imperfect in their structure that they can give forth little light. Happily, there are many built like a modern lamp—delicate, sensitive to the spirit, and lasting. A little current produces a great light. Requiring little attention, such lamps are placed in the chandeliers, or on the top of an inaccessible pole where they shed their light upon all around them. Leaders in the faith are like those lamps.
SEVERAL of the apostles chosen by the Master were wonderful light fixtures. The spirit entered into them and they have lighted up the world for two thousand years. Judas, on the other hand, was a poorly-constructed globe. The spirit, passing through him, seemed to produce a short which destroyed the Master and the globe as well. Paul was an up-to-the-minute light globe. He had been tested and polished for years so that when the spirit came in its rich effulgence, it burned with a glory that can never die. Under the inspiration of the spirit he wrote that matchless thirteenth chapter of First Corinthians, and that almost matchless fifteenth chapter. In modern times we have the Prophet Joseph Smith as an example of a lamp that responded to the spirit until he re-lit the world. Of course there are many others who could be named, scores of them living this very moment for as long as there is spirit there will be light fixtures through which it can shine. We must not overlook the fact that many of these brilliant lights were scientists, musicians, artists, sculptors, and even tinkers and plowmen, as witness John Bunyan and Piers.
Now comes the sermonette. All of us may not be mazdas or tungstens, or the highest quality of lamp manufactured, but all of us can be the very best lamp of our type that it is possible to be. We can keep our filaments clean in order that the spirit may play upon them without shorting; we can keep the outside globe free from soot and grime in order that as much light as our kind of filament will give off, may penetrate to the outside world. Jesus said, "Let your light so shine." And again He said, "Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house."
NOW, as the radio announcers say, let me return you to my friend, Ralph Waldo Emerson—I hope he is your friend, too. He said: "The hand can never execute anything higher than the character can inspire." Or, in the light of this rambling discussion on lamps, we might say, "A lamp has to be a well-put-up lamp if it is to do much toward lighting the world." Emerson, in that same essay on "Art" put it in another way: "Though we travel the world over to find the beautiful, we must carry it with us, or we find it not." In other words, we must be provided with filaments which will respond to the everlasting current, or there will be darkness instead of light—and light is beautiful.
THINKING
By Caroline Eyring Miner
I WAS thinking tonight as I watched a beautiful sunset from our back porch, life ought to be like this wonderful day, begun in a rosy dawn, hot and brilliant and splendid in mid-day, and then finished in the mellow golden richness of sunset which gradually merges, no one knows when or how, into the coolness of twilight. I'd like to pattern my days after God's day.
I knew as a child the rosy joyousness of dawn, exuberant health of body and mind, unbounded energy, the tender protecting care of loving parents, the security of home, and the carefree companionship of brothers and sisters and of playmates.
I am in the hot-white heat and brilliance of mid-day. I have urgent responsibilities to challenge my best efforts, a young and consequently a demanding family, a husband charged with making a living in this uncertain and competitive age, a home to keep as a pleasant and secure refuge for my family when a hundred commercial interests are beckoning them from it, the responsibility of numerous church positions, parents and brothers and sisters to hold faith with and live up to their hopes and desires for my success and accomplishments. I can certainly know the heat of battle and the intense struggle of mid-day, and hope to know its brilliance in accepting its challenge and in struggling mightily to fulfill its obligations.
Perhaps at sunset I shall know the mellow golden satisfaction that a full day well lived shall bring, a young family grown into independent and aspiring men and women, the security and peace of a pleasant and comfortable home with enough to live on without worry, the knowledge my parents were proud of me, and the memories of the struggle of it all to share with the companion of those struggles. Perhaps, I say, I shall know this glorious fulfillment as God's day is culminated.
Rain at Three Cedars
By Ada Hurst Brown
FLORA poured her dishwater around the roots of the wild cucumber vine which covered the back stoop, almost giving it the dignity of a porch. Then she stood with the dripping pan in one hand while she shaded her blue eyes with the other. Heat waves shimmered destructively across the hundred and sixty; fifty acres of beans drooped the edges of their dusty green leaves toward the red soil as if trying to reach the cool underlayer. On the hill beyond, a field of corn shriveled and its leaves curled inward. The corn was gone. If rain fell within a few days the beans would be saved. In the little corral back of the henhouses and sheds, Grant harnessed the horses for his weekly trip to town.
Flora sighed, and drooped in the heat like the beans. What if Grant knew how significant this trip was to be? What if—she set her lips with determination. There was no use thinking of it. For two weeks now this struggle had been going on within her, and rehashing it was of no use whatever. The letter was written.
Turning, Flora hung the dishpan on a nail beside the door and went into the house. It was a typical dry-farm house—one large room, stove and table in one corner, bed in another. She washed her hands in the wash basin, threw that water also onto the cucumber vine, then walked to the bed and sank wearily upon it. If possible it was hotter inside than it was out. Flora had built only a small cedar-wood fire in the stove to brown some round new potatoes, but the heat still filled the room.
Five summers of it, she thought wearily. Five summers, and defeat each summer. In their first year at Three Cedars there had been a frost in late May, the next year heat and grass hoppers, the following August a sudden hailstorm that had beaten the crops to the ground. Then last year everything had been perfect—plenty of rain, sunshine, all that was needed to bring the crops to maturity. Grant had been elated. The beans—tons of them, white and brown and speckled, had been sacked and sent to the Bean Association at Denver.
"This is the break we've waited for, honey," Grant had thrown his arm around her and danced her about the room. "We'll have a new room and a screen porch—we'll pipe water from the spring—we'll get a second-hand Ford—"
That year the Bean Association went under. The entire community was affected. Taxes went unpaid, women wore percale dresses to church, and Flora carefully sewed another patch on the trousers of Grant's suit. And now—of all the insane things—Grant was raising another crop of beans, a crop that might be saved if it rained soon, but for which there was no sale if it were saved.
"WHOA," called Grant outside the back door. Flora sat up as he entered. "Changed your mind about going to town, honey? Better come along. Do you good." He poured water from the kettle on the stove into the wash basin.
"No, it's too hot, Grant; aren't you going to shave?"
Grant splashed water over his face. "Don't think so," he mumbled. "Make my face sore."
Flora didn't argue the point. She rose slowly from the bed like an old woman, and reached under the cretonne curtain at the bottom of the home-made cupboard, and extracted two tin pails and a large pan of white eggs. She placed the eggs two at a time into the pails, counting them carefully, until there was only one egg left in the pan.
"Six dozen and a half," she said aloud. "Get a sack of salt, and then you'd better take the rest and get a new shirt. I can't make that one hold out much longer."
Grant was rubbing water on his hair to make it lie straight, and did not answer. Flora raised her fingers to her temples and pressed on them. Silence and heat and dirt! Silence—she wanted to scream and shatter it. But if she did, Grant would not leave her, and Grant must go to town today.
"Anything else?" Flora shook her head and held out the egg-filled pails to him. "You'll go to the postoffice, of course. Oh, yes," very, very casually, "get a stamp to put on my letter to mother." She opened the lid of her old trunk and took out the letter, scarcely breathing as she did so. If anything should happen—if Grant should learn what was in that letter—
"Put it in my pocket," said Grant standing with an egg pail in each hand. Flora placed the letter carefully in the back pocket of his blue denim trousers. He turned and kissed her perfunctorily on the forehead.
FLORA stood in the doorway and watched the wagon until it passed over the hill. Then she went back into the house and threw herself face downward on the bed, with her hands clenched at her sides. Maybe she was a piker. Maybe she would be sorry sometime, but a person couldn't be expected to endure this forever. She thought of Portland—the place of her birth—the clean, rain-washed streets and houses—the broad Willamette moving leisurely and peacefully to the sea—the shops, the theaters—the roses—it was a city of roses instead of a county of beans! She remembered her meeting with Grant—on the dance boat floating along the black river. He had been with an acquaintance of hers, and it had been, if not love at first sight, at least interest that had turned to love within a few weeks. Grant had been so handsome then. He had been in the city just long enough to lose his sunburn, and retain only an interesting tan. His mouth had a fascinating quirk at the corners, and he made love beautifully.
Love! Most of that had been taken out of him in this desert country to which he had insisted upon returning after their marriage. Life was not love and happiness and romance. Life was fighting—fighting against the soil and elements—for existence, for the food one ate, and it had been a losing fight. One had no time nor energy for the niceties of love. One was often too tired to speak....
She had written so bravely to her mother. She had kept her from knowing their circumstances—had made excuses to keep her from coming for a visit last summer. She would have died rather than have let her mother know—
But that was last summer. That was before the Bean Association had taken their beans and failed. Since then she had been torn between her 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE duty and love for Grant, and her hatred of the way they lived. It had taken an effort to write the letter asking her mother to send for her, but it was done now. The letter had gone, and her mother would come after her. She'd miss Grant, though, and worry about him. She could see him now, plodding alone, fighting alone, nothing to look forward to excepting another day of struggle. She must stop that, or she'd change her mind. After all, Grant had his relatives, his friends. SHE jumped from the bed and rubbed her eyes. She must have been asleep, for it was almost dark. She walked over to the alarm clock on the cupboard, wondering if it had stopped, because it said only fourthirty. Then a sudden flash and a low rumble brought her fully awake. It was vain! The rain for which they had hoped and prayed and despaired of getting. The rain that would put new hope into the hearts of thousands of farmers throughout the district. A fresh, sweet, cool smell came through the door with the first drops. Flora threw a wrap over her shoulders and ran outside. Her halfgrown white leghorns would not have sense enough to get inside the coop. She found them huddled in a corner of the run, picked them up in her apron, and placed them on the roosts with the hens. If it kept raining they would have to' go without their supper that night. She scattered wheat on the floor in case it should become light enough for them to rouse themselves to eat. The rain was coming in sheets now, and Flora stood in the henhouse doorway, watching it. She loved her chickens. She had brought them up from eggs, and their ancestors before them. She had studied everything she could find about them, and Grant had taught her some things. She knew how to distinguish the layers with their long backs, red combs and scaly legs, and their three and four finger spread. She culled the non-layers, and baked them for Sunday dinners. She hoped the young chickens were not wet enough to do them any harm. They would need the eggs next winter to trade at the store for salt and sugar and those things they did not raise on the place. But of course, she would be in Portland next winter. She would be going to shows, shopping for new clothes, living again. Living? Hadn't this been a struggle that was worth while? Wasn't this really living? "THE first fury of the rain passed, and it settled down to a fine drizzle that would last the night. Flora walked out into it, her head bared to the fine mist. The beans had already straightened their leaves, as if to catch every drop of moisture. They stood erect and beautiful in the wet, red soil. In his farming, Grant used the scientific ideas he had learned at the Agricultural college, along with some practical ones of his own. His beans were planted far apart, so there would be more moisture per plant, and they were clean and free from weeds. It would take only one year, one good year of crops and sales, to put them on their feet, to make as much as an ordinary wage earner made in five years. It was ridiculous for her to have thought of leaving Grant. It must have been the heat that had made her write that letter. Why, it would have been like tearing herself to pieces. She and Grant were one, not until death did them part, but for all eternity. RAIN AT THREE CEDARS 85 But how could she explain all that to mother? Mother would be after her as soon as she received that letter. Mother would never understand the worry and heartache and glory of achievement over the soil—over the elements. It would be difficult, but she must think of some way out of it, some way of keeping Grant from learning. "THEN she saw Grant driving in at the gate. He wrapped the reins around the brake and sprang from the wagon, catching her in his arms and carrying her into the house, holding her tight—tight, and kissing her lips as he had not done for months, while the rain water still ran down their faces. Flora caught her breath. "Grant! Whatever on earth?" Grant reached in his back pocket and took out two letters, one of them unstamped. For an instant his face clouded. "Look, I forgot to mail your letter. But wait till you see— you won't blame me—" He drew out a blue slip from the other envelope. It was a substantial check from the Bean Association. A letter stated that there would be another in a month or so, and there was also a contract for this year's beans. "We can have two new rooms. If I build them myself next winter, we could have three. We're going to need three. Look, I think we can have hot water too—I've brought a catalogue—then I'll have a bath every night like you want me to." Flora was too giddy to think straight. She clung to him, his triumph hers. She had helped him to do all this, even if she had been about to run out on it. "Did you get your shirt?' she asked foolishly. Grant shouted. "I forgot to take the eggs to the store. But we'll go in together tomorrow. I want you to see Ben Allred's Ford. I want you to help me cash the check, I want you—" But Flora was crying. Of course he wanted her, just as she would always want him. They were one. They couldn't live apart. "What we can do for another is the test of powers; what we can suffer for is the test of love.'—Westcott. "Believe me, every man has his secret sorrows, which the world knows not; and oftentimes we call a man cold when he is only sad." —Longfellow.  "We here highly resolve that the dead shall not have died in vain; that the nation shall under God, have a new birth of freedom; and that the government of the people, and for the people shall not perish from the earth."—From “Address at Gettysburg," by Abraham Lincoln. Women's Responsibility to Citizenship By Elva T. Cowley HE citizen of today is facing one of the most momentous eras in the world's history; an era in which we may well pause to say "whither are we going?" Weare living in the midst of great turmoil. Men may say it is a struggle for the supremacy of this or that form of government, but it really is a conflict of ideals, a conflict of differing conceptions of human rights, of justice, and of what shall constitute the wellbeing of the human race. Thus as citizens of this present day, we are challenged to maintain the standards, aims, and ideals of our forefathers. It was our forefathers who procured for themselves the rights and liberties which they have handed down to us in the form of government under which we live. We are indebted to those brave ancestors of ours whom we call founders, for our present civilization, our homes, schools, and our general well-being. We owe much to those men and women who braved unknown dangers, without friends, homes, or any of the common necessities of our existence, to cast their lot in a new world. If the women as well as the men had not been made of the stuff of heroes, we perhaps never would have known the joys of a land of liberty and all it implies. Therefore we should not be indifferent to present-day civic and political problems and the responsibility resting upon us to preserve this great democracy which is our heritage. Looking back over history, we are well aware that it took long centuries of struggle to win a democratic government through which the people have the power to rule their own affairs, to win a government of rights and privileges; a government whose founders pronounced that each individual should be equal to every other individual in his right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. This government of ours was planned for the sole benefit of its citizens. It furnishes man the means of establishing a home. It gives him protection and security. It supplies educational opportunity, recreation, and leisure. It gives man individual rights in courts, the opportunity to earn an honest livelihood. It affords political activity, the right to vote, and the right to worship God according to the dictates of conscience. There are, however, many things besides rights among the essentials of good citizenship, and these are the things we must pause to consider if we as a people shall continue on an upward course and attain the highest degree of peace, happiness, and security. There are obligations we, as citizens, owe to our government and to each other. If we are going to perpetuate the ideals of liberty and combat the conflicting forces which seem to be undermining governments today, we must sense our obligations. IN order to be good citizens we should feel obligated to develop a high order of intelligence through education, and use that WOMEN'S RESPONSIBILITY TO CITIZENSHIP 87 intelligence to promote the common good. We should have an appreciation of human values, well-balanced judgment, a profound sense of obligation to service, and an obligation to have good characters and be obedient to the laws. We should use our voting power, in order that we may select individuals of high quality to direct the affairs of state and also develop a readiness to abide by the will of the majority and respect the rights of the minority. Often not fifty percent of those qualified to vote turn out at election to cast ballots. Too frequently many of those who do go to the polls are inadequately informed on the questions which they are called upon to decide on election day. We cannot maintain by inertia the high standards and ideals of our ancestors. We can maintain them only by using our efforts to secure higher standards of public service, to secure a higher sense of loyalty. We must become conscious of our civic responsibilities, and must be awakened to those forces always in our midst which tend to tear down the fundamentals and start a new order of things. How are we going to meet these obligations, to develop such qualities? We are going to call upon the women of the nation, the mothers of the race, to train themselves, to educate themselves, in social, civic and political affairs in order that they will be better able to train the individual from childhood, to be intelligent, loyal and law-abiding. HE first social unit to appear in man's evolution was 'the family. As far as is now known the headship of this unit was first vested in the mother. Women was one of the earliest burden bearers of the race. From the time the rudest home of primitive man was established, her work there made of her a jack-of-all-trades. It early became woman's part to secure food for her family. It was she who, in doing this, first invented ways of cultivating, harvesting, and preserving vegetable foodstuffs. She also developed the textile arts and did practically all of the weaving until machinery was invented. It fell to woman to dress the skins of animals and make garments of them. It was the woman who developed the art of making pottery and other types of decorative art. She early became the patroness of religion, for she appears in the character of priestess in many primitive cults and was the guiding influence for good in her home. Thus through the long ages of human evolution woman shared her full portion of the burdens and responsibilities of home and family. As producer, artisan, economist, and administrator, she measured up in that primitive era to our corresponding ideas of good citizenship. Then there appeared the fatherright in family control. Out of the family, as it developed and branched, came the tribe or clan with its patriarchal ruler. Then came that period during the Roman Empire that woman's liberty was limited and she was given inferior rank, remaining that way for centuries. T has been a long and tedious struggle for woman to come again into her own rights and be considered as man's equal. For years woman struggled for her franchise, her right to vote. For years she struggled for a place in 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the world of business and for a voice in the affairs of state. In 1840 according to Harriet Martineau there were only seven employments open to women in the United States. These were teaching, needlework, keeping boarders, working in cotton mills, book binderies, type setting, and household service. Since the World War, women have been given every opportunity to forge ahead. Their influence is being felt in every activity of life, in government and in business. THE family is the base of all social progress. The woman is and must be the central figure in the home. She has come to realize that in order to protect her home she must go outside of it to study the influences that threaten its security. We believe with George Elliot Howard that as the ideal of the family rises, civilization advances. Although many forces have altered the function and structure of the home from primitive times, when it was the center of production and activity, the familv still remains the most powerful educational agency in society. In the popular mind the home is still almost entirely responsible for the mental and moral development of the child during the first six years of life and as the mother spends more time with her children than the father or anyone else, it is she who forms the character of these individuals, the future citizens of the nation. GREAT responsibility there- ' fore rests upon woman. It is her duty in order to make of her children good citizens, to first be one herself and be interested in activities that affect her home. Second, she must see that her children are physically fit through proper diet and nutrition. In contributing to the mental health of her children she must teach them to think clearly and act promptly. She must cooperate with the school. Many of the troubles of children in school have: their origin in home conditions. It is essential that the school have the opportunity of visiting the homes and helping the solution of children's problems and just as essential that parents visit the school and assist in the solution of its problems. It is the duty of parents to teach their children morality, proper sanitation, temperance, obedience, honesty, purity, unselfishness, and love; to teach them reverence and devotion and make of the home a spiritual center. We must make plain to our youth the tremendous significance of the family as the social unit and must teach the sacredness of marriage and motherhood as a guaranty of social purity and individual respectability. If we neglect our duty, we may unconsciously become accomplices to the great army of criminals which are infesting America today and to those unsocial individuals who attempt to destroy governments. ACCORDING to J. Edgar Hoover, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, in a speech delivered April 23, 1936, to Daughters of the American Revolution, their files show that there are actually three million convicted criminals. Beyond this he said there are enough more with police records to demonstrate that an average of one out of every 25 persons in the United States has at least had his brush with law enforcement agencies and is inclined WOMEN'S RESPONSIBILITY TO CITIZENSHIP 89 toward criminality, that there are in America today 150,000 murderers roaming at large—also that twenty percent of crime is the work of persons who have not yet reached the voting age. He said we have youth in crime because we have failed to provide youth with proper outlets and upbringing. In most instances children are driven to crime because of deep-laid fauits in society, such as poverty, degeneracy and because of their elders' neglect, laxity in early discipline, apathy on the part of parents and neglect by those of the community who should help the helpless. We must beware also, for political alliance with crime exists in community, state, and nation; political protection is given. To the criminal and the racketeer in many communities. It is for us to see that such evils are wiped out. AMERICA grew and prospered by unswerving loyalty to high ideals, by unfaltering respect and reverence for the law, and by the kindly watchful care of mothers over their children and homes. Our boys and our girls are the seedlings of America to grow and develop as their parents and surroundings direct. The man and woman of yesterday we know. There is no doubt about their future as citizens. They had courage, pioneer courage, and the patience of saints. They knew the full meaning of the words loyalty and patriotism. They built for us a nation greater than all other nations. It is for us to preserve it with all its fundamentals, its standards, and ideals. We the citizens of today and tomorrow can only do it by active intelligence and good judgment. If government is to spring from the common people of a nation, they must have such qualities as shall enable them to select experts who will conduct the affairs of state in the interest of all the governed. Our intellect is the only instrument that we possess whereby we may hope to direct our own lives or to meet the situations that confront us. It is therefore imperative for every one of us to train judgment, to add to knowledge, and to increase wisdom. If we do this we will have better homes, better communities, and a greater nation, and be able to meet our present-day problems. The Romance of Lace By Dorothy Nell Mair be-decked valentines at this season of the year, as well as the popular use of lace for wearing apparel the past two years, recalls to us a bit of its romantic history. While there are no records to prove that lace existed before 1500 A. D. It is believed to have been used by early Egyptians, due to the findings in old tombs and excavations. The fabrics found are not lace, as we know it, but an open mesh cloth made of gold and silver and colored threads, often studded with gems and elaborately ornamented, suggesting the splendor of the East. Moorish, Greek and Arabian patterns have been found, which testify to the fact that lace-making is not a comparatively new art, but a very old one, restored. Italy has long been famous for its drawn work, or cut work, from which developed the present needle point lace patterns. This drawn work was exceedingly popular in the days of the Doges of Venice. It was called Nun's Cloth, having been made in convents by the nuns who devoted much of their time to teaching the making of it, and who attempted new designs and methods. From these patient experiments developed the first "Point in the Air," or Venetian Lace. This new form immediately became popular. At this same time, the printing press was making its appearance with marked success. Through it, lace-making instructions and patterns were taught to the peasantry and brought about the beginning of a great industry which flourished and spread. Lace reached its greatest popularity during the Renaissance when all Europe was a show place for extravagance. The use of lace was not confined to the costumes of gracious ladies, but found its way into the costumes of the men as well. It was used profusely on ruffs about the neck, cuffs falling gracefully over the hands, and rows of it were placed around the tops of large flared boots worn by the guards of the king. Lace was indispensable at court, and because of it, the lacemaking industry flourished, bringing to women in the homes of the peasantry a means of livelihood. Linen thread is used for making lace, and it is said, the flax of Flanders is the best in the world. Great care is taken in the spinning of the flax. To protect it from exposure to dry air, which might cause it to break, it is spun in dark underground rooms. Lace-making thread can be used for regular sewing, but regular sewing thread can not be used for making lace. Cotton thread lacks the strength and durability necessary in lace, and although it is a beautiful white, it discolors and stretches out of shape when washed. ABOUT the same time as Venice was promoting her new art— needle point lace, or "Point in the Air"—F landers was also promoting a lace-making industry of a different type. To Barbara Uttman in 1561 goes the credit for inventing pillow lace in Flanders. This lace is made by bobbins attached to linen threads, and passed over and under each other until they cross, plait, and twist to form intricate designs. The work is done on a hard, round pillow to THE ROMANCE OF LACE 91 which is pinned the parchment pattern. Needle point lace is just what its name implies, being done with a needle and thread and consists of the loop stitch woven over single threads stretched from one point to another in accordance with the pattern followed. Both Flanders and Venice rank first in the making of their particular type of lace, but Venice, with all the popularity of the needle point variety, has not forsaken the ancient cut-work. Were it not for the modern, yet delicate, lace-making machinery the cost of lace would make its use prohibitive to the average woman. It was not until after years of experimentation that the lace-making machinery was perfected. The struggle in perfecting it is no less romantic than the origin of lace itself. Today, the finest patterns in either needle point or bobbin lace can be copied without excessive cost, and makes available to every one this delicate finery. MY JEWEL BOX (Awarded Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest) By Ada Mathews Long Some ladies have fine jewel boxes Of ivory and jade; Some have theirs of platinum With diamonds all inlaid. Within these lovely boxes They carefully hide from sight Their costly rings and bracelets: They're locked in the safe at night. Now I have lovely jewels too, Priceless and very rare. My jewel box is a baby's bed, How sweet to see them there— Two sapphire eyes, two ruby lips, Four tiny gleaming pearls, The sun strikes lovely golden glints From wispy silken curls. I carry my jewels all around For everyone to see, Gazing at the gems I have No doubt they envy me. At night when heavy eyelids droop And my darling is undressed, I lay my treasure carefully In my jewel box, to rest. Love's Old Sweet Song By Helen Hinckley UT you don't understand, Mother!" Alliene thrust out her brilliantly painted lips in a pout. "If you could only see the other girls you wouldn't object to the little bit I put on. You don't care whether anybody ever looks at me or not, but I do. You don't care..." "Alliene, don't speak to your mother like that!" Mr. Baine lifted his eyes from his paper. The painted face of his sixteen-year-old daughter was as much a shock to him as it had been to Mrs. Baine, but he had long ago given the responsibility of this bundle of energy, wit, and fireworks, into his wife's more capable hands. Now he felt it his duty to back up the maternal discipline. "You do as your mother tells you!" Alliene turned her flushed face in his direction. The bright color which she had applied so liberally, glimmered grotesquely on her reddening face. "If you two weren't so darn blind, you'd see what you're doing to me. I can't even look like the other girls. I can't even...." "Now, Alliene...." "It's true anyway. Oh, I don't blame you because I can't have enough clothes to look decent. I know you do all you can for me. At least I should know. You tell me often enough." "Why, Alliene, I—" But Alliene was off to a flying start. "If you'd only make what I do have, fit! My clothes just hang on me. I look like a scarecrow." "You can scarcely blame your mother because you don't eat enough to fill up your clothes." "And that's another thing. Who wants to carry jelly sandwiches to school? Jelly or peanut butter sandwiches in a paper bag when all the other kids eat at the drug store!" Alliene threw herself on to the settee and began to weep convulsively. The original subject of argument was forgotten and all of the girl's past woes rose up to choke her. Mrs. Baine motioned for her husband to withdraw. Here was a situation which she could handle better by herself. Without saying a word she went over to the piano and began to play with smooth rolling chords, "Love's Old Sweet Song." Her fingers touched the keys softly, almost lovingly. She seemed to have forgotten her unhappy daughter in the dream that she was weaving for herself. Alliene wiped her eyes, considered dashing to her room but discarded that dramatic gesture as being lost on the quiet back of her mother. She walked to the window and looked out over the snow to the pale redness of the western sky. It was not until Mrs. Baine had struck the last loving chord that Alliene came over toher. "Sorry, Mom." It was as near as she had ever come to an apology. "You think I don't understand? Wait here a minute. I want to show you something." Mrs. Baine slipped away and in a few minutes returned with a little brass-bound wooden box made in imitation of a seafaring chest. "I've thought ever so often that I'd burn these things, but then I've put them away again." She opened the chest; Alliene peered in. There was a bunch of letters tied with ribbon. "The proverbial letters tied in blue," Mother LOVE'S OLD SWEET SONG 93 said as she laid them aside. "Your father wrote them to me while he was on his mission to the Islands." Under the letters—what was that? Lace and silk, and paper, and ribbon, and crushed crystal!—'"I've kept some of my valentines—some that have stories." She handed Alliene a lopsided heart cut from a bit of bright wall paper. A clumsy door on the front opened to disclose a glowingly red rose. Inside was the verse: "If you love me, as I love you No knife can cut our love in two." Alliene laughed—so did her mother, but with a peculiar tenderness. "You made that for me, dear, all by yourself, the year that you were seven. You remember we had chickenpox that year and made ourselves a Valentine box because you couldn't go to school." "It's funny," the girl commented, rather ashamed of her emotion as she remembered that home Valentine box which was typical of the way her mother had smoothed away her disappointments. "I like the verse, but I've often wondered about the knife."' Alliene's arms slid around the older woman's shoulders. "It's still a true verse," she said briefly. "That's my choicest valentine, but I didn't get out my memory chest to show you that. Look through these, daughter, and pick out the one that looks most interesting. I'll tell you its story. For several quiet minutes Alliene fingered the valentines. Even her smooth fingers seemed to roughen the aging glazed silks, the lace, and the fringe. A large heart with folds and fluting of satin ribbon caught down with brass heads and entirely covered with crushed crystal interested her first. "Did he wear a checked suit?" she laughed as she lifted it carefully from the pile. "No, there is no special story connected with it—except—Well, he was very modest, rather backward, a boy who, before he came to the Academy, had never even seen a train. If one judged him from the appearance of this valentine one would have missed all the real side of him." Alliene felt vaguely uncomfortable. The valentine looked so like the painted face she had been defending fifteen minutes before. If people judged her by her make-up would they miss the real side of her, she wondered? Yet the hint had been unintentional. Mother was fingering another heart with a reminiscent smile. As the girl touched the dainty things she began to see her mother as a young and happy girl. Nobody could send these bits of sentiment to the type of woman she had pictured her mother to be. The verses were old fashioned but they were sweet and sincere. "Well, you haven't asked for the story yet." Alliene lifted carefully a double square of silk. On the front, in print much entwined with hand painted flowers were the words "Sweets to the Sweet," and on the inside was the poem "Love's Old Sweet Song."** "Has this a story?" "T'm glad you selected this one. When I was about your age I was working after school and on Saturdays at the drug store. I couldn't have gone to the Academy if I hadn't helped myself in some way, but often I hated it. The young folks seemed to select Saturdays and after school for their picnics and snow festivals. I used to just burn when I thought of the other girls and the boy!" "The Boy?" 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Surely. When I even caught a glimpse of him I felt my throat tighten. When he spoke to me I was speechless. I would have done anything to attract his attention— anything! Although he seemed to laugh and talk to the other girls, with me he was quiet and somehow self-conscious. I thought that he didn't like me. He came into the store that thirteenth of February and said that he had decided to spend Saturday buying a valentine for the 'only girl in the world. My heart almost stopped beating. I was determined not to let_him see how I felt so I showed him all the lovely things in the store. At length he bought a box of candy with a valentine on the lid and I wrapped it carefully for him. As he put the package under his arm and walked away I felt as if I would never smile again. I hated myself because I cared and told myself that he didn't make any difference to me and then I hated myself even more for trying to deceive myself." "Why, Mother, that's just the way I feel about Ralph. I just must—" "I know, dear. Don't think I haven't understood your desire to paint, to overdress, to—That's why I'm telling you something I've kept to myself for years. I was miserable that night. I hardly slept at all and the next morning it was with an effort that I dressed and went to teach my Sunday School class. The little story was something about the good child who got what he wanted —you know the type—and my lips curled bitterly at the absurdity of the idea that I was putting into the children's minds. "We had finished dinner and were just doing the dishes when someone lifted the latch on the gate. Your Aunt Mae, all excitement, nearly broke a leg getting the news to me that a 'young man' was calling. It was 'HE' and under his arm he carried the box which he had purpurchased for 'the only girl in the world.' With scarcely a word he handed it to me. We knew then that—well, that we both felt the same way." "What happened to him?" Alliene asked. "He just left the room a few minutes ago looking rather worried." "Father?" The word was an amazed gasp. "You ever felt that way about Father?" "Why do you suppose that in the evenings I play 'Love's Old Sweet Song'? Look again at the verse in the valentine, my dear. Rather a foolish story, isn't it?" Alliene made no answer. Instead she turned to the piano. With one hand she wiped off the ugly rouge while with the other she picked out the melody of "Just a Song at Twilight." LIFE IS MADE OF MUSIC By Grace Zenor Pratt (Awarded Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest ) Life is made of music; fragments as sweet and calm As silver nocturnes, or soft, low pastorals Of sun-kissed fields, of wooded vales and hills;— Sometimes a rhapsody of happiness that spills About us, like the trill of warbling birds at eve, Or soft, gay laughter from some make-believe. We hear a symphony in stormy winds 'mid summer leaves, And in the deep, green silence of a forest all unstirred, May sense a full and rapturous melody in one wild bird. At sunrise, triumph rises height on height sublime And pans of sheer glory to the night of stars... The wild wind's fitful gusts, whose variations soar and cling, Rebound again from earth's far places echoing; Rhythm in tossing waves, music of mountain pines, Uplift in color, the glow of scarlet wing May make the low, intangible voice of music sing. Life is made up of music, sometimes low minor strains, May touch the spirit with their healing power, After the spirit has been terror-craven, And comes at last to rest within some blessed port, Sails all agleam, into some peaceful haven. Life is but music, each day it weaves its subtle spell About our very souls, giving to us more melody of spirit... That we may hold communion with far places, With the intangible, be bound more closely to the Infinite By those sweet sounds which fill our veins with heavenly fire, And lift our souls so gloriously above all mean desire. Os] rEverelt: More Than Bread By Anna Prince Redd A PLAY IN ONE ACT: TWO SCENES CAST OF CHARACTERS Aunt Forses—A wealthy, unmarried woman about seventy-five. Very intelligent and still handsome. She is "crotchety," tired of the sham and superficiality that surrounds her. Is becoming retrospective. ORLENE Ordway—Her sophisticated niece. Nineteen; pretty, but artificial looking. Philip Ordway-—-Brother of Orlene; with inventive tendencies; held down by his mother and Orlene to a round of society. Jimmy—A foundling Aunt Forbes has just acquired, to the disgust of her relatives. Terry Lowper — Aunt Forbes' young lawyer. ANN WELLS — Granddaughter of Aunt Forbes' girlhood friend, Margaret White. SCENE I The curtain rises on a beautifully furnished, restful living room. May be as elaborate as desired, but must retain an air of liveableness and good taste. Two chairs are at right angles to the grate in which a low fire burns. Orlene and AUNT Forbes are seated in these chairs, ORLENE nearest the audience. There is soft light in the room. ORLENE is restless and ill at ease. As curtain rises she leans forward questioningly. ORLENE: But Aunt Forbes, if you must have her here why not have had Phil and me come later? You know how he detests girls, unless they're ultra-everything. You've tried getting him interested in your proteges before. Aunt Forses: Phil would be a perfectly normal boy if you and your mother would let him alone. I don't give a sou whether he likes her or not. For a year I've been arguing a point with "Terry concerning my will. (ORLENE looks worried) Her presence here is necessary to prove my point or justify Terry's skepticism. It is essential that we know the girl intimately. It suits me to have you know her too. At the end of two weeks I will make my will. (ORLENE is more nervous) But with Terry here I imagine your visit, at least, will not be unpleasant. ORLENE: Really? That does save the situation. It's hard to remember that Terry's your lawyer. Aunt Forses: I suppose so. He should be a slightly neurotic young man, that I pay ten thousand a year to dance attendance upon you. (She walks testily, with cane, to window center R. And looks out. ORLENE toys restlessly with objects on a small table.) Can't see a thing for trees! Hedge myself about with a forest so the curious will be shut out and then I can't see out! ORLENE: It's past train time. Joseph has had time to bring her from the station! Aunt Forses (not turning): Joseph! I sent no servant. I sent Terry Lowder to meet Margaret White's granddaughter. You moderns would have left her to find MORE THAN BREAD 97 her way alone and likely would have forgotten to give her the address. ORLENE (breathlessly): Aunt Forbes, why are you bringing her here? AunT Forses (evasively): Oh, she may be just a type that I'm interested in. I'm sick to death of this fast-living age. I may just want to see if old-fashioned girls still exist, or if they all succumb to wealth and position as Terry says they do. (ORLENE goes swiftly to her chair. AUNT FORRBES, relenting, follows.) I suppose you're the product of your society mother, an impractical father and my money! (She means this to be kindly but ORLENE ts stung by it.) ORLENE (jumping up, back to fireplace): You're always saying things like that! If it hadn't been for mother, Dad would have been a mere mechanic in spite of his education. He can't resist tinkering with greasy black machinery even yet. He buys cars just to tear them to pieces and put them together again. Phil would be just like him if Mother didn't keep hammering ideals into him. Sometimes I think you actually approve of the way they do! Aunt Forses: Are society and money everything? ORLENE (angrily): Well, you've always had money. Only those who have it, enjoy the luxury of despising it. I believe you've just adopted this waif, Jimmy, to prove that mother is wrong! (She walks away.) TERRY (outside): Don't bother, Joseph, we'll announce ourselves. (A moment of tense expectancy and TERRY enters with a lovely brownhaired girl, fresh and eager-looking, dressed modishly. She is a distinct shock to both women. Terry is beaming.) Terry: Well, here we are, Mrs. Forbes! (He doesn't see ORLENE, who stands R.) Miss Ann Wells. ANN (hesitates, then comes forward naturally): Mrs. Forbes, it was nice of you to ask me to visit you in your home. Mother has told us about the beautiful friendship between you and her mother, as long as I can remember. We call you Aunt Jonathan. (ANN laughs a little uncertainly, ORLENE ts still unnoticed, her resentment growing.) Aunt Forses: "Aunt Jonathan!" I like that better than 'Aunt Forbes." (She extends her free hand to ANN, emotion trembling in her face.) How like my Margaret you are! (ANN fakes her hand in both her own. TERRY respectfully turns away. Sees ORLENE. ) Terry: Orlene! I didn't know you were here. I didn't see you! ORLENE (recovering hastily): I'm not surprised, Terry. She's gorgeous enough to blind any man! (ANN sees ORLENE, smiles.) Aunt Forbes: Ann, this is my niece, Orlene Ordway. (They acknowledge the introduction.) 1 want you and Orlene and my nephew, Philip, to go everywhere together— Terry can go along if he likes. Be together as much as possible and if you don't like each other—be together anyway. That's my only request for the two weeks you are here. During this time, all I have is yours, Ann. Orlene can be nice if she wants to. Philip always is. (ORLENE flushes, looks uncomfortable. ANN looks from one to the other, catches the gleam of amusement in Mrs. Fores' eyes and laughs gaily.) Ann: What a stimulating hostess 98 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE you turned out to be Aunt (she hesitates) Jonathan. Orlene doesn't look too scared of you, and I'll try to make her task of, caring for me as pleasant as possible. Terry: You were very magnanimous, Mrs. Forbes, to count me in. After all, I have to earn my salary. (laughs) We'll all want to see a lot of Miss Ann. I've been trying to get in her good graces by telling her all about the rest of you, (smiles) mentioning only your good points, of course. Awn: That's right, Aunt Jonathan. Mr. Lowder tells me you have a boy named Jimmy, age eleven. That's just the age I like young men to be. I'm used to being looked after by a boy just his age —my brother, Bob. Jimmy will keep me from getting lonesome if you will delegate him to look after me too. (During this speech Pui has entered unobserved.) Puiu (laughing): How about an assignment like that for me, Aunt Forbes? Aunt Forses: She just announced that she likes young men aged eleven! ORLENE: Phil should do beautifully. He never acts his age. Terry: Phil would come in! It's a good thing I had my chance with you, coming from the station. I won't be able to edge in at all now that he's on hand. (to Phil) But with Orlene here, J won't mind a bit, old man. (He turns to ORLENE and they converse in low tones.) ANN (smiling approvingly as she sizes up Phil): So you're Phil? How do you do. (extends hand) In Utah everybody shakes hands.. Puit (eagerly taking her hand): It's a swell custom. Me for Utah. Are there any more girls like you out there? ANN: Oh, scores of them! (They laugh, are friends at once.) Aunt Forses (marching to the door C.): Orlene, show Ann her rooms. Phil, tell Joseph to serve dinner in half an hour. Terry, I'll see you in the library. (They all go out. Then JIMMY, in skating togs, comes cautiously in. Looks after ORLENE and ANN. He has been listening in.) Jimmy: Gosh—heck—golly— Well gee! There just aint a word that expresses her! (he looks around guiltily, then corrects himself) There isn't,— (unsatisfied) there aint a word that expresses what I think of her! She's a pipin. And named "Ann" too. That ain't, tsn't, no sissy name. JI wish I could have seen her better. But she said'she wanted me to (rolls the word proudly)—to escort her. That'll make old Phil keep his place! She's goin' to be my girl. That snippy Orlene acts like I'm an intruder around here. (enjoys the word again) But I'll be late for dinner. (turns a cartwheel) Gosh, why can't I be as anxious t' eat as I used t' be when I didn't have anything to eat. Now there's so many exciting things to do that eatin's a contemporary consideration! (goes off whistling.) CURTAIN SCENE TWO Living room, same as act one. ANN and Jimmy are seated before the fire on cushions, turned to audience. It is two weeks later. Jimmy (gazing at ANN adoringly): Gee, Ann, have you really seen Indians like that? Bad Indians that even Uncle Sam couldn't make stay on their reservations. Gosh, MORE THAN BREAD of I didn't think there were any Indians like that only in the early days. ANN: There aren't, any more. But it's only been a few years since the last Indian fight down in southeastern Utah where I live! Jimmy (incredulously): Weren't the "Mormons" afraid of them when they first went way out there to live, so they could have the kind of religion they wanted? Ann: Yes they were, Jimmy, but their leader— Jimmy: Brigham Young! Remember his name. Ann: Yes, Brigham Young. He taught his people to feed the Indians, not fight them. My great grandfather was an Indian interpreter and scout. I wish you could have heard him tell stories of the pioneer days. He was just exactly your's and Bob's age, living away over in South Africa, when he first heard about the prophet Joseph Smith and the "Mormons." Jimmy: South Africa? Was—was he—black? Ann (laughing): No. Jimmy, he was white. His parents were English people whom Queen Elizabeth had sent to Africa to help make colonies there. She gave people grants of land and money to go there and help settle her territory. Grandpa Billy's folks joined the Church and crossed the ocean in an old sail boat, so they could live in Utah with the people of their new faith.
Jimmy: Grandpa Billy. What a nice name. I'd like to have a grandfather to go with Aunt Forbes. She's not a grandmother, but she's every bit as nice as one. Tell me about Grandpa Billy.
ANN (laughing delightedly at JIMMY): Well, this story happened a long time ago. One day Grandpa Billy's father was sent by the government to haul a big wagon box full of oranges up to the natives on the reservation, and he told Billy he could go along. It all seemed very wonderful to the little eight-year-old boy to be going so far from home. His father promised him that he would see something he had never seen before, even in the jungle.
Jimmy: Did they live in the jungle?
ANN: Well, they lived very near it and often went into it, though the little boys never, never, went into it alone! (Jimmy sighs ecstatically) Billy sat very straight in the high seat of the wagon and rode all day. When the afternoon sun began to slant in his face, the oxen were turned into a grassy clearing, a kind of meadow. Right then things began to happen. (Jimmy edges nearer to ANN. "What?" he asks fearfully.) Down from the hillsides, out of the timber, came hundreds of glistening, black-bodied natives. Their sweat-covered bodies gleamed in the sun. Billy clung to his father in fear while his father's servants passed out the oranges to them. They fought over the oranges so ravenously and looked so frightful to the little boy that he expected them to start eating him next. He was glad when the last big native disappeared.
Jimmy (heaving a big sigh of relief): Was that all he got to see?
Ann: That was all he got to see. That night—for the darkness comes down swiftly in the jungle. He never left his father's side for a minute, and he was very glad when the beds were spread and he could pull the covers over his head and put his hand under his father's strong arm as they lay beside each other. He didn't intend to sleep a wink. No sir, not him. The next thing he knew — (Jimmy hangs on her words) he was staring at the sun through the wagon wheel!
Jimmy (disgustedly): Is that all?
Ann: No! When that sleepy-eyed boy threw back the covers and crawled out from under the wagon where they had made their bed, there stood five of the longest legged creatures you ever saw. He just stared. He was as afraid to move as he had been to go to sleep the night before. The oval bodies of those strange things with feathers on, were balanced crazily on two stilt-like legs. They had long necks, and clumsy flat heads. Their legs and thighs were bare, but their bodies were covered with feathers and were finished off with very small wings. Billy was so curious that he forgot to be afraid. He gave his father a shake and asked excitedly, 'What's that?'
"What in thunderation's what?" his father cried, grabbing for his gun. That scared the birds away. His father began to laugh. "Those are ostriches—didn't I tell you you'd see something you'd never seen before?"
Jimmy (beginning to laugh): I could a told him they were ostriches!
Ann: Of course. But Billy hadn't been to the Zoo, as you have.
Jimmy: He lived where the zoo comes from; I guess I'm not so hot.
Ann: On the way home Billy wanted to ask his father all sorts of questions, but his father was thinking about something else and would scarcely pay any attention to him. So he fell silent and just tried to figure things out for himself. Soon his father said very solemnly, "Son, some day two strangers will come to see us. They will be men of God, and will have a message for us."
"Who told you, father?" Billy asked.
"They will come as surely as I am telling you. They will be dressed in black broadcloth suits and high hats." That night he described these strangers to his wife at the supper table. She said: "You're as visionary as Abraham of old, George." But she knew that many times before they had averted disaster by heeding his premonitions.
Jimmy (in awe): Did they come, Ann?
ANN: Yes, Jimmy. Two years later they came. Just as his father had said they would. Billy was sitting out on the fence, he was the first one to see them. They were dressed just as his father had described them.
Jimmy: I'll bet he got to the house in a hurry to tell his dad!
Ann: They were "Mormon" missionaries, Jimmy. After hearing of their new and wonderful faith the whole family joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Many of their neighbors did, too. And they all crossed the ocean to be with the people of their faith. (The story must be told simply, vividly. Any story of like nature may be used. Near the end of the story AUNT FORBES, ORLENE, PHIL and TERRY have come in unobserved. AUNT FORBES signals for silence. They all listen to the end, much moved. ANN and JIMMY are still engrossed.)
Jimmy: That's the best story you've told me yet. Wait till Phil hears that!
ANN (aghast): Jimmy, you don't go telling these old-fashioned stories to the rest of this household do you?
Jimmy (shamefacedly): Well — I bragged to Phil that he might take you to dances and operas and places like that, but he can't sit on a cushion with your arm around him and hear stories like I do.
ANN (springing up, looking accusingly at JIMMY): Jimmy, you didn't! (Sees the others in the room. They laugh at his remark. ANN thinks they are laughing at the story she has just told.) I'm afraid I look very unsophisticated to you people, but I'm not ashamed. These stories are very dear to me. I'm proud of my pioneer heritage. I have never felt the need of an apology for it. Our pioneers brought from homes all over the world, a sincerity of purpose and a culture that persecution and starvation could not destroy. That culture was preserved at the cost of physical welfare. My great grandmother's melodian was pulled across the plains in a cart, pulled by men and boys, when they lost their oxen. Women whose feet were frozen and bleeding walked beside the wagon when they might have been riding. Many times it could have been sold for food, but it was not. It was the only thing grandmother took from her home. Violins were carried across the plains by men who had the heart to play them around fires of buffalo chips. Tired feet danced upon the frozen, rutted earth, and laden hearts were lifted up to go a few more weary miles. It was that culture, that innate love of beauty, that guided them in building their homes, their churches, and their sublime temples. It is an essential part of our religion! (She pauses, breathless, looks around. No one speaks. She thinks she has offended them and hurries on brokenly.) I—I do not know why you brought me here, Mrs. Forbes. There has been such a mixture of harshness and kindness, irony and approval, that I have been at a loss to understand why you invited me at all. I knew from my mother that it was grandmother's religion that came between you and her. You were very bitter against the "Mormons." I had hoped your attitude had become more tolerant, as has the attitude of the world.
Aunt Forbes: Sit down, Ann. You are trembling violently. (ANN starts to protest, but she waves everybody to a seat. Sighing with a mixture of pride and defeat.) How like your grandmother you are! Your "Mormon" missionaries have a way of projecting themselves into other people's lives. (ANN and PHILIP protest. She silences them.)—(Here a story of how the missionaries came, may be introduced if desired.) Margaret and I saw a good deal of two of them. Margaret was more susceptible than I was. She joined their church. She was never forgiven by her family. Had she stayed in Boston she could have had all that life has given me,—ease, luxury,— (She breaks off out of deference to ANN's distress.) I'm an old woman, Ann. I'm offering you wealth, which your grandmother threw away. An inheritance that I think you are peculiarly fitted to enjoy—one-third of all my estate!
ANN (has risen, stands defiant beside PHIL, facing AUNT FORBES): Is that why you brought me here? You told my mother it was something vital to your happiness — your peace of mind!
Aunt Forbes: So it is. More than you know. You have already made a name for yourself as a promising young writer. With money, leisure, and the opportunity for travel and study you may reach the top.
ANN: Here I would have nothing to write about. My heart and soul are bound up with the traditions of my people. Utah is my inspiration. I love every inch of its beauteous soil. I could never be happy and useful anywhere else in the world. Thanks, Aunt Jonathan, but I belong with my people, and I shall never marry outside my own church! (PHIL nods his approval. TERRY and AUNT FORBES exchange looks. ANN looks regretfully from one to the other and fixes her attention upon Jimmy. With a forefinger, brushes a tear from her eye, gallantly assumes a lighter air.)
ANN: Jimmy, when I get that book of pioneer stories written, just as I've told them to you, I'll dedicate it to the two finest boys in the world—you and my brother Bob. You're going to be a great engineer someday and I'll come to walk across your bridge.
Jimmy (his voice trembling): It—It'll be the biggest bridge in the world, Ann, and I'll name it after you! I couldn't be as—
ANN (striving for self-control): I'll go and pack now, Aunt Jonathan. I promised mother I would be back by the seventeenth of March. I'm sorry if I've disappointed you. (Includes everyone, chokes and turns to go off center door.)
PHIL: I'll see you to the station, Ann. Maybe in Utah, too, one of these days. (ANN smiles tremulously and goes out, followed by PHIL.)
TERRY (with dignity and regret): You win, Mrs. Forbes—gloriously.
ORLENE (disbelieving): Can you imagine that! More power to her. Turning down a fortune as coolly as if it were an invitation to dine with the wrong man.
Aunt Forbes (caustically): Ann does not live by bread alone! (TERRY, JIMMY and ORLENE gaze at her, sensing a tragedy they do not understand. JIMMY, eyes shining, stands at the door looking after ANN, then goes out.) At last I know. Margaret's courage, Margaret's sacrifice—Margaret's glorious faith is justified. (She stands like a militant prophetess in the center of the room, as if the others were not there.)
CURTAIN

"Every man is said to have his peculiar ambition. Whether it be true or not, I can say, for one, that I have no other so great as that of being truly esteemed of my fellow-men, by rendering myself worthy of their esteem."—Abraham Lincoln.

"With some the word liberty may mean for each man to do as he pleases with himself, and the product of his labor; while with others the same word may mean for some men to do as they please with other men, and the product of other men's labor."—Abraham Lincoln.
Children's Reading
By Florence Ivins Hyde
NO. II—IMAGINATIVE PERIOD
"Could we give one gift to every child, We should choose the love of books." —William Frederick Bigelow.
NO one is born with fine taste. It is an acquired quality. The love of beauty, whether expressed in art, literature, or music, is necessary to the rounding out of a happy human life. It is a thing we can give our children. Even when a child is too young to understand stories, he is influenced by the literary background of his family. The story hour, best just before bedtime, can serve as the artistic cradle of a child just as it has for the race. The story hour leads the child to read for himself. The important thing is that during the early years, the child have good books and be protected from bad books, poorly written books, insincere books, books which preach untrue sentiments. Keep such things from your child as he reads. Do not allow a child to read poor books just because he likes them; so does he like pie.
Besides giving us literary taste, books influence us profoundly in our attitudes toward life. In an appreciation of beauty we have an outlet for the emotions nothing else can give. In this appreciation is found compensation for all sorts of disappointments. So the habits of reading formed in childhood, which will undoubtedly carry over into adult life, act as a safeguard in meeting the problems of life. Plato long ago said, "In order to teach a child truth, it is necessary to teach him fiction."
THE period between 8 and 12 years is a wonderful one to sow seeds of a high type. City children are continually exposed to evil companions, the pleasures of the street, low shows, bad pictures, cheap books, almost from babyhood. The church, the school, the playground, and other agencies are doing what they can to counteract these influences, but they cannot do the work that might be done in the home. A child gets knowledge and skills from his teachers but his standards of conduct from his parents. Ideals have to be taught at home. Literature is especially rich in ethical values. It is the author's interpretation of life. Its first function is to make clear and enrich our understanding of life. Directed reading habits can aid in establishing ethical standards. Dr. Henry Neuman says, "Training which imparts knowledge or develops skills or cultivates tastes or intellectual attitudes fails of its supreme object if it leaves children no better morally."
During the years between 8 and 12 boys crave action, danger and daring. It is the time during which many misdirected boys begin careers of crime. They must have tales which satisfy this craving for adventure. Our job is to do it with wholesome stories.
THERE is no finer adventure story than "Robin Hood." We suggest the Howard Pyle edition. In re-telling the story, picture Robin Hood not as an outlaw but as a man devoting his life to redressing the wrongs in an age of injustice, when might made right. His sense of justice appeals to boys and girls. The stories of "King Arthur and his Knights," of "Beowulf," are full of adventure of a high type. "The Boy's Mabinogian," by Sidney Lanier, should be owned by every boy. Don't feel that this is dull reading because it is classic reading. A very brief acquaintance with the greatest writers develops taste. After this taste has been established such thrillers as "Tarzan" will not be so attractive. If your boy at first is bored, relieve the program with a modern type such as "Tom Sawyer" or "Biography of a Grizzly," by Steward E. White. Then go back to the classical story.
ENCOURAGE children to collect good books. A book shelf or table near their beds will help. Remember that reading children are educated children just as reading adults are educated adults. Many boys and girls are reaching maturity without the capacity to assimilate what is fine in books. This delight is being denied them in life.
One mother has a plan of providing for each child a note book in which to write the fine passages he discovers as he reads. For example, such passages as this from "The Adventures of Bobby Ord," when he felt he was defeated—"Always remember that a true sportsman is about the scarcest thing they make, and the finest. So naturally the common run of people don't live up to it. If you—not the thinking you, nor even the conscious you, but the way down deep in your heart you, that you can't fool, nor trick, nor lie to—if that you is satisfied, it's all right."
There is plenty of preaching in those lines but your boy will take it from Bobby Ord's old friend when he may not take it from you. In spite of all the training a mother can give, a boy looks to men for his models. In conversation and reading a boy and his father come closely together in a way they both enjoy. If your son has teased for a gun, his father might read to him the story of Bobby Ord, talk it over and he will feel as if he has owned that gun himself.
A child who loves books lives in a world of continual adventure.
GIVE your children love. Give them health. Give them good books. And nothing in life can daunt them.
SUGGESTED BOOKS TO BUY Anderson's Fairy Tales—there are none better. Child's Garden of Verses, Stevenson—Poetry. Tailor of Gloucester, Beatrix Potter—charming to read and re-read.
"Ideals are like stars; you will not succeed in touching them with your hands, but like the sea-faring man on the desert of waters, you choose them as your guides, and, following them, you reach your destiny."—Carl Schurz.
The Lotus Eater
By Mabel S. Harmer
CHAPTER IX
ONE night during the Thanksgiving holidays Helen sat up late in her own room reading and was about to undress for bed when the telephone rang. Thinking that she was the only one of the family still up, she stepped out into the hall to answer and had just taken the receiver down when she heard Nina answering from the phone downstairs. Ordinarily she would have hung up immediately but a call at eleven o'clock more than aroused her curiosity and she felt justified in waiting to hear the message. It was Cary Hughes calling, as Helen had suspected, and he was asking Nina to meet him and go out to supper.
"But it's so late," Nina demurred. "Wouldn't some other night do?"
"It isn't late for grownups," drawled Cary in a slightly contemptuous tone. "Of course it is time for all children to be in bed."
This was enough to persuade Nina, as he evidently had known it would be. She was continually afraid that Cary would consider her too young and unsophisticated for his company.
"All right," she agreed. "I'll be ready in fifteen minutes. Where are we going?"
"We'll drive out to the 'Green Dragon.' We can make it in half an hour. I'll pick you up on the corner."
Helen hung up the receiver and slipped back into her bedroom as she heard Nina dash up the stairs and into her room to change her dress. She sank down on a chair, sick at heart. Her first impulse was to go to Nina and beg her not to go but she knew that even if she stopped her from going this time, she would not have gained anything in the long run. Every word spoken against Cary or any opposition to her going out with him only seemed to add to her determination to be in his company as much as possible. Helen dared not tell her father. Although he was ordinarily of a very mild disposition he seemed to go completely wild on the subject of Cary Hughes and had uttered dire threats against both Nina and the man if the friendship did not discontinue. She would liked to have called Wayne but since the night that Danny had been lost and he had all but declared his love for her, Helen had avoided him whenever she could. There was only one possibility left. She would have to call Wendell Baker. Nina would be furious if she ever found out about it but Helen felt that she simply had to do something.
AS soon as Nina had left the house, Helen called Wendell and was very much relieved to find him at home. She told him the situation in as few words as possible and Wendell promised to call for her as soon as he could get there. Helen put on a light wrap and slipped down the stairs. From the shadows of the porch she saw the younger girl walk rapidly to the corner and get into the expensive looking car that slid up to the curbing. It was another ten minutes before Wendell arrived, and after she had seated herself in the car, Helen explained the situation a little more thoroughly.
"Do you know where the place is?" she asked hopefully.
"Just that it is somewhere south of town several miles," answered Wendell, "but we'll find it. You needn't worry about that. The trouble is, what will we do when we find it? You know, we can't just walk up to the girl and say, 'Sister, dear sister, come home with me now. The clock in the steeple strikes twelve.'"
"Don't joke about it," said Helen, on the verge of tears.
"I'm not joking," answered Wendell grimly. "You haven't any idea how this hurts me. I've loved Nina as long as I can remember—ever since she was a little thing in pink gingham dresses with flyaway golden curls. I've wanted to push Cary Hughes off into the ocean every time he has looked at her," he finished vehemently.
In spite of her worry, Helen smiled at his outburst. "You mustn't blame Nina too much," she said. "Nearly every girl will succumb to the admiration of an older man, and there really is something very fascinating about Cary. But I do wish we could do something about it," she ended with a sigh.
"Maybe we can—and maybe it will be tonight," said Wendell with determination. "Anyway we are going to be found trying. I believe this is the place," as he drove up to a low-roofed typical looking road house, with a number of cars parked outside and the strains of jazz music coming from within.
"The Green Dragon," said Helen, looking at the great sprawling creature fashioned over the entrance. "Yes, that's it. Shall we go in?"
"I suppose we'll have to," answered Wendell. "I don't know what else to do."
FORTUNATELY the place was very dimly lighted and they slipped inside and into a small booth while the floor was crowded with dancing couples. The waiter raised his eyebrows when they ordered a sandwich and orangeade, but they were not concerned with his opinion. They searched the place eagerly and before long saw Nina dancing with Cary. Wendell's eyes narrowed as he noticed how Nina clung to her partner and gazed up into his handsome sensuous face. After half an hour he said, "This doesn't seem to be getting us anywhere. What do we do when they leave? Just get up and follow them home again?"
"I don't know," confessed Helen, "but I just couldn't stay home and let her come out to a place like this without doing something about it."
"Of course you couldn't," agreed Wendell. "I suppose Cary has been drinking. You haven't any idea how I would like to march out and use my strong right arm on him," he concluded savagely.
"I'm afraid you'll have to save your strong right arm for the present," said Helen, hoping that the impetuous lover wouldn't go too far and make matters worse than they already were.
"Well, there is one fellow who is not going to spare his," Wendell answered as two men on the dance floor began knocking each other about. Helen looked up and then gasped, "It's Cary! Where is Nina?"
They looked anxiously about. Waiters were attempting to separate the two men which added to the general turmoil and Nina was nowhere to be seen.
"I think she must have left," said Wendell suddenly. "Let's go."
They hurried outside and looked everywhere in the vicinity of the inn, but no trace of Nina was to be seen.
"You get in the car and I'll go back inside. If we can't find her we'll have to start back home and look for her along the way," said Wendell. He was back again in a few minutes. "She isn't there and she isn't with Cary, so let's start out."
THEY had gone only a short distance when they saw Nina, hatless and in a filmy, light dress, running along the road. She paid no attention when the car first stopped and was about to hurry past, until Helen called to her. Then she stopped in amazement and a moment later was in the car, weeping in Helen's arms.
"Oh, I'm so glad you came," she sobbed in relief. "I've been such a fool!"
"It's all right, dear," Helen comforted her. "Let's be glad that you have been only foolish. It could have been much worse."
"I know," said Nina gravely, drying her eyes, and then looking from Helen to Wendell she asked, "How in the world did you two happen along just now?"
"We didn't 'just happen'," said Helen, frankly. "We were looking for you."
"I see," said Nina, in a low tone. "I'm awfully sorry for all the worry I've caused you. I've been terribly blind, but it won't happen again."
"I'm sure it won't," said Helen patting Nina's shoulder.
As they drove up to the house Wendell said, "Could I have just a minute to say goodnight to Nina?"
"It's rather late," answered Helen, "but I haven't the heart to refuse you tonight. Be sure that you don't take more than a minute," she called as she ran up the walk to the house more light-hearted than she had been in months.
CHAPTER X
THE rest of the school year passed rapidly for Helen. She found her work more engrossing all the time and was most delighted with the progress her students made. Just after the Christmas holidays she directed the school opera, a feat which she had long dreamed of but had never really believed she would some day accomplish. It was a constant joy to be able to send Danny out nearly every day to play in the sunshine and to watch him grow tanned and sturdy. Nina was preparing for her marriage to Wendell the next summer and was as happy as a lark. Helen often felt that she lived again the joy of her own courtship days as she watched the glow of love in Nina's young face.
The only flaw in her happiness was the thought of Dan. He had taken the attitude from the first, that in all probability, she was staying for good and nothing that she could write seemed to persuade him otherwise. His letters became less frequent and although she could detect between the lines his yearning for her and Danny, he always refrained from urging or even suggesting that they return.
Before the end of the school year Mr. Winters came and personally offered her a contract to return and teach the following year. "One with your ability," he urged, "should put it to the broadest possible use." Helen did not refuse immediately. The thought had strayed into her mind, as it had occasionally done before, that perhaps Dan could be persuaded to leave the ranch and come to California to live. There were such things as ranches here, too, and if he would be content to make the change it would be possible for her to follow her musical career. Later, when she wrote and suggested it to him, he did not even answer her letter and in a fit of pique she half determined to accept the offer for next year and see if he would not come anyway.
Of late she had been toying with another idea that looked very alluring. One of her friends, who was affiliated with a local radio broadcasting station had told her that there was a growing demand for string music on the air and that if she would organize a small orchestra or trio she might have an excellent chance for steady employment. Helen visited the station and then talked the matter over with her father. To her surprise he seemed to view the opportunity very coolly and advised her to consider very seriously before she entered into any contracts.
When June arrived all considerations were pushed very much into the background by the preparations for Nina's wedding. It was to be a very beautiful affair with a large reception and several attendants and Nina insisted that Helen act as her matron of honor. For two weeks preceding the wedding there was a round of parties that kept both sisters in a whirl of excitement. Between engagements they were putting last minute touches to the trousseau and arranging details for the wedding reception until Helen began to look back upon the simplicity of her own wedding with a respect that she had never felt before.
WHEN all the rush and flurry was over, however, and Nina stood before her a radiant bride in her beautiful wedding gown, Helen felt that all of her efforts had been worth while. The marriage took place in a bower of greenery on the lovely secluded lawn at the rear of the house. Helen stood as one in a dream while her sister plighted her troth to her husband and repeated the words, "to stand by him in sickness or in health, for better or for worse."
Later in the evening when the last goodbyes had been said and Nina and Wendell had departed for their wedding trip, Helen stood in her room and picked up the bouquet of lovely roses she had carried during the ceremony. Into her mind flashed a picture of the roses Dan had so gallantly presented her when she was a bride. Dear, handsome, lovable Dan! Again the words "for better or for worse" came into her mind. She sank down on her knees by the bed and buried her face in the roses. "Oh, Dan," she cried, "My dear!"
(To be continued)
She Strives To Conquer
By Lais Hales
A SHORT time ago there appeared a wise and helpful book called She Strives to Conquer, by Frances Maule. Its aim was primarily to help the business girl by stating her problems and offering practical solutions based on present-day working conditions and requirements. The subjects discussed, however, apply to all women and the successful living of their lives.
Miss Maule tells us in her Foreword that never before has so much been required of the woman in business as at the present time. Business these days has no use for amateurs. You must not only have a better education and more and better specialized training, but you must look the part of your position and you must be able to measure up in every respect to its requirements. Jobs are hard to get but never were there jobs so well worth having. Practically no field is closed, and in some fields women are given definite preference. High positions, top salaries are open to any woman who has the powers, combined with business equipment, to capture them. "The woman's point of view" and "the feminine touch" are important phrases today.
To succeed the business girl must observe certain unwritten rules and laws not found in any books on etiquette. The world of business is a world in itself and to itself. Its relationships, its standards, its values, its ways of doing things are different, and often absolutely opposed to the ways of the world of "polite society." A large proportion of the failures to make good in business are due to some lack in pleasing personal qualities rather than to shortcomings in the way of ability and training.
BUSINESS manners are not made. Nor do they just happen. They grow naturally out of human experience. To understand the why of business etiquette we must realize first that business exists to make money. Errors are expensive. Every employee must be a paying investment. Everybody, down to the youngest filing clerk, can be a partner in a business organization if she really wants to.
The girl of good breeding is recognized in business, as elsewhere, by the amount of self-control, dignity and good humor she is able to show under trying circumstances. She sees that in business whatever is necessary to get an important job done, is correct. Upon each one of the many cogs depends the smooth functioning of the great machine—business. One of the foundation stones of office ethics is that what applies to one must apply to all. Any effort to get away with privileges that are not—and in the nature of things cannot be—shared by others, is set down by all as just "not cricket."
Time is one of the most valuable of commodities. In business, time is money. The wise girl wastes no office time. Nor does she use that time for anything but her work. The higher she goes in business the greater the trust reposed in her. A girl embarking upon a business career cannot resolve too soon or too strongly to show that she is worthy.
The good sport in business gives her job all she's got. She is an answer to the business man's prayer—"Send us the girls who do the work For which they draw the wage."
If you ask big business executives and employment experts why so few women reach the top in business, the answer most often received is that women are too personal. Personality is important but in business personality means control and the ability to keep those aspects of your personality that have no relation to your work strictly hidden away during office hours. Emotion—any kind of emotion—is altogether out of place. Displays of strong feeling are in questionable taste anywhere in public. See all business matters impersonally. Oversensitiveness in an employee is rated as a liability and not an asset. Be slow to take offense. Usually no offense is meant. Maintain an impersonal attitude.
THE girl who gets the job these days is the girl who best understands how to sell herself. She should think of herself as offering a service rather than as asking for a job. This will give ease and assurance. In business, tact, poise, initiative, reliability, cooperativeness and adaptability are the five most desirable personality qualifications. These are very important as is seen in the decision of certain business psychologists that only about fifteen per cent of business success can be credited to skill, training and experience, and that the other eighty-five per cent must be checked up to personal qualifications.
The ideal, of course, is to find jobs that fit our personalities. But this isn't always possible. So we must be prepared to do a certain amount of adapting of our personalities to the jobs. Every new skill or ability we acquire builds up, enriches and strengthens the personality. The business girl should train herself to be always courteous, well-mannered and good-tempered, and learn how to keep her nerves and emotions under perfect control. Then simply and inevitably she will have the personality that every employer wants.
America has at last become speech-conscious. We have become aware that in cultured circles all over the world "the American voice" is mentioned only as an example of what a voice should not be. In business it is not only the voice with the smile that wins, but the voice—and the accent—that gives evidence of refined and cultivated backgrounds of home, family and friends. Voice culturists tell us that, barring actual defects, we are born with naturally good voices. All we need to do is to unlearn our bad habits. We are told that we speak as we hear. Make a point of hearing the best. Unconsciously and almost effortlessly we will improve.
To get a job these days, one must look healthy. To keep a job one must be healthy. Keep fit. Short rest periods at frequent intervals are better than long rest periods at infrequent intervals. Exercise, fresh air, rest, sleep and proper food largely determine health and working capacity. If you want anything very much, go after it. Don't have a wishbone where your backbone ought to be.
IN selecting an office wardrobe the watchword should be conservative good taste. Hold fast to the tried and true. Choose the less conspicuous styles. Employers cling tenaciously to the conviction that the ideal costume for the business woman is navy blue or black with touches of white at the neck and wrists. Men hate masculine clothes for the business woman. Sleeveless dresses are not the thing for business. A single color scheme in making up your wardrobe is recommended. The plainest shoes are the smartest. Very high heels are out. Rubber heels take the jar off the spine and off the nerves of the employer. The darker shades in stockings are best and these of the service or semi-service weights. A piece or two of conservative jewelry is allowed. It would be better not to wear earrings. Crimson fingernails are a final and outstanding mark of bad taste. No matter what you have on, wear it gallantly. Never, by your manner, suggest that you are ashamed of your clothes. As long as they are neat and clean, suitable and becoming, there is no reason why you should apologize for them.
A few good clothes are better than a number of shoddy ones. In securing her job the business girl must remember many things. A well rested person always makes a better impression than a tired one. A humble office job can, and often does, lead to positions in the field of office work itself that are interesting enough and well enough paid to make them desirable objectives. Office work in all its phases is exacting, nerve-racking, exhausting, and a great drain upon the nervous and physical resources. It involves long hours yet it has fascination. A grind it unquestionably is. But it is a lively grind.
WINTER GARDEN
By Vesta P. Crawford
Here now the snow is soft and smooth, A coverlet of broidered flakes; There is no trace of leaf or bud, No lily blooms, no rose awakes; And who can say that spring will come; With wonder of its sweet delight, With iris blade and hyacinth And pear tree bough of trembling white!
Walk softly in the winter garden, Touch not the twig above the snow, But lift your face in solitude And seek the faith these dry stocks know!
The Book God Gave
By Eva Willes Wangsgaard
ELEANOR sat on the front porch and leaned on a cushion propped against a post. The lights in the church across the street had just been turned on and their glow through the stained glass of the windows held Eleanor's eyes. "The panes are like my thoughts," she told herself. "Some are bright, some are cloudy." She looked down at the church door. Soon the members would come filing in. She began to visualize her friends as she had so often seen them entering that door. How she longed to be among them and feel their kindly greetings, to follow them in and partake of the spirit which they were about to enjoy! She knew the joy that can come of renewing the covenants in the fraternal presence of old friends. Still Eleanor sat alone on the porch and made no move toward obtaining her desires.
HER thoughts were interrupted by the swishing sound of a magazine hurled angrily across the living room to strike abruptly against the table. Then a chair fell with a thud to the floor. Heavy footsteps entered the kitchen beyond, and clumped across the linoleum. Suddenly, there was a crash of silver thrown into the sink followed by the faint tuning-fork sound. Eleanor wondered vaguely who had left a fork on the floor. The back door banged. Poor Harry, she thought. He never could understand her strange quietness on Sunday nights. He did not belong to the Church. In fact, he was bitterly opposed. He wanted her all for himself. He fought her interest in the Gospel with all the fervor of jealousy he would have expended on a rival for her love. He wanted her to be gay and smiling, to tramp with him through the hills this little while he was free from the grind of the shop. He could not see why she could not escape with him from the humdrum of life in a stirring show downtown. In everything else he came first, but on Sunday nights how could she forget the training of a lifetime and deny herself the joy of her church and its associations?
Eleanor heard the crunch of wheels on the gravel. She turned to see her husband as he backed the car from the garage. At the porch he stopped the car. "Let's take a ride," he said. Without a word Eleanor picked up the pillow on which she had been leaning and climbed into the car. She placed the pillow beneath her head and half reclined in the seat.
"Got a headache?" Harry asked.
"No," Eleanor tried desperately to command her thoughts. She wanted to say something cheerful, something that would make him understand that she saw his point. She wanted him to know that she appreciated what a fine man he was. She longed to tell him how glad she was that she had him. She knew his virtues and valued them. She loved him. How she loved him! In fact, there would have been no problem if she did not love him so.
But Eleanor was depressed. It's strange that an otherwise talkative person can be so dumb when a problem is so near her heart—strange that two people who love each other should have such a hard time saying the right thing at the right time. Eleanor's mind was a mass of unsolved problems. How could she talk to Harry about anything they passed or saw when her mind kept asking, "Is it right to stay away from church just because he disapproves? Ought I to go, or ought I to forget it entirely? My church is so much a part of me. Would he love me if I lost contact with it? Am I wrong to oppose him?" The ride was a failure as far as entertainment was concerned. Eleanor was relieved when he turned back toward home.
INSIDE she sought refuge from her thoughts by picking up a book, her favorite collection of poems. To Harry that was the last straw. His frustration burst out in a torrent of words.
"Are you woman or saint?" he stormed. "Do you want a man or your gospel?"
"But this is just a book of poems, Harry," she tried to mollify him.
"Poems. Poems. Nobody with any sense ever wastes time on poems, or religion either. I tell you I'm sick of it. You either go away and leave me sitting alone, or stay home and insult me by hiding behind a book."
"But you don't need to be alone, Harry. You might come with me."
"Come with you and be bored to death listening to some old fossil speak of a dead past or to some unprepared kid spouting borrowed phrases? No, thanks." He fell silent and waited. Eleanor tried to read, but his anger was a living presence between her and the printed page and her heart ached with unsolved problems. What to do! O, what to do! He mistook her silence for absorption and felt hurt and lonely. He got up and began to pace the floor. Eleanor turned a page, and for some reason that infuriated him. He turned suddenly and with a quick stroke knocked the book to the floor. Without a backward glance he entered the bedroom and slammed the door.
ELEANOR sat stunned for a moment. Once, long ago, she might have cried at this. Now she sat still and sought desperately for a way out of the abyss for both of them. Her problems began to resolve themselves into a prayer. "What shall I do, God? Show me the way." She leaned forward and looked at the book. Suddenly like a streak of sunlight creeping over a canyon floor, a beautiful thought pressed itself forward. The book lay with its leaves spread open to the floor, but like a protecting hand the cover shielded them from injury. If one were to destroy the real book, which was the message encased in its pages, it would be necessary first to destroy the cover. "My knowledge of the truth is like the book," was Eleanor's thought. "My faith is the cover. God gave me my book. So long as I keep its cover intact nothing can destroy the beauty of its pages. Nothing." She stooped and reverently picked up the book. She turned it over. She started in surprise. It was as though the book were speaking, so plainly could she read the poem before her eyes. It was Kipling's "If"—
"If you can keep your head when all about you Are losing theirs and blaming it on you,"
Eleanor read. Would keeping your head mean holding your peace while a person upbraided you and your church?
"If you can wait and not be tired by waiting"—
Was not ten years long enough of waiting? And if one waited ten years and still had faith was that what the poet meant?
"Or being lied about, not deal in lies"—
to hear your dearest treasure and its keepers belittled and, yes, lied about, she must still not retaliate nor feel hatred herself? Straight to her heart went the final message:
"If you can make one heap of all your winnings, And risk them on one turn of pitch and toss..."
Eleanor read this several times, searching for the inner meaning.
COULD it mean that she must take all her love, both for the home and the Gospel, and risk it against her husband's anger? Once more she read the lines while her mind fondled the phrases. Would her problem be solved once and forever if she resolved to go to church every Sunday evening, come what may?
"I'll do it," she said aloud. "Hereafter my Sunday evenings are for church."
A PEACE so gentle and reassuring was hers that she knew a problem of deep concern had been met and the solution found. She leaned back in the comfort of the large chair and closed her eyes. "Thank You," she breathed. "Thank You, God, for your great book and its protecting cover."
LINCOLN
By Christie Lund Coles
Upon the altar of the Common Good Lincoln stood, A martyr in the cause of truth, Giving his youth, His strength, his very life, Suffering strife For the far hope the dreamers see— Equality.
So each of those who dares to say: "This is the way To Universal brotherhood," Is misunderstood. But oh, the endless chain of right That day and night Is being welded by these few Who make dreams true.
Practical Praying
By Elsie C. Carroll
"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, Uttered or unexpressed."
TO Latter-day Saints, perhaps more than to most people, praying is a very significant part of their creed. We believe in the formal prayer. We have been exhorted to attend to our prayers as individuals, night and morning, and instructed, as heads of families, to call our children together at the opening and the close of each day to engage in family prayers. We open and close our religious services with prayer, and, what seems strange to some people not of our faith, we pray at the beginning and end of all formal gatherings, such as educational meetings, entertainments, and dances. We are a praying people, in this restricted sense of the term, but even more in its broader meaning.
To most of us, prayer is more than kneeling down and going through the set form of thanking God for his past blessings and supplicating him for a continuation of his protection and guidance. True, this form of prayer has its place. Even though it may become stereotyped and little more than a form it has its benefits. Some people who go so far as to deny the existence of God believe there is good to be gained in addressing, as in prayer, some superhuman force which they do not attempt to define. One such man testifies that prayer gives him the proper attitude with which to face his work each day; it contributes to his success and happiness. Ella Wheeler Wilcox in one of her poems says:
"I do not undertake to say That literal answers come from heaven: But I know this, that when I pray A comfort, a support is given."
BUT upon that other phase of prayer, prayer in its larger sense. Much might also be said and written. There come times in the lives of many of us when it seems impossible to kneel down and address our Creator in words. Perhaps the very attempt would make us recoil, for the time, in bitterness because of disappointment and sorrow; because perhaps we have recently knelt and prayed for something, dearer than life itself, and our prayers seemed of no avail. At such times we cannot sense what perhaps we may later come to understand, or what we may never understand in this life—that there may have been some reason why our prayers could or should not be answered. But just because we cannot kneel down and utter words is no reason why we cannot pray if we accept this broader meaning of the word.
"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, Uttered or unexpressed; The motion of a hidden fire That trembles in the breast."
I feel that I am praying when I am thrilled with feelings of thanksgiving, or aspiration, or reverence as I look at a beautiful landscape, or a great work of art, or when I read a literary masterpiece or listen to great music. The prayer may be a desire to live more fully or nobly, or a desire to achieve; it may be a "motion of the fire" of a new thought or of a glimpse of some hitherto unrealized beauty.
I feel that I am praying when I express, even though not with the satisfaction of completeness in beauty, some emotion within myself. To write down those sincere desires, or "stirrings of hidden fires" is a form of prayer, or to respond to such expressions recorded by others. Often, if I cannot express what I feel, I can find someone else who has said what I would say, and to read those prayers of others, gives uplift to my soul, the strength which I need, which is the purpose of prayer.
ONCE when I felt the need to pray, and could not do it in the formal way, I read each night and morning for a time this little prayer of William De Witt Hyde's and tried to think how it could help in my life.
"Give me clean hands Clean words, clean thoughts. Help me to stand for the hard right Against the easy wrong. Save me from habits that harm. Teach me to work as hard And play as fair in thy sight alone As if the whole world saw. Forgive me when I am unkind And help me to forgive Those who are unkind to me. Keep me ready to help others At some cost to myself. Send me chances to do A little good every day So I may grow more like Christ."
I like this prayer because it is practical. It has seven distinct supplications—one for each day of the week. If I consciously try to make that prayer come true for me each week I cannot help being a better person.
"Give me clean hands Clean words, clean thoughts."
Perhaps it is not difficult for us to keep our hands and our words clean. The conventions of society and the inhibitions of law help us to do that. But are we always as careful with our thoughts? Because they are concealed from others we may need to exercise greater strength to keep them clean. I once heard the late Dr. George H. Brimhall relate a personal experience of a struggle in the matter of clean thinking. He said that once when he was a boy he camped out one night with a group of older men. During the evening as they sat around the fire one of the men told an obscene story. President Brimhall stated that for a long while after this, every time he would come in sight of that camp-ground, the evil story would come to his mind. He determined to blot it from his memory, but found it a difficult task. Finally, however, by a sheer act of will, he made himself think of the great deeds of some noble character whenever he was passing that place, and so substituted good for evil in his thinking. "Help me to stand for the hard right Against the easy wrong." Too often we are tempted to do what the crowd does even though it may be against our principles or against the teachings of our church. We sometimes have a false idea of what it means to be a good sport. This is particularly a temptation facing the young people of today; the "easy wrong" is often made so much more attractive than the "hard right." "Save me from habits that harm." Too often we think of habits as only including physical and moral - behavior. I may have harmful mental habits which keep me from my highest achievement. For instance, I may have the habit of wasting precious time in fruitless day-dream- PRACTICAL PRAYING ing instead of utilizing it in working to make my dreams come true. I may have the habit of rationalizing, of refusing to face facts and to think through the problems which confront me. I may be guilty of mental compromises which destroy the most precious thing I can possess, my intellectual integrity. "Teach me to work as hard and play as fair In thy sight alone As if the whole world saw." It is so much easier to work hard if we know the boss, or some one who can reward or advance us, is watching, than to do our best just because we cannot be satisfied with anything less. "Forgive me when I am unkind, And help me to forgive Those who are unkind to me." To hold grudges is one of the most harmful things I can do to my own personality. It warps my vision; shrinks my soul. To forgive to the point of forgetting is not easy, but it is one of the great achievements in character building. "Keep me ready to help others At some cost to myself." We find it easy to help those whom we think can help us. But suppose by helping others we must make 117 some sacrifice in money, social prestige, pride? We do need help to be strong enough to do that! At one time I lived at the International House where students from all over the world lived as equals. I felt sure that I had little race prejudice, but when a girl arrived from West Africa, and I realized how much she needed a friend to help her make necessary adjustments, I had to keep repeating that part of this little prayer over when I sat with her at the table, walked down the street with her, and met friends who couldn't understand what I was trying to do. "Send me chances to do a little good every day." We don't need to pray for chances. They are here all about us, waiting to be seen and embraced. My chance today may be to help a homesick little girl from West Africa to feel that America is the land of democracy and opportunity she and her parents dreamed it to be. Yours may be to comfort a little child, or cheer an old person, or give confidence to a discouraged husband, or a word of encouragement to a weary neighbor. Our chance may be, in a time of general depression and doubt, merely to keep smiling and looking ahead hopefully and with courage—constantly alert for new ways to pray. 999 PRAYER By Claire S. Boyer Thy Light Divine O let it shine Through me. That I may give That I may live Eternally! Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon FEBRUARY—Mark the "footprints on the sands of time." Not every one can be great, but all may be truthful and honest. ERTHA TRUESSEL—Switzerland's most prominent social worker, who died recently, was for 22 years President of the SwissGerman Woman's Relief Society. She was also Head of the Training School for Domestic Teachers in Bern, and founder of the "Holiday Hostel for Mother and Child" at Waldstatt. NNI DIESEN is the first Norwegian woman to obtain the university degree of Master of Political Economy. She holds an important post in the Department of Agriculture. CECILIA (CISSY) LOFTUS is pronounced by the critics the "Empress" in her field of mimicry as she runs the gamut of dramatic art and visualizes such stars as Ethel Barrymore, Sarah Bernhardt, Fanny Brice, Jeanne Engels, Harry Lauder and others. PRINCESS CANTACUZENE, President of Rumanian Council of Women, has been made Grand Officer of the Order of the Crown by the King of Belgium for services toward the "Liege Memorial." CORNELIA OTIS SKINNER established the one-woman theatre on Broadway in December to an enthusiastic audience when she presented her own dramatization of "Edna, His Wife" and played not only Edna but all eight parts. Her only assistant was an orchestra playing off stage. (GOETA LJUNGBERG, dramatic soprano of the Metropolitan Opera, has had a meteoric career. At 16 she entered the Academy of Singing in Stockholm. In two years she was singing the leading role in Tannhauser in the Royal Opera. Her fame spread from there to England, thence to Germany, and then America. MARY MAUGHAN HOWELL, of Utah, a gracious and queenly woman died this winter. A daughter of pioneers, her life was rich with exceptional experiences. HOLLY DALE, of Utah, is the author of an attractive novelette, "White Heather," story of a Scotch girl emigrant, charmingly told. DEAN MICKEL BECK, of Utah, has had a poem accepted for the Crown Anthology of Verse for 1938, and Elizabeth McGinley, of Ogden, has issued a volume of light verse. SARAH ANN KEDDINGTON, who died this winter, was a remarkable mother, with many gifts. At the Relief Society Conference in October she came with her eleven sons and daughters and sang two sacred songs. DEANNA DURBIN made the grade to stardom of the glamor ladies, as she emerged from the age of child prodigies. She reminds one somewhat of Elizabeth Bergener. AMY BROWN LYMAN, resident in London temporarily, shows her interest in "Happenings" by occasional items about women in foreign lands. Slogan Contest T the Oct., 1937, Conference, Relief Society marked out a goal—a goal that is more than a dream; a goal that we all enthusiastically but seriously expect to attain—— ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND ACTIVE RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS BY 1942 This important expansion program is being launched with the sincere hope that Relief Society shall better succeed in the fulfillment of its original responsibility—'"to elevate and enlarge the scope of women's activities and conditions; to foster love of religion, education, culture and refinement"—in all, to build the whole soul. Roger Babson has said, in effect, that science and industry have made such strides as to make the vital need of today a spiritual catching up to bring about a wholesome balance. He has said, "America will soon be swept by a great spiritual awakening. Nothing can stop it." Relief Society can be a real strength, a vital power, in effecting such a balance in the life of every woman actively influenced by Relief Society. To increase our membership, to strengthen individual members, means ultimately to enlarge and strengthen the whole spiritual structure. Looking back to March 17, 1842, the birth of the Relief Society organization, we see the Prophet Joseph Smith as an inspired architect who visualized a great and important structure. He firmly set the "Corner Stone." Faithful, intelligent women carried forward the work and laid a strong foundation. Through the years, with consistent labor, block after block of the "Superstructure" has been erected. OUR ambition now is to complete within this period of one hundred years (1842-1942) a living monument, worthy of the Prophet's original conception. We propose by the addition of approximately 26,000 choice stones (active members) to round into shape this great monument which we shall name "THE CENTENNIAL ARCH.' Its broad span shall encompass friendly service and cultural growth, and shall be capped with the "Keystone" of. Spiritual joy. Already expressions from many stakes, indicating a readiness for action, brings the response, "ALL RIGHT—LET'S GO!" The initial work must be done at once and by you. It is to be launched as a slogan contest. RULES OF THE "SLOGAN CONTEST".1. The Slogan must be appropriate to the theme—''Building the Centennial Arch." 2. Only one entry may be sent in from each person. One entry may be sent from an organization (Stake or Ward). 3. Entries must be in the hands of the General Committee by March 1, 1938. 4. Slogans should be catchy. A prize of ten dollars will be awarded to the winner. Shall we make the dream come true? Then—"'Be a Builder'! Short and Notes to FPROM many individual members, from Missions, Stakes and Ward organizations, beautiful and appropriate greetings came-to the Presidency and General Board of Relief Society. These expressive messages brought more than the compliments of the season—they were a tangible evidence of the fact that we hold a place in the hearts of our co-workers. They were an assurance of the love and encouragement we hold for each other in this great Relief Society organization. Will each sister individually please accept acknowledgment and hearty thanks for the kind wishes expressed! It is the feeling of kindred ideals, and the spirit of whole-hearted cooperation from far and wide, which make Relief Society the great power which it is for good. May our Heavenly Father unite and guide us throughout this year! Theology Department (Lesson 8) READ deeply and ponder the revealed word of the Lord, relative to His Second Coming, especially the 39th chapter of The Way to Perfection. This is a comprehensive and inclusive statement on the subject. The book was used as a text for 1937 class work in ward Genealogical Societies, hence is available in every ward of the Church. Those who whole-heartedly accept the revealed plan, as given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and who have faith in the scriptures, and who observe the standards of the Church in their own lives, are looking forward confidently and unwaveringly to the Second Coming of our Lord and Savior. While they so live they will never be deceived by false teachers who come amongst them, nor by the false doctrines that they teach. The Field Work and Business Department I is possible to save from one-third to one-half, and even more at times, on the cost of boys' blouses and shirts, girls' dresses, house dresses and aprons, if they are made at home. The initial saving is not the only desirable feature of homeconstructed over factory-made wearing apparel. What a little while it takes to collect a paper carton or storage drawer of neat rolls of leftovers, large pieces and scraps, from the garments one has made! Rents and holes frequently appear in children's clothes often when they are quite new. A scrap of material out of which the garment is made will provide a patch, which, if properly applied, will make the garment almost as good as new, and it may wear as long again. This is not always so with the ready-to-wear. Often the best one can do is to use a seam to sew up a slit or catch the edges of the tear or hole together, which draws the article out of shape and produces a strained condition resulting in another hole very soon. When the blouse, dress or apron is worn out, and there is no more need for pieces for mending, what gay, colorful pieced blocks for quilts may be made from them. Or perchance, a little daughter's heart may be made glad with a variety of pieces of cloth from which to fashion those first doll dresses her little heart desires to sew! Social Service Department SPECIAL attention is called to the excellent circular published by the Improvement and Beautification NOTES TO Committee of the Church Security Program, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, January, 1938. The Relief Society has a very definite place in Church beautification, and every Ward President should THE FIELD 121 receive one of the programs, which from beginning to end, is full of interesting material, and is a source of enrichment for the lesson, "Spiritual Qualities in the Church Beautification Program." Magazine Drive WE are in receipt of letters expressing the disappointment of some of our wards in not being listed on the Honor Roll. In most instances this was because the reports reached our office too late for publication, or did not reach us at all. In a few cases, discrepancies in enrollment figures changed the percentage. From the leaflet, "Instructions to Magazine Agents,' under the section "Reports" we quote: "It is the obligation of the Stake Magazine Agent to send in a complete report of her stake and have it reach the general office by November 10, 1937." We most sincerely regret that some wards obtaining percentages entitling them to a place on the Honor Roll were not listed because reports were not received in time for publication. We regard the work of Magazine Agents as a valuable service to the Relief Society organization and are anxious to recognize this service in every possible way. No further reports, however, will be printed until the close of the 1938 drive. We extend to our faithful Magazine Agents sincere thanks and good wishes for continued success in the work they are doing. In publishing the reports of the following wards we have been advised that errors were made in the names of Agents: Ward Stake Magazine Agent Baker Union Mrs. Leo Shurtliff Duchesne Duchesne Minnie Wheeler Pocatello 5th Pocatello Jean Henderson AN error was made in publishing the report of the Oakley Second Ward, Cassia Stake, as one of the ten wards obtaining the highest percentage of subscriptions. The error was due to no report being received in this office on the combining of the Oakley Fourth and Second Wards. The percentage was figured on the basis of the enrollment of the Oakley Second Ward only. "THE percentage secured by the Elko Ward, Nevada Stake, entitles this ward to a place among the ten wards obtaining the highest percentage on the Honor Roll. Sister Claris Cameron, the Magazine Agent, will receive the award of a bound volume. This ward secured a percentage of 200. 1937 INDEX "THE 1937 index is now ready. Those desiring their magazines bound through this office may have cloth binding, including index, for $1.50 and leather binding, including index, for $2.00. The price of the index is, single copy, mailed 10c; 3 copies, mailed 25c; when bought at office the copies are 5c each. Notes from the Field By Julia A. PF, Lund—General Secretary Nevada Stake CONGRATULATIONS go to the Nevada Stake for the enthusiasm and efficiency with which the Magazine Subscription Campaign and all phases of Relief Society work are carried on through all their wards. Attention is called to the fine cook-book of Tested Recipes, recently issued. "We live not upon what we eat, but what we digest," is the inrtoductory statement. Abbreviations and Table of Weights and Measures appear on the opening page. This is followed by Household Hints, which are most practical and helpful. Recipes, from bread to candy which have been tested and found to be economical, healthful and delicious, are included. Well balanced meals may be assembled from the wide range of foods suggested. There is information not only about what is good to eat, but how to prepare it. The little book is most attractively bound and printed upon stiff, heavy sheets, which lie open conveniently at any point. It is a most useful book and a commentable achievement. Oahu Stake ig gives us great pleasure to print the following report of our Hawaiian Stake, Oahu. The information is supplied by Sister LaPriel G. Hyer: "T am enclosing a picture of the Oahu Stake Relief Society taken at Kalihi, March 17, 1937, immediately after the dramatization of the 'Original Organization of the Relief Society at Nauvoo.' I was asked by President Eliza Salm and Sister Cummings to present the play with a cast of hoale (or white sisters) for the benefit of the native sisters. The ladies were dignified replicas of the eighteen charter members. "The Oahu Stake has some of the OAHU STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY NOTES FROM THE FIELD most wonderful women it has been my pleasure to meet. Its Relief Society President, Sister Salm, with her gifted board members, directs the work in an intelligent and inspiring way. The teachers' work is handled by sisters who can present the message either in English or Hawaiian, and where they find no one at home, they leave a written message. The Relief Society sisters are contributing dainty hand-made pieces of lahala to raise funds for the new L. D. S. Chapel to be built in Honolulu. North Davis Stake ERY fine reports continue to come to the office about the extensive work of women in Church Security. The pictures give some idea of the work done in food conservation, and the preparation of articles of clothing, as well as of quilts made and blankets assembled in the North Davis Stake. It was quite impossible to display, even to list, all the articles prepared by the Relief 123 Society and Y. W. M. I. A., who cooperated in this fine work. Ensign Stake NE of the beautiful characters we have the opportunity of occasionally meeting is Sister Lulu Greene Richards, the first Editor of the Woman's Exponent. She is still interested and active in Relief Society work, and we are indebted to her for the following account of a delightful meeting in the Twentieth Ward: "On the evening of Thursday, December 2, 1937, in the Twentieth Ward Chapel, Salt Lake City, a remarkably fine 'Artist's Program,' under the auspices of the Relief Society, was given. The entire program was educational and inspirational to an unusual degree, showing high talent in our home composers, musicians, singers and readers. Each number seemed especially adapted to its appointed place on the program. "If any portion might be considered the 'real gem' of the occasion, it would doubtless be the anthem CLOTHING AND BEDDING, NORTH DAVIS STAKE 124 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FOOD CONSERVATION, NORTH DAVIS STAKE entitled 'Ruth,' the sacred words of which are from the Bible, and the soul-stirring music the composition of our own talented Luacine Clark Fox. This anthem was sung by another of our home girls, one of our sweet singers, Elizabeth S. Cushing. Anyone who feels interested in the anthem and has no opportunity of hearing it sung, may -find satisfaction, to some extent, by reading the short book of 'Ruth' in the Old Testament. "An excellent part of the splendid program described above is that it was a free-will offering to aid the Relief Society in its ever-increasing efforts to strengthen and assist in carrying on the noble work of the Church Security Plan." Idaho Stake HE fine work accomplished in the stake was a result of careful planning. Early in the spring the Stake Board made plans for a Stake Bazaar, Art Exhibit and Flower Show. Word was sent to each ward in time for the spring planting of flowers. The bazaar was held in late August. The Stake Committee on Flowers used mirrors, rocks and shrubs to make a rock garden as a background for the flowers. The response from the wards was most gratifying, and a gorgeous array created. Each ward sent art work to the Stake Committee, where it was judged and classified for exhibition. This covered one entire side of the large hall. Each ward had a booth of its own, from which the articles were sold and the proceeds returned to the ward societies. The stake reserved the sale of cooked foods for its own booth. The wards donated liberally to this, and a very tidy sum was realized. The Ward Conferences during the year have been very interesting, and among the outstanding numbers was a talk by a member of the Priesthood on "The Value of a Relief Society Mother in the Community." Another project, in which all united, was the binding of the Relief Society Magazine. This was a most popular, activity, and one in which all the wards participated. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS President First Counselor: - - Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Nettie D. Bradford Ida P. Beal Marcia K. Howells LOUISE YATES ROBISON - AMY BROWN LYMAN - KATE M. BARKER - JULIA A. F. LUND Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Jennie B, Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Emeline Y. Nebeker Tanet M. Thompson Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine Belle S. Spafford Nellie O. Parker Editor Manager - - Assistant Manager RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Belle S. Spafford Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vout. XXV FEBRUARY, 1938 No. 2 Editorials New Editor "THERE appeared in the June, 1935, issue of the Relief Society Magazine, a sketch of a new General Board member. This article gave a brief review of the life of a worthy young woman, and enumerated the various qualifications which fitted her so ably for the important position to which she was called. The fine prognosis of a little more than two years ago, has been more than realized. Unusual native ability, developed through thorough preparation, rare scholarship and unfailing faith in the Gospel, a willingness to serve, and a sympathetic understanding of the scope of Relief Society, make of Belle Smith Spafford a most valuable addition to the General Board, and especially qualify her for her new duties as Editor of the Relief Society Magazine. We have been most fortunate in the splendid service rendered by our Editors in the past. They have all been women of outstanding ability, to whom we acknowledge a lasting debt of gratitude. Our new Editor assumes her duties well equipped to carry this responsible work forward in its mission of enlightenment to the women of the Church. May they continue to give to her the same fine cooperation which was never wanting in the past. GENERAL PRESIDENCY OF RELIEF SOCIETY. Leadership Week THE seventeenth annual Leadership Week held January 24 to 28 inclusive once more drew to the Brigham Young University scores of Church leaders. More than 200 lectures, demonstrations, and entertainments were presented, free of charge, to all who would avail themselves of this important instruction. The Leadership Week is an adult education project designed to increase the effectiveness of LatterMotto—Charity Never Faileth; 126 day Saint leaders by giving them opportunity to obtain the best in learning as well as to enjoy the spiritual influence of outstanding men and women. Wise and intelligent leaders are essential in the Church. It is not sufficient to give time only in the particular field in which service is being rendered, but all possible education and training must be included. Education is a part of the religion of the Latter-day Saints. President Brigham Young has said, "The Father does not add to that which we do not improve upon, but we are continually required to improve upon the knowledge we already possess, and thus obtain a store of wisdom." This is the method by which we are able to make the richest contributions to the Church. The theme of Leadership Week, "The Security of Zion," is the goal for which all Latter-day Saints are striving. Social, economic and spirRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE itual security are essential to the well-being of man. The Relief Society has been entrusted by the Prophet Joseph Smith with definite responsibilities in the security of Zion. It is for us to foster love of religion, love of education, culture and refinement, to strengthen community virtues and to manifest benevolence. These trusts were ably discussed and guidance given during the week by General Board members as well as by guest speakers. The University was most gracious in programming special lectures to assist us in the Theology and Work and Business Departments. The Relief Society appreciates the opportunity afforded by the Brigham Young University to participate in this important program as well as the opportunity provided us to receive leadership training through the widely varied lectures and activities. Book Notice BROTHERHOOD True Charity will never scorn A weaker soul to trials born; Oft spotless records have been made Because temptation never laid Its fingerprints on every page From helpless youth to hopeless age. Christ taught mankind to seek the good That's found in human brotherhood, Wherein abideth Faith, or Trust, And Hope which lifts us from the dust, Love's Tolerance with Charity— The noblest virtue of the three. HE above verse is taken from the poem "Brotherhood and the Graces" published in a book of delightful verse entitled Forced Landings by Noble Warrum, Sr., editorial writer on the Salt Lake Tribune. The collection is dedicated to his wife, Josephine Grissom Warrum. Many of the verses exude a keen sense of humor, a subtle wit. They show Mr. Warrum to be a man of experience with a profound understanding of human nature. The themes vary, the author drawing often upon the Bible. We commend the book to you for delightful and profitable reading. Forced Landings may be obtained from all book stores. Price $2.00 per copy. COO Message From Lady Aberdeen FROM the December issue of Bulletin, the monthly publication of the International Council of Women, comes the following message from Lady Ishbel Aberdeen. Lady Aberdeen is a former President of the "Council" and now in her eighties. I HAVE heard of such a delightful story of a scheme which is being carried out to celebrate peace and good will between nations, that I must pass it on to you as a Christmas message which will come to cheer you in these dark days of wars and rumors of war which are disturbing the whole world. "More than one hundred years ago, the United States of America and Canada shook hands across their borders and agreed to be good friends. "Since that time there has ever been peace between the two countries. "Not a warship has sailed the great lakes which form part of that frontier. Not a fort has been built along the three thousand miles of border land. "The treaty between the two countries said that there were to be no warships on the great lakes, and that the land boundary was to have no fortress, nor soldiers, nor guns. "And then came the beautiful idea of forming an International Peace Garden to illustrate the good will of the peoples on both sides of the boundaries for each other. "The governments of the two countries took up the idea and gave grants towards the cost of forming the Peace Garden, and the provinces of North Dakota and Manitoba, situated on either side of the middle of the continent, agreed to each dedicate some land for the lovely purpose, and set apart some 2,200 acres in the Turtle Mountains. "When the Garden is finished, it 'will be a great Park. Roads and paths are being constructed. Two lakes, one on each side of the border, have been created. Central buildings and a great amphitheatre which will seat several thousands of persons are being erected, and now the whole district is known as 'The Garden of the Good Neighbour.'... "At first only the two countries concerned engaged in the work of creating this Garden, but other countries heard of the scheme, and are now beginning to send gifts toit.... "There is a Cairn in the Garden formed of glacial boulders which bears this inscription: "*To God in His Glory we two nations dedicate this Garden and pledge ourselves that as long as men shall live we will not take up arms against each other.' "T trust that before many years are past you, dear friends of many lands, may be called upon to send gifts to many such Peace Gardens on frontiers now guarded by fortresses. "Let us each and all do. All in our power to hasten the realization of this great ideal for the World's Peace and Happiness, for which our beloved Council has been working for sO many years." ig was the privilege of President Louise Y. Robison to attend the ' conference of the International Council of Women held in Paris in 1934, and to work on the Equal Moral Standards Committee. At that time President Robison enjoyed intimate contact with Lady Aberdeen and endorses, most sincerely, her plea and that of the Council, for women to do all in their power to hasten the realization of the great ideal of World Peace. Music Department E are happy to acknowledge the receipt of many interesting letters from Stake Choristers and others regarding participation in the musical program of the Relief Society General Conference, to be held April Ist and 2nd, 1938. We also appreciate the inquiries that have been sent in asking for help in phrasing, tempos, etc. Because of the importance of these inquiries, it has been deemed advisable to publish some of the questions asked—also the replies—in order that all may have the same understanding of such details. Some of the questions asked are as follows: Ques. In the song, "Crossing The Bar," would it be permissible to breathe after the word "asleep"? Ans. Yes, because the point of punctuation follows the word "asleep." Ques. In the song, "How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings," how may the long phrases be taken care of? Ans. Individual breathing may be used successfully for this number. Ques. Please give Tempo for "How Lovely are the Messengers." Ans. Andante con moto (eighth note=132) (slow, but with a little motion). Ques. What are the requirements for joining the Singing Mothers' Chorus? Ans. Memorization of the following selections (as published in the November issue of the Relief Society Magazine) according to tempo, intonation, phrasing, enunciation and pronunciation: 'How Lovely Are the Messengers" Mendelssohn Andante con moto (eighth note =132 (slow, but with a little motion) "Crossing the Bar''.... Barnby-Asper Andante (a slow movement; quiet, peaceful tempo) "The 23rd Psalm"............ Schubert Adagio non troppo (slowly— not too much) "Holy Redeemer"............ Marchetti Andante (slow—in a smooth, dignified, singing style) "The Lord's Prayer".. Forsyth-Dews Largamente (broadly, slowly, with dignity) "How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings, O Lord" ou... Rheinberger Moderato (quarter note—80) (In moderate tempo) "Inflammatus" Chorus only.. Rossini Andante maestoso (quarter note) (slow, majestic, with dignity) ' Phrases—Technically, an incomplete musical sentence. Phrasing—Is the art of dividing a melody into groups of connected sounds so as to bring out its greatest musical effect. With phrases, long or short, the breath must be taken and controlled. With a long phrase, the individual singers, by taking short natural breaths, may be supplied with fresh air and the tone kept singing so as to make the chord or phrase hold over to its logical end. But, as no two singers will take a breath in precisely the same place, breathing must also occur at natural places of punctuation to conform with the chorus phrasing. Inquiries have been received concerning blouses and skirts. May we again call your attention to the article in the November magazine. On page 704 of that issue you will find detailed instructions covering meas- MUSIC DEPARTMENT urements of blouse, materials to be used, etc. If further information is desired please do not hesitate to ask for it. We welcome these inquiries. The uniform dress of the Singing Mothers consists of a white blouse and a tailored skirt of very dark material—black preferred. Skirt to be of average length—not too short. If unable to purchase gold buttons (such as those recommended for the blouse) in your own community, arrangements have been made with the F. W. Woolworth Company, 223 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, to take care of any order you send to them. Inasmuch as April lst and 2nd have been designated as the days for holding the Relief Society Confer- 129 ence, it is desired that all groups of Singing Mothers assemble for the first rehearsal at 9:30 a. M., March 31, 1938, in the Assembly Hall. At that time Mrs. Charlotte O. Sackett will give further instructions as to the time of holding part rehearsals. These will be held in the Tabernacle. Two days of intensive drilling will be necessary. We are looking forward to seeing you at that time. If there are any stakes that have not notified the office of their intention to join this Chorus, please write immediately as it will help materially in completing arrangements in Salt Lake. Please refer to magazine each month as definite information will be given pertaining to tone, intonation, and memorization. THE CURRENT OF LIFE By Celia A. Van Cott Rippling and flashing the silvery brook Rambles along in the sun Through clover bloom to the deepening stream Where the turbulent waters run. The river rolls to the surging sea Where the heaving breakers roar And crash in frothing flakes of foam On the sands of the rugged shore. Swiftly swirling the ebbing tide Carries us far out to sea To a haven of rest on the ocean's breast The peace of eternity. Lesson Department Theology and Testimony Lesson 8 THE SECOND ADVENT OF THE MESSIAH Helpful References In the Bible: Psalms 50:3-5; Isaiah 35:4; 40: 10; Joel 2:28-32; 3:15-17; Zechariah 4:3-5; Malachi 3:1-3; Matthew 16:27; 24:3-6, 14, 29-30, 36- 40; 25:31-32; Luke 21:10-17; Acts.1:9-11; 3:19-21; 1 Thessalonians 4:14-17; 2 Thessalonians 1:7-10; 2:1-5. In the Book of Mormon: 3 Nephi 26:3; 28:7; 29:2. In the Doctrine and Covenants: 29:9-21; 33:17-18; 34:6-9; 35: 15-18; 45:37-57; 64: 23-24; 65: 3-5; 88:87-99; 101:23-35; 110: 14-16; 128:24; 130:1, 14-17; 133. In the Pearl of Great Price: Moses 7:59-67. See also An Extract from a Translation of the Bible. Smith, The Way To Perfection, chapter 39. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, chapter 42. 1. The Church Proclaims the Doctrine of the Second Advent.—A lesson on the teachings of the Christ respecting His Second Advent is timely. A cursory examination of the history of our Church makes plain the fact that the Prophet Joseph Smith expressly taught the doctrine of the Second Coming. Clearly he meant that Christ was to come in the relatively near future. He testifies plainly that heavenly messengers had so informed him. The revelations of the Lord to the Church seem to indicate that we cannot work too hard in making preparations for, and in warning the world of, the Christ's coming in glory. 2. Modern Disbelief in the Doctrine of the Second Advent.—Latterday Saints do well to notice the unfortunate but growing tendency among men to disbelieve in the Second Coming of the Christ. It is part of our work to make careful observation of conditions in the world and to adjust our preaching to meet them. Dr. Klausner, the great Jewish scholar, speaks of the Second Coming of the Savior as follows: "According to this idea, the Messiah must suffer and die, but he would in the end rise again and, this second time, appear in glory and establish the kingdom of heaven. To make this idea appear true the disciples stole the body of Jesus and hid it; after fifty days—by which time the body must have become unrecognizable even if found, they spread the rumor that he was risen from the dead and that he had shown himself alive to them. Thenceforward they awaited his Second Coming (Parousia), when he should establish his kingdom, the everlasting kingdom of heaven. And this Coming, rather than the ethical teaching of Jesus, became the fundamental hope and basis of early Christianity. All at first believed in his speedy coming; but when there seemed no prospect of an early coming they allocated it to a later age, to the close of a thousand years (the Millennium)." Those who disbelieve in the Lord's Coming point out that such doctrine LESSON DEPARTMENT is nothing but a carry over from the beliefs of an earlier age when it failed of accomplishment and was accordingly put off for fulfillment at a much later time. To believe in it now, in the light of historical research, they say, is to exercise credulity rather than faith. We believe that scholars and intelligent laymen alike, in many instances, have been misled in their belief. Their sincerity we do not question. Not having a sufficient understanding of the principles of the Gospel, they have jumped at erroneous conclusions. 3. The Ancient Prophets Understood the Doctrine of the Second Advent.—The Church teaches that the Gospel was in the world from the beginning, and that the coming of the Christ in the flesh was foreseen; His death and resurrection were predicted long before His advent in the flesh. Likewise, prophets and seers foresaw that His Second Advent in glory would take place long after His death and resurrection. Thus, Enoch, who lived centuries before the Christ's earthly advent saw in vision His Second Coming, as related in the Pearl of Great Price. ''And it came to pass that Enoch saw the day of the coming of the Son of Man, in the last days, to dwell on the earth in righteousness for the space of a thousand years." (Moses 7:65; read carefully Moses 7:59-67). The Old Testament prophets understood the true teaching respecting the coming of the Messiah in glory. Joel the Prophet expressly refers to it in Chapter 2:28-32. The Prophet Joseph Smith relates that Moroni made reference to this prophecy when he appeared to him September 21, 1823. "He also quoted the second chapter of Joel, from the twenty-eighth verse to the last. He also said that this 131 was not yet fulfilled, but was soon to be." (Paragraph 41, Extracts From The History of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, Pearl of Great Price). Since Joel speaks of "the terrible day of the Lord," he can scarcely have had reference to anything but the Second Coming. Malachi certainly had reference to it in his prophecy. (See Malachi 3:1-3 and compare Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 128:24). Numerous other Old Testament references can be cited. (See references at beginning). 4. The Jews of Christ's Time Misunderstood Prophetic References to the Second Advent—Unfortunately, the people of the Jewish nation at Christ's time had generally misunderstood the teachings of the prophets in reference to the Second Coming. Doubtless this was due to the fact that the nation had been taught too long by an uninspired or apostate priesthood. At any rate the Jews were awaiting a Messiah who was to come in power and rescue them from their enemies. Little did they suspect that many of the teachings they read in the prophetic books had reference to what we know as the Second Coming. The fact that the Christ was first to come into the world as a humble child had been practically forgotten. 5. The Savior Taught His Apostles the True Doctrine of His Second Coming—It became necessary for the Savior to carefully explain to His apostles the true doctrine respecting His Second Advent. Shortly before He took Peter, James and John on the Mount of Transfiguration He said, '""For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels; and then he shall reward every man according to his works. Verily I say unto you, There shall be some standing here, which shall not taste of death, till they see 132 the Son of man coming in his Kingdom." Matthew 16:27-28). That John explicitly understood this teaching is made clear, by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in a remarkable revelation that consists of a translated version of the record made on parchment by John and hidden up by himself. "And the Lord said unto me: John, my beloved, what desirest thou? For if you shall ask what you will, it shall be granted unto you. And I said unto him: Lord, give unto me power over death, that I may live and bring souls unto thee. And the Lord said unto me: Verily, verily, I say unto thee, because thou desirest this thou shalt tarry until I come in my glory, and shalt prophesy before nations, kindreds, tongues and people. And for this cause the Lord said unto Peter: If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee?" (Doctrine and Covenants 7: 1-4; compare John 21:20-23). There can scarcely be any mistake that the apostles in the Primitive Church became clearly acquainted with the true doctrine of Christ's Second Coming. If there is any doubt on this point, the Prophet Joseph Smith banished it when he revised by the spirit of revelation the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew, commencing with the last verse of the Twenty-third chapter, King James' Version. Part of this scripture refers to the coming destruction of the temple and the troubles of the Jews; those parts dealing with the Second Coming are easily picked out. "Then understood his disciples that he should come again on the earth, after that he was glorified and crowned on the right hand of God.... But of that day, and hour, no one knoweth; no, not the angels of God in heaven, but my Father only. But as it was in the days of Noah, so it shall be also at the coming of the Son of Man; for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE it shall be with them, as it was in the days which were before the flood; for until the day that Noah entered into the ark they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage; and knew not until the flood came, and took them all away; so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be." (Pearl of Great Price, An Extract from a Translation of the Bible, 1:40-43; see also Matthew 24:3-6, 14, 29-30). 6. Some Members of the Primtive Church Clung to Belief in the Quick Return of Christ—However, in spite of the clear understanding of the doctrine on the part of the apostles, many lay members of the Primitive Church still retained the mistaken impression that the Christ was soon to come again. This is borne out by the fact that the Apostle Paul had to write a letter to the Thessalonians expressly correcting their notions respecting the quick return of the Christ. (2 Thessalonians 2:1-3) In spite of Paul's clear instruction when he was with them, they misunderstood. (2 Thessalonians 2:5) It is likely that at the present time many people misunderstand the doctrine, either because of partially corrupted texts of the Bible, or because some of the New Testament writers, who clearly understood the teaching themselves, have not made themselves sufficiently clear in writing about it. In this dispensation the Lord has left no doubt in the minds of those who have His Spirit, that His coming is nigh, even at the door. Questions 1. How do you account for the great indifference of the world today to many sublime truths of the gospel? 2. Can you see wisdom in the LESSON DEPARTMENT Lord's refusal to make known the exact time of His Second Advent? 3. How would you answer those who say a correct understanding of the doctrine of the Second Advent can make no difference in our lives one way or another? Problems Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit. 1. Carefully study the Book of Mormon teaching respecting the Second Coming and summarize your findings. 133 2. Summarize the distinctive contributions of the Doctrine and Covenants to our knowledge of the Second Advent. Which of these are especially hard for the world to receive? 3. Find some contributions of interest made by the Pearl of Great Price to the subject of our lesson. 4, Bring to the class some interesting authoritative statements made by various leaders of the Church that deal with the doctrine of the Second Advent. Teacher's Topic Lesson 8 THE PotrsE oF JESUS "T am the way, the truth, and the life.'—John 14:6. "Every virtue, when pushed beyond its appointed limit, becomes a vice, and every grace, when overdeveloped, becomes a defect and disfiguration." —Jefferson (C. E.). POISE is the fine balance of one's faculties, which keeps a virtue within its appointed limits. In the character of Jesus we find perfect balance. He possessed all the virtues, yet none were overgrown. One writer says: "He was enthusiastic, blazing with enthusiasm, but he never became fanatical. He was emotional; men could feel the throbbing of his heart; but he never became hysterical. He was imaginative, full of poetry and music, throwing upon everything he touched a light that never was on land or sea, the inspiration and the poet's dream—but he was never flighty: He was practical, hardheaded, matter-of-fact, but he was never prosaic, never dull. His life always had in it the glamour of romance. He was courageous, but never reckless; prudent, but never a coward; unique but not eccentric; sympathetic but never sentimental. Great streams of sympathy flowed from his tender heart toward those who needed sympathy, but at the same time streams of lava flowed from the same heart to scorch and overwhelm the workers of iniquity. He was pious, but there is not a trace about him of sanctimoniousness.... He was religious, the most profoundly religious man that ever turned his face toward God, but never once did he slip into superstition." —C. E. Jefferson. Because he was so well rounded, so well balanced, he showed in his conduct unrivaled poise. The intellectuals of his time tried to catch him, or trip him, but his answers were so wise they were vanquished. Satan tempted him to use his power for his own glory, but Jesus never 134 'did. His enemies heaped upon him all manner of abuse, but he never said anything unmanly in return. He stood in the midst of the strife and storms, which bent or swayed other men, but he remained unmoved and unmovable. Because he possessed all the higher qualities of character in such balance, he has appealed to all types of men down through the centuries. The intellectuals go to him for philosophy, for guidance; the painter, the poet, the musician, for inspiration; men who aspire to raise humanity to higher levels go to him humbly because he points the way; those in the midst of strife, those in trouble and sorrow find in him comfort and solace. He is to men today what he was to men of all centuries since he lived upon the earth, the one perfect character. Only now there is perhaps a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE greater appreciation of Him and His teachings. He is our pattern and while we can never approach him in perfection of character we can obtain a fuller and more abundant life by following as closely as possible his example. Discussion In what way can poise be developed? Have you known of anyone who changed in character through conversion to the teachings of Jesus? Give incidents from the New Testament illustrating the poise of Jesus. References New Testament. The Character of Jesus, by 'Charles Edward Jefferson. Literature Lesson 8 The ROMANCE OF AN OLD PLAYHOUSE SIXTY years after the dedication of the Salt Lake Theatre, Henry Miller, in a curtain speech on the stage of the Old Playhouse, referred to it as 'A Cathedral in the Desert.' And surely it has been as a cathedral to the people. Its doors have always been open to all parties and creeds. In the tense religious and political strife which cursed the community, more particularly in the early days, the Theatre was the one common ground upon which the questions of the hour were thrashed out. Though the place has always been controlled by the "Mormon" people, yet its use was never denied to those of different beliefs even though they were violent in their antagonisms. And so it was generally loved by all classes. This neutrality won their respect. The Theatre took on the aspect of a community home and has been so regarded ever since." The author continues: "Upon its completion the fame of the Theatre spread far and wide. Its comfortable, dignified auditorium, its appointments, stage equipment, decorative art, and marvelous acoustics— all these characteristics marked it as a playhouse of class and distinction. And it was worthy of all that was said of it, for in few cities, even the largest, could be found a playhouse so perfectly furnished. An excavator in Italy recently dug up a plan of what was considered the perfect theatre acoustically; but really to find the most perfect acoustics, they LESSON DEPARTMENT needn't have gone so far, for this feature could have been 'found in the theatre built by Brigham Young in the Rocky Mountains in 1862." Those who have had the supreme pleasure of seeing and hearing plays in the Old Playhouse will always remember its beauty as well as its acoustical properties. The writer of these lessons was young when he first began going to plays in the Salt Lake Theatre and though he was usually in the top tier of the topmost "heaven," he still remembers that he could hear and see. He also remembers going with George D. Pyper under the Old Playhouse to get a glimpse of how it was constructed. Its sturdy foundations and its stout posts of native pine logs impressed him greatly. That the theatre was not merely a cradle for the drama, but for all of the arts is indicated by Mr. Pyper in his chapter which he calls "Echoes From the Orchestra Pit." In those days, plays invariably had their music between acts and before the play started if not in the piece itself. Here again the mission fields contributed the geniuses who were needed to make the arts flourish in the desert. The first of these talented men was Professor Charles J. Thomas, who assembled an orchestra of twenty pieces at the opening of the Old Playhouse. From that time on, almost without a break, a fine orchestra could be heard whenever a play was presented. Professor Thomas was converted in 1851. Falling ill, his life was despaired of, when through the administrations of the elders he was healed. This had a profound effect upon him and his entire family. As a direct result all joined the Church and Professor Thomas came to Utah where a great work awaited him. Not only did Professor Thomas 135 lead the orchestra, he composed and arranged much of the music which was played. That his efforts were appreciated is indicated by the fact that the old bills frequently featured the music. For instance, "for 'The Charcoal Burner,' produced Saturday, January 10, 1863, the play bill announces "Beautiful new and appropriate music, composed and arranged expressly for this drama by Prof. C. J. Thomas.' " Professor Thomas was succeeded as orchestra leader by George Edward Percy Careless, also an English convert. Professor Careless is one of the great geniuses to be gathered by the Gospel net. He could have made much more money and lasting fame elsewhere, but he chose to remain with the people of his choice. Many of our best hymns were written by this man. Mr. Pyper relates many anecdotes of this gifted musician whose heart was in his work. Other men who led the orchestra are: E. Beesley, Willard Weihe, Arthur Shepherd, Fred Midgley, Squire Coop, and Arthur Freber. The first Utahn ever to write an overture was William C. Clive, a well known musician and first violinist of the orchestra. His number, "The Golden Crest," was played first in the Salt Lake Theatre. Mention has already been made of the painting. The Theatre, itself, was a challenge to the artist. It was beautifully finished in harmonious colors that made an evening in its spacious auditorium an _ event worthy of being held as a sacred memory. Its great front curtain and its drops were also inspirational to those who had the privilege of seeing a play on its stage. Naturally, it was a constant incentive to the dancer and the musician, vocal or instrumental, who looked upon an ap- 136 pearance in the Theatre as being an important step on the way toward recognition. | One of the most popular of the early-day actresses to come to the theatre was Julia Dean Hayne. Her opening performance as a member of the Potter Company occurred August 11, 1865, when she appeared in "Camille." She proved tremendously popular and remained at the Theatre for more than a year, dying soon after leaving Salt Lake City. The author has included in his book, mention of a huge sled which President Young caused to be built and named the Julia Dean. President Young's great interest in the drama and the Old Playhouse is presented no more forcibly anywhere than in the chapter where attention is called to the fact that he actually called at least a few young people on missions to act, though such calls were rarely necessary because all who had the least ability were eager, beyond measure, to play behind the footlights of the West's great Playhouse. Miss Nellie Colebrook was one of the first called to act in the Old Playhouse. The letter of call follows: "Dear Brother and Sister Colebrook: "Would you allow your daughter Nellie to act upon the stage? It would very much please me. Your Brother, Brigham Young." The author follows with this statement: "A published biographical sketch of Miss Colebrook's life describes her as a very diffident girl, but very queenly, and adds: 'How had he, the President of the Church, divined all the secret aspirations and ambitions of that reserved and shy soul! Who had heard from the sensitive lips one word of all that had burned in her heart!' To Nellie those questions RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE always remained unanswered!" Sara Alexander was another girl who was called upon a "Mission" to act. "President Young asked her one day: " 'Sara, why don't you join the company?" ""T don't want to,' she replied. "But I want you to! Said the President. And Sara complied and made an instantaneous hit." Both of these girls became unusually popular as actresses. Companies came and went. The Old Playhouse continued to be first in the hearts of the Saints who packed it whenever something good was presented. Many of the leading actors and actresses remained at the Theatre for weeks, playing different plays until they were well known -and many of them were deeply loved. President Young preferred comedies. He said: "If I had my way I would never have a tragedy played on these boards. There is enough tragedy in everyday life, and we ought to have amusement when we come here." However, he was not very dictatorial in these matters. As early as 1869 the first operas were presented in the Old Playhouse, the first company being the Howson Opera Company. Their season was from June 1 to June 19. Among the operas they presented were "II Trovatore" and the "Grand Duchess." During that year, 1869, the Old Playhouse was open 283 nights, an indication that the dramatic presentations brought to Salt Lake City were popular with the people. The coming of Maude Adams to the Old Playhouse is considered by the author a high spot in its history. He says: "As bluebirds in the spring suddenly arrive in our gardens as harbingers of happiness and good luck, Maude Adams, when only a LESSON DEPARTMENT birdling, fluttered into the theatre in the spring of its existence and became a part of its romance, bringing new faith and confidence in the wholesomeness and worthwhileness of the stage." Mr. Pyper, as all others who knew her, adored Maude Adams and looked upon her as being among the greatest of the great. In a pleasing reminiscent mood, the author wrote his chapters 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, and 23 as he traced the intimate history of the building, that he loved, and the artistic expression for which it stood. Those chapters are rich in intimate glimpses of theatre life. Suggestions for Study 1. It would be well to assign the chapter—"The Advent of Maude 137 Adams—Her Mother's Story''—to some capable person and have her give it rather in full. 2. The anecdotes concerning Brigham Young in chapter 23 could also be given rather fully. 3. Careless' and Thomas' songs could be sung to correlate with this lesson. These may be found in the "Songs of Zion" or the "Deseret Sunday School Song Book." 4. Enumerate ways in which the Old Playhouse encouraged the arts. 5. Give evidences that President Young was strongly in favor of dramatic productions. 6. Where the plays are available, excerpts from some of these first plays could be presented in class. Social Service Lesson 8 SPIRITUAL QUALITIES IN THE CHURCH BEAUTIFICATION PROGRAM IN THE Church Beautification Program there is one phase that supersedes all tangible evidence of what is grand in architecture, of what nears perfection in the art of sculpture and in painting, or of any surroundings that may be brought into a state of loveliness to enhance a building—it is the condition of spiritual beauty through which our church was organized. There is one note which should be sounded in order to sustain that kind of beauty in the hearts of those who are fortunate enough to live in an age when the beautification program can be launched—the humility of remembrance. Time has done much for the Latter-day Saints; it has given the strength and the power to project this program. But time must not be allowed to diminish the grandeur of the spirit which outshone the poignantly humble beginnings of the "Mormons" in a material way. To call this fact to the attention of the reader is the purpose of this lesson. "THE Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints came to life through beauty. The implicit faith of the lad, Joseph Smith, prompted him to seek guidance through prayer. On the morning of a clear day in spring, for the first time in his life, he sought to pray vocally. "Never before had I made such an attempt," the young boy said. But his unfaltering belief in the promise of the Scriptures resulted 138 in one of the most: beautiful visions, as well as one of the most significant, ever recorded. "I saw a pillar of light," he said, "exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me.... When the light rested upon me I saw two personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spoke unto me, calling me by name, and said, pointing to the other—This ts my beloved Son, hear him." What grander message could be given to man than that which Joseph Smith received? The Church had its inception through the direct word of the Lord at this time, for Joseph proved faithful to the heavenly trust that was then placed in him. Three years later, in a second glorious vision, the angel Moroni ap-. Peared in robes of "exquisite whiteness" and told Joseph of the restoration of the everlasting gospel. Shortly after this the angel delivered into his hands the plates of beaten'gold, upon whose surfaces were inscriptions of exceedingly fine workmanship. Although David Whitmer, Oliver Cowdery, Martin Harris and the eight witnesses were the only other human beings in this dispensation who ever saw the golden plates, every true "Mormon's" faith comes into being through this concept. In his mind the image of the vision and of the golden plates is a living thing. It is interwoven into all that is vital in his life, into everything that he holds sacred and dear. The world in general laughed the revelations to scorn, but God's message to Joseph Smith was so gloriously vital that it at once became more real than life itself in the hearts of many. Transcending, as it does, human limitations with the hope— indeed the very knowledge—of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "eternal progress, it embodies the most uplifting ideas given to man. And even as the religious beliefs are illuminated by divine truth and wisdom, they were restored to the earth under unutterably beautiful circumstances. The substance of Mormonism and the way in which it was given are so closely interwoven they are practically indivisible. But of what did the material surroundings that pertained to the physical needs of those who believed in the message consist? The contrast was so complete as to constitute an arresting difference. Most Latter-day Saints were poor during the organization period of the Church. Nearly all of those people who had been well situated gave up —or lost— their means of earning a good livelihood. Even subsistence became a problem to some who had known near luxury, their circumstances became so changed when they embraced the gospel. The experience of Daniel Spencer in 1840 is but one example of many to substantiate this fact. The journal history of the handcart company of 1856 tells how he closed his store for one week while he thought over the gospel message that he had heard in a meeting. At the close of the service the presiding missionary stepped into the aisle and said: "In the name of the Lord, is there anyone here who will give me a night's lodging?" Dead silence ensued until Daniel Spencer spoke. His words were, "I will entertain you, Sir, for humanity's sake." Instead of taking the man to the hotel as was his wont in the case of distinguished visitors in the town, he gave him a room in his own home. The week of silence followed, at the end of which time Daniel Spencer could not deny the testimony that had been born in his spirit. But LESSON DEPARTMENT acceptance was the end of his merchandising business in this location. Most Church members were forced to adjust to the humblest forms of living. Only by gathering together could they' strengthen the new religious organization sufficiently to carry out its purposes. This entailed the abandonment of homes already established, moving into new locations, and often the development of new territory. Since the missionary system had already come into being, a large proportion of what money the Latter-day Saints had was going into this channel. The result of these various conditions was to force the people into meager surroundings. Log houses, other extremely humble homes, and forts, or communal dwellings, were usually the forerunners of each new settlement. But there was one aspect in the Church organization which was most exalted, even in a material way. The House of the Lord was not to be of lowly fashion. God had revealed certain ordinances which were to be performed in a building that must be constructed and dedicated to the purpose. The grand plan of salvation for the dead, the sealing of living couples in eternal marriage as well as the bestowing of endowments, could not be consummated in any place on earth other than-one which was designed and set apart for such ordinances. Through revelation Joseph Smith realized that such a structure could be nothing less than a temple. The knowledge was part of the tidings which were given to him in the restored plan of everlasting truth. The Kirtland temple, a magnificent accomplishment for the times and condition of the people, became a reality only through manifold sacrifices. Numberless as they were, small as they seemed, they represented 139 real privation. The appeal for contributions had been made throughout the Church. Men and women in the newly organized missions of far lands gave up their tea—which was not then forbidden—to add their mite to the growing account. Some who were already cold burned less fuel; others lighted fewer candles, and some went without kerosene in behalf of the sacred building. But the temple was no sooner dedicated than it had to be abandoned; the Saints were forced to leave Kirtland. The Mormons were not altogether free from fault in the antagonisms that set their neighbors' hearts against them, but also, they were victims of terribly unjust persecution. Their migratory course unfailingly led them a little farther to the West; often the courageous group reclaimed a seemingly undesirable region. On a beautiful rise of ground above the Mississippi River they drained a damp area formerly unfit for human habitation; but here they established their city of Nauvoo, the Beautiful. How the city flourished! Log cabins were soon replaced by fine houses among those who inevitably prosper under any conditions. But there, as in Kirtland, homes were of secondary importance. It was the temple on the hill that commanded the most glorious site of all, and to whose building the people again devoted their very lives. This beloved structure was barely dedicated when it too was abandoned. The "Mormons" fled in the face of martyrdom and a storm of indescribable persecution. They deserted their homes; they said farewell to their temple on the hill, but the gospel truths were living things—they could not be left behind. In Utah other temples were built. One of Brigham Young's first acts was to select the site for the Salt Lake Temple. Four were erected while Utah was still a territory, but not without inestimable toil, labor, and personal sacrifice. No more were built for many years, but what monuments to the integrity of the pioneers are these four! What a glorious symbol of beauty apart from its religious significance, which of course is the pre-eminent quality of its being, is the statue of the angel Moroni standing with his trumpet to his lips atop the highest stone of the Salt Lake Temple. There is no greater example of beauty in the entire country than this statue, according to the judgment of several eminent artists. But, in the meantime, while those buildings were under construction, and for long years after they were completed, what were the other houses of worship like throughout the Church? In some cases there were fine buildings for ward and stake meetinghouses. But often the places for religious service were of spare and unpromising exterior and interior aspect. In the missions the gathering places of the Latter-day Saints have at times been actually forbidding and undesirable. The emphasis of Mormonism, however, could not be placed upon the surroundings. It was the message which the elders carried that was then, as now, the important phase. Otherwise, how could the gospel have survived? The increase in the church membership bears witness to the fact that the beauty of the religion offset the sordidness of the surroundings. There was another reason beside the limited means of the Church for such pitiable conditions. The "Mormons" were usually denied the use of a better place. The exceptions, let it be told to the honor of Christianity, came through the kindness of Protestant ministers. Sometimes the missionaries were allowed the use of their churches. It is true such use often ended in persecution of the "Mormons" and attempts to drive the elders from the towns in which they were seeking to establish a foothold. But this is not surprising when one stops to consider that the elders were endeavoring to convert members from the very sects whose churches they were occupying. Latter-day Saint Headquarters were nearly always established under fairly desirable conditions. Indeed though, with the exception of the temples and the beautiful tabernacle in Salt Lake City, grandeur in any form was unknown to the "Mormons." Gradually this order has changed. In the European missions some very fine chapels have been erected; the one in Denmark is exceptionally handsome. Although in other lands some are located in the very poor districts, and thus signify that there is yet much to do, much satisfaction can be derived from what has already been accomplished. Present headquarters in the different countries are very estimable, and in many places interested people from any station in life need have no aversion to entering the "Mormon" meeting houses. In America, Canada, and Hawaii other temples have been built; still more are planned. In Washington, D. C. one of the most interesting features of the city is the Latter-day Saint chapel with its fine organ. The organ is becoming almost as well known as the historic tabernacle instrument. The person in charge of the chapel must of necessity be a well-educated cultured man as well as a musician, for it is he who represents Mormonism to all those who visit this chapel as non-members. Mormonism is no longer primarily confined to a condition of impoverishment. Church organizations are seldom limited to only that which is humble in life. Now it is to the glory and the praise of the Church that it can put forward a beautification program. The power of emotion exerts a tremendous influence upon our religious tendencies. There is no question that beautiful surroundings should cultivate a spirit of reverence, order, and godliness as an intrinsic part of one's attitude in his church attendance and in his communion with the Lord. Beautiful surroundings should be an influence for good in the lives of children who are prone to disrespect. Just as Temple Square in Salt Lake City has been beautified with statues of Joseph and Hyrum Smith, the Seagull monument, and the monument to The Three Witnesses, lovely gardens, and excellent upkeep, it would be a fine venture if each ward and stake throughout the Church would do something in keeping with the spirit of Temple Square. The beautification program must go forward. If our forebears could sacrifice as they did for the sake of the temples, surely the church members of this generation can support the plan for finer buildings, improved surroundings, and an increased number of temples and chapels throughout the United States and foreign lands. But just as the gospel truths once stood for all the beauty that the people knew, no material surroundings, no matter how lovely they may become, must ever be allowed to displace the beauty of the spiritual values. Even as the angel Moroni himself delivered the golden plates into the hands of the boy prophet, and just as his statue represents all that is beautiful in art as he stands with uplifted trumpet announcing the Restoration of the Gospel, let this symbol of beauty serve by way of contrast as the key to humility through remembrance of the humble material surroundings in the origin of the Church as well as the glorification of our spiritual beginnings. The imagery of the angel is the covenant which binds thought with emotion, remembrance of the past with the hope of the future.
Activities
1. Find examples in your community of how beautification of public buildings or recreation centers has changed for the better the spirit and attitude of those who frequent the area.
2. Occasionally one sees a ward amusement hall where the furnishings and walls are marred and defaced, and the surroundings are unkempt. Discuss the influence of such conditions upon the general discipline of the ward.
3. Discuss the advantage to each ward of an artistically decorated and well-furnished room for Relief Society meetings.
Child Guidance
Lesson 8
MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD
FOR many years, one of the greatest concerns of parents and doctors has been the physical health of the child, and great strides have been made in reducing infant and childhood mortality. But what about the mental health of our children? We have seldom thought much about that, yet the problem of mental illness in recent years has come to be as great as that of all the physical ills put together. According to recent census reports for United States, hospitals for the mentally ill have 500,000 beds compared with only 525,000 for all other hospitals combined. One reason for the large number of mental hospital beds is that mental cases usually remain much longer than ordinary hospital cases. The number of hospital beds does not tell the real story about the seriousness of mental illness. The world is strewn with character failures, cranks, and all manner of unstable and neurotic individuals who may never become ill enough to need to be placed in an institution. According to a study made in New York State, one person out of every twenty-two in the general population becomes a patient in a mental hospital at some time in his life. In a certain number of cases, bodily disease, accidental injuries, or poisonous conditions are the cause; but in the majority of cases, the individual's personality fails in one respect or another without any clear-cut physical cause. Many of these failures are probably the natural result of defective training in the art of living, training which begins in the cradle. A set of personality tendencies may serve the child well while he has no responsibilities and while he lives in the home that nurtured him. Often when the stress and strain of adolescence comes, however, the childish methods which served well in the home fail in the crisis of finding one's way in an adult world. Little wonder that adolescence is a harvesting period for all the bad training of childhood, and hence a period during which nervous breakdowns are common, and milder failures are innumerable.
To preserve the mental health of the child is the parent's greatest responsibility. For what profit has the child if he is healthy in body, but sick in spirit? Mothers may be concerned as to how to tell when the child is mentally well. Mental illness has a beginning in small ailments of the mind. Perhaps the simplest guide to the mental health of the child is found in this question: Is the child happily engaged most of the time in activities that are socially acceptable? If he plays vigorously at games that are not disapproved by his community and which are enjoyed by most other children of his age, if he is happy in his home, if at school he finds worth while tasks that are enjoyable—then he is on the road to mental health.
Mental health is such a complicated condition that the simple key given above may not give the true picture. Morgan says that "When any child is habitually markedly different in any respect from the rest of his group, he needs further study." Balance of one's personality characteristics is the basis of mental health; abiding happiness is usually the evidence of mental health. Mental health means efficiency in living so as to satisfy in the least conflicting manner all of one's legitimate wants or needs. Disregard for the rights of others, for example, brings loss of good-will and help when it is needed, and therefore it does not satisfy efficiently all of one's needs.
Some conditions that favor mental health will be discussed briefly. This list of conditions does not pretend to cover the entire field, but only those conditions that are considered most essential and which have been touched upon in this course of lessons.
First of all, mental health calls for bodily health. The value we put on life varies almost directly with the "zest for living" we feel in our bodies. A happy spirit increases body tone and physical health. Conspicuous physical deformities, as previously shown, cause distressing conflicts for which successful compensations are not always achieved.
Second, ability to withstand pain and disappointment without expecting everyone we meet to join in the grief is a great help in a world in which pleasure and pain, joy and sorrow, success and failure are inevitably mixed almost every day of our lives. Children who are inadequate in physical ability or in leadership qualities often fall prey to the desire to be coddled, to enjoy ill-health, and perhaps to think that the satisfying of their own needs is the all-important business of those with whom they have intimate association. This weakness is frequently encountered in adults: the mother who gets sick to arouse the sympathy and interest of a father who is negligent, or the father who complains of his little pains and troubles to gain a sympathy and tolerance he cannot find in a hostile business world.
Third, the child must have a sense of being wanted in the home. Adopted children and children in broken homes often have poor mental health and are consequently more often delinquent than average children—partly because they feel insecure in their homes and in the affections of their parents. This type of lingering distress produces more nervous fatigue than does a good day's work. Little wonder the unwanted child is often nervous!
Fourth, mental health is hardly possible to the child who is a victim of besetting fears and dreads. "Bogey men" are real to children, however silly they seem to adults. Willful frightening of children is as vicious as feeding them impure food. Fears and dreads rob sleep of its restoring power and set up certain internal secretions which interfere with digestion; and, worst of all, they leave the mind beside itself and in as distressed a condition as a stomach afflicted with indigestion. Have you ever seen a child who is afraid to appear really happy? Some of our over-zealous preaching brings in all sorts of threats of impending evils and dire results of misconduct. A sense of sin sometimes results and brings that horrible dread of punishment for this life or the hereafter. For a child who hardly knows right from wrong, this type of teaching is definitely detrimental to his mental health. Better teach positively, as the Master did, that "he that endureth to the end shall be saved," that the pure in heart shall be blessed by seeing God, and that if we wish others to do good to us we should do so to them.
Fifth, the child who has the habit of taking greater interest in people and activities than in himself and the products of his imagination is usually happy. He is the one who develops a good personality because he practices more in getting along with the world of people and things. The unsocial child is usually unhappy and is more likely to develop mental illness than the active and sociable one, even though the latter may be more mischievous. Since personality grows out of the child's effort to get along with people, his living in a world of his own thoughts and troubles does not contribute much to his personality growth. Real interest in other people means a liking for them and freedom from hate, jealousy, and lingering grudges. A child cannot be happy when nursing these unpleasant emotions.
Sixth, the happy child's greatest interest is in today, then tomorrow, with only a passing interest in yesterday. Looking back, as a habit, is to be discouraged. "Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof." The over-conscientious child is likely to regret his mistakes longer than he should. The adult with a future closing in ahead of him, looks back to borrow a moment of joy from yesterday. But if looking back takes the place of the joy of today and the anticipation of the future, it is dangerous to one's mental health. When a child runs up against difficult conditions which call for a revising of his habits on a more mature or grown-up level, he sometimes runs back (or regresses) into childhood and tries to use a more childish device for gaining his ends. Adults sometimes have the same fault. The healthy minded child seeks new challenges each day and drives ahead toward becoming more manly, more grown up. He shuns all appearances of childish ways.
Seventh, every child to keep happy must have tasks at his mental level. This means that he must be given work or play that is difficult enough to challenge the best in him, but easy enough that he can "see through" to the goal. This point was treated more thoroughly in a previous lesson.
Finally, a father and mother who are mentally well, understanding, loving (but not over-indulgent) are the most essential guarantee of the mental health of the child. Bad attitudes in the home are contagious. A home atmosphere of consideration for others, free from nagging, hostility, and thoughtless preaching is the greatest mental hygiene asset a child can have. Severe hostility among the children contributes greatly to their unhappiness and is an indication of poor training in the home.
In the schools, these same conditions are essential, but too often not found. Teachers with disagreeable dispositions and other striking personality difficulties should not be permitted to retard the learning processes of the child by making the whole classroom situation unpleasant. Congenial companionship with other children at school is also important to the mental health of the child. The school bully and the chronic delinquent child are often stumbling blocks to the children who may have come from the best of homes, and these bad influences can seldom be disposed of directly. The parent often has to resort to helping the child to fight his own battles and find his own way, because life is notoriously cluttered up with a certain amount of these unpleasant and unwholesome influences; and the child should be taught how to stand on his own feet in the presence of them.
Problems for Discussion
1. What does mental hygiene mean to you in your home? Contrast it with physical hygiene.
2. What does poor home training have to do with filling our institutions for the mentally ill and social failures? (Mental hospitals, penitentiaries, industrial schools.)
3. What is the effect on a child's mental health when he withdraws from play and spends an undue amount of time with his thoughts and troubles?
4. What do you consider the three most essential conditions for mental health in children? What can you do to provide them for your children?
5. Name a few signs of mental health in children and show the significance of each.

[Various advertisements for L.D.S. Business College, magazine binding services, and Beneficial Life Insurance Company appear here]

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXV MARCH, 1938 No. 3
CONTENTS
Perspective.................................................Gertrude Perry Stanton 145 Frontispiece—Joseph Smith's Store, Nauvoo, Il.................................... 146 Birthday Wish...........................................President Louise Y. Robison 147 A Mother's Prayer..........................................Alice R. Rich 148 The Relief Society in Retrospection.....................Annie Wells Cannon 149 Song of a Housewife.......................................Florence Strong 155 Spirit of '37............................................Joseph L. Wirthlin 156 Moment of Glory.........................................Christy Lund Coles 160 Recompense.............................................Grace Zenor Pratt 165 Lotta Paul Baxter.......................................A. Hamer Reiser 166 Another Day............................................John Shearer 167 One of Ours..........................................Dorothy Clapp Robinson 168 Edna's Husband.........................................Mary E. Knowles 171 Common Things........................................Claire Stewart Boyer 178 Woman's Part........................................Vernessa Miller Nagle 179 Elite of Prophets....................................Sadie Willes Adamson 180 A Splendid Hobby But a Poor Business......................Carlton Culmsee 181 Dilettante................................................W. Wun 182 The Lotus Eater........................................Mabel S. Harmer 183 Rather Than Great Riches..................................Kate Wilde 186 Discovering Our Children...........................Virginia and Drew Jacobsen 188 Children's Reading....................................Florence Ivins Hyde 192 Happenings...........................................Annie Wells Cannon 194 Friendship.............................................Ezra J. Poulsen 195 Joy....................................................Naomi Shepard MacCabe 196 Notes to the Field.......................................................... 197 Notes from the Field........................................................ 198 Editorials— Friendship.............................................................. 201 Self Control............................................................ 202 Commendation........................................................... 203 Book Notice............................................................ 203 Erratum................................................................ 203 Music Department—Charlotte O. Sackett and Wade Stephens.................... 204 Lesson Department......................................................... 207 Sacrament Meeting.......................................Wendell J. Ashton 215

PERSPECTIVE
By Gertrude Perry Stanton
The mountains rise in grandeur From the spreading plain below; Slopes darkly green with pine trees, Bare summits crowned with snow. They catch the rose of the sunset, And the glowing dawn's pure light,— But I live so close to the foothills That the mountains are out of sight!
There are heights of growth for the spirit That rise above sordid care, There are beauty and strength uplifting In that loftier, clearer air. Shall the trivial daily trials Loom so large before my eyes That they hide the Blessed Mountains Stretching up to sunlit skies?
Birthday Wish
By President Louise Y. Robison
MARCH Seventeenth! The anniversary of a day made memorable by the organization of Relief Society, almost a century ago. Many women in twenty-two nations are this day expressing gratitude for the opportunity for development which has come to them through Relief Society.
THE organization has made an enviable record through its service to humanity, but what of the individual member? Has faith in God been strengthened through the study of the scriptures? Are women more loyal citizens and better mothers through the study of outlined lessons? Are they able to carry these ideals safely through the various exigencies of life in a somewhat unspiritual world?
Anniversaries are appropriate periods in which to take inventories of our conduct, to rejoice when ideals have been maintained and to seriously analyze our faults with the desire of overcoming them. Repentance is not only feeling sorry for lost opportunities, nor grieving over mistakes which have been made, but it is earnestly striving to live above these failures in the future. We have the assurance that Divine assistance is ever ready to help us to higher levels, but the promise is always predicated upon the injunction to keep the commandments. "If thou seek Him, He will be found of thee". Can any effort be too great when we are promised that those "who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures;" that we shall "run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint." Do we want these and other blessings? The requirements are not difficult. When our Father in Heaven speaks or when His Prophet tells us the mind and will of God, it is our privilege and our solemn obligation to heed the instruction. To the extent that we ignore this principle we cut ourselves off from the blessed security of having His Spirit with us.
When Relief Society women have Church Standards and are true to them, strength and joy and peace will be with them and their influence will be a power for good with their children. Isn't it worth the price a thousand fold? What are the satisfactions of pride or social popularity when it means lowering our standards and destroying our children's confidence in the principles of the Gospel? Women of Relief Society, set your standards high. We do not make better friends by disloyalty to principle.
RELIEF SOCIETY was organized to help women find the true values of life. Each lesson studied, each act of loving service performed, each friendship made, broadens our horizon and gives us a desire to more nearly walk in obedience to the commandments. Love expresses itself in service and Relief Society gives opportunity for such service. My Birthday wish and my prayer for all women is that we shall have the vision to see that the respect of our own conscience, under God, is the one enduring possession.
A MOTHER'S PRAYER
By Alice R. Rich
Into my keeping you come today, In my motherly arms I fold you; God give me wisdom to teach you right As into a man I mould you.
Help me to look for my source of light To the giver of all that's true. May I watch my own steps every day And be an example for you.
If I am to teach you, I too must learn, I too must be ever growing; For wisdom comes only to those who strive, Who seek for the things worth knowing.
Give me to hold in my life, good cheer, To bring to your sweet lips a smile; Let mirth and love and a friendly heart Be my way with you all the while.
Grant patience and self-restraint today, And strength for my sacred task; And poise and mastery o'er petty things In guiding your steps, I ask.
Let my mother heart in devotion sweet Be tempered with judgment fair, To inspire you to great and noble heights And teach you the way, with care.
The Relief Society in Retrospection
By Annie Wells Cannon
"Lulled in the countless chambers of the brain Our thoughts are linked, by many a hidden chain; Awake but one, and lo, what myriads rise!" —Alexander Pope.
AT the head of the lower or Des Moines rapids in the Mississippi, in a curve of the stream overlooking the broad river, its islands and the Iowa bluffs beyond, lies the city of Nauvoo. The great Mississippi sweeps around in a semi-circle, bounding a part of the city on the northwest and south, and the land rises in terraces from its shores. It was here in 1839 the destitute Latter-day Saints, cruelly mobbed and driven from their homes in Missouri, found a refuge and a resting place; here under a liberal charter they built a city, so magic in its growth that it became in a short period one of the most prosperous and influential cities in the state of Illinois. Nauvoo was a city of great beauty with its capacious homes, gardens, vineyards, business houses, a picturesque militia and the beginning of a magnificent temple. It was in this lovely setting the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society, March 17, 1842.
Called into existence and set in order by a prophet of God, whose inspired teachings have crystallized during the years into ideals which have blessed tens of thousands, the Relief Society marks a steady progress in the understanding of human needs, material, intellectual and spiritual. From its inception the Relief Society was not intended to be merely an eleemosynary institution but educational and philanthropical in charity's broadest sense, so wonderfully explained by the Apostle Paul. In its truest development the Society typifies the sincere love of God; it impels its members to love their neighbors as themselves; to bestow benefits whenever and wherever need is found; to seek after righteousness and all things that bless mankind.
It seems reasonable to believe that in the very earliest days of the Church there was in mind an organization of women paralleling the work of the priesthood, to help carry through the purposes of the Lord. In July, 1830, at Harmony, Susquehanna Co., Pennsylvania, the Lord gave commandments to Emma Smith in a revelation given through her husband, Joseph Smith, in which, besides outlining certain duties for her, he said, "thou art an Elect Lady, whom I have called." The term "Elect Lady" as explained by the Prophet Joseph means one called to preside. Scarcely twelve years after the organization of the Church, Thursday afternoon, March 17, 1842, by invitation of President Joseph Smith eighteen women met in the Lodge room over his store for the purpose of organization.
THE story of this, the first meeting of the Relief Society, is unique. The solemnity and dignity of the occasion presents a remarkable picture. Here were assembled a group of women, who, under the direction of a prophet of the Lord, were to become leaders to the women of the Church. They were comparatively young, the oldest one present, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, forty-one, and the youngest, Bathsheba W. Smith, nineteen years old. With President Smith were Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards.
At this meeting were laid down the fundamental principles and foundation stones on which the Relief Society has built and functioned for nearly a century. The women were told to conduct their meetings according to parliamentary law and given a demonstration. In modern times this is not strange; it was unheard of a hundred years ago. There were instructions about duties of officers, keeping of records, providing work for the unemployed, the building of a fund. In the course of his remarks President Smith advised them to "provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor—searching after objects of charity; to assist by correcting and strengthening the virtues of the community." He closed his remarks with inspiring words which fell as a benediction, "I now turn the key for you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time."
The organization was effected according to the prescribed method. Emma Smith was elected president; she chose Sarah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney counselors, Eliza R. Snow was elected secretary, Phoebe N. Wheeler assistant secretary and Elmira Coles treasurer. "All I shall have to give to the poor, I shall give to this Society," said President Joseph Smith. Later he laid a five dollar gold piece on the table to start a charity fund. Thus was the Relief Society launched on its onward course.
THE Relief Society was an organization for Latter-day Saint women. Requirements for membership were liberal. The applicant must be recommended by a member, and be of good report, then admitted by vote. The increase was rapid, 1275 names were shortly enrolled and contributions also increased. In the list of members are the names of many of the great women of the Church whose leadership in the different communities of Zion has left a blessed heritage for the women of today; among them we read the name of Lucy Smith, the mother of the Prophet Joseph, and we bow in reverence. Her fervent testimony at the Nauvoo meetings was an inspiration and a blessing. This remarkable woman played an important part in the founding of the Church. She believed in, and assisted her son Joseph, from the time of his first vision to the end of his career; she kept a record of his boyhood and early work, without which no complete history of his life could be truly written. What do we not owe her?
THE Relief Society functioned for two years in Nauvoo under the direction of Emma Smith and her counselors; thirty-five meetings were held and some branches organized in nearby towns, La Harpe, Macedonia and others. There were no dues, all contributions were voluntary. The members brought provisions, clothing, thread, yarn, household commodities, even treasured pieces of jewelry to help provide for those less fortunate than themselves. During these days important activities which have always been features of the organization were inaugurated: sewing meetings, providing work for widows; the appointment of women to visit the homes in search of those in need, and to accept donations from those who desired to give. Thus was initiated the order of Relief Society teachers which has always been so vital a part of the work. Owing to conditions preceding and following the tragic event of the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum at Carthage, meetings were discontinued in 1844.
DURING the exodus from Nauvoo and the journey westward the society could not operate as an organized body, though the women continued their benevolent work whenever opportunity presented itself. At Winter Quarters Elizabeth Ann Whitney held meetings during her sojourn there, for there was need of kindly deeds and words of comfort and encouragement in these days of toil, suffering, scarcity and sorrow. Nearly all the first officers and members were journeying in different companies towards that unknown land somewhere beyond the Rocky Mountains. Before them lay years of adjustment to life in a desert country under strange and dangerous conditions, still in their hearts they held the spirit and teachings of the work. Eliza R. Snow was traveling in one of the first companies. She had with her that precious record—the minutes of the Nauvoo Relief Society, a sacred book beyond price, so full of valuable history, counsel, and prophecy.
AFTER arriving in the valley as early as 1851-52, temporary societies were formed in several wards. Though all were poor, none were allowed to suffer; even the Indians were cared for, and an early attempt was made to organize the Indian women in one of the wards. In 1853 a meeting was held in the Social Hall for the purpose of organization and a school started to instruct women in midwifery and nursing as this was an urgent need. Zina D. H. Young was called to promote this work. From this time until 1857 eleven ward Relief Societies in Salt Lake City were organized, one in Ogden, one in Provo, and one in Nephi, when a second time the work was interrupted by the arrival of Johnston's Army and the move of the people south.
In 1866 President Brigham Young appointed Eliza R. Snow to go into all the wards of the Church and assist the Bishops to organize Relief Societies. He also called Zina D. H. Young and told these sisters to call others as needed. Eliza R. Snow became the head of the organization and chose as her counselors Zina D. H. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney and for secretary Sarah M. Kimball. Other assistants were Bathsheba W. Smith, M. Isabella Horne, Marinda Hyde, Phoebe Woodruff, Emmeline B. Wells, Jane Richards, Elizabeth Howard, and later Romania B. Pratt (Penrose). These women constituted a Central Board and were called "The Leading Sisters." They traveled to all the settlements in the then new Territory, organizing, encouraging, and teaching the women. They went over the roughest kind of roads, in almost any kind of vehicle, sometimes lost on the desert or held in a canyon over night. Nothing daunted them, so imbued were they with the importance of the work.
THERE were the covered wagon days, when funds were needed to help emigrate the Saints from foreign lands, and care for them on arrival until located in homes of their own. It was also a time of building school and meeting houses, promoting home industries, and once more building a Temple. In all these affairs the Relief Society had a part. One might be puzzled somewhat, in reading a ward financial statement of these pioneer days, over some of the abbreviations; for instance the P. E. F., H. C. Co., B. Of A., meaning the Perpetual Emigration Fund, Hand Cart Co., and Brethren of the Army, respectively. This latter was the militia who frequently made expeditions against the Indians for the protection of the settlers in new colonies.
Meetings from this time on were held regularly, advancement was rapid and a variety of things accomplished. Faith was strengthened through testimony, and many gifts of the spirit manifest even as in the days of Nauvoo; interests for the home and community were discussed and many lessons of frugality and resourcefulness learned. The industry of the members was remarkable. Every scrap of cloth was saved and made into quilts while all worn articles were cut, sewed and woven into carpets; tatting, knitting, crocheting, embroidered buckskin gauntlets, and other articles were made and sold, to obtain means to carry on the work and take care of those in need.
The work of organization advanced until wherever there was a branch of the Church there was also a Relief Society. This work abroad and in the islands of the sea was accomplished under the direction of the missionaries, assisted by the wives of the mission presidents and correspondence from the officers in Zion.
WITH the advent of the railroad in 1869 there were many marked changes in the activities of the Relief Society. Brought in closer touch with the world through mail, telegraph and travel, commodities were more easily obtained and progress was rapid. Strangely the first marked change was the granting of Woman's Suffrage by legislative enactment February 12, 1870, followed by a municipal election held February 20, when the Utah women had the privilege to exercise their franchise, thus being the first women in the United States to vote. This caused rejoicing at the National Woman's Suffrage headquarters, and Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton visited Utah to enlist the interest of the Utah women in the National Cause. Many Utah women became conspicuous figures in this movement, and delegates were regularly sent to the National Woman's Suffrage conventions. Ig now became a necessity for the Relief Society women to have a magazine or paper as a medium to set forth their aims and instructions, to report progress of the different branches, and to keep in closer touch with the workers, so the Woman's 153 Exponent was established in 1872 as the organ of the Relief Society. The Exponent was at that time the only woman's paper between Boston and the Pacific Coast. The publication continued forty-two years, the first three under the editorship of Lula Greene Richards and the remainder of the time edited and published by Emmeline B. Wells. Its interesting columns were filled with valuable history and items about women and the Latter-day Saint people. It was succeeded in 1914 by the present Relief Society Magazine. Other unusual and important activities of the Society during the two decades from 1866 to 1886 under the great leader Eliza R. Snow and her associates were the building of Relief Society halls, acquiring land, operating cooperative stores, building granaries, gathering and storing wheat against a time of need, raising cocoons and manufacturing silk; women were sent to study medicine, especially midwifery and nursing, and the Deseret hospital, the forerunner of the Church hospitals of today was established. They never lost sight of the primary fact of caring for the '"'poor, the sick and the afflicted." The story in detail of any one of these activities would make an interesting chapter. THE movement to consolidate wards into stake capacities was begun under Brigham Young in 1877, thus establishing uniform and coordinated activities. At this time the three women's auxiliaries were under the direction of the same Central Board, but in 1880 President John Taylor caused a different set-up to be made and reorganized them, creating three separate General Boards—the Relief Society, the Y. W. M. I. A. and the Primary, as they are at present. These changes provided opportunity 154 for more officers and more extended fields of endeavor. FOLLOWING the death of Eliza R. Snow in 1887, Zina D. H. Young became president. Under her administration the Relief Society became affiliated as a charter member with the National Council of Women of the United States and through that the International. The Relief Society through its organization was already international in scope. This brought the Society in line and acquaintance with the great organizations of women in the world, The Red Cross, The Temperance Movement and others, and delegates have attended conventions in all the great cities. Because of its property holdings the Relief Society incorporated under the laws of Utah in 1882, with a board of directors of 23 members. This step was advised by President John Taylor, and carried through by the counsel of President Wilford Woodruff. Neither the national affiliation nor the incorporation affects the status of the Relief Society as a Church auxiliary. As at first the presidency of the Church directed the procedure and supervised the organization, so has it always been under the direction of the priesthood of the Church. HE Relief Society has had seven General Presidents. Besides the three before mentioned they are Bathsheba W. Smith, Emmeline B. Wells, Clarissa S. Williams and the present president, Louise Y. Robison, all capable, sincere and gracious, devoted to the - work and endowed with the graces necessary for their high calling. Under each one of these leaders distinctive activities have been fostered according to the requirements of the time. Never losing sight of those duties entrusted to the women in the beginning by the Prophet Joseph RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Smith, and the ideals then enunciated, the Society has progressed through the years. It has grown in numbers until it has almost reached in membership the hundred thousand goal. In its ranks are hundreds of forward-looking women, trained and talented, willing to give their time for the advancement of the work, while thousands of others are eager for the knowledge and benefits the Society offers. The work is systematically arranged and almost simultaneously thousands of women in all parts of the world are singing the same songs, discussing the same subjects or doing similar work. It is like a belt of sacred thought encircling the earth. The adult educational program includes. Lessons in Theology, Literature, Social and Domestic Science, Art, Music and Social Ethics. The Society also encourages Genealogy and Temple work. The Society lends its assistance to every great movement: towards the betterment of the world such as education for Peace, Temperance, Public Health, Social Purity, Abolition of Crime, and especially are the members interested in legislation, both local and national, for the benefit of women and children. Ig was Victor Hugo who said "the Nineteenth Century was the woman's century." It was the hour of the awakening as the key turned for the Latter-day Saint women and called them into action. So was the day dawning for woman's emancipation from unjust laws and inequality. Now in the Twentieth Century—the hour of marvelous advancement in discovery, scientific research, invention, so much of ease, beauty and comfort in the world—much may be expected of those upon whom the work has fallen; to them has come THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN RETROSPECTION a rich heritage from the sainted women of the past. In grateful acknowledgment the Relief Society, through its general officers, has established living meinorials for the furtherance of Education, Literature, Nursing, Temple Work, Public Health, Care of Uninarried Mothers and Social Welfare. In 1933, under the direction of President Louise Y. Robison, a 155 monument in mnperishable stone was erected in Nauvoo on the spot of ground where the building stood in which the Relief Society was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Golden opportunities lie before the women of today. As they reach the heights of achievement may they look across the years with grateful hearts, in remembrance of the service freely given by the founders and the builders of the Relief Society. SONG OF A HOUSEWIFE By Florence Strong Across the way from me two women sit With idle hands and watch life passing by. Their porch is very pleasant—they're content. They'd smile, no doubt, if they could hear me sigh And pity them because they lack my tasks. My tasks that fill my hours with quiet joy And give me sweet content when day is donc; Making a blue rug for the kitchen floor, Picking bright daffodils before the sun Has robbed them of the early morning dew. Filling a china jar with spicy cakes To please a hungry lad just in from play; Hanging fresh laundered sheets upon a linc To billow in the wind and tug away Like white sails on the ships at sea. Trailing a vine above the kitchen door; Teaching sweet childish lips how first to pray: Reading a verse about an April dawn, And pausing long enough to smile and say Thank God for work that glorifies each day. Spirit of '37 By Joseph L. Wirthlin THE year 1937 is now one of the chapters of history. In retrospection we can analyze many of the great accomplishments of this year which will influence the immediate future. A great force for the development of the highest and most important of ideals, is found in the basic fundamentals of the Church Security Program—"To love thy neighbor as thyself." If in 1937 this divine injunction has taken a firm hold of the thinking and activity of the people, 1937 will stand out as a period when brotherly love had its foundations literally strengthened by three-quarters of a million people, known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, cooperating with their material as well as spiritual substances for the accomplishment of this high objective. If the Salt Lake Region of the Church Security Program has any achievements to its credit, it is the result of unqualified cooperation on the part of all concerned. It would be well to define the word cooperation—for in its definition we readily see that the people of this great Region have a wonderful understanding of the word. As understood by the Latter-day Saint membership, it contemplates the contribution of one's talents, physical energy, and worldly goods for the achievement of objectives which shall be for the well being and joy of the whole. The whole could, and does in many ways, embrace the entire human race scattered over the earth. This explanation of the term has an historical background of 107 years. Since 1830 through the spirit of cooperation this people have sent thousands of missionaries to the four corners of the earth. They have built cities, established schools, erected temples, founded industries and have made it possible for thousands of newly found members to be brought over the ocean, across barren plains, and established in comfortable homes. Brigham Young said, "If we work unitedly we can work ourselves into wealth, health, prosperity and power." Thus, to cooperate for the achievement of a high purpose is not new to the Latter-day Saints. "THE Salt Lake Region's problems of unemployment and relief are the greatest in the Church because of the density of population. Hence, with the inception of the Church Security Program, it was necessary to call on wards and stakes for contributions of clothing, food, furniture, fuel and finances with which to establish the needed resources. Pioneer Stake had a warehouse well equipped, stocked, and in good condition, which was most graciously turned over to the Regional Council for the use of the whole region. Other stakes contributed thousands of dollars worth of clothing, much of which was new, having been made by the Relief Society organization. Accumulated stocks and finances with which to operate the region were pooled for the beginning of the program. Stake Presidents, Bishops, Priesthood officers, Relief Society sisters gave most generously of their time and talents for the development of the security program. It has been one continual round of hearty cooperation. SPIRIT OF ‘37 CELERY GARDEN—FURNITURE REPAIR SHOP SALT LAKE REGION 158 S the program developed it became expedient to divide the many and ever increasing duties among the Stake Presidents, Bishops and Relief Societies of the Salt Lake Region. As a result six committees were organized: 1. A council of Bishops for the purpose of managing the Regional Bishops' Storehouse. 2. Finance Committee, composed of Stake Presidents, to stimulate the payment of Fast Offerings, make audits of the Regional Accounting System, pass on all Accounts Payable and make all appropriations. 3. Projects Committee, composed of Stake Presidents, to have charge of all agricultural, knitting, vocational, and canning instruction, and to develop new projects to provide further employment. 4. Employment Committee, composed of Stake Presidents, to assist in finding work, to install unemployment records and files, and to inaugurate legislation for employment. 5. Storehouse Committee, composed of Stake Presidents, to formulate policies relative to the physical condition of the warehouses and quality of commodities, to set standards, and to be responsible for all regional equipment. 6. The Salt Lake Regional Relief Society Committee, composed of all the Stake Relief Society Presidents and Sisters Barker, Evans, Nebeker, and Thompson of the Relief Society General Board, under the chairmanship of President Louise Y. Robison, to formulate all policies relating to the administration of relief, sewing centers, social welfare, family budgets, conservation of family resources, and contacts with other relief agencies, and to direct all investigation work. Since the organization of these committees experts in various lines have been called to advise and assist in the development of the program. The Salt Lake Regional Council now consists of some 55 men and women, among whom are found lawyers, merchants, accountants, bankers, farmers, dairymen, engineers, builders, architects, insurance men and social workers. The medical and dental organizations of the Region are available when matters pertaining to these professions come to the fore. Membership upon any one of these committees gives each committeeman a definite position with fixed responsibilities, the result being a live interest in the progress and success of the program. The Salt Lake Region is fortunate in having a wide representation of the most important businesses, professions and industries, from which to draw for the formulating of policies and plans for the furtherance of the Church Security Program.
"THE most important committee of the entire region is that great committee composed of the entire membership of sixteen stakes who have so loyally supported the Church Security Program. They have the spirit of cooperation as the Pioneers of old, never failing to heed any call and many times exceeding the requirements, as shown in the following achievements. There was distributed in the Salt Lake Region in 1937, $80,663.34 of food; $20,303.02 in clothing; fuel amounting to $19,466.67; sundry purchases costing $6,175.61; or a total distribution of $126,609.14; 789 people were placed in employment. A Garment Factory project was established where girls from the various stakes were taught to use knitting machines and other types of machinery in the manufacture of clothing. After several weeks of training these young ladies have found positions in private industry earning from $13 to $16 per week. Our rural stakes contributed crops from approximately 500 acres of land, including potatoes, tomatoes, beans, corn, fruits and all types of vegetables. Some meat was also contributed.
It is needless to say that the General Authorities of the Church and the General Committee have cooperated whole-heartedly in all of our endeavors in this Region to bring the plans of the Church Security Program into fruition. A special Fast Day was called in September for the purpose of securing funds with which to purchase a permanent home for the Region. It was thought that $4,000 would be the maximum amount raised but with the splendid cooperation of Stake Presidents, Bishops, Priesthood quorums and the entire membership, $16,000 was donated. This is now on deposit waiting plans of the First Presidency and General Committee for the erection of a new building particularly adapted to the regional needs.
A Convention was called December 12th for the inauguration of the 1938 program. It was expected some 600 people would be in attendance but with that same fine spirit of cooperation 1200 enthusiastic, live workers attended. All of the 1938 projects and assignments were willingly received and the wards and quorums are now working together in carrying these out.
With these achievements to the credit of the Salt Lake Region there now stands before us the most important objective of the Church Security Program, viz: to bring into existence through industry or otherwise those projects which will afford permanent employment for every worthy Latter-day Saint. It will require the greatest spirit of cooperation, for if we truly love our neighbor we shall not only provide him with the necessities of life, but with that God-given privilege of sustaining himself by his own efforts. Real cooperation is to contribute of one's talents, physical energy and worldly goods for the achievement of objectives which shall be for the well being and joy of all. This is the spirit of Salt Lake Region.

"Beautify your gardens, your houses, your farms; beautify the city. This will make us happy, and produce plenty. The earth is a good earth, the elements are good if we will use them for our own benefit, in truth and righteousness. Then let us be content, and go to with our mights to make ourselves healthy, wealthy and beautiful, and preserve ourselves in the best possible manner, and live just as long as we can, and do all the good we can."—Brigham Young.
Moment of Glory
By Christy Lund Coles
FROM the time he was old enough to show definite personality the family knew that he was not, in a sense, one of them. Drew Hartwell, even as a child, could not adapt himself to the pinch of poverty, could not be happy nor contented in the squalor of the poorly furnished house. He would cry out to his mother, "I want a pretty house, I want nice clothes, I want flowers on the table when we eat.... Teacher says we should have them." Then in a sudden boyish anguish he would conclude: "I don't want to be poor."
Martha, his mother, would shake her head and ask wearily, "Who does, son?" Deep within her she knew that her life-blood indeed flowed in his veins. She remembered how as a girl she had dreamed of a life filled with beauty, peace, the tranquility of well-ordered days; a dream that had blurred beneath the hot pressure of reality. She had married Carl when she was eighteen. They had been happy—after a fashion. But they had always been poor and there had been so much to do. Her strength never seemed to reach to the day's end where the blessedness of sleep became life's one panacea. As she looked at this boy of hers, so foreign to everything about him—with his straight nose and his deep, brooding eyes, his sensitive mouth and wistful smile, she did not expect him to know or understand that once she had been much as he; she hardly expected him to love her enough to overlook her fading youth, her drooping shoulders. She told her husband: "He's already ashamed of us, ashamed of this house, of our clothes." When her husband answered, "He has no business being ashamed of us, I'll beat it out of him," she smiled, saying, "You're wrong, Carl, he can't help it. He's different from the other two. I think maybe he's a genius of some sort." She laughed a little as she said it but she knew it was no joke. For a long time she had planned and figured on ways of getting him to study music. She had even prayed about it.
ONE day in early April that prayer seemed to be answered: A rather shabby little man came to the door and half apologetically told her of a course of violin lessons, (violin included) surprisingly cheap. She invited him in, listened breathlessly as he talked. Finally, she asked, "Would it make it any cheaper if he were to have his own instrument?" "No, the price is the same. It's the lessons we're selling."
Unceremoniously, unthinkingly, she took the three dollars she had saved for a new pair of shoes and paid the first payment. When he had gone she sat for a long time holding the inanimate thing in her arms. The time passed slowly until the hour Drew should come from school. But she waited happily. He came in, breathless, excited, and demanding.
"Moms, where's my migs? Grant's going to play marbles with me."
Her heart was pounding. "They are in the right hand buffet drawer, dear. But don't get excited... Look what I have for you." He was so occupied in his search that he did not even hear her until she repeated it the second time and brought forth the violin carefully, saying, "Look, it's a violin. You're going to learn to play it."
He turned, glanced at it, turned back to his marbles murmuring, "Um-hum. My one dough-baby's gone." In another moment he was gone and the room seemed suddenly very still. She felt awkward... Foolish. "It's just that we expect too much," she assured herself. "We wait for our moments of glory but they never come." She put a lump of coal into the gaping, rusted heater and set about making a cake for supper as she had promised Martin, the younger son, she would do. But her feet were leaden.
That night, however, when Drew came in he said, "Moms, may I take my violin now, may I?" There was the light in his eyes now she had wanted to see before. He was excited... But she was calm. She put it in his arms and he held it as though he had always held one. She would not have been surprised if he had begun playing. "Gee, it's sweet," he cried. "I'll learn to play and someday I'll earn a lot of money and buy you some pretty dresses... And everything." He threw his arms about her and held her tightly while she kissed the soft curve of his cheek, hungrily.
SEVERAL days later they discovered, after climbing three flights of musty, rickety stairs, that the lessons were taught to a group of twenty or thirty children simultaneously. There was no individual instruction, just general, crisp explanations from a teacher who played, Drew thought, "Pretty enough to make you cry." Martha sat in one corner of the large room that had at one time been a lodge hall, and watched and listened... And dreamed. Here were dozens of little boys and girls, most of them poor, thin, and wide-eyed. Somewhere were dozens of mothers and fathers, sacrificing, working to send them here, all passing on to these little ones the fragment of their own frustrated dreams. Some of the children didn't listen, they talked and laughed, they made faces for the amusement of the others, but Drew was not one of these. His dark eyes never left the instructor's face. He turned his fingers slowly to hold the bow as they were told to do; he held his shoulders back and bent his head carefully above the chin rest.
That night when they returned home they changed their best clothes for older ones then went into the uncemented basement beneath the house. While he filled a pan with potatoes she rummaged about in an old trunk until she brought forth something she had been looking for. When they reached the light he saw that it was a violin.
"You didn't tell me you had one," he accused her. "Let me see it."
"Be careful. It is very old and very valuable."
"You mean, it's worth money? Why don't you sell it then?"
"Because," she told him patiently, smiling a little bitterly. "It was my great-grandfather's... And it was mine when I was as young as you. I learned to play a little... Listen." She picked it up and with a few noticeable squeaks and hesitations she played the old-time favorite, "Hearts and Flowers." When she had finished she said, "There are things worth more than money. I want you to play for the joy you will be able to give others and for the satisfaction you will have in doing something well."
TEN years passed. Years much the same as the ten before had been, filled with worry and work. Martha watched Drew going ahead with his music with mingled joy and dread. His ability to learn had been astounding... But it was private teachers now and with all the other expenses she often said that the Lord only knew where the money came from to pay for the lessons. But it always came, even though her husband berailed her and said the boy should be out doing a man's work instead of taking their bread and butter from them. Yet, Drew was a genius. What did anything else matter? What if he didn't seem to appreciate the long hours she held him to his practice, practiced with him, saying, "No, dear that last note is A" or "Not quite so heavy on your G string." What if he did accept their money with little or no thanks as the day when he said, "No, Mother, Bertrani can't teach me any more, he says so himself. Please let me study with Adaire.... Just give me another year. I'll pay you back, honestly I will. All right then, don't. I'll go out and dig ditches, I'll ruin my hands so I can't ever play again. Is that what you want? Do you want me to be satisfied living like this always?"
"No, dear, no," she assured him, trying to quiet him, to avert one of his tantrums that would be followed by a dark, speechless moodiness for two or three days, "You can have the lessons. It's only that the whole family has to live a week on just a little more than your lessons will cost."
"Yes, it's more important that you buy sauerkraut to feed their hunger. None of you have ever known a heart hunger, never wanted anything but just... This," he cried, gesticulating about the room, the room she had tried so hard to make as he would have liked it, scrimping to buy little scarfs, flowers, lamps. Suddenly, she wanted to slap him, wanted to cry out to him that she had never known anything but heart hunger. Heart hunger she had never dared admit even to herself. She wanted to tell him how she had been starved for rest through the hours she had held him to his practice; how she had been starved for the relief of tears since the day as a child he had said, "Don't cry, Moms, ever again. You look ugly when you cry, it makes your face all red," and she had never dared cry before him since; how her spirit starved to stand tall and erect and her tired body wouldn't let her. Heart hunger.... But she said nothing, she merely turned from him murmuring quietly, "You can start with Adaire tomorrow, but don't tell your father."
HER patience with him had seemed spent but when he came to her later that evening, put his arms about her and kissed her, she knew he was saying he was sorry. He smiled at her with his little-boy smile and said, "Will you listen to something I've written? It isn't so good, but listen anyway."
Carl had gone to a wrestling match, the other children were playing ball, so they were alone in the dimly-lighted room and as she sat near the window in the summer twilight he played for her, played as she seemed never to have heard anyone play before. There was strange, haunting beauty in the melody he played which faded to a pathos so poignant, so real, that it was like the remembrance of baby fingers on her breast. He finished and the room seemed to carry on the tune which could have been a hymn or a lullaby or a dream. She wanted to speak, to cry, but she could do neither. He turned. He was waiting for her to say something.
"What shall we name it?" he asked, finally.
Almost unthinkingly she answered, hoarsely, still feeling the touch of warm tiny fingers on her breast... Her heart. "Name it Lost Lullaby."
He was thoughtful a moment, turning the name over in his mind while she had sudden misgivings lest he should laugh at it and say, "Oh, not that." But after a moment he smiled and cried, "Yes, Mother, Lost Lullaby. Yes, and it shall be our song, yours and mine."
IT WAS only a short time later that he was chosen as the most promising student of the great teacher Adaire, was scheduled to give a concert and receive five hundred dollars for the one performance. "Why, it's all the money in the world," he had told her. But she had smiled, knowing this was only the beginning. Now he would belong to the world. He would go away from her, forget the happy hours they had played together, the other hours when he had teased for cookies... Just as though he wasn't a genius at all... Her little boy.
The night of the concert came. The house was in confusion. Drew was having difficulty with his tie. Martha was running back and forth bringing him one thing and another. They were both trembling. Her heart was waiting and straining within her. He had promised to get at least two tickets but he had said nothing about them and she was afraid to ask.... The door closed on his handsome figure. His night of glory! Nothing would ever be the same and she wouldn't... Be... There.
He had told her he was going to play their song, was going to tell the audience it was dedicated to his mother. But that had been in a moment of generous impulse. He had probably forgotten that too. She whispered to Carl, "He forgot the tickets," and he said, kindly, "I couldn't have gone anyway, my suit's shot. But you get ready and I'll see that you get there." She shook her head and went into her son's room, began picking up the clothes he had dropped across the bed. As she picked up the coat, something fell from the pocket. It was a program of his concert and folded within were two tickets—fourth row, center. Then, he hadn't forgotten... He hadn't forgotten!
As though it had been waiting for her, the curtain went up just as she slipped into the luxurious seat and pressed her hand hard against her heart to quiet its pounding. She was praying: "God, don't let him be afraid. Let him play well. Let these people like him." In a moment he was on the stage. In a moment he was playing, playing as one inspired: "Humoresque," "Hungarian Rhapsody," those hard ones with the difficult names. Then he was stepping forward, smiling, waiting for the applause to die down so he could speak. She knew he was going to play their song and tears welled to her eyes. But she mustn't cry... She mustn't. She blinked hard, looked up, caught his eyes straight upon her. He dropped his gaze, the smile left his lips and he announced his song briefly but he didn't mention her nor did he look that way again.
She tried to tell herself it didn't matter. He played so wonderfully well. He seemed to be playing on her very heart strings. She felt that sometime before he was born, she had put that song of love, of tenderness, of lost hopes and hunger into his soul. She would have liked to have gone back-stage but instead she slipped out unnoticed and hurried to the corner to wait for the streetcar that would take her home.
IT WAS only now, as the spring wind pricked at her coat, and seemed sweet with something of all the springs in the world, that she would admit the hurt she had felt. It was such a little thing to have done for her. No one would have known who his mother was—but she would have known! Out of the night, a car swerved to the curb and stopped, it was a taxicab and Drew was stepping out of it, concern in his eyes.
"Why didn't you wait?" he asked, "I had to break away from everyone to find you."
She said, "I wanted to hurry home and have something for you to eat."
"Oh, we'll get something to eat, down here," he assured her, gaily. "Won't that be a lark, Moms. Just you and me having supper in some nice cafe."
He was sorry. He was trying to make up to her. But her heart was quiet. When they were seated in a booth of the restaurant, he asked timidly, "How was I?"
Her voice was sincere, "You were splendid, dear, wonderful."
"They liked my—our piece, didn't they?"
She nodded her head and those silly tears crowded into her eyes. He looked down. And after a moment he said, "I'm glad you came. I was so sorry about the tickets. I thought of sending a messenger. I prayed you'd find them. I wouldn't have played if you hadn't come."
And after a strained moment, "When I got up to announce my number, gee I wanted to tell them it was you who had made me whatever I was, tell them it was your song. I'd seen myself doing it a hundred times. But when I looked at you, I couldn't."
"You were afraid I'd cry, weren't you?" There was just a note of bitterness in her voice.
He missed it and pressed his hand over his eyes as he said in a small, dear voice, "No, Moms, I was afraid I would. You looked so beautiful sitting there with tears in your eyes, so sure, so sweet. I thought, 'One thing real and sure in a mass of strangeness.' I tried to remember if you always looked so pretty when you cried but I couldn't remember seeing you cry before."
So he had forgotten that boyish remark of long ago. He had forgotten.
When she did not speak he reached across the table and laid his hand over hers, "And Moms dear, I just didn't want to share you with all those strange people. You're so much more wonderful than any of them."
IT WAS one of the moments that come—to some people—once in a life time. Something surged and swelled within her. She knew it would pass, but it didn't matter. She had had her moment of glory and she knew that long after the world had snatched him from her, after the lights and music of this night had been laid away in remembrance, through long days of weariness and work, through nights of loneliness, through moments when people would smile on the streets at her shabbiness and her drooping shoulders (not knowing, of course, who she was) she would be wearing the glory of this moment on her heart.
RECOMPENSE
By Grace Zenor Pratt
I've never owned a garden with lily pond in shade, But I have loved wild columbines in gardens God has made.
I've never sailed the ocean in ship with winged sail, But have seen cloud ships go floating by in misty moonbeams, pale.
I've never owned a landscape by Corot or Millet, Still I may catch their glory in simple scenes each day.
I've never touched a Chinese vase where dragons intertwine, Nor tested fragile crystal cups from Oriental clime— Yet just to glimpse these from afar, is Heaven for a time.
I've never worn against my throat a bit of costly lace, But I have sensed its loveliness, its fragility and grace.
I cannot waken music to breathe at my command... Yet I am glad the heart of me can wake and understand.
I've dreamed of fabled Orpheus with harp and magic lute—, Hearing the note of a wild bird's song, I'd will his music mute.
I do not own a garden fair, which latticed roses shade, But I have seen blue columbines in gardens God has made.
Lotta Paul Baxter
By A. Hamer Reiser
TO do adequate honor to Sister Baxter would require the gifts of a poet and a prophet. I believe a prophet would say that a sound measure of a person's worth can be found in the character and quality of his affections and his loyalties. Judged by this standard Sister Baxter offers a very enlightening and a highly inspirational study. Her affections and her loyalties are well known to all of us. She concealed nothing; with sparkling clarity and superb candor she revealed her heart and soul to her host of friends. We know how fondly she loved all nature. That love was awakened by the simplicity and directness of her keen-eyed Scotch father and nurtured by a refined and cultured mother. From these remarkable parents she acquired the grandeur of her own soul, the richness of her beautiful affections and the nobility of her life-long loyalties.
IT is a matter of common knowledge to all of us how dearly she loved the growing things of God's creation. She loved flowers and they knew it, for they acknowledged her love and returned it a hundred fold by struggling with all the mighty powers of their natures to grow beautiful, fragrant and abundant for her. I do not know of a time when she did not have a few chickens in the coops. It was a lesson of great worth to any one to know how intelligently and sympathetically she fed, sheltered, and protected them. And they responded. Her neighbors have often commented upon the evident contentment and anticipation of her chickens whenever she drew near. She was a life-long friend of the birds and they knew it for they responded by singing to her. Her garden was a bird sanctuary, birds of every variety known in this region visited it, evidently with expectation of friendly treatment. She was alert to welcome them. Though the mulberry trees about her place were otherwise troublesome, she preserved them because they provided food for her friends, the birds. Her love of nature is comparable to that of her famous brother and her skillful sister, both of whom have delighted and inspired their generations by their knowledge of and affection for the beauty and usefulness of the creations of God.
ON the very day of her death a significant tribute was paid her by the little house pet, which she and Aunt Maude and Charles have cared for in the home—a little, dainty, fluffy, white dog. Throughout Sister Baxter's illness this little animal exhibited evident anxiety and concern. It was at her bedside at every opportunity. Death came to Sister Baxter Sunday in the early afternoon. This little animal watched with tender concern as the body was moved to the mortician's carriage. As they moved away, the little animal sank to the floor and without warning illness of any kind, passed away. I do not know how such a strange thing can be explained, unless it be that it preferred death, and by the effort of its will sought that change which would enable it to follow her spirit, because it wanted to follow her just as it had for years, because it found delight in her presence.
THE great affection which is the crowning jewel of her character was her love of people. People were drawn to her by the genuineness of her affection, the depth of her understanding sympathy, the warmth of her regard, the thoroughness of her thoughtfulness and the abundance of her generosity. They delighted in trusting her with confidences. Deposited with her, she returned a liberal rate of interest in the form of sound advice and strength-giving encouragement and when a return of the investment was sought it was always found 100% intact, not one iota given away or depreciated by mismanagement. Her great love of people had its origin in the heritage from her noble parents. This heritage explains her intense love of justice for all mankind, her life-long service and devotion to the betterment of the lives of others. It explains the readiness, the fervor and the thoroughness of the abiding loyalty of her life, her loyalty to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and to the chosen servants of the Lord, who have been called to preside over the Church. She loved the Lord and His Word. The Lord proclaims in the Pearl of Great Price: "This is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." This purpose she adopted as her purpose. It dominated her life; it motivated her service to her fellow men that she might encourage them to obedience, to diligence, to faithfulness and devotion, that they might have claim upon this great blessing and gift of God—immortality and eternal life.
As I sat by her bedside when death was near, she said to me, "Death is as natural as birth, and as welcome." With this serene faith she waited eight long weeks for the end. If she would speak to us now, I know she would say, "As surely as the flowers will bloom in my garden in a few weeks, so surely shall I rise in the world of the spiritual." May the kind Father comfort all of us with the joy of this sublime assurance.
ANOTHER DAY
By John Shearer
The linnet sings its song anew, Its roundelay of love; The sparrow chirps and flits around, The skylark soars above; The morning sun is shining bright, The dewdrop pearls the flowers; Awake my soul, the night is gone, Another day is ours!
Oh joy! To greet another day, To feel the morning breeze, To splash the water into spray, To hear the hum of bees, To smell the scent of morning air, The fragrance of the flowers, Awake my soul, the night is gone, Another day is ours!
One of Ours
(MINERVA KOHLHEPP TEICHERT) By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
SUCCESS, someone has said, is not so much a matter of inherent talent as it is the capacity for concentration and perseverance. Judged by any standard Minerva Kohlhepp Teichert is a success but her life illustrates what persistence can do. Undoubtedly her talent for drawing was inherited. Perhaps there was born with her, too, a talent for perseverance but both qualities were added upon by a rare type of directed effort. There came a time when she tasted the joy of recognition by critics and teachers but not until she had paid the price.
Out of Boston came an educated talented Jew, convert to a new faith. In the West he married a girl who had been bred in that faith. Both had literary and artistic ability. Minerva, their second child, was given all that complete understanding and encouragement could give, but there was no money for painting lessons. Isolated on a farm, miles and miles from a teacher, no money to take her where there were teachers, mere living was a struggle. One less valiant would have wept and succumbed to their lack of opportunity. Not Minerva. "Knock and it shall be opened unto you" had literal meaning for her. She knocked and knocked until doors of opportunity began opening as doors will to those who persist. At thirteen, the age when most girls are just leaving the doll period, she was already making her own living and paying for painting lessons.
MINERVA KOHLHEPP was born in Ogden but in her first months her parents moved to Idaho. There is little about dry-farming and ranching that she does not know. There is little of it she has not put on canvas. In a little store in American Falls she first exhibited. While still a child she dressed a group of dolls in native costumes of every country. They drew a great deal of praise but seemingly took her no nearer an art teacher.
In Pocatello she worked for her board and attended high school. There she met a woman with splendid artistic ability who helped her to other contacts. A Mrs. Sparks who was going to San Francisco needed a girl for nursemaid. Minerva had been preparing herself for just such an opportunity. In San Francisco she found time for work at Mark Hopkins' Art School. After graduating from high school she taught in rural Idaho just long enough to insure a year of study in the East. In February, 1908, she enrolled as a student in the Art Institute in Chicago—and what a student! Once there, nothing less than finishing would satisfy. She worked and schemed and borrowed money in order to stay. By July she had completed the first year's work. In 1912 she completed a three years' academic course beside studying Dramatic Art and Indian Dancing at the Chicago Conservatory of Music.
THE year 1913 found her back in Idaho teaching school, paying debts, writing poetry and finding time to file and live on a homestead near American Falls. It was at this time also that her determination to be a great painter suffered a slight retard. Herman Teichert, who pursued her as persistently as she pursued art, came near winning his case. But before she had quite decided, an offer came to teach art at the University of Utah. Her ambition flared anew and she went to New York for final preparation. At these years her reputation had been growing and hardly had she reached New York when she was offered a scholarship under Robert Henri. Henri had come back to the Art Students League for the year of 1914-15. This big chance swept away all immediate thoughts of homestead, sweetheart, and teaching offer. She was the first to enroll under the master portrait painter and became not only a favorite pupil but a warm personal friend. Some think her portraits show a strong Henri influence. She received other scholarships as well, one under George Bridgeman for draftsmanship.
THE next three years brought Miss Kohlhepp another rare privilege. The war was on. The wealth and culture of the world settled in New York. The Art Students League, fearing complications, would accept no gifts of money, but wealthy patrons of art could and did aid the struggling pupils. This aid came in the form of tickets to things of worth. Minerva Kohlhepp being an advanced student shared generously. Many of her evenings were spent listening to opera, studying theatrical lighting effects, enjoying Russian ballet, etc. During this time her financial problems were still with her but with the determination so characteristic of her she found things to do about it. She had a natural bent for making the most of a dollar and a propensity for finding work along the line she liked. She sketched cadavers for doctors. She painted animals for a series of school books. One afternoon she did a portrait of Wallace Beery dressed in skins for the show Purple Knight. She received fifty dollars for that. She did much work for the movies. Of her the great Henri said, "She is one of the coming woman artists of America."
THE summer of 1917, when war clouds hung so threateningly, Miss Kohlhepp woke to the realization there were other fields of interest far from halls of learning. For the first time in her life painting took second place in her heart. She hurried home to marry her cowboy sweetheart, Herman Teichert. While he served in France she lived on his paternal homestead that in the days of stock companies had been known as Tall Tree Center. Mrs. Teichert loved this old ranch and some of her finest work was done there. She loved the Snake River "bottoms" where the ranch was located. She told of it in verse and story as well as on canvas. It is her delineation of life on the "bottoms" that makes her so essentially an Idaho artist. There was everything in that section to stimulate the artistic urge. From Horse Island to Big Hole, from Ferry Butte to the cataracts at American Falls she gathered her studies. And such a variety! Here were tradition, scenery, and local color. Here she found marsh grass, brown-topped tules, gray-green sage, blue pools and foaming rapids, stretches of meadowland and warm-scented cowpaths, giant gnarled cottonwood, tangy willows and flaming kinnikinick. Here, too, were picturesque cowboys, gaudily attired bucks, squaws in bright blankets and papooses in boards. She studied bucking broncos, dances to the Sun God and the ruins of old Fort Hall.
TRUE to her inheritance, when she married, home and family came first with Mrs. Teichert. She was an artist, trained and capable. But she made sure of her future in a more sure way. She not only converted her husband but did it so well he became a member of the Bishopric in their ward. Her five children are being brought up in the faith. She washes dishes, sweeps floors and makes the beds. She cooks for haymen and is waiting when the children get home from school.
HAS that crowded out her painting? Far from it. Like all who have something to say she finds time to say it. Through her family she knows life and knowing life she does better work. Recently she has turned to Latter-day Saint subjects. During 1935 she sold two paintings to Brigham Young University and two to Montpelier, Idaho, Stake House. Other sales have been made, including murals, to Rock Springs' library. But painting and selling is a continuous performance, for her hands and brain are never idle.
When the Dam at American Falls was completed and the backing up of the water of the Snake River began its work of destruction, Mrs. Teichert clung to her beloved ranch until literally forced away. She watched the creeping waters and wept that so much beauty should be buried forever from sight. She rejoiced, too, for added to a lifetime of memories she carried away with her hundreds of sketches and paintings, preserving for the world that which she loved so well.
Mrs. Teichert's late work includes two groups. One group is on exhibit at the Z. C. M. I. at the present time. One of these "Called to The Powwow," shows her inimitable skill in handling animals in action, something she learned during her long years on the Fort Hall "bottoms." The second group hangs in the Stake House at Montpelier, Idaho. These were painted especially to cover spaces above the organ and are nine feet high. She studied two years to figure out the best way to fill those spaces. The Hotel Utah has a number of her good paintings as does the Brigham Young University, and most prominent schools and churches in the intermountain country. Her exhibiting is done by Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne.
We rejoice in the good things that have come to her. We honor her name for its worth but in the ultimate it is her capacity for growth, her keen sense of values, her faith in the worth-while-ness of life that so definitely places her as "One of Ours."
Edna's Husband
By Mary Ek Knowles
EDNA ARNOLD sat at the big kitchen table, and counted the bills again. "Ten.. Twenty.. Thirty.. Forty.. Fifty-five.. Sixty-five.. Seventy-five.. Ninety-five.. One hundred!" No matter how many times she counted the bills the answer was always the same. She wrinkled her pretty forehead and her blue eyes were troubled. It seemed to her that there should be more money. But there wasn't! And that one hundred dollars represented the Arnold's total worldly wealth. With it they must buy feed for the chickens until they started to lay, pay for any emergencies that might arise, and if eggs didn't bring as good a price as Edna anticipated, pay the taxes on the farm in the fall. It had always been that way, she reflected, as she replaced the bills in an empty chocolate box and tied it with a red ribbon—always on the verge of being poor.
With a sigh she took the box, and went upstairs to make the bed in their big front bedroom, her slim figure, gay in a pink print dress.
IN the first part of March, Tom, who had worked for ten years in a stuffy insurance office, had been taken very ill. "Too much inside work," the doctor had told them. "Either you get a job doing outside work, or—" Neither Tom nor Edna liked the "or" nor the look on the doctor's face when he said it, so at Edna's suggestion they had invested their small savings in the old Penfield place in Crystal Valley, (purchased at a low price because the farm was four miles off the main highway, and the house was rapidly falling apart), bought 800 baby chicks and with all their worldly possessions, consisting of a truckload of furniture and a red steamer trunk given to them by their Uncle Rufus, they had moved into the old Penfield farmhouse the last of March.
At the time, the red trunk had caused some comment. Both Tom and Edna had expected more. Wasn't Uncle Rufus worth millions and hadn't Tom always been his favorite nephew? But it seemed Uncle Rufus had other ideas. The morning of the day they had moved he had driven up in his twelve-cylinder automobile, presented them with the trunk and muttered something about, "nobody staked me when I needed it and I've turned out all right," got in his car and drove away. The exploring of the trunk, once they had overcome their disappointment, still remained the one bright spot in an otherwise dreary and uncertain world. Tom had dived into the trunk with his long arms and brought out a tent-like pair of red and white checkered golf pants. "Why, it's some old woolen clothes of Uncle Rufus. And what taste he has! Just look at this, Ed," he had cried in an affected voice. "Just the thing I've always wanted!" Then much to Edna's amusement he had slipped into the voluminous pants with his long thin legs, cinched the fullness in at the top with a leather belt and strutted about the room. "What the well-dressed farmer is wearing this season." They had agreed hilariously and unanimously that the clothes were suited only for a mad masquerade ball. The trunk was resting now, under the stairway, fast gathering dust.
A WAVE of tenderness swept over Edna as with slender hands she smoothed Tom's side of the bed. It was so characteristically like Tom, the curve of his long body still lifelike beneath the sheet, the pillow bunched up into a ball and at the side of his bed his black oxfords pushed off, one on top of the other, with the laces still tied. With a little laugh she removed a black stocking, hanging like a long nightcap on a staid preacher, from the bedpost. Tom was such a kid. And she was so hopelessly in love with him. She frowned. If only she could change his ideas about spending money. Tom and his philanthropic gestures! In the city he had been an easy mark for every down-and-outer in town. Now that they were in the country it was the same thing. She could not make Tom see that they were on the shaky edge of poverty, that there were no more pay checks coming in. Tom spent money as if he were a millionaire. She punched a pillow with unnecessary vigor.
First there had been the incubator. Tom had come walking up the tree-bordered lane one April morning holding the incubator in his arms. "I've bought an incubator, Eddy." And as Edna started to protest, "Oh, it's a good buy, less than a fourth of what we'd have to pay for a new one." Then he had lowered his voice sympathetically. "Gosh, Eddy, I bought it from a fellow who's got T. B.. He has to get to Arizona or he'll die. Even then, Honey, I doubt if he'll live. Gosh, he's so young." Incidentally, the first time they had used the incubator they had almost burned the chicken coop down.
Then the Miracle Liniment for man or beast. Twenty-four bottles Tom had bought. "I was walking down the road from town, Eddy, when I saw this old man ahead of me. He kind of shuffled along and every few steps he'd go to the side of the road, sit down on a boulder and just sort of crumple up. He had a box he was carrying, too. I thought perhaps I could help him carry it, so I hurried over. 'Can I help you carry this?' I asked. 'If you would, son,' he said in a weary voice. Gosh, Edna, something just came over me as I saw him sitting there looking up at me with faded eyes. Edna, old men oughtn't to look like that. They should have children or grandchildren or someone to look after them. I bought all he had, Edna, and he couldn't even thank me. He just started to cry and walked slowly up the road."
Then the pig! Edna still insisted that the man who sold the pig to Tom was an ex-convict. There had been something in the way his eyes had evaded her straight gaze, something about the gray pallor of his skin. "Well," Tom had said, "what if he is. He's still a human being, still has to live, doesn't he? Gosh, you can't kick a fellow when he's down." Of course the pig hadn't been such a bad buy. A month later she had given birth to a litter of six and Edna would be able to sell them at a good price in the fall.
THE bed made, Edna straightened the bright braided rugs, rearranged the things on top of the vanity dresser and hung their nightclothes in the closet. She must speak to Tom, make him understand how little money they had. As she started to leave the bedroom, she looked out the front window down the lane. Looked and gave a little moan of impatience as a tall man came walking up the lane leading a cream-colored cow at the end of a rope. So that's where the extra money had gone! She slammed the bedroom door and went quickly downstairs, her round little jaw set in a firm line.
"Tom! What have you done?"
Tom Arnold took off his new straw hat, ran his fingers through his dark wavy hair and looked at Edna. "I've bought a cow, Eddy. Didn't you say this morning at breakfast that if we had a cow we wouldn't have to buy milk from Charley Hyslop and we could sell butter, cream and cottage cheese?"
"Oh Tom," Edna denied, "you know I didn't. I said that someday—" she broke off, angry tears starting to her eyes. "Where did you buy her, and how much did she cost?"
"Bought her from Jess Barker, up the road." Tom patted the cow and she looked at him with soft brown eyes. "Only fifty dollars!"
"Oh, Tom, you didn't pay fifty dollars for that bag of bones."
"Isn't a bag of bones, Eddy. It's a thoroughbred Jersey. Just had a calf and she's come in fresh, too. All thoroughbred Jerseys are thin, Jess Barker said so."
"Tom," she protested tearfully, thinking of the few remaining bills in the candy box. "I didn't object so much to the other things. Buying them was just a matter of five or ten dollars at a time, but fifty dollars! You don't seem to realize, Tom, that we have just one-hundred dollars to our name." A feeling of panic swept over her. "That's all we have. With that we must—"
"But Edna, with the cow we can sell dairy products. Just let the crowd in town know we're selling. Why, the cow will pay for herself."
Edna sighed wearily. "All right, Tom, put the cow in the old carriage shed. That's about the only building that isn't falling apart." She turned and walked toward the chicken coops when Tom's voice called her back. She walked back to him.
"What do you want?" Her voice was frigidly polite.
"Got a little kiss for Tommy?"
She turned her head away. Tom took hold of her arms. "Look at me, Eddy. Don't be cross. Gosh, if you'd seen Jess Barker. I've never seen a man so hard up. Didn't get a cent from his crops last year. And he's got about a dozen kids. They're no more'n babies." Edna's face softened. "Probably never had enough to eat, Honey, just all eyes and little thin bodies showing beneath dirty ragged clothes. Gosh, Iedna," he shook his head and the pallor beneath his new tan tugged at Edna's heart. "It 'isn't right for babies to live like that." Bitterness flowed from Edna in a swift stream. Her arms went around Tom's neck. If he should die; if even working in the open air could not make him well! A life without Tom—unthinkable! The arms about her were so thin. I was exactly two hours and seven minutes by the kitchen clock from the time Tom took the shiny tinware pail out to the cowshed until he brought it back. "Seems there's quite a knack to this milking business," he explained self-consciously as Edna looked critically at the scant measure in the pail. "Looks easy until you try it. There was more," he added, "Molly kicked the pail over twice!" 174 Edna scrutinized the milk beneath the kitchen light and wrinkled her nose. "Tom, this milk doesn't smell right. It smells rancid and it looks curdled, too." She frowned. "You don't suppose there's anything wrong with the cow, do you." She had already calculated how much they would make selling dairy products. "Oh no,' Tom = assured her. "Nothin' wrong with the cow. It's just me, the way I milk." But by the end of the week even Tom could see there was something wrong with Molly. "There's something wrong with a cow that won't eat,' Edna told Tom. They were standing in the cowshed looking worriedly at Molly. "She just stands. Won't go out to pasture. Won't eat her bran, and bran to a cow, so I understand, is the same as apple pie to a human. Her milk is rancid, her body so thin. Why look at her, Tom, a good gust of wind would blow her over! What do you suppose is wrong?"
Tom frowned. "I don't know, Edna, but something certainly is wrong." He looked out the door at that moment and saw old Charley Hyslop coming slowly up the lane. "Here comes Charley, perhaps he can tell what's wrong."
Charley Hyslop lived on the next farm east of the Arnold's. He was so far their only acquaintance in Crystal Valley. "Bought the critter from Jess Barker, didn't you?" Charley asked the moment he came through the door. He was a short, bent little man with a seamed face. Slightly lame in one leg he carried a hickory walking stick.
"Why yes," Tom admitted, "I did. But how did you know?"
"How did I know? Only place in Crystal Valley where you could get a beast that looks like that."
"What's the matter with her, Charley?" asked Edna.
"Starved to death." He pointed at the cow with a short gnarled finger. "Look at them back bones, them legs, that neck. Jess Barker don't have enough food for his kids, let alone his beasts. Wouldn't have had a cow in the first place if it hadn't been give to him. Better for the poor thing if it'd never been born."
"But Charley, what can we do about it? We just can't lose the cow!"
Charley shook his head. "Nothin', I'm afraid," he said in a sympathetic voice. "She looks pretty well gone. Although," he said with an attempt at brightness, seeing Edna's worried look, "I once had a sick cow and she didn't die. Might be," he turned and hobbled out the door, "my remedy would help your Molly. I'll go get it."
NEWS travels fast in a small community and the news that Jess Barker had at last sold his cow spread like wild fire. Every adult in the little town held himself responsible. Mrs. Gatherup who drove over one afternoon in the hay wagon expressed the sentiments of them all. "If we'd been more neighborly it wouldn't have happened." She was a large motherly sort of a woman clad in a freshly laundered cotton print dress and a white hat trimmed with red poppies. "We could have warned you. Us that's lived in Crystal Valley all our lives and knows animals wouldn't give Jess Barker's cow a first look, let alone a second one. But you, fresh from the city and all—really, we just feel awful about it. And—" she hesitated as if loathe to place another burden on Edna's slight shoulders, "you can't even get your money back. Last Wednesday Jess Barker bundled his whole tribe up and they all hi-tailed off to his wife's folks in California."
All the next week people drove up the shady tree-bordered lane. As Tom told Edna with a touch of boyishness in his voice, "Gosh, Edna, everyone is good to us. Every person in Crystal Valley's been to call." Like Charley Hyslop, each person brought his own home remedy for the cure of the cow. All of which Edna copied in a neat hand, thanked the donor for, put on the third shelf of the kitchen cupboard and never used. "People are very kind," she told Tom, "but if I used their remedies I'd kill the cow for sure."
Andy Doubleday, the veterinarian, drove over the last of the week. He examined the cow and left some medicine. "Only one chance in a hundred of saving her," he told Edna. Edna paled. "Is it that bad? You mean the cow might die?" Andy nodded. "She was undernourished in the first place and having a calf just about finished her. Of course," he added kindly, "if you could save her she'd be a wonderful cow. She's a thoroughbred Jersey and she'd give good milk."
For the next week the care of the cow became of prime importance to the Arnolds. Three times a day they cooked, bottled, and poured the medicine mixture down Molly's throat. Three times a day they held a handful of bran beneath her nose and prayed hopefully that she would at least sniff at it. Still with all their efforts the cow continued to grow thin, until her body was a frame of sharp bones draped with hide.
All this time Edna was conscious of a feeling of resentment, smoldering like a treacherous fire within her heart. It was all so unnecessary! Tom shouldn't have bought the cow. They would have been spared the time, the trouble and the worry. And the candy box would contain five more crisp ten dollar bills. Forgotten incidents, long buried, lived again and added fuel to the growing flame. The time Tom brought a hobo home for dinner and he walked off with Tom's best suit of clothes; that night just before Christmas when Tom gave their last cent to a widow to buy presents for her brood of five; the time Tom had his car wrecked by a drunken driver. Edna had gone with him to the man's house to demand some restitution and had stayed to hear Tom drop charges because the man was poor and there was no carpet on the floor, and she had seen Tom hand his wife five dollars to buy coal with. She could not make Tom see her point of view!
She began of a sudden to see things about her in their painful crudeness. The old house draughty as a huge barn, with its smoky range, its stuffy pantry, its low, back-breaking sink, all crying for paint and repairs; the broken-down farm buildings, not one fit to stand bitter weather; the tall weeds growing in the front yard; the rickety fence with the creaky old gate. She could see no release from it all. "I shall grow to be like Mrs. Hartwell down the road; careless, with my hair in wisps about my face; old looking from farm drudgery; stupid with nothing to talk about but crops, chickens, eggs, horses, cows, butter and cottage cheese!"
At night in bed she planned means of escape, totally unaware of Tom's thin arms clasping her or his lips pressed against her hair as he slept. She would get her old job back. She would go live with Aunt Ellen. She would run away, anywhere so long as she escaped.
EDNA had just given Molly her evening dose of medicine and Tom was proffering the usual handful of bran when a slight form darkened the doorway. It was Charley Hyslop. He walked around the cow and shook his head. "I'll haul her carcass away for you in my old wagon," he offered kindly.
Edna put her hand on the cow's thin back. "You mean she's dying?"
"Afraid so. Probably won't last the night out. Too bad, too, you young folks have worked awful hard to save her."
After Charley had gone Edna and Tom stood looking sadly at Molly. It had been such a nerve-racking discouraging week. Tom sighed and patted Molly's head. "Funny," he said huskily, "how a person gets attached to an animal now, the way she'd 'moo' when I came in the morning."
Edna said nothing. She could think only that they were about to lose their fifty dollars. Despair descended on her like a dark cloud. She would leave in the morning. Tom would have to work out his destiny alone!
"It's living in the country," Tom went on, "you have a genuine feeling for animals same as you would for a person. Even at that, I don't suppose animals are much different from humans. A sick cow's just like a sick child."
Still Edna made no answer. For the first time in her life she was hating Tom completely, fiercely.
"Say Edna," Tom said of a sudden. "I never looked at it quite that way before. I mean about a sick cow being like a sick child. If a child's sick, what do you do? Why, you give it medicine as the doctor orders and you keep it warm—warm, Edna."
"So what?" asked Edna, smothering a feeling of tenderness at Tom's eagerness.
"We haven't kept Molly warm. If a child is sick, they give it medicine as the doctor orders, put it to bed, cover it with woolen blankets. Wool, Eddy! Haven't we something that's woolen?"
The red steamer trunk containing Uncle Rufus' woolen things came to Edna's mind. "There's just Uncle Rufus' old woolens in the red trunk," she told Tom listlessly. What did it matter? She would be gone in the morning.
"Of course!" Tom ran out the door and returned a few minutes later dragging the trunk after him and puffing hard from exertion. Together—Tom very eager as if clutching at a last straw, Edna halfheartedly, helping only because she could not, even in her anger, splash the ice water of objection in Tom's flushed face—they planned a campaign against death in the little shed.
First the cow must be kept warm. Obviously one couldn't put a cow to bed no matter how much he wished her recovery, so Molly was dressed. Yes, dressed in Uncle Rufus' old woolen clothes! The red trunk was robbed of its contents one by one. The red and white golf pants were fit over the hind legs and up over the hind quarters, a green and purple plaid jacket covered the middle portion (the articles were joined together with a large darning needle threaded with stout twine), the front legs and quarters were in an orange and black striped sweater, and last but not least a bright blue polka dot golf jacket was cut and arranged over the neck and head, leaving only Molly's ears and two startled brown eyes peeking out. The final result was bizarre to say the least and was destined to be the subject of conversation in every home in Crystal Valley and become at last a legend in the little town.
Next, a fire was built close to the cow so that she might have direct benefit of the warmth, and the medicine was kept at the right temperature, not too hot, not too cold. All night long the Arnolds fed, warmed and watched the cow. It was a difficult and tedious job. It was discouraging to Edna, yet, in spite of herself, she had caught Tom's enthusiasm.
It was so discouraging that Tom under stress of emotion made a confession. "Eddy," he confessed, standing close to her and looking down at his feet. "I never should have bought the cow. I knew it at the time, too. Really, I did. Something seemed to tell me the cow wasn't any good." He raised his head and Edna saw how tired he was, his pale face lined with weariness, beads of sweat standing out on his forehead. "But there were those kids, Edna, so hungry, all eyes, looking pleadingly at me. I can't blame you for not understanding what I mean. Sometimes, Edna, I don't understand myself the way I feel when I see someone hurt or cold or hungry. It's just as if I couldn't bear to walk on and do nothing about it." He turned his head away. "Why you stick to me, Edna, I don't know. I've always been a drawback to you. I realize that now. I wouldn't blame you if you'd leave me."
Suddenly he was on his knees before her. "Give me one more chance, Eddy, and I promise I'll never do such a thing again. Next time I'll—I'll look the other way and pass by."
Edna brought her face close to his. "You mean it, Tom? You promise me that?" She drank deeply of triumph's sweet draught. "You promise, Tom?"
"I promise."
At three o'clock in the morning the cow mooed faintly and ate hungrily a whole handful of bran.
A MONTH later Edna stood at the bedroom window looking down at the cow grazing in the field. She looked strong and lively enough now. To think that Uncle Rufus' odd gift had saved her! Edna was happy to-day. The chickens were starting to lay and there was every indication that she would get a good price for eggs. The cow was well and giving rich creamy milk. She'd been offered a good price for the pigs.
She walked over to the front window. "Someday," she planned, "we'll make that field into an orchard. We'll plant peach trees, apple trees, cherry trees. We'll plant the west field, now overrun with weeds, with golden life-giving wheat. We'll repair the farm buildings, paint the house, plant a lawn."
Suddenly she stopped and clutched the pink net curtain in her hand. Face pressed against the windowpane she watched a man walk up the lane leading a sway-backed tired-looking old work horse at the end of a rope. It was Tom and he had bought a horse!
Edna's body stiffened with antagonism. She would leave him, now, today! He had broken his promise to her. With angry eyes she watched as Tom led the horse to the pump and filled a bucket with clear cold water. The horse drank thirstily and Edna noticed for the first time that his body was flecked with white foam; that raw welts glowed cruelly across his back as if a bestial hand had wielded a whip on a body too old, too broken to go on. The horse raised its head and with dripping nose nuzzled Tom's arm. In that movement Edna saw the thankfulness, the contentment of all things abused who have at last found peace and rest.
IN that instant her body relaxed and she dropped on her knees to the floor by the window. "Tom, Tom," she sobbed quietly against the net curtains, "what a fool I've been. I thought I could change you. You, to whom kindness is as the very bone and fiber of your being—inseparable. You'll never change. And I—I, Edna, take thee, Thomas, for what thou art."
She dried her eyes and went quietly downstairs.
COMMON THINGS
By Claire Stewart Boyer
In having just the common things— An unpretentious home, A little, rounded flower plot, A dream in which to roam, Here is a life that offers grace To anyone in any place.
To love the ordinary things— The gentleness of light, The lifted strength of mountains, The swallows in their flight, Here is a happiness as free As one could wish for it to be.
And when the simple things are shared— A loaf of new-baked bread, A sudden sight of loveliness, A thought the master said, Here is a living high and strong To which our common hearts belong.
Woman's Part
By Vernessa Miller Nagle
FROM the slave of man to man's equal socially, politically, and intellectually, represents many years of growth on the part of woman. Time was when women, theoretically, were perpetual minors, subjected to the control of fathers, husbands, or guardians. Through the years woman has made strides in feminine progress.
From Eden to Christ represents chronologically a long period of human growth. Out of this dim past emerges annals of the achievements of such characters as Rebekah, mother of Jacob; Miriam, the prophetess; Rachel, the beloved; Helen of Troy; Ruth, the gleaner; Abigail, the beautiful peacemaker; Dido, founder of Carthage; Sappho, greatest Greek poetess; and numerous other personalities.
During the Medieval Ages woman began gradually to outgrow her traditional bondage. We recall the name of Philippa, founder of Queen's College, England; Beatrice, inspiration of Dante; Laura, immortalized by Petrarch; Joan of Arc; and Anne of Bretagne, patroness of learning.
Among those who achieved renown and accomplished deeds during the nineteenth century are Lucretia Mott, Mary Lyon, Frances E. Willard, Clara Barton, Florence Nightingale, and others far too numerous to mention.
Of the achievements of woman during the twentieth century we are more or less familiar. Woman has taken her place beside man in the professions, industries, politics, art, and science. At the time the Nineteenth Amendment became a part of our law there was ended a struggle of almost a century's duration. At this time suffrage had gained acceptance in many countries of the world. As civilization has progressed through the ages, mankind has learned that the most desirable society is the result of men and women working side by side, shouldering alike the responsibilities of our nation's betterment and growth.
AND now, after a struggle that has extended over a period of many hundred years, has woman become more or less passive? Has she become self-satisfied with the assurance that her laurels have been won, and that there are no new fields of endeavor? Is it possible that we are resting on our oars?
It is not so much the need of new fields of conquest that should concern women as the giving of her talent to the problems that encompass our everyday life. Never in the history of our nation has there been greater need for women to strive for the solidarity of our people. We must set up the kind of homes that will build for the security of tomorrow's society. Let us rediscover the loyalty of our pioneer mothers. Let us exercise the foresight of enlightened women of today.
Among the nations of the world there are constant threats of war. The rattling of sabres is heard in the distance. Have we American women sufficiently united our efforts and thoughts on peace? Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt when asked recently her opinion regarding world peace had this to say: "If the women of the world could catch the spirit of internationalism and unite in an active world peace movement, there would be no staying their hands. But without decision and unity women are simply submerged in mass opinion and war continues to threaten the world."
Women have been accused as being hysterical in their reactions to threats of approaching wars. The woman heart anticipates the horrors of war, for it is she who has borne the sons of battle. Only the united effort of the mothers of the world will prevent the chaos we abhor—beleaguered cities, garrisoned fortifications, human suffering, and war's hideous aftermath.
The crime situation in our country, we are told, is deplorable. England has made remarkable progress in the eradication of crime. There is much to be done in America—in your town, in my town. The doctrine of Elizabeth Fry, though first scoffed at, has now become the theory of the world, and its successful operation has become an incentive to the enthusiastic social worker. Woman's aim has always been to use preventative and remedial measures rather than punitive measures in dealing with crime. With neither clamor for applause nor desire for recompense women must continue their work along this line.
We complain of the liquor situation in the United States, but too many of us have reasoned that the liquor problems were government problems and therefore outside the realm of woman's activity. "Build ye your cities for your little ones." No condition should be permitted which is detrimental to the youth of our land. Far too many of us are contented knowing that our homes are happy and that we are warm and well fed. Should one be content in a world that is crying for help—in a time that is taxing the world's thinkers?
THE epilogue to the drama of woman's influence in moulding the destinies of the world has its setting in the far distant future but the enactment of the scene of today's achievement is in progress now. Just how well will woman play her part in this drama of life? Woman, unbigoted and unafraid, must continue to work.
PULSE OF PROGRESS
By Sadie Willes Adamson
WHILE strolling one day my eyes fell upon a wee tot climbing a rude ladder, trying in vain to reach a white rose that nodded and swayed in the sunlight and gentle breeze. There were numerous buds in reach but the tempting white rose seemed elusive to the little hand. Secure from sight I stood transfixed as the mother of the child came into view. There was no hint of alarm in her quiet voice, although the tot had climbed to quite a height as she said, "Steady son, climb higher." Instantly the little hands gripped the ladder, stepped a round higher and reaching steadily once more, obtained the rose.
Years later I met the tot now grown to manhood. His achievements were wonderful. I asked, "How do you account for your success?" I waited but a moment for the answer. "My mother was my inspiration, she constantly encouraged me to climb higher."
Encouragement is the pulse of progress. Thus we grow.
A Splendid Hobby But A Poor Business
By Carlton Culmsee
ONE of the most fascinating hobbies in the world has probably the fewest devotees. I refer to verse-writing. Wait! Don't hasten to tell me that the mails are full of verse manuscripts shuttling to and fro between wistful poet and exasperated editor. That may be true. But only a few of these myriad poets are making a hobby of their writing. Most of them are trying to produce something salable. They are not writing for the joy of it but in the hope of gain. There's a vast difference, and the difference is that between a recreation and a little business which would be sordid if it were financially successful.
If the housewives and stenographers, bookkeepers and grocery clerks, teachers and business men who write verse could free themselves more from the hunger for gain and the thirst for quick glory, they could find in poetry a new world in which they could expand their souls and grow more capable of enjoying life. They could draw exquisite delight from what is now, for most of them, little more than apish and slavish labor.
If only we could forget that Miss Blank received a check for $20 from Such-and-Such Magazine for only 14 lines of poetry! If only we could forget that Byron "awoke to find himself famous." Then we might approach poetry as a labor of delight. And if we could, we should find rich compensation.
ONE delight may be called the "game thrill." The verse-writer wrestles with a rhyme scheme whose difficulties are allied to those of a crossword puzzle. Conquering a Spenserian stanza or a Petrarchian sonnet for the first time is exhilarating. The French forms, those involved arabesques called rondeaux and villanelles and triolets, are full of challenges to nimble wits. The most exacting of them all, the ballade, that rack on which many a thought has been stretched and twisted out of all human shape and color, yields the wildest thrill of all when solved at last.
Stringing vari-colored words together on undulating strands of rhythms brings a high type of pleasure. When, through one's own writing, one learns that rhythms are vehicles of emotion, not arbitrary intricacies, and that variation of the basic rhythmic pattern may be done to convey thought and feeling more emphatically, one has gained something that will enrich appreciation mightily. Then a person can, for example, begin really to appreciate Milton's musicianship in verse. Heightened appreciation brings a broader vision, and a fuller relief for your feelings. Getting the most out of a great master of poetry means giving him a better opportunity to make articulate your own human feelings.
BUT the deepest satisfaction that may be gained from verse-writing as a hobby is, of course, self-expression. Did you ever have in childhood an irritating splinter you couldn't find for days? Do you recall the relief that came when you at last removed the splinter? For a moment the warm, relaxed feeling flowed far from the injured finger or foot to all parts of the body, a delicious sense of well being. There are thoughts like splinters; some are more like whole cactus leaves. They are prickly and unpleasant; they rankle. Writing poetry is a good way to get rid of these thoughts, or at least relieve the pressure. But the writer must express his own true feelings, not something he does not feel. He must follow the advice which Sir Philip Sidney heard from his Muse: "Fool, look in thy heart, and write."
Look frankly into yourself and try to find what are the deeply important things in your life, the sources of your actions. Be honest with yourself. In this, you will be aided by avoiding the great subjects in the common classifications, love poems, death poems, and so on. As Rainer Maria Rilke, Austrian poet, once wrote: "Avoid above all those patterns which are too easy and common; these are the most difficult, because a great, ripened art is needed to give freshness..."
Work with your own personal likes and dislikes, hurts and exaltations. Do not try to be a hero of grand passion, or try to express all woes and joys for mankind in every poem. Do not be self-conscious. Write freely to please your own heart. And strange as it sounds, this is a type of selfishness that ultimately is most generous. If you have real artistic sensibility and if you develop your expression long enough, some day in relieving your own private feelings you will find yourself writing poems that can help relieve the emotions of all. Then your hobby will have blossomed into the fragrance and beauty of art.
THE BIBLE
Ten million Bibles printed in three hundred and twenty-five languages are sold each year. An English magazine a few years ago sent a communication to one hundred of the greatest men in Great Britain, asking this question: "If for any reason you were to spend a year absolutely alone, in a prison for instance, and could select from your library three volumes to be taken with you as companions in your period of retirement, please inform us what those three books would be." The inquiry was sent to peers of the realm, prominent leaders in politics, judges, authors, manufacturers, merchants, gentlemen of leisure—men who would represent every aspect of successful life. In the answers it was found that ninety-eight of the hundred men named The Bible first on the list of the three books to be chosen.
The Lotus Eater
By Mabel S. Harmer
Chapter X
TWO days after Nina's wedding Mr. Winters called for her answer and Helen gave it to him very happily and very decidedly. "I am going to act upon your suggestion," she said smiling, "and put my ability to the greatest use. I believe that I have real ability as a wife and homemaker if I work real hard at the job."
"And there is no finer career in all the world," answered Mr. Winters heartily. "We shall be sorry to lose you but I am sure that you are making a wise decision."
After he had left, Helen lay back dreamily in her chair and closed her eyes. The house seemed quiet and almost deserted after the hurry and excitement of the wedding. She was glad to have her mind made up and be at peace with herself at last. She was going back—back to her home and husband. She wondered now how she could have tarried so long, for the reasons which had seemed so urgent in the past became rather trivial in her mind now.
She had almost dropped off to sleep when she heard Danny's voice outside mingled with some of his little playmates. "I've got an uncle that's a policeman," said one little fellow proudly. "That's nothing," chimed in another voice, "I've got an uncle that is a soldier. A real soldier." There was a pause which Danny broke by announcing in a highly superior voice, "Ho! Those are only uncles. My very own Daddy is a cowboy." "I'll bet he isn't," one skeptic remarked. "I'll bet you haven't even got a Daddy," came a second voice. "Yes I have," cried Danny, his voice rising. "I have too got a Daddy and he is a real cowboy."
Helen waited to hear no more but ran outdoors and gathered Danny in her arms. He looked up at her as if he were half pleading with her to confirm his words and she cried, "Of course you have a Daddy, sweetheart, and we are going home to him right away. Shall we start tomorrow?" The tears which had threatened to fill Danny's eyes receded and he answered happily, "Yes, let's go tomorrow and take my dog."
HELEN rather surprised her family when she announced her sudden departure but they all took it very calmly. In fact, Ted and Marvin announced that they were glad she had finally decided to go home because they had been planning on spending the summer at the ranch and they wanted to be sure that there was a good cook around.
"It's rather hard to lose two daughters in one week," her father said, as he stood near the train that was to take Helen and Danny back to Wyoming, "but I guess that is what parents with pretty daughters can expect."
"Now be honest and say that you are really glad to see me go," laughed Helen.
"I didn't dare say so before," he answered with an understanding smile, "but I really am glad to see you go. A wife's place is by her husband's side and I was just beginning to be a little bit worried. Especially after that radio business came up."
"I'm afraid that I have been eating lotus," said Helen with a whimsical smile, "but I don't believe I was in any real danger. And I believe it will be much more fun to stay at home and hear the radio music instead of sending it out. Next time we come we'll bring Dan with us, if we have to bring the lambs too," she finished brightly.
Her heart sang in rhythm with the wheels of the train as they journeyed eastward. She was leaving the land of perpetual sunshine. She was going back to long, hard winters, to an ugly ranch house without any modern conveniences and perhaps to many hours of loneliness again, but it didn't matter. She was going home and she was going to the man she loved.
SHE had made up her mind to go so quickly that there had not been time to write to Dan and telegraph delivery was more or less uncertain at the ranch so she decided to go unannounced and take him by surprise. There was a chance that he wouldn't be there at all for he was often away with the cattle or the sheep but she would have to risk that now.
There was no one at the train to take passengers out to Green Valley so she searched around Junction City until she found a man with a car who would make the trip. She and Danny sat in the front seat with the driver and the rear seat was piled high with their luggage, including the precious radio. She had bought a very fine one, explaining that "it was all her concert and theatre money for the next five years rolled into one."
Danny hadn't forgotten for one minute that he had promised to bring home a dog and the little woolly animal had been hugged tightly in his arms during the entire trip. It was soiled and very much the worse for wear by now but Danny was sure that his Daddy would prize it just as highly as he did.
The tender green of the mountain foliage caught at the poetic in Helen's heart as it had always done and she found herself singing softly as they rolled along over the canyon road. Danny was in transports of joy and kept demanding that each turn in the road be the last one before they reach home. Finally they did emerge from the canyon and looked down upon the peaceful little valley below them. "Look Danny," said Helen pointing off into the distance, "over there is our very own home."
Her heart beat with mixed emotions as they covered each mile toward the old ranch house. Dan's letters had been brief and not too cordial the last few months. Suppose he no longer wanted her back? Such a possibility had not entered her mind before and she wondered now why she had felt so very sure of her welcome. She had been able, at least until just lately, to justify her long absence to her own satisfaction, but she had always known that Dan did not share quite the same viewpoint. She had been hoping that Dan would be home. Now she was not quite so sure that she would be very sorry if he were away long enough for her to get her bearings, at least.
They drove finally into the yard and glancing up, she saw smoke coming out of the chimney. So he was there, after all!
SHE paid the driver and gave him instructions for unloading her luggage, then clasping Danny by the hand, she made her way into the house. She opened the kitchen door and stepped inside. It was spotlessly clean and looked very cozy and homelike, all of which rather surprised her. The old range had a fire burning in it and the various pans on the stove with their contents bubbling merrily within, gave promise of a savory dinner. Her pretty dimity curtains had been freshly laundered and a scarlet geranium bloomed between them upon each window sill.
There was no one in the kitchen, but Helen heard someone moving about in the front room and she stood clutching Danny's hand tightly as the steps came nearer. The door opened and Helen was startled to see, instead of the tall form of her husband, a young and pretty woman. The two women stared at each other in surprise. Wild and incoherent thoughts raced through Helen's mind but she said nothing. Finally the other woman smiled and said, "How do you do?" Then as a light seemed to dawn she took a step nearer and asked, "Are you Helen?"
Helen nodded and sank into a nearby chair. If there were any shocks to bear she felt that she could take them better sitting down.
"I am Rowena," continued the other woman. "Orval's wife, you know."
"Oh," gasped Helen in quick relief, "I thought—" she stopped in confusion. It would be just as well, perhaps, not to say that she thought Dan might have grown weary of her long absence and divorced her. She smiled at her newly acquired sister-in-law and went on, "Dan told me that his brother had married but he didn't tell me your name. I'm so glad."
"We live in the Sperry house just down the road," Rowena continued. "I have been coming over each day to clean things up a bit for Dan. I suppose he won't need me any more now."
Helen went over and put an arm around her. "He may not, but I shall. You'll come over often, won't you?"
"Thank you. I'd love to. It does get rather lonesome at times when Orval is away with the sheep. I'll run along now. Dan is just out in the field, he'll be here any minute."
AFTER Rowena had gone, Helen removed hers and Danny's light wraps and set two more places on the table. Danny was hungry so she put him up to the table and gave him his supper. While he was eating she ran through the rest of the house. It was much the same as when she had left it. It was still an old weather-beaten ranch house brightened up somewhat with gay curtains and paint but it was her home and she loved it.
She ran back to the kitchen when she heard the door close after Dan. He was standing just inside the door looking at Danny as if he were a dream that might disappear if he spoke. Helen gave a little cry and ran into his arms. She clung to him for a moment and then Dan held her away at arm's length.
"Is it for good, this time?" he asked in a low tense voice.
"Oh, my dear!" she cried, stung by the hurt in his voice.
"I couldn't stand to lose you again," he said simply.
Helen was once more close in his arms. "You'll never lose me," she said softly. "I love you, Dan."
"I'm here too," said a small voice at Dan's knees and reaching down he lifted his sturdy son up between them.
"So you are," nodded Dan happily. "We're all here, together."
(The End)
Rather Than Great Riches
By Kate Wilde
IN all walks of life since the beginning of time, men have acknowledged the desirability of a good name. If you have read Shakespeare's tragedy "Othello," you will recall that Iago pretended friendship in order to destroy a reputation. That he realized the enormity of his action is shown in his words to Othello:
"Good name in man and woman, dear my lord, Is the immediate jewel of their souls: Who steals my purse steals trash; 'tis something, nothing; 'T was mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands; But he that filches from me my good name Robs me of that which not enriches him, And makes me poor indeed."
Shakespeare, however, was not the first to express this truism. Some 2500 years before his time, Solomon is credited with these words: "A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favor rather than silver and gold." (Proverbs 22:1.)
Not only in the fields of literature and religion, but men in industry and business have recognized the necessity of a good reputation. Andrew Carnegie, the American manufacturer, who in one year alone gave over one hundred thirty million dollars to philanthropy, once said: "I would prefer to lose my wealth rather than my good name and character which I have tried hardest to maintain."
A GOOD name comes as the result of living in accordance with high standards and ideals, and is upheld and sustained by one's character. As Latter-day Saints, our ideals are second to none. In our various organizations and gatherings we have ample opportunity to learn what these are and to gain the strength and determination to make them part of our daily lives. Because only as knowledge is transformed into action does it really help us or others.
ONE standard that will help build a good name is honesty. Many men in secular history have led exemplary lives in this respect. They were honest, not because it is the best policy, but because it is right. This should include honesty to ourselves as well as to others. We are frequently most gullible where our own arguments are concerned. Paul advises us: "Provide things honest in the sight of all men." (Rom. 12:7.)
Another standard is dependability or trustworthiness. However gifted an individual may be, his service to mankind cannot be very great unless he is where he should be, prepared to do what is expected of him, when he is needed.
THE true nobility of the earth are those who work and serve. Being industrious can do much to maintain a good name. I have been told about a man who has many fine qualifications. He has a gift for oratory, and is usually engaged in some phase of church or community activity. But when there is work to be done, if his eloquence can induce his wife or children to do it for him, he feels just as well satisfied with himself as people do after a good day's work. So in spite of his fine characteristics, because he lacks industry, he does not stand very high in the estimation of those who know him well. The biographies of the great benefactors of mankind show that they were not afraid of work. The Savior's life was preeminently a life of toil.
BEING charitable is another admirable standard. As accuracy is the mark of a trained mind, charity should be the mark of highly developed spirituality. Religion didn't need to teach man self-preservation, but it did need to teach him consideration for others. It was the Savior who taught us we should bear one another's burdens. A man's responsibility in this respect is bounded only by his understanding, his vision, and his capacity to serve.
ANOTHER standard, humility, is closely allied with other virtues such as tolerance and forgiveness. If we have a true outlook on life, we aren't apt to be conceited; the truer the vision of life, the greater the humility. David sang: "What is man that thou art mindful of him, and the son of man that thou visitest him?" (Psalm 8:4.) Great men are usually humble because they can readily see how insignificant they really are in the great scheme of things. If we are truly humble, we will find it difficult to be unforgiving or intolerant.
We might go on almost indefinitely naming social standards that will help build worthy character and reputation. If an individual is striving to be honest, dependable, industrious, charitable and humble, he has a good foundation for righteous living.
SHAKESPEARE suggests that others may rob us of our good name. For this reason, we should be careful that we do not, either intentionally or thoughtlessly injure the reputation of others. True, if they are innocent of wrong doing, and continue to maintain their high standards, time will re-instate them in the estimation of others, but until then they may endure much needless suffering.
No doubt each of us inherited a name that was good and honorable. But only through our own righteous efforts can we retain it, for each individual must make a name for himself— "there is but one day, one hour, one moment for action, and that is the present—not yesterday nor tomorrow but today. So let us build our lives today, using the opportunities at hand, meeting situations and people as they are—having respectful consideration for the past, and great but not unwarranted hope for the future—doing each hour the common-sense, intelligent thing, following the consistent program in pursuit of true happiness."
We should realize that success doesn't always mean position nor wealth; but the importance and desirability of a good name should always be paramount in our lives. A good reputation is its own reward. It brings to the possessor a satisfaction that nothing else can. Truly, a good name is to be chosen rather than great riches.
Discovering Our Children
By Virginia and Drew Jacobsen
SPRING IS HERE—in fact, the whole year is here with its many ways of helping us discover and get acquainted with our children. As parents we are constantly confronted with the problem of understanding our youngsters, of finding ways into their confidence. We are inclined to hunt intricate ways of doing this, while all about us are rich opportunities which too often are unused. Nature has surrounded us with perfect settings for parent and child confidences; settings which erase age differences and make confidence easy and natural.
What could be more delightful for parent and child than a brisk walk in the early hours of a spring morning? It is a perfect beginning for a joyous day. No child could leave home for school, work or play, feeling grumpy after seeing the world awaken while walking and talking with Mother or Dad. Troubles and annoyances seem so trivial after watching the sun rise in quiet majesty. Understanding and love creep into our hearts as we see the shadows of night fade into roseate hues of the new-born day. Mother and Dad seem a little more human and understanding at such a time, especially if the child is lonely and needs an understanding friend. There is no room for doubt or fear in the mind of the child who walks at dawn with his parents.
At the close of the day, a stroll in the quiet evening will erase unhappy memories or bring a perfect finish to the day. There is something in the sound of the birds nestling down for the night, the evening song of the crickets, and the rustle of the cool green leaves that draws hearts together. Most children will respond to wise parental advice and will open the windows of their souls during an evening stroll as they will at no other time. It is a natural time for confidences. The stars, the moon, and the evening magic were not intended for lovers alone; they provide a glamorous setting for parent and child confidences as well. The child forgets the span of years between and feels on a par with his parent. Such evenings become mile posts in his life, remaining with him always.
THERE is so much about present-day living that is unnerving and fatiguing, that we should use every opportunity to escape from the turmoil and find peace and quiet. Picnic and camping trips provide occasions for change and rest which the whole family needs. After a strenuous day of work and play, a picnic in the country, the woods, or the mountains brings a soul tranquility which helps us forget unpleasant things. On such outings, parents and children grow close together, drawing the whole family into sweet unity.
Dorothy Canfield Fisher, in her book The Brimming Cup, gives us a beautiful picture of parental understanding. The following incident is quoted with permission of the author and her publishers, Harcourt, Brace and Company. Little Paul, age ten years, has gone camping with old Mr. Wells, who is more than seven times Paul's age.
"'You must have done this before,' said Mr. Wells, respectfully; 'you seem to know a good deal about camping.'
'Oh, I'm a good camper, all right,' agreed Paul. 'Mother and I have gone off into the woods lots of times. When I was littler, I used to get spells when I was bad. I do still, even now once in a while.' Mr. Wells did not smile, but continued gravely eating his bread and bacon, his eyes on the little boy. 'I don't know what's the matter. I feel all snarled up inside. And then the first thing you know I've done something awful. Mother can tell when it gets started in me the least little teeny bit. How can she tell? And then she takes me off camping. She pretends it's because she's feeling snarled up herself. But it's not. She never is... We light out for the woods, Mother and I. The snarleder up I feel, the further we go. We don't fish or anything. Just leg it, till I feel better. Then we make a fire and eat.'"
What a priceless understanding of her child that mother had, and what a lasting appreciation for his mother the child developed. No discipline or trying to talk him out of those black moods could have accomplished half as much.
Most fathers need to make opportunities for spending more time with their children, particularly their sons. The fishing streams, with their allure for most men and boys of all ages, provide a companionable setting for father and son. Dad loses his stern business air and becomes a boy again; feels as son feels about life and so can understand his problems. Son finds that Dad is really quite human, after all, perhaps he could help with that problem which has been bothering him. Sitting by the stream fishing, he finds it wasn't such a hard problem, with Dad to help him see through it. Fathers who make such opportunities to get acquainted with their sons seldom lose them through misunderstanding or wrong doing.
Children, living in the constant tumult of city life with its noise and hurry, appreciate peace and quiet. A few weeks of the summer spent in the mountains, on a farm, on a motor trip, or by the sea will do surprising things for the family morale. One summer we decided to take our three children to the mountains, away from the heat of the city. We were somewhat dubious about the outcome of a vacation away from playmates, for our children seemed to constantly require someone to play with. After a week of blissful cool and quiet, little Jan cuddled up beside Mother on the porch and opened her heart. "Isn't it quiet, Mother. Everything seems to be so happy! I wish we could live here always, where it is so peaceful." Not once during the seven weeks in the canyon did the children express a desire for someone to play with. We all found each other in simple things—in the clouds, the trees, the moon and the stars, by the evening bonfire, on long hikes, picking wild flowers and learning their names.
HAVE you ever gone on a voyage in the clouds with your child? It is such fun to drift along on a great billowy cloud as it moves sedately through the deep blue expanse. But when the fleecy clouds turn to dark grey ones, and the sky begins to look angry and the lightning flashes, then you have a real opportunity to look into the soul of your child. If he is afraid, you have the chance of a lifetime to show him courage. Teach him to laugh as the flash of lightning illuminates the world. It is mother nature's holiday and she is setting off giant fireworks. How good it is to stand together, hand in hand, watching such flamboyant beauty. There is no room for fear of storms when parent and child stand out in the open watching nature at play.
And then comes the rain! What fun it is to listen as the raindrops dance on the roof or the window pane, or to walk in a gentle rain and feel its freshness on face and hands, and to smell the sweetness of the earth as it drinks in the refreshing moisture. The child who watches nature at her work and play, with understanding parents, learns to find joy and peace in the very things which bring fear and loneliness to less fortunate children.
In the winter, you may not care to ski, skate, or toboggan with your children. Such sports may be a bit too strenuous for you, but there is a way you can enter into the occasion with your youngsters. A cheerful fire and a warm supper waiting when they return home with their friends will bring you close to their hearts. Your thoughtfulness will endear you to them and they will welcome you into their fun. If your children are small, there are few things more fun than a sleighride with Dad guiding the sled down the hill. It is really fun for Father too, and will take years off his burdened shoulders, even if it does put a few aches in his legs.
A quiet winter evening spent before the glowing fire, telling stories; singing songs, toasting toes and marshmallows, provides glowing embers to light the future fires of an inspired life.
Is spring to you just a time for house cleaning? Are March winds just something to be endured? Try taking your children into the country or up on the hills to fly kites. On the way you will see the first robins, the trees and bushes bursting with buds, the early spring bulbs pushing their green noses out of the earth. You will find a new meaning to spring.
IT takes such little things to paint lasting pictures on the memories of our children; pictures which they will recall in later years; pictures which will help them over many difficulties. In years to come, it won't be the lavish gifts they will remember us for. A windy day on a hill with a kite high in the air, a swim together, a hike through autumn leaves, a baseball game with Dad pitching, a moonlight stroll with Mother—these are the memories that will be etched on the minds of our children. They will perhaps forget the many gifts under the Christmas tree, but the memory of Christmas carols with Mother or Dad at the piano and the family gathered around will come back at Christmastime each year.
"But, I haven't time to do all these things!" we hear you exclaim. Is your job merely to clothe the child's body, or are his mind and soul part of your glorious responsibility? Most of us are so occupied with the physical side of life that we lose sight of the spiritual and aesthetic. The physical comforts or the lack of them are not quite so important if we have learned the true value of the gifts of nature which cost us nothing.
Spring and summer in the lives of our children should mean watching new things grow—flowers, grass, vegetables, puppies, kittens, chicks. If possible each should have a part in the planting and care of a little garden of his own, even if it is only a window box or a bowl of lilies. Let him feel the richness of the good earth in his hands and learn the strength that comes from it. The sandpile offers a good introduction to the earth and provides the child his own little plot of ground in which to dig as he chooses. This also provides a rich opportunity for parent and child to get acquainted. Teach him the wonders of the world as you build mountains, valleys, rivers, lakes, and castles together. Most children soon tire of riding up and down on a tricycle or wagon, no matter what they cost, but give them a little earth or sand to dig in and note the happy hours they will spend in joyous content. The child who knows the clouds, wind, rain, flowers, birds, insects, and the rising sun, is seldom a lonely child. But the child, who is stranger to all these and depends on purchased pleasures, is usually restless and lonely because he desires something new and different to entertain him and keep him happy. This child has a false conception of life; someone has failed him.
THE child, who stands with his parents at the close of the day viewing the glories of the setting sun, has riches money cannot buy. Pent-up feelings, misunderstandings sink with the sun and in their place comes the radiant glow of joy and contentment. By his side are pillars of strength and understanding to steady him in life's thrilling adventure.
Yes, Spring is here! The whole year is here with countless ways of helping us discover our children.
Children's Reading
By Florence Ivins Hyde
No. III—Heroic Period
"Could we give one gift to every child, we should choose the love of books." —William Frederick Bigelow.*
A BOOK may inspire as well as inform; it may mold ideals as well as supply ideas; it may color the outlook as well as present the facts of life. For these reasons it is important that the child have guidance in his reading, or careful selection as to what is read to him.
BOYS and Girls will read, and at the period between 12 and 14 they want something exciting. If good stories are not provided they will find cheap ones. Mothers should know the nature of bad books that fall into children's hands if they would successfully guide their children's reading.
There are two classes of bad books: First—The thrilling tale of impossible adventure, weak, sentimental, and enervating; neither strong enough to incite to action, nor aiming to inculcate noble ideas of right or wrong. Second—The really vicious tale, presenting false standards of life and morals, under the glamor of the sensational love-story, or the daring adventures of criminals, detectives or other questionable heroes. Where good things are provided, children will come to see the worthlessness of these things, but unless they are, their views of life will be colored by them.
*Courtesy Good Housekeeping Magazine.
HAWTHORNE, in his story of the "Great Stone Face", gives us a picture of a boy growing up under the influence of a high ideal. Loving the granite profile on the mountain side, which expresses to him what is best in human character, he grows to be like it. Such is always the result of companionship with the great and good. Read this story to the family every few months, not only for its inspiration but for the beauty of the lines and the choice of words.
Let us never trust to luck hoping that our boys will turn out all right even if we do not supply them with the proper material. Things just don't happen that way. When we feel that the associates of our boys and girls are not just right, there is a world into which they may enter and find companionship—the world of books. They may "wander in the woods with Hiawatha, sail the seas with Sinbad the Sailor, build stockades with Robinson Crusoe, joust with Sir Galahad and play football with Tom Brown." From these playmates they will learn to be brave, self-reliant, manly, thoughtful of others and straightforward. We cannot afford to let our boys grow up without the friendship of these companions who will make them strong and true.
At this age when impressions are still made quickly, a child needs an antidote for bad companionship and it can be found in the covers of a good book. Unless a boy is given a true hero he will set up a wrong sort, perhaps the bully of the school. But if he once knows these fine characters in books, he will hold them as his ideals.
BOOKS influence us in two ways, aesthetically and morally. They affect taste and character. One who is called a great educator has said. "If during the first 12 years of a child's life he has been made familiar with the best literature, adapted to his thought, there need be no fear that he will ever read unworthy books. One who has not been thus trained finds poison in the printed page as well as healing."
Never allow children to buy the sensational stuff carried by news stands. The untrained child knows no difference in books. All he wants is action and excitement and he gets it. Toughs and clever cracksmen are the heroes of these cheap tales. Tales of robberies and holdups inspire a wish to emulate these things. Many criminal acts, we are told, have been traced to such books as "Tracy the Bandit."
Another class of literature even more dangerous, are the stories of the demimonde, and shady tales of night life. Those who are familiar with reform work say that no other agency outside the movie, is so far responsible for crime among the young as the obscene novel and the story of successful crime.
Another dangerous class is the class in which sensationalism is made respectable. The hero is always getting into scrapes but finally grows up to marry a nice girl and live in peace and prosperity. This is an exceedingly dangerous type of story. Keep children's time so full that they will have no place for it.
CHILDREN, and parents too, should learn that the vital and permanent things in literature are preserved in books. Don't let magazines take their place. Let every child have his own bookcase or his shelf in the library to call his own. A good book for each birthday will soon give him a fine collection. Children do not need fresh reading matter all the time. For a very modern book, "Gay Neck", the charming story of a carrier pigeon in the war, could be read to advantage every year for years to come.
If you have no one to consult about your children's reading, go to the children's librarian. Don't leave them to chance. Remember that the strongest intellects of history are those nourished in childhood upon a few good books, until the thought and style become their permanent possessions. "Too many books dissipate the intellectual force of our children." Let us teach them, as well as ourselves to become familiar with a few great books.
Suggested Books to Buy: Little Women — Alcott — For Girls. Boy's Life of Lincoln — Helen Nicolay. Ann of Green Gables—Montgomery. Treasure Island—Stevenson.
Happenings
By Annie Wells Cannon
IN MARCH—Today there is joy in the world, for spring is near.
FARIDA ZULFIKAR, 16, slender and dark-eyed, became Queen of Egypt this past winter. Hers was the first royal wedding since the days of the Pharaohs and was a spectacular and joyous occasion. Farida was not permitted to be present at her wedding ceremony, neither will she ever attend official parties and must be veiled in public. She is quite modern in most things, revels in smart clothes and is deeply in love with the youthful King. KATHARINE HEPBURN is said to be just as charming in her new comedy picture as she was in "Little Women." - CROWN PRINCESS JULIANA'S new baby girl may carry into the third generation the line of Queens reigning over the Netherlands. MRS. MARY D. BRIGGS, postmistress of Los Angeles, receives a salary of $10,000 a year. Only New York and Chicago postmasters receive more. There are now 7,108 women in charge of post-offices. The first woman postmistress in the United States was Mary K. Goddard. She was appointed in 1775 by Postmaster General Benjamin Franklin. MLLE. HUANG, Chinese Consul in London, is_ self-educated. Most of the outstanding Chinese women are daughters of Mandarins, but this young diplomat worked her way to the top. MARY AGNES HAMILTON, one of England's most distinguished women, in a recent lecture observes that women have not advanced enough. "However," she says, "the new generation, free from old oppressions, just out of college, may do better but they don't seem as bright as they might be." LITTLE Gloria Vanderbilt had $52,052 spent for her in 1937. Too bad some of it couldn't have been given to the malnourished children of New York. LOTTA PAUL BAXTER, associate member of the General Board of Relief Society, died last month. She was endeared to all the women of Zion for her many fine qualities. MARY LOUISA WOOLLEY CLARK, a beloved pioneer mother, died recently. She was an active Church worker and an exemplary Latter-day Saint. AMELIA EARHART, lost aviatrix, left a book, the manuscript of which, with the log, charts, and maps of her last flight, have been placed in the World Center for Women's Archives in New York. HON. AGNES C. McPHAIL, who lectured en tour in the United States recently, is the first woman member of the Canadian Parliament. She was elected as an Independent for thirteen consecutive years. LOUISE RAINER'S performance in the "Good Earth" is pronounced by the critics the best for the year of 1937. Friendship By Ezra J. Poulsen LIFE demands to be shared. Unlike money it grows more abundantly if it is spent generously, while if it is hoarded, it first shrivels, then succumbs entirely to the poison of its own thwarted impulses. Silas Marner, counting his clinking coins by his lonely fireside, and gloating as the small accumulation increased, was himself growing less and less, until not a single thread of human fellowship connected him with the throbbing life of the village. Then he lost his money; little Eppie came, and he grew rich—in love for his fellows. In a similar way the life of every individual blossoms and bears fruit in the rich soil of friendship. By putting ourselves into harmonious relationship with others we become part of the eternal cycle of abundance. We receive much, we give much, and the world is enriched. Too much of getting and too little of giving, however, has turned the scales of fortune against more than one individual. As Emerson says, "Nature kills the man who tries to take too freely. What she puts into his chest, she takes out of the man." Of course spendthrift giving may also lead to disaster. But friendship is the balance between all the extremes of life; it is the sense of perfect whole in human relations. There is not too much nor too little between true friends, for there is perfect understanding. I should not be supposed. That great givers are necessarily spendthrifts. More often they are those with the most perfect sense of value. In every community, especially every frontier community, there are great givers, friends-at-large they may be called, on whom the rest depend heavily. My Grandmother was such a person, and there was not a home in the entire settlement into which she did not go to care for the sick, and encourage the weary. In fact, for an entire generation she presided at the two most important functions connected with mortal existence— birth and death. Folks often said she was bringing _herself prematurely to the grave, that she was not appreciated. But somehow behind her understanding smile was a faith, a conception of eternal value that made even a reply unnecessary. So she kept on through the years being a friend, and in the kindness of Providence, lived to a ripe old age, surrounded by a large appreciative posterity. As for friends—well, everyone who knew her was proud to be considered as such. The kind of friendship my Grandmother possessed has been one of the rich contributions of the Relief Society to humanity. There are thousands of others like her, and if their mantles are worn successfully by their successors of the present generation, the art of true friendship will continue long in the valleys of the mountains. HERE are certain elements of technique in the maintenance of lasting friendship which may not safely be ignored. To begin with, friendship should be held on a high plain of dignity; it should recognize the sacred precincts of individuality beyond which none may tread. Friends should have much in common, yet not all things. Many a fine friendship has gone on the rocks because of failure to recognize this fact. The attempt to force another's 196 will or belief has often led to lifelong misunderstanding. The same can be said of presuming too far on another's rights. Excessive borrowing, meddling with the affairs of others, and careless talk are all violations of the basic technique of friendship. True friendship is always willing to overlook another's faults. A mistake which naturally carries a penalty is to try to mould into one exact pattern all those with whom we associate. The broad tolerance which emphasizes "the milk of human kindness" without compromising one's own standards is likely to work the greatest wonders with true friendship. The good friend, like the good Samaritan, serves and asks no questions, yet in the course of events he is infinitely more effective in his effort to improve the moral fabric of society than the Pharisee who says, "Behold me, I am good." SOME people make friends and leave them; others never wander beyond a few tried friendships. The law of growth seems to favor those RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE who would add to what they already have, but the law of constancy requires that they forsake not that which is good.. Francis Bacon is said to have used his friends to promote his political ambitions, abandoning them for others as time and the occasion demanded. It would be hard to think of a more flagrant violation of the technique of friendship. Yet, in fairness to the great English scholar and statesman, it should be remembered that the accusation may not be altogether true. The sad truth is, however, that friendship has frequently been "cashed in" as if it were a coupon clipped from a bond of infinite worth. Such constitutes a forced payment, destroying the source from which it is made. On the contrary, nevertheless, millions have found that their investments in friendship paid the highest dividends. It is easy to recall examples of one friend coming to the rescue of another in time of need; it is still easier to see opportunities to be such a friend. A ROSE By Naomi Shepard MacCabe every morning with a lovely rose and a bit of philosophy. "Happiness and good luck for the day," she smiles. How wonderful to have a friend who thinks I am worthy of a rose each day! After she has gone I wonder what I have done, what seeds I have sown, to reap such a harvest of thoughtfulness and friendship. Though she is not one of my own religion, though her philosophy of life may not be the same as my own, it matters not. This tiny offering thrills my whole being, makes my | HAVE a neighbor who comes heart sing with joy and stimulates a desire to pass on to those with whom I come in contact the message of love, beauty and friendliness that the cheerful giver of this gift has left with me. What a wonderful way to spread this Gospel of ours, if each morning every man, woman and child would take the time to pass on to a neighbor a word, a bit of philosophy, a little gift of kindness. It may not-always be accompanied by a sweet smelling rose, but it can carry a message of friendliness and love. Notes to the Field Time of Lesson Presentation NUMBER of letters have come to the office requesting that the month the lesson is to be presented be published in connection with each lesson. All of the organizations do not begin lesson work at the same time, thus making it impossible for this procedure to be followed. It is optional with the stakes whether they begin the lesson courses in September or October. To meet the convenience of those who wish their lesson courses earlier, the first lessons for the year are published in the July issue of the Magazine. This gives the stakes starting in September the opportunity of having the lessons two months in advance of their presentation. If the class leaders will watch the publication of the lessons and keep this fact in mind, they will be able to determine which lesson should be presented each month. Work and Business ONE of the best means of stretching the clothing budget is to remodel old or used clothing, using for smaller and younger children partly worn-out articles, those that have been outgrown by older children, or clothes that have been worn so long one has become tired of them. The secret of successfully using old clothing is to change the identity of the original article as much as possible. Don't just make the dress, skirt, coat, or trousers smaller by taking in the seams, shortening the sleeves or skirt, or using some other means to make the old article do for the smaller child. Very little difficulty will be encountered in satisfying a child with a remodeled dress, coat, or trousers, if the article looks like new, and not like mother's, father's, or an older brother's or sister's, made smaller. The most satisfactory way to remodel any garment is to pick the old one apart. Clean pieces well, a good tubbing in mild suds being the most satisfactory method if the fabric can be handled that way. Then the new garment should be cut from the old, discarding the worn spots and changing the style as much as the pieces of the original will permit. Buckles, buttons, and trimming on adult garments may not be suitable for a young person. Usually they are not. A small outlay of money for a touch of trimming will help make the old material into a garment suitable for a young person and may make all the difference in the world to the happiness of a child for whom the garment is made. Don't discard old clothing that is good enough to be made over. Remodeling is the best method there is to make the dollars for clothing cover the needs of the family. Notes from the Field ARGENTINE MISSION ART EXHIBIT Argentine Mission "THE above picture shows a group of Relief Society workers in the midst of their beautiful art exhibit. Sister Cecile S. Young, the Relief Society President of the Argentine Mission, writes in a most interesting manner of the progress made during the past year. The lessons have been greatly enjoyed and while the number of Relief Society members is not so great, the lessons are passed on to investigators and are sent to the members who are located where they cannot attend the meetings. It is necessary for the lessons to be translated into Spanish and German. To quote from Sister Young, "One of our most interesting meetings was in a new district with new members. The German sisters of the oldest branch go to the new district in the city and help the sisters in the programs and lessons. This seems to give them real joy. The programs are interesting in all of the branches. In the Pueyrredon Branch the work is carried out in the German language, and they all love to sing 'We Love Our Work,' while in all the other branches the work is in Spanish. We had 'The Other Wise Man' told to most of the organizations. A great deal of interest has been aroused and much promise for the new year is felt." Tongan Mission ROM another distant mission comes a beautiful message. Sister Evelyn H. Dunn, President of the Tongan Mission Relief Society, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 199 MYRTLE BOHI AND DAUGHTERS speaks in a very interesting manner of the work of the sisters in the Tongan Mission. She feels that the activities during the past year have been very extensive and the Relief Societies in the mission'are in an excellent condition. The sisters are humble and most sincere in trying to do everything that is asked of them. A very beautiful spirit that finds expression in labor is the service which the native sisters give to the missionaries, To quote from Sister Dunn, "We have started a movement to encourage the Saints to beautify their homes by planting flowers. At the last conference here in the Togatabu district we had a flower show, and although the flowers did not come in great numbers, still it was a very creditable showing. A few Europeans of the town heard about it and came to the mission home to see the show. They were very much surprised and delighted. I feel that we shall be doing a good work if we can encourage the Saints in this line." Rexburg Stake A VERY interesting account of a Daughters' Day celebration comes from Rexburg Stake. During the month of August the Salem Ward held its Daughters' Day. The above picture is a mother with her eight daughters. The President writes, "Each officer's daughter took her mother's place and, where the officer had no daughter someone was selected from the Relief Society membership. The girls conducted the meeting, furnished an enjoyable program and served refreshments. At this gathering there were 43 mothers and 65 daughters present. A prize was awarded to the mother who had the largest number of daughters. This was won by the chorister, Mrs. Myrtle Bohi, with her eight daughters. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE BESSIE LAW AND DAUGHTERS Morgan Stake MORGAN County is doing some fine work in the field of health. Believing in visual education, a picture was presented in the Morgan Ward together with an excellent health lecture. The County nurses rendered great service in this particular. The picture "Behind the Shadow" was furnished by the State Board of Health. All wards in the stake were invited and some very interesting facts were presented. This activity was held on the fifth Tuesday in November. The Stake Relief Society officers were pleased with the success of this picture and hope to give more of 'this type of instruction.. Deseret Stake ESERET Stake presents a very interesting item about its activity and work. Of particular interest was the meeting held in the Delta First Ward during January of this year. The Presidency of the ward entertained in honor of the Visiting Teachers who had a record of 100% visiting-teaching during the past year. To each of the sisters who had achieved this, a gift was made in appreciation for the work. Of especial note was the recognition, for outstanding service, of Johanna Dekker, a convert from Holland, who has labored faithfully as a Relief Society teacher and has the enviable record of 100% visitingteaching for the past fifteen years. She is as faithful in all duties as in this particular service, and it is a real pleasure on the part of her co-workers to recognize her service. A beautiful table lamp was presented to her. The picture included in this Stake's activity is another evidence of the interest of the stakes in the Daughters' Day. This picture is of. Sister Bessie Law and her seven daughters, who participated in the celebration in Deseret Stake. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - -; AMY BROWN LYMAN - - -: -. - - First Counselor KATE M. BARKER - - - - -: -: - Second Counselor JULIA A, F. LUND -... - - General Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Nettie D. Bradford Ida P. Beal Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford President Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Jennie B. Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: c -. - -:: - - Belle S. Spafford Manager - - - - - - - -: Louise Y. Robison Vou. XXV MARCH, 1938 No. 3 Editorials Forward O Oberlin College in Ohio, founded in 1833, goes the honor and distinction of being the first institution of higher learning to open its doors to women. The announcement is of interest: "for the elevation of female character by bringing within the reach of the misguided and neglected sex, all the instruction privileges which have hitherto unreasonably distinguished the leading sex from theirs." Four young women enrolled as freshmen in regular college courses in 1837. These women were graduated in August, 1841, and are supposed to have been the first women to receive degrees in the arts, under the standards prevailing in the best men's colleges of the day. The year following, 1842, a prophet of God said, "I now turn the key to you in the name of God and this Society shall rejoice and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. This was given as women were beginning the early skirmishes of a long drawn-out battle for recognition. Those grandmothers and great grandmothers of ours, no less inherently able than women today, realized the need of women for greater opportunities for self-development. Women of character, with their eyes open, their visions clear, they endured the hardships and abuses of pioneering in the field of education. Indebted to them, we today find ourselves safely launched in practically all fields of human endeavor. The Relief Society has known seven valiant leaders who have caught the vision of the Prophet, and have been tireless in their devotion to the full development of Latter-day Saint women. Cognizant that the dual source of education is wide experience and formal training, abundant opportunity has been provided Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman 202 for each, thus bringing education to thousands of women. The Relief Society has exerted a profound influence upon the attitudes, ideals and conduct of its members. It has helped them to evaluate life in terms of its real worth to themselves and society. It encourages its members to avail themselves of educational opportunities wherever they are to be had, realizing that the more points of educational contact the more complete will be development RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and the greater will be the hope of abundant living. Surely 75,000 educated women, banded together under the inspiration and guidance of a Heavenly Father will do much to push further back the frontiers of ignorance and advance far toward the end of attaining the good life for all. That the organization will go on and on in its mission of human welfare there can be no doubt. Self-Control FEW years ago a young man startled the world by piloting, for the first time in history, an airplane across the mighty Atlantic Ocean. Alone at the controls he guided the ship in safety to its destination; a hazardous voyage brought to a glorious conclusion because the pilot had perfect control of both himself and his plane.. Control is the ability to exercise a directing influence, to guide, and to regulate. In all things we find the greater the control, the more perfect will be the performance. The world's great singers know voice control; artists bring delight and inspiration because of their control of color and brush; the dancer and the actress alike know success because of the power to direct the body at will. So must every individual have mastery of himself if he would perform well in the Drama of Life.  Confucius said, "A man who knows how to govern himself knowshow to govern others; and he who knows how to govern other men, knows how to govern a nation." Loa T'ze said, "Mighty is he who conquers himself." From Buddha we have, "Though a man conquer a thousand men in battle, a greater conqueror is he who conquers himself." Ne canner Jesus of Nazareth taught the great principle of self-control, both by precept and example. Where may we find greater evidence of self-mastery than in the "temptations'? When tempted with food after a long period of fast he had power to subdue the appetites of the flesh; he was not found wanting when tested by the temptation of power and dominion; he showed complete mastery over pride and vanity. It is certain that nothing short of perfect self-control can master like temptations with which man everywhere is confronted. Selfcontrol is a most vital principle in the message of the Masters, and is man's first duty to himself. Many things which under control are a benefit and blessing to mankind become a menace when out of control. Water, fire, electricity, the train, the airplane, the automobile. When not mastered become the master and bring depredation and disaster in their wake. Likewise, in man self-control is the key to useful and happy living while lack of it brings untold-misery. "The individual without self-control, is like a ship without sail or rudder, and is apt to be dashed against the rocks and destroyed. The greatest enemy of conscious control is runaway EDITORIALS emotion. We do things when we are angry, hurried, worried, or afraid, of which when reason returns, we are often ashamed, temper, irritability, the tendency to grouch, envies, jealousies, hatreds and bitterness, bring endless unhappiness and might be avoided by the exercise of but a small amount of 203 of individuals with the power of self-mastery; persons who have emotional control; who practice control of the appetites, passions and impulses; who exercise moderation in working, playing and resting; who know self-restraint. Self-restraint is so much more desirable than restriction by others. Restraint from without has control. There are numerous times) a tendency to make one rebellious when the slightest effort might save' an entire day of hard feelings. = / In matters of great moment as and thus often defeats its own purpose, while that which is self-imposed brings character development, well as in lesser things, control pay) power, and satisfaction. A vital part. It is said the two great causes of war are economic rivalry and uncontrolled emotions. The world today is sorely in need Self-controlled persons are desirable, attractive, influential and respected persons. Commendation "THE office has received many communications from different sources highly commending the notice in the December issue of the Magazine relative to the removing of flowers at funerals. The following from one of the City's leading morticians is typical. "The notice in the December issue of the Relief Society Magazine directed against the practice of removing flowers from our chapels prior to the exit of mourners at funeral services is timely, and I am sure, will have the desired effect, coming as it does from your organization. Permit me to express my appreciation for this indicated reform. "The practice referred to, which has been followed in our communities for several years is positively without merit. To my mind there is nothing commendable about it." Book NoticeA DELIGHTFUL and attractive book of verse entitled "Main Street'' has been published by Rachel Barney Taft. It should be especially enjoyed by those interested in pioneer life in Salt Lake Valley. In addition to the poems of pioneer life the book contains. Numerous short poems dealing with-a wide variety of subjects. Her poetry expresses a high seriousness and provides inspirational reading. 'Main Street" may be purchased at the Deseret Book Co. Or Auerbach Book Co. For $1.00. ERRATUM AN error was made in the article "Children's Reading" by Florence Ivins Hyde, published in the February issue. The author of "Biography of a Grizzly" is Ernest Thompson Seton.. Music Department TONE-QUALITY AND INTONATION By Charlotte O. Sackett and Wade Stephens LL sound is composed of vibrations in the air. If the airwaves are regular and uniform in length, the sound is a tone, but if they are composed of many vibrations of different length, the result is a noise. It is the aim of every singer to eliminate all unnecessary vibrations from the voice, so as to produce a pure tone. When this is successfully done, we say that the voice has a tone of good quality. The vocal tone, to have good quality, must first of all be accurate in pitch. Without this attribute, it cannot be eloquent, regardless of the singer's excellence in other directions. The pitch must be steady, without any wobbling up or down. The best vibrato in a soloist's voice is not a variation. In pitch, but in intensity; and the ideal chorus voice is perfectly steady, having no vibrato whatever. The singer must be capable of varying the intensity, or loudness, over a wide range without change in pitch, and without permitting unnecessary vibrations to enter into the tone-colour. The ability to do this depends upon a long course of fine vocal training which few chorus singers have had, so one of the difficult problems of a chorus conductor is to build a good tonequality that is accurate in pitch. HE successful. Chorus conductor is skilled in two departments of vocal art, besides being a good musician. These two are tuning and blending. A chorus is in tune when all the singers of a part sing exactly the same pitch, and the parts are the correct distance in pitch from each other. Blending depends upon teaching the singers how to sing with a similar quality, a similar intensity, and a similar emotional reaction to the music. Choruses seldom sharp; they flat. The conductor's problem, then, in tuning the chorus is to prevent the pitch from going down. Nobel Cain gives the following causes of flatting: 1. Bad voice production and tone quality. 2. Lack of mental alertness. 3. The habit of flatting. 4. Extreme heat. 5. Absorption of tone by surroundings. 6. Physical or mental fatigue. 7. Defective hearing. The chorus should be so selected as to eliminate the last of these. The sixth can be partly controlled by the director, but not entirely. Four and five can be easily overcome. The first three are the conductor's problems. We are discussing only the first in this article, and we agree with Mr. Cain that it is the most important. Blending of a chorus is dependent upon voice production as much as its intonation. Only by a similar correct production of the tone can singers have similar quality and leave the vocal apparatus relaxed enough to reflect the emotional content of the music sung. Loudness and softness are a part of the emotional element. The conductor must therefore endeavor to teach the untrained singers in the chorus good voice production. MUSIC DEPARTMENT HE basis of voice production is breathing. The term "breath control" is misleading, since by trying to control the breath, the untrained interferes with its proper action. We must think not of the breath, but of the tone quality, after first learning how the large muscles of the thorax control the breath automatically. The lungs consist of five unconnected lobes, three on the right side and two on the left. There are no muscles in the lungs themselves, so they become filled only when they are pulled or stretched open by the action of the large muscles that surround the chest. The upper lobes of the lungs become partially filled when the chest is raised. This is the way the average untrained singer breathes, using only a small part of the air capacity of the upper lobes of the lungs. Is it any wonder there is no breath? In order to fill the lungs to their capacity, it is necessary to raise the chest and expand the back and the muscles under the armpits. This fills the upper lobes. The lower lobes are filled by expanding the muscles in is collapsed, allowing the diaphragm to curve upward. 205 front between the lowest ribs (the "solar plexus"), the intercostal muscles at the sides of the lower chest, and the large muscles just above the small of the back. The result of learning to breathe this way will be approximately three times the former breath. The diaphragm's function is to push up into the thorax, compressing the air in the lungs and helping to force it out, but the diaphragm is an involuntary muscle, and can never be controlled by the will. It will operate automatically if the voluntary muscles described above are handled correctly. CORRECT posture will expand all these muscles in the most advantageous manner. It is useless to try to control so many muscles simultaneously, because such a control is too complicated, for the mind to learn easily. Learn to place the chest, shoulders and back in the proper position for singing, and you are on the road to good singing. The correct standing position for singing is this: feet a little part, with weight mostly on the balls of the feet; spine very tall—attempt to pull 2 wa) Fig, 2 Compare the two diagrams. In Fig. 1, the ribs slant forward and the lower chest In Fig. 2, the ribs are horizontal, the lower chest is expanded, and the diaphragm curves downward. Notice the greater lung capacity in figure 2. 206 even the natural curves out of it; front of chest high, shoulders low and supported by the shoulder blades © in back, rather than the ribs in front; base of ribs broad, both from side to side and from front to back. When this position is achieved, the 'sensation will be that the thorax or chest is broader at its base than the hips, and almost round, tapering like a cone to the neck, where the point of the cone is the larynx or voicebox. It will be no effort to hold the chest up and the shoulders back. There must be no tenseness anywhere, as tenseness destroys the conditions necessary for good singing. It is a curious but very natural thing that the best posture, once achieved, is the easiest way to stand. Only when the body is correctly placed is it properly balanced. WHEN in this position, the lungs are always full except when air is forced out of them. Their natural condition is full of air. Therefore, when the posture is correct, a singer does not have to draw in the breath. If it is necessary to take breath before singing, the posture is wrong. The lungs, when perfectly relaxed, ING ay % RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE should be full, not empty. The attention of the singer can then be directed to the pushing out of the air across the vocal chords. This is the action that is properly termed "breath control." Air is expelled from the lungs in singing by the contraction of the large, strong muscles that surround the lower part of the chest. The greatest contraction takes place in the back, across the lower ribs. This allows the diaphragm to do its share of the contracting. The chest should never be allowed to sink or the shoulders to change position, as this stops the movement of the diaphragm. While air is expelled in this way, the attention should be focused on the tone. If the tone is good, the breath will last long. If any attempt is made to hold back or conserve the breath, the result will be shortness of breath, since muscles cannot contract and expand at the same time. Correct breathing is the basis of all that is excellent in singing. Only after it is mastered can we proceed to the consideration of other problems, as upon the breath depends tone-colour, intonation, and flexibility of tone. Wl ha asd Lesson Department Theology and Testimony Lesson No. 9 Tue INFLUENCE OF THE CHRIST ON CIVILIZATION Helpful References Powers, H. H., The Art of Florence. Any High School history text which discusses the art and literature of the Middle Ages. Farrar, F. W., Great Books. Any good Encyclopedia under the headings of Music, Art, etc. Consult teachers of Art and Music in local schools. 1. The Coming of Christ Marked a New Era in Human History.— The coming of Christ in the flesh, His death, and resurrection, has had a most profound effect upon human history. From whatever point of view men interpret Christ's mission and work, it is almost universally agreed that His influence upon the world has been incalculable. Even when men have misunderstood Christ's mission and teachings, and have brought untold misery and suffering in His name, they have borne strange witness to His greatness. The Spanish conquest of Mexico and Peru, and the prayers of millions in so-called Christian nations on both sides during the World War are evidences of this fact. On the other hand we must keep in mind that we are heirs to the abiding values of life that have come through the centuries. The influence of Christ's life on music, art, literature,—in fact on all those things that together help to make up a really full and civilized life—is truly great. We cannot afford to forget that men have lived great lives, and have left us a heritage that is deathless, because Christ gave an example that inspired their souls. Wycliffe, Tyndale, Luther, Dante, Milton, Shakespeare, Abraham Lincoln, Joseph Smith, and Brigham Young are but a few names that come to mind as we reflect on this theme. 2. Christ's Influence on Literature—In the limited space at our command we can but barely mention a few specific examples of Christ's influence on the vast literature at our command. First in importance to us as a people is the Bible. We mean the whole Bible, the Old Testament as well as the New 'Testament, because the Gospel teaches that Christ is the figure behind the writings of the prophets and seers of old. "From Genesis to Revelation," says Professor James Orr, ''we feel that this book is in a real sense a unity... It has one connected story to tell from beginning to end... There is plan, purpose, progress; the end folds back on the beginning.... There is nothing exactly resembling it, or even approaching it in all literature." The teachings of Christ must have penetrated the very soul of Shakespeare whom Dean Milman classed among the great Christian poets. Keble has been quoted as saying of Shakespeare, "He favored virtue from his very soul, and led the way to sounder views even upon sacred things, and to juster sentiments concerning God Himself.'' Dean Farrar, 208 the famous English divine, said, "In the plays of Shakespeare, however, those eternal verities of God's revelation are scarcely ever out of sight. Shakespeare's mind was saturated with the Bible." Great as the position of Shakespeare is in the history of our literature, there are, nevertheless, authors whose works, in contradistinction to those of that great master, bear a more direct relation in subject, if not, indeed, in phraseology, to the Christ and his ministry. What shall we say in so brief a treatment of the countlessness of the contributions of poets and prose writers to the divine drama of the Christian life. Beginning with Piers the Plowman, a vision of the people's Christ and a searching satire on current abuses of Christian liberty, we travel rapidly and pass such works as the Arthurian romances with their story of the search for the Holy Grail; Christopher Marlowe's Doctor Faustus in which the drama reached the heights of poetic fancy, its stirringly inspirational lines reflecting Biblical sentiments, as in the section which begins, "See! See! Where Christ's blood streams in the firmament"; Ben Jonson, whose Ode. To Heaven is marked by deep feeling and well-assimilated New Testament phrases. Nor can we fail to notice as on we hurry such poets as John Milton and his Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained; Alfred Tennyson where references to the Christ abound in Morte D'Arthur, Balin and Balan, The Holy Grail, The Passing of Arthur, Crossing the Bar and In Memoriam; and Elizabeth Barrett Browning, who once wrote to Robert Browning, "We want the touch of Christ's hand upon our Literature as it touched other dead things." Nor have our modern poets entirely divorced themselves, despite the tendencies of the times, from Christian themes as evidenced by such titles as The Man Against the Sky, The Valley of the Shadow, and The Man Who Died Twice from Edwin Arlington Robinson.
Of the Prose writers we can mention but a few milestones in the great stream which has flowed incessantly since the Christ struck the rock of human feeling and emotion. In Pilgrim's Progress, John Bunyan, a brazier or tinker, out of the abundance of a Christian heart which drew its inspiration from the Bible, wrote one of the masterpieces of English literature and one of the finest interpretations of Christian experience. Of The Imitation of Christ, by Thomas A. Kempis, a German Monk, Dean Farrar has said: "The Imitation of Christ sends the penitent to neither Church nor council, nor pope nor priest, nor saint nor angel, but to the Eternal God. It says, 'Go fearlessly, O Prodigal! And clasp thy Saviour's very feet'."
3. Christ's Influence on Art.—
Profound as has been the influence of the Christ on Literature, it has been no less dynamic as a force in art. When we begin to realize that the art of a whole civilization was, for at least fourteen centuries, devoted almost exclusively to the Christ and his Message we see a force which no other single man ever possessed. H. H. Powers in The Art of Florence; an Interpretation says: "The term Christian, as applied to art, may be used in two senses. On the one hand, it may mean the art of countries and periods which have recognized, in a degree at least, the Christian religion. In that sense, all the art of Europe for the last sixteen hundred years, with the single exception of the Moorish art in Spain must be accounted Christian. The word will be more serviceable, however, if used in a more limited sense. From the fourth century to the sixteenth, art was developed primarily in the service of the Christian religion. Not only were the subjects treated for the most part related to its history and practices, but in their expression we can easily trace habits of thought and ideals which were derived wholly or in part from this faith."
Obviously we cannot do more than mention a few of the most famous of these masterpieces. Who has stood in the church of the S. M. Delle Grazie in Milan and has not felt inspired by that most famous of all paintings "The Last Supper" by Leonardo da Vinci? Or viewed for the first time the most famous of the Raphael Madonnas—The Sistine Madonna and The Madonna of the Chair, and has not paid homage, though perhaps unconsciously, to Him who was born of a virgin? Nor need we look alone to painting as the sole custodian of Christian art, for we need but take a glimpse at Michael Angelo's Madonna of the Stair with its exquisite beauty in relief to realize that the Christ's influence thoroughly permeated all of the finer arts of painting, sculpture, and architecture.
4. Christ's Influence on Music.—
The influence of the Christ upon music has been no less marked than upon painting and sculpture. The scriptures have furnished the themes for a wealth of songs, hymns, oratorios, cantatas and anthems. Turning to the Masters at will, we are conscious that they have derived some of their noblest themes from the life of the Christ, and their greatest work has been inspired by Christian faith, hope, and love. Perhaps the name above all others in music which has been inspired by the religious impulse is that of George Friedrich Handel. The Messiah is undoubtedly one of the best and most popular oratorios of all time. The words are taken bodily from Isaiah, the Gospels, and Revelation, and the music is certainly appropriate to such a high theme. Handel is quoted as having said that "during the composition of the Hallelujah Chorus I did think I did see all Heaven before me, and the great God himself." The Messiah is divided into three parts: First the announcement of the hopes for a Savior, then the story of his birth; Second, the suffering and crucifixion; Third, confession of faith and belief in life everlasting. The entire work was completed in twenty-three days.
Nor is Handel the only Englishman to produce oratorios of inspiration from the Christ's life. Sir William Bennett composed "The Woman of Samaria." Sir Arthur Sullivan wrote two oratorios "The Prodigal Son" and "The Light of the World." Sir Edward Elgar, called the greatest writer of oratorios since Bach and Handel, earned fame with his "Apostles" and "The Kingdom." Though it may seem strangely out of place to some, we cannot overlook the tremendous influence of Christian themes of Salvation and Redemption in American negro spirituals which culminated in what has been called the most characteristic of American Symphonies "From the New World" by Anton Dvorak.
To appraise rightly, to assert neither too much nor affirm too little about the influence of a man whose effect has been chiefly on the hearts of men, who has molded the motives not of a few but of multitudes, who shaped destinies by words that have touched the inner sentiments of voiceless millions,—that is a task beyond the powers of any man. When one deals with the things of the spirit, there are no divining rods by which the course of the secret emotions of human hearts may be fully traced; but sure we are of one thing—the Christ will live forever in the works that His spirit has produced.
Questions
1. Can you name any other men who have greatly influenced the world of literature, art, and music? Compare their contribution with that of the Christ.
2. What has been the influence of the Christ on art, music, and literature in the Mormon Church? Give specific illustrations. Can we do more than we have done?
3. The illustrations given in this lesson are mainly from European writers and artists. Can you mention some American writers or artists who have been profoundly influenced by Christian themes?
4. Are unsightly and unkept fences, grounds, and buildings both civil and ecclesiastical a reflection on our religious ideals? Explain.
Problems
Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit.
1. Obtain a copy of the score of Handel's "The Messiah" and compare it closely with Isaiah. With the Gospels. With Revelations.
2. The Salt Lake Temple has six spires. What do these spires symbolize in our religion? What influence did religion have on architecture and the form of churches in the Middle Ages? Have someone give a short report.
Teacher's Topic
LESSON 9 THE FRIENDSHIP OF JESUS
"There is but one Ideal Friend in whom we find, perfect and complete, that friendship for which we look in all men."
"A friend may well be reckoned the masterpiece of nature—Happy is the house that shelters a friend."—Emerson.
FRIENDSHIP is as hard to understand as it is mighty. In the course of time many acquaintances are made who give us happy hours but from this host comparatively few become our friends. Friendship seeks to win nothing, but to give all. It is a sacred relationship which brings aid and comfort through serene days and rough days, adding to happiness, and increasing usefulness. It expresses itself in esteem, respect, and affection, seeking the society and welfare of the one called "Friend." Emerson says, "I must feel pride in my friends' accomplishments as if they were mine, and a property in his virtues. I feel as warmly when he is praised, as the lover when he hears the applause of his engaged maiden. We overestimate the conscience of our friend. His goodness seems better than our goodness, his nature finer, his temptations less. Everything that is his, his name, his form, his dress, books and instruments,—fancy enhances. Our own thought sounds new and larger from his mouth."
When a friend fails us in a crisis or we fail a friend there is no bitterness quite so bitter while the joy and peace drawn from a proven friend is the rarest sweetness, causing us to say, "What is so great and fine as friendship."
Jesus exemplified the perfection of friendship, counting all men his friends. He gave his life for man.—"Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends." Aside from this great universal love, Jesus knew intimate, individual friendships. That existing between him and his disciples was superb. He said to them: "Henceforth I call you not servants; for the servant knoweth not what his master doeth: but I have called you friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you.
"Ye have not chosen me but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye shall go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit shall remain: and whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you."
Jesus was the friend to all who came to him. He fed the hungry, healed the sick, comforted the poor and tormented. None who came was ever turned away. Even the sinner found a friend in Jesus. When a woman who had sinned was brought before Jesus, the multitude would have stoned her. But Jesus said, "He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her." And to the woman he said, "Go and sin no more."
In the period of time when Jesus lived among men, children were not honored and treated with the consideration shown them today. Jesus was the friend of children. "And they brought unto him also infants, that he would touch them; but when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them.
"But Jesus called them unto him, and said, Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God."
As Jesus was the friend of children so was he of women also. Who could be friend to a traitor! Jesus greeted that cold hearted traitor, Judas, at the very climax of his treachery with the tenderest title of all: "And Jesus said unto him, Friend, wherefore art thou come? Then came they, and laid hands on Jesus, and took him."
Jesus desired not only friendship between himself and mankind. He wanted to unite all men in bonds of friendship. "This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you."
Everyone needs friends. Friendship should be cultivated. Everyone should strive to be friendly and to conduct himself so as to deserve to be considered worthy of being a friend. Intelligence and effort are required in establishing friendship. The elements upon which it is based are: sincerity, tenderness, tolerance, interest, unselfishness, humility, appreciation, consideration and confidence. "The best way to have a friend is to be one."
References: John 15:13; John 15: 15-16; John 8:11; Luke 18:15-16; Matt. 5:27-32; Theology Lesson 6, Relief Society Magazine, January, 1937—"Christ the Champion of Women"; Matt. 26:50.
Questions
1. How may we develop friendliness?
2. Give further illustrations of the friendliness of the Master.
3. Cite from the Old Testament examples of fine friendships.
4. Why is friendliness essential to well being?
5. What effect does a rebuff have upon an individual when offering friendship and how should it be treated? 
Literature Lesson IX THE ROMANCE OF AN OLD PLAYHOUSE
As we approach the end of this remarkable book, "The Romance of An Old Playhouse," the writer of these lessons hopes that those who have read and enjoyed have discovered that its author, Superintendent George D. Pyper, has been writing of a personality, a loved-one, an Alma Mater. This was no mere building of lumber and brick and stone, but a temple of the arts which fostered her children through a long period of time. Says he, in opening Chapter twenty-four: "I have long believed that through some psychological inheritance, the tense and dramatic experiences of the pioneers of Utah left such an impress upon their children, and upon the whole community, as to produce a reaction which could only find expression upon the mimic stage. Some such conclusion seems reasonable, especially when we follow the dramatic activities of the "Mormons" into every community established by them. It has no counterpart in the history of any other people.
"Justification for this thought is found in the launching of a new dramatic company in Salt Lake City, composed mostly of the scions of the Kirtland and Nauvoo fathers. This was the Home Dramatic Club."
This new club, according to Superintendent Pyper, was proof enough that drama was in the blood of the pioneers, for nearly every member was a descendant of one of the original families of the Church. Members of the club gave its first performance, "The Two Orphans," in the Old Playhouse on June 16, 1879. Annie Adams, mother of Maude Adams, took the part of one of the orphans. Orson F. Whitney, later an apostle of the Church, took a leading role. The production of "The Two Orphans," was followed by many other presentations by this same club, which proved to be popular with theatre-goers. The names of the members of this organization read like a paragraph from Church history.
During the first ten years of the existence of the Old Playhouse, traveling companies were unknown. The productions were all by stock companies, usually local, often with a visiting star or stars who remained in the city for some time as did Julia Dean Haynes and others. Later, however, traveling companies were organized. Transportation being much improved, these companies often visited Salt Lake City. As a result, the local companies began to disband.
"The thirty years following 1878 might well be called the 'golden age of the theatre.'" During that period one great road company followed another to the stage of the Old Playhouse. Some of the greatest actors of the English language visited the "Cathedral in the Desert," and became enamored of its beauty of design, its splendid acoustical properties, and its capacious stage. It would be impossible to name all the plays or even the leading actors who visited the theatre during those glorious years of the drama. Edwin Booth, Louis James, Henry Miller, Otis Skinner, Richard Mansfield, Robert Mantell, Charles Frohman, E. H. Sothern, John Drew, George Arliss, Blanche Bates, Georgia, Ethel, John, and Lionel Barrymore, Sarah Bernhardt, Billie Burke, Cyril Maude, Mrs. Pat Campbell, Dustin Farnum, William Farnum, William Gillette, and hosts of others, many of whose names the author has listed in chapter twenty-six, were among those who played in the Salt Lake Theatre. Truly that was a golden age. What a procession of great actors visited the famous Old Playhouse in the "City of the Saints!"
On March 7, 8, 9, and 11, 1912, the Theatre's Jubilee was celebrated. It had stood fifty years as a monument to the arts. "A triple bill for each of the four nights was provided. First, the projection on the screen of the pictures of Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States when the theatre was dedicated, Queen Victoria, then ruling in England, Brigham Young and his associates, and the pioneer actors who played in the theatre half a century before. Following this were addresses by surviving players, concluding each evening with a rendition of Reginald DeKoven's "Robin Hood," by the Salt Lake Opera Company."
"Invitations were sent to all who had been present at the performance March 6th and 8th, 1862, to be the guests of the management, and some 250 responses came from people located in all parts of the intermountain region." Mr. Pyper, himself, then the manager of the Old Playhouse, took the part of Robert of Huntington (afterwards Robin Hood) in that memorable performance. Ex-Governor Heber M. Wells, who had thrilled his audience as an actor in "home dramatic" days, read a number of letters which he had received from those who had been present on the initial opening nights of the old Theatre. Many of these brief letters are touching and all are interesting.
At that same performance Hiram B. Clawson, one of the prime movers in the building of the Theatre, was present, as was Phil Margetts, who had been one of the most popular comedians of early theatre days. Mr. Margetts and Mr. Clawson stood on the stage where fifty years before they had stood to test the acoustical properties of the Theatre. Mr. Margetts quoted from "Macbeth:"
"Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow Creeps in this petty space from day to day To the last syllable of recorded time; And all our yesterdays have lighted fools The way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle! Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player That struts and frets his hour upon the stage, And then is heard no more."
The author adds: "Shakespeare's lines seemed truly and pathetically appropriate to the occasion. They were epitaphic; for it was the last time the voices of Hiram B. Clawson and Phil Margetts were heard on any earthly stage."
"Prior to the rise of the curtain on the last performance of 'Robin Hood,'" the author continues, "two telegrams were read which formed a fitting climax to the momentous celebration." One was from the manager of Maude Adams and the other was from the great star, herself, who had had her first appearance on the stage of the Old Playhouse as a baby in arms. It read:
"George D. Pyper, Manager, Salt Lake Theatre.
"With grateful loving thoughts of the dear old theatre. May she have fifty years more—Maude Adams."
At the conclusion of his address given at the jubilee celebration, Ex-Governor Wells, seeming to sense the approaching doom of the beloved edifice, said:
"In any event, let us derive a crumb of comfort from the philosophy of the poet, who said:
"You may break, you may shatter The vase, if you will, But the scent of the roses Will hang 'round it still'"
In two chapters of importance, Mr. Pyper rehearses for us the influence the Old Playhouse had upon musical productions in the intermountain West. Fittingly, he refers to the Theatre as "A Temple of Music," for really that is what it was in addition to being a temple of drama and the dance. The first notable performance of an opera occurred in the Theatre as early as 1868 when Perepa Rosa assisted by local talent presented scenes from "Il Trovatore," and "Don Pasquale." However, the first complete rendition of grand opera was given by the Howson Opera Company, previously referred to, in May and June, 1869.
Local organizations for the presentation of operas were effected. Among the earlier ones of these were the Salt Lake Philharmonic Society and Zion's Musical Society. These were followed by many others which gave notable presentations of the world's great music. To read the names of those who took part in these operatic presentations is to read a list of Utahns who have achieved success in music. Many of those who appeared in later productions are still known for their musical ability and are still singing, playing, and conducting.
But we are ready for the final curtain. On May 16, 1928, the parcel of land on which stood the Old Playhouse and certain stores was sold to the Mountain States Telephone and Telegraph Company for the sum $140,000, the deed passing July 16, 1928. Soon afterward dismantling began and the building which had stood a monument to art through all of our pioneer western history became only a beloved memory.
"Truly can it be said at this writing," says the author in his final chapter, "that the Salt Lake Theatre is the last of its kind in America. With one exception it became the country's oldest when the Boston Museum was razed. The exception is the Walnut Street Theatre in Philadelphia, though that building has now been changed so radically as to remove it from the category of old playhouses."
Since those words were penned by George D. Pyper, the Salt Lake Theatre has joined those of the past. Mr. Pyper quotes John Ruskin: "The glory of a building is not in its stones, nor in its gold. Its glory is in its age and in that deep sense of voicefulness, of stern watching, of mysterious sympathy, nay even of approval or condemnation which we feel in the walls that have long been washed by the passing waves of humanity."
"Judged by this standard," concludes Mr. Pyper, "the Old Playhouse has fairly won its place in the sun."
"Let us not forget," says Superintendent Pyper in his closing words, "that this romantic and hallowed Old Playhouse—this 'Cathedral in the Desert'—has been a sacred shrine symbolizing the sentiments and ideals of our revered Pioneers; that within its walls have been developed the Community's very heart and soul!"
Suggestions for Study
1. It might be well during this lesson to tie the study of "The Romance of An Old Playhouse," together by means of reviewing briefly its history.
2. Undoubtedly it would now be interesting to turn to that article about George D. Pyper in The Improvement Era, February, 1934, and review briefly that closing performance. There will be many in central wards who were present. They might be used in telling of the occasion.
3. Numbers from operas presented in the Old Playhouse might be used as musical numbers.
4. Chapter Twenty-nine—"Some Eccentricities of Genius"—in the hands of a capable person could be made humorously interesting for this lesson.
5. Chapter Twenty-eight—"Theatrical Yesterdays"—contains interesting material which might be presented appropriately; letters from those who were present on the opening nights found in Chapter Twenty-seven might prove of interest if they were carefully selected. These might be made more effective by having them written separately on sheets of paper and presented by various women as called upon.
6. Evaluate this book—"The Romance of An Old Playhouse." Can it be called a record of the artistic growth of the "Mormon" people?
Sacrament Meeting By Wendell J. Ashton
Let us carry our minds back through the centuries to a little pastoral country of Palestine on the other side of the globe. Suppose we are journeying with a traveler of that day, over the sands from Judea to Galilee, on the shorter route. However, most travelers use the longer route, the reason being that most of them are Jews, and the shorter route passes through Samaria. Jews will not pass over the "unclean" territory of the Samaritans, for they consider this neighboring people inferior.
As our weary wayfarer continues on his way, he pauses at a well on the outskirts of a little village called Sychar, resting near the slopes of Mount Gerizim, long a Samaritan shrine. This well is a famous watering place. It has been the source of water back through centuries. It is called Jacob's Well, named for one of the forbears of our traveler, and is the same well that Jacob of old gave to his son, Joseph.
As our traveler sits by the well resting his tired feet, a woman comes to fill her water-jar. She is a Samaritan, but that makes no difference to our traveler. He asks of her, "Give me to drink." She hesitates, astonished that a Jew should speak to her. Catching her breath, she queries coyly: "How is it that thou, being a Jew, asketh drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? For the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans."
Momentarily forgetting his thirst, the traveler replies: "If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me drink; thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water."
The woman does not understand Jesus—for that is who our traveler is. She thinks He is referring to the well, and she reminds Him that He has no bucket or cord with which to draw from the deep well, and asks Him if He is greater than Father Jacob, who gave her people the well and who drank of the well himself and who gave his cattle drink thereof.
Jesus can see that she does not catch the spiritual meaning of His words. She fails to understand His point just as the scholar, Nicodemus, did. Then He adds, "But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life."
We as Latter-day Saints understand what the water was which the Christ spoke of. It is His Gospel and the spirit which comes from those who drink of its freshness. There is no better place to find this soul-nourishing influence than at our sacrament meetings.
Our sacrament meeting is the well. It supplies in spiritual qualities what Jacob's well provided for the home of that Samaritan woman. With her large jug she visited the well periodically—regularly. She couldn't store a large supply of water at her home for it would stagnate. The water which Jesus spoke of is the same in our lives. We cannot hope to store up enough of it during one week to last us for the whole month or the whole year. We must go to the well regularly to keep fresh spiritually.
As the water of Jacob's well was the treasured heritage of the woman of Samaria, so is the Gospel our priceless legacy. Even more pure and eternal than the sparkling water of the well, it strengthens us as it has strengthened our forbears.
If it is only to partake of the sacrament, our Sunday night meetings are necessary. Partaking of the sacrament symbolizes gratitude and covenant. Through it we express appreciation to the weary Traveler for the greatest gift ever bequeathed to mankind—the gift of resurrection and atonement for our sins which the Man of Galilee provided for us in that supreme sacrifice on a roughhewn cross on Calvary. Through the sacrament, we covenant to show by our deeds that we sincerely are thankful for this gift of the Master.
The Gospel should be the very foundation of our lives. In sacrament meetings we are reminded of the basic principles of Mormonism. They are guideposts to happiness. May we ever seek them by regular visits to the well.

Invest Your Time in Business Education For half a century the L. D. S. Business College has helped young men and women of the West to "'find themselves." The booklet, 'Planning Your Future," will explain how we do it. Write for a copy today. L. D. 5. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah) Bind Your Relief Society Magazines Preserve in bound volumes the vast amount of valuable reading in your. Relief Society Magazine. Handsome, durable cloth binding, stamped in gold, $2.00 per volume. SPECIAL PRICES FOR TEN OR MORE VOLUMES BRING THEM IN NOW THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Happy - - - OF COURSE! Every married woman should be protected with a Beneficial Life Insurance Policy. It does away with worry which arises when the problem of protection for loved ones presents itself. With a Beneficial policy, the problem of security is solved and the future assured. Don't wreck your happy home life with worry about the future. Investigate our insurance plans. Call your local Beneficial agent, or write the home office now. BENEFICIAL LIFE COMPANY HOME OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING, SALT LAKE City, UTAH HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT The RELIEF SOCIETY — No. 4 APRIL XXV University of Utah SUMMER SESSION 1938 June 13 to July 22—July 26 to August 19 Dr. David M.. Levy, eminent psychiatrist of New York City, offers courses of major interest to Social Workers and others having to do with Personnel Work. Miss Hazel Peterson of the University of Utah faculty also offers courses in Social Work. Courses in Parent Education and Nursery Schools by Miss Winifred Hazen, highly-trained specialist in this field, will interest mothers and Relief Society workers; as will also Courses in Consumer Buying by Dr. Velma Phillips of Ohio University; and in Household Management and Family Relations by Dr. Ruth Lindquist of the Carnegie Institute of Technology. Send for bulletin; address: THE PRESIDENT UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH FOR USE AN Electric WAFFLE IRON Practically all cook books contain many, many recipes for unusual dishes which may be cooked on a waffle iron. Try some of them for breakfast... Luncheon... Dinner or supper. Enjoy Better Living With CHEAP ELECTRICITY! / UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. "HURRY-UP" MEALS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Shop and Compare A low price here and another there doesn't determine your food cost—it is the total cost of your food list that determines the saving. Shop and Compare—why not come in today—check prices and quality and. See how much our O. P. S. Stores will save you on today's order. Be sure to check the prices on your entire list, not just a few of them. Shop and Compare—and then buy at O.P.S. Stores with confidence and safety. O.P. Skaggs Efficient Service System FOOD stores "A Surety of Purity" BOOKS —for young and old If you have children in your home, you will be delighted at our wide selection of really good books for young people. Of course—we also have the largest stock of books in the Intermountain Region for grown-ups. New and Standard Editions Reference Books, Fiction, Church Publications, and a thousand and one items for home, school, office or classroom. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Headquarters for RELIEF SOCIETY and L. D. S. MUSIC We carry in stock all specially selected music for Relief Society choruses. Send for samples of The Lord's Prayer Twenty-third Psalm Crossing the Bar How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings O Morn of Beauty Inflammatus Holy Redeemer and many others Largest stock of Sheet Music and Musicians' supplies in the Intermountain West Daynes Music Co. Successors to Consolidated Music Company and Daynes-Beebe Music Company 47 South Main St. Salt Lake City, Utah p. Ars 2700 HOT FOR MEL ss. SPRING "FOUR WAYS BETTER" BE SURE YOU RECEIVE THE ONE AND ONLY GENUINE UTAH CANYON COAL 1—Starts Quicker. 2—Burns Longer. 3—Less Soot. 4—Less Ash "'ASK YOUR DEALER''. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine then buy at O. P. S. Stores with confidence O Pp S KAG GS THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints VOL XXV APRIL, 1938 No. 4 CONTENTS Cumorah Speak…..Roxana F, Hase 217 Frontispiece—The Hill Cumorah, Palmyra, N. Y........  218 The Philosophy of Faith...............Elder Stephen L, Richards 219 Della Adams Leitner  Those Deceptive Days.......Harrison R. Merrill 223 Diana's Shawl.......Eva Willes Wangsgaard 226 Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd.................... Dorothy Clapp Robinson 227 Our Easter Customs......Dorothy Nell Mair 232 The Gift.....Juliaetta B. Jensen 234 The Fountain of Youth—Recreation.......H. Basler 235 The Utah Plowman.........Celia A. VanCott 239 In the Ring With Father Time......H. C. Mortensen 240 April's Overflow.....Belle Watson Anderson 242 Mother of This Land...............Wilford D. Lee 243 Return of Spring......Lottie Hammer Singley 251 Some Run....... Lena B. Price 252 Hospitality …Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe 255 Springtime and the Resurrection..........Grace W. Ball 262 Myrtle Wentworth 263 Gibem... Christie Lund 264 Children's Reading........Florence Ivins Hyde 265 The Reading Mother........... 266 Annie Wells Cannon 267 Centennial of the Revelation on Tithing.........Notes to the Field....... 269 New Easter News........... Nephi Jensen 270 Notes from the Field........Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary 271 Editorials: Growth and Leadership.........275 Women's Opinions..........  276 Martha Horne Tingey...........Music Department........Alta B. Cassity 278 Outside Interests......Sara O. Moss 279 Inspiration......Lola Sedgwick 282 Little Things......Roberta Bates 282 Women of the Battalion J. B. Jennings 283 Personality Elsie C. Carroll 285 The Attic....Agnes Just Reid 287 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 980 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103. Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. A "Everything to Furnish the Home'' THE GREATEST VARIETY AND LARGEST STOCK OF Living Room, Dining Room and Bedroom Furniture in the Intermountain Territory 400 Suites to Choose From GRANITE FURNITURE CO. Out of the High Rent District The Home of THE ROUND OAK RANGE AND AMERICAN BEAUTY WASHER Quality and Service Come First—We Deliver Everywhere MURRAY SUGAR HOUSE PROVO Painting Gadgets is fun with DECORET Few hobbies give such genuine pleasure and return so great a dollar-and-cents value as the painting of odds-and-ends—sewing tables, for instance, and toys, occasional chairs and tables, garden furniture—with DECORET Enamel in many lovely tints. See Your Local Fuller Paint Dealer W. P. FULLER & CO Salt Lake and Ogden, Utah Don't be Deceived! Our Charges Are According to Your Desires Lindquist Sons Carlquist Co. FUNERAL DIRECTORS 2128 So. State Salt Lake Phone Hy. 1572 LINDQUIST & SONS Ogden 2620 Wash. Blvd. Phone 520 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine FISHER'S VITAMIN "D" BREAD Good bread is necessary in your daily diet for health and energy. That's why you should eat plenty of FISHER'S VITAMIN "D" BREAD.  A product of American Lady Baking Company 1844 South State Street Salt Lake City, Utah There is no substitute for quality! New Color —charming new tints for your home, are ready for you in the Gi exquisite, exclusive colors of for all surfaces, inside and outside. Ask for the FREE large color chips for matching with your drapes, carpets, etc. At All Bennett Dealers RENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO. Salt Lake City Looking Your (Best is not only a matter of good taste, but also a matter of quality material and fine workmanship. For comfort, appearance and long wear, one good costume is worth a dozen cheap ones. Cheap merchandise is never a value no matter how low its price. For seventy years, Z. C. M. I. Has upheld its reputation of being the West's finest store, selling the world's finest merchandise. For complete satisfaction this spring try Z. C. M. I. Quality and you'll look your best. ZCMI FASHION CENTER OF THE WEST When Buying Mention Relief CUMORAH SPEAKS By Roxana F. Hase
In pristine beauty once I stood And watched a happy brotherhood Of men build cities near my base; I did not dream wars could efface The beauty there, but I was wrong, War wrecked it all and stilled the song Of that vast horde; home fires died out, The air was rent with battle shout And as they fought upon my brow Men were cut down as though a plough As mighty as the very earth Had caught them all and left but dearth Until but two, both Captains tall, Did battle; and the rise and fall Of every blow was like a knell, "You shall not live this tale to tell!"
I reeked with carrion, buzzards flew Above the scene, the bones to strew In wild confusion; glad was I When torrid Summer bleached them dry.
I stood and heard the fervent prayer Of one good man who lingered there, Who had been hid to wait the hour These men should lose their earthly power. And oh, so sorrowfully he came To look upon the nation's shame; Then reverently he made a place To hide the history of that race Of chosen seed, that men might know That tragedy of long ago.
Through panoramas of the years; Since I was bathed in blood and tears I have kept faith; I knew some day A prophet true would come this way And with his coming, once again This holy book be given men. Oh, glad was I that I could be The harbor of its destiny.
Today, though still an obscure hill, My breast has known the throb and thrill Of feet of many gathered round Who count me now as sacred ground; Angel and prophet I have known, Their voices heard in ages flown.
In these new cities built by men May war gods never strike again, And may I be of service still. I too, love God, though just a hill.
THE HILL CUMORAH, PALMYRA, N. Y.
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXV APRIL, 1938 No. 4
The Philosophy of Faith By Elder Stephen L. Richards
Before discussing the acquisition and retention of the philosophy of faith, I should like to mention some of its attributes, or more specifically the characteristics with which it invests those who subscribe to it.
In the first place, in direct contrast to the philosophy of self-sufficiency, which is the philosophy of the world, faith brings to a man humility—not servility, but a modest, unpretentious, submissive attitude which makes him conscious of and amenable to powers and forces higher and more potential than himself.
There is in my estimation no good reason why this philosophy of humility and faith should in any way detract from man's intelligence. The recognition of power higher than man himself does not in any sense debase him. If in his faith he ascribes beneficence and high purpose to the power which is superior to himself he envisions a higher destiny and nobler attributes for his kind and is stimulated and encouraged in the struggle of existence. He has confidence in the justice of eternal and unchanging law, which is not subject to the caprice and fitful will of men. So to the rich or poor, the high or lowly, the successful and those who fail, the philosophy of faith brings stability, poise, composure, hope, and enduring satisfaction. It is a vital and priceless acquisition. It is not always easy to attain.
What are the ways of securing faith? I admit that difficulties are to be encountered because a man cannot really know what faith is until he has experienced it, nor can he really experience it without recognizing it for what it is.
Now I propose as an important first step in acquiring faith, particularly by those of little maturity in the thinking process, a recognition of the difference between the realm of faith and spirit on the one hand, and mind and matter on the other. It is always desirable, I believe, to bear in mind this distinction. It is particularly important to those of limited years or experience, who may be having some difficulty in their thinking, in making certain adjustments and reconciliations.
Let me cite an example: A young man raised in a household of faith has always been taught to pray. He has assumed and felt, probably without much thinking about it, that there is a superior power to hear and answer his prayers. This young man goes to college. Among his studies he perhaps pursues some of the sciences. One day, perhaps in a purely casual way, someone asks him, "Do you pray?" It may be a classmate, or even a teacher. "Why certainly," he replies. "Why shouldn't I?" "To whom do you pray?" is the next question. "Why, to God, of course." "Where is your God? What is He like? Have you ever seen Him? How do you know He exists?"
Well, these questions he can not so easily answer. He pauses for reply, and in that pause an avalanche of new thoughts and novel sensations almost overwhelm him, and very likely in real confusion this young man says to himself, "How do I know? What do I really know?"
In his study of the sciences he has learned something of the scientific process. He knows that everything must be demonstrated before conclusions can legitimately be reached, and he knows that the demonstrations required are those that are tangible and susceptible of very definite and positive human proof. He has had an introduction into the realm of reason, and for the moment at least the methods of that realm dominate his intelligence and his senses.
How fortunate is this young man, if, after the first rush of those perplexing thoughts, it occurs to him that there is a wide difference between the province of science and reason on the one hand and that of the spiritual and feeling on the other. Now, fully aware of this difference, he replies to his inquisitors, "Why yes, I know that God lives. I do not know where He is, I have never seen him, but I am perfectly satisfied that He exists, and this I know through my faith. I don't ask for the same kind of proof and demonstration that are required in the sciences. I am not dealing with similar matters. My faith is a matter of feeling and inward conviction. I know that there is a divine world as well as I know that I love my mother. These are matters of feeling. My soul is satisfied. That is all I ask."
Now I would not have you think that the young man of my illustration could not have brought to the support of his conviction many persuasive and convincing arguments. He might have asked his inquirers to account for the universe with its illimitable manifestations of law and order without the dominance of a master mind. He might have brought to his aid the records of sacred and profane history, the universal prevalence of the idea of Deity among all nations and people, the incomparable achievements of mankind as distinguished from all other forms of animal life, and many other pertinent things.
As for the next step in the acquisition of faith and testimony, the fanciful critic or any other like him can find out, if he will, whether or not the testimony is true. This way may seem paradoxical. It is this: one may secure faith by doing the things that he would do and being the kind of a person that he would be if he had faith. In other words, he must repose enough confidence at the beginning of his inquiry in spiritual realities to enable him in faith to undertake spiritual exercise and endeavor. It is not enough that he try merely the form of spiritual exercise as an experiment. He must be truly humble. He will have to forsake the philosophy of self-sufficiency. He must seek believing, praying, and hoping that he will find. No such sincere, prayerful effort will go unrequited—that is the very constitution of the philosophy of faith.
Spiritual exercise may be of either a public or private nature. All open participation in religious and Church activities is calculated to strengthen spiritual powers. Such participation is highly desirable and not infrequently is it regarded as the chief factor in the culmination of a firm testimony. It is, however, with reference to private spiritual exercise that I feel a very deep concern. Thinking processes in all institutions of higher learning, frequently undergo very radical changes, not always because professors or instructors intentionally promote such changes, but because the exposure of the mind to new concepts, new principles and methods very frequently brings reactions and complexes that are altogether unbidden by either student or teacher. I know that this is true because I have had such experiences myself.
Sometimes thoughts are like unruly children—difficult to control. I have persuaded myself, however, that they can be disciplined, and often they must be if we are to preserve our faith. Let me illustrate again with a fanciful character. He may be a student or even a professor, because, after all, good professors are always students. This academic man begins to ponder. He has studied and he has done a good deal of scientific thinking. He comes on to a number of perplexing questions with apparent incompatibility between his former conceptions of faith and the new things which he learns. What about the age of the earth? Was Adam really the first man? In the light of what he has learned can he still believe in the miracles as reported in the scriptures, and coming down to later days, can the story of the Prophet Joseph Smith be true? Was he really visited by heavenly beings? Did he translate the Book of Mormon by the power of the Lord? Was the holy Priesthood actually bestowed by divine messengers?
It is while he is contemplating such things, even though he is loath to let go of his once simple faith, that his thoughts spring up unbidden, almost belligerently, to fight down his erstwhile convictions. They heckle him and they challenge him. "What do you know? How much proof have you?" they say. "Why don't you acknowledge, in the face of what you have learned, that you have been the victim of a delusion?" And he says to himself in answer to these taunts, "I do want to be intellectually honest; I want to be true to myself."
Now here is where I want to break into this conversation with himself. I want to ask this scholar—who has a thinking complex of the kind which I have mentioned, this question, when he says, "I want to be true to myself:" "What part of yourself is it to which you want to be true? Is it your spiritual self or this new man of science? Is it that fellow who was yourself throughout your boyhood and your youth; whom your mother and father nurtured so carefully and loved so much; who was so confident in the goodness of things and so happy in his confidence; whose pure faith held such high promise for his people and those who loved him?"
Now if this is the part of yourself to whom you wish to be true, I think I can tell you what to do. Just say to those skeptical, disturbing, rebellious thoughts, "I propose to stay with my faith, with the faith of my people. I know that happiness and contentment are there, and I forbid you, agnostic, doubting thoughts, to destroy the house of my faith. I acknowledge that I do not understand the processes of creation, but I accept the fact of it. I grant that I cannot explain the miracles of the Bible and I do not attempt to do so, but I accept God's word. I wasn't with Joseph, but I believe him. My faith did not come to me through science and I will not permit science to destroy it. When I change my mind about God and His work, only the inspiration of God will change it."
You may think all this evasive. I urge you to try it before deciding. I am proud of science and reason and their marvelous development as I think I should be. I love education. It is the promise of universal peace and progress. In the presence of a master mind, penetrating, logical, and luminous, I stand with admiration that almost approaches reverence. I want to think, I want everyone to think, for thinking is the better part of study. I believe, however, our thoughts may be disciplined without stultification of our intelligences and with infinite peace and happiness to ourselves.
In conclusion, I issue another caution with a promise. I believe that an observance of it will be more potential than anything I have mentioned in the preservation of your faith. It is this: Never depart from the teachings of the Church; keep every commandment—do not be persuaded that you can violate any one with impunity; honor God—and I promise you, you will never lose your faith in Him.—Reprint from Millennial Star.

UNSEALED By Della Adams Leitner
The women came at sunrise to the tomb, Bearing a last love-offering to Him, Sweet spices for his burial. The gloom Of night was past but oh their eyes were dim. They neared the place with hearts distressed and torn, "For who will roll away the stone for us?" they said. "Its mass and weight our puny strength would scorn, And keep us from our dear beloved dead." But yet they kept on bravely through the dawn To bring oblations, striving doubts to still. O Faith that will not yield but presses on, Your power unseen God's miracles fulfill. And when they looked the stone was rolled away. Grief-stricken hearts all down the passing years Have found the dreaded stone of their dismay Removed by faith that falters not at fears.

Those Deceptive Days By Harrison R. Merrill
Who is there among us who has not sprung from bed on some glorious morning and shouted to the listening world: "This is the day! I am an armed knight; this day I shall joust for the things I love. This day shall I achieve!" And how many of us have not, at least upon some evenings, crept back into our sheets knowing that we have been beguiled into allowing another golden span of life pass without carrying out that determination?
Ralph Waldo Emerson evidently during his lifetime had such experiences, for among the gems which he left us is there not a little jewel called "Days?" I shall quote it:
DAYS
Daughters of Time, the hypocritic Days, Muffled and dumb like barefoot dervishes, And marching single in an endless file, Bring diadems and fagots in their hands. To each they offer gifts after his will, Bread, kingdoms, stars, and sky that holds them all. I, in my pleached garden, watched the pomp, Forgot my morning wishes, hastily Took a few herbs and apples, and the Day Turned and departed silent. I, too late, Under her solemn fillet saw the scorn.
Before I press forward with my theme I should like to say that the poet's lines present some intriguing pictures. There is that line "muffled and dumb like barefoot dervishes, and marching single in an endless file." What a "file" a man or woman of sixty or seventy or eighty has seen! A pageant of white-robed, half-veiled figures extending from 1878, 1868, or 1858 to the present time—21,900 or 25,550, or 29,200 Days—in a seemingly endless row. And each with its diadem or fagot in Her hand ready to bestow a blessing or a curse. Every man of sixty has been given 21,900 opportunities to achieve, not counting the extra days for leap years.
"To each"—these Days—"offered gifts after his will, bread, kingdoms, stars, and even the sky that holds them all." Many of us find the Days too laden with good things. We snatch at this and that as they pass and come to the close of a long life rather empty-handed. Many actually, after all of their chances, have so many worthless and worse than worthless commodities in their possession that we wonder if they are wealthier or poorer than when they began their selections.
Emerson's closing lines are poignant. He says "I, in my pleached garden (blossom-woven, flower-bedecked, perfumed) watched the pomp"—those lovely, golden, soothing, deceptive Days—"forgot my morning wishes." And how very easy that is, especially on a pleasant day. That probably accounts for the fact that the world's great achievements have been made in the temperate zones where not all of the Days are so seductive. The Day, being about to leave, says Emerson "I hastily took a few herbs and apples"—a sort of snatch-grab at sunset—"and the Day turned and departed silent." She said not a word; she couldn't, being dumb. But he continues, "I, too late, under her solemn fillet (coquettish and lacy cap) saw the scorn." There was the Day, ready to bestow "bread, kingdoms, stars, and even the sky that holds them all"—and he took a few herbs and apples. No wonder her lips curled with scorn! He, whose morning wishes had swept the stars, became so enamored of the Day that he forgot those great things he planned to do and wasted his opportunity upon comparatively worthless things. [It seems that most of us lack vision or long view. We are so nearsighted that we cannot see beyond the Day which stands silent before us. The things we choose from each Day's store too often are not related to the ones we took yesterday or the ones we shall take tomorrow. We come at the end of a long procession of Days, after each has left her Gifts, and find that we have a heterogenous mass of material, unrelated, often in its isolation worthless or even worse than worthless. The other day I read a story of Frank A. Munsey, the publisher. It seems that a generation ago he went down to New York City to see the world's fair. In one place a huge new newspaper press had been set up to make known to the visitors what the new press would do. Munsey, a callow youth, stood watching the marvel run. He saw the papers in thousands turned from the great perfecting machine, ready to be distributed to the readers. He stood there a moment, and I fancy he got a long view. He saw that magnificent procession of Days bearing down upon him. Jn the confidence of youth, he turned to a companion RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and said: "Some day I am going 'to own that paper." Now it chanced that the paper of which he spoke was one of the great New York dailies, worth a mint of money, especially did it seem so at that time and Munsey had less than ten dollars. Now you might say that he had merely voiced a youthful wish. Not so. He made a prophecy, for his wish came true. How did he do it? I don't know exactly, but I fancy he did something like this: He said to himself, "Now how shall I go about getting hold of that paper?' He knew of that procession of Days with gifts in their hands. He must have begun 'that very next morning thinking of the things he must do in order to become the editor or owner of a great paper. When that next Day presented Herself before him with gifts in Her hands, he must have looked them over rather carefully. He probably passed by the glistening baubles which gleamed brightly in the sunlight. He must have dug down to those solid, worthwhile things which could be used in building a career. The Day must have smiled hopefully as She turned away, for here was one who was discriminating. On the next Day, he no doubt selected from among the gifts those that would add meaning to his already accumulating store. I haven't looked the matter up to see how many Days brought their gifts to this lad, before his dream had come true. There was probably quite a procession. Success stories like that of Munsey's could be multiplied indefinitely. All of them teach the one important lesson that purpose is the string upon which we must thread the gifts which the Days bring us. Without that unifying purpose, the THOSE DECEPTIVE DAYS materials we gather may be comparatively worthless when it comes to building a life structure we call great. Many a person has begun upon an Edifice, has selected wisely for a few days, but has lacked the stamina to keep up his selection. The deceptive Days offer so many tempting things, and man is so shortsighted, that many a person with nearly all the qualities of greatness in him has fallen short. I suppose the Master was thinking of this daily offering from the Days when He told that story of the talents. That chap with the one talent was a moron. He had no continuity in his thinking or his selection. That chap with five had purpose. He looked at his wares on hand and said to himself: 'Now, there will be a procession of Days along here with gifts for me. What am I to select that will add to my store?" That was a wise act. Wise acts usually bring their reward. HIS article, however, isnot intended to be discouraging. Many of us have difficulty in dreaming fine dreams. Greatness seems so remote that we sense our futility. We must remember, when such hours come, that the Master seemed to think that the contributions of ordinary people, if they were sincere and progressive in their ideals, were worthwhile. The housewife in her own home and in the rearing of her children may find an important and enthralling life's work. We all know of Abraham Lincoln's tribute to his mother: "All that I am I owe to my angel mother." Nancy Hanks, the unknown young woman who lived in the wild forest, because she made a contribution that has astonished the world. How genuine she must have been; how true to her ideals, to impress herself so firmly upon the life of her He immortalized - 225 son before he was nine years old. I wish we knew just what gifts Nancy Hanks accepted from those deceptive Days. Of course the Days which brought their gifts to her were not so laden with worthless baubles as our own, but there is no doubt that she had some choices and there seems to be no doubt that she chose well. The Master settled that with the simple question: "Do men gather figs from thistles, or grapes from thorns?" Since Emerson wrote the poem I have quoted, the Days have certainly loaded up their baskets with tempting bits—movies, radios, bridge and autos, and more and finer foods and gaudy clothing and tinsel and show. Few things are bad in themselves, fortunately, they only become bad when they interfere with our serious selections. When one has the inspiration of the Lord upon him and is ready to achieve greatly, it is so easy to lose the moment by turning aside to the movie or by snapping on that ever-present and ever-inviting radio. "Muffled and dumb like barefoot dervishes" the Days stand with their gifts held out. Each stays but her allotted time no matter what we choose. Like peanut and popcorn vendors, the Days distribute their wares and then move on to the "granary of the years." THE point of this article then is that all of us know there is a procession of Days out there in the future loading the baskets for us. Just how many there are, we do not know, but we know they will be along one after the other so long as our life-sands run. It is the part of wisdom to know what we are going to take from them and then so to fortify our souls that when we have decided to take bricks we cannot be 226 deceived into taking baubles for Christmas trees or tinsel for show. We know that all of those Days will be distributors. They will leave something with us either for our good or for our harm. If all our dreams and ambitions were like infants and if we could see their frail dead bodies as we abandon them one by one, the sight would blast our eyes. Life is interesting. Fortunately, we can live every moment. We may not be remembered, but being remembered is not the purpose of existence. Being is the chief purpose —being as fully, as completely, as enjoyably as we can. Emerson again expressed it fairly well in the latter part of his exquisite little poem: THE RHODORA Rhodora, if the sages ask thee why This charm is wasted on the earth and sky. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Tell them, dear, that if eyes were made for seeing, Then Beauty is its own excuse for being: Why wert thou there, O’rival of the rose! I never thought to ask, I never knew; But, in my simple ignorance, suppose The self-same Power that brought me here, brought you. BE assured, then, that the Days will offer you, my friend, many beautiful things. Take all you can hold successfully, but take with reason and purpose—not because some offering has tempted you. I wish I could follow that advice myself. I cannot, of course, but perhaps I can make my choices from a hundred or a thousand Days look more or less consecutive—purposeful. I trust you can do that also. —- DIANA'S SHAWL By Eva Willes Wangsgaard Diana's hair is china white Molded high to form a crown, Graceful as the moon of night, Head erect, she goes to town. Diana's clothes are labor-bought, Made while evening lamplight fell. Queens and wealth have vainly sought Clothes to look and hang as well. Eleven times Diana went Down that path where life is born. Never was her spirit bent, Never pride in self was torn. Diana wears her shawl of years Gracefully with shoulders high. One with youth, she warms and cheers, Gay of heart and glad of eye. If I wear Diana's shawl Knit of years as full and long, Let my spirit walk as tall. Lend my heart Diana's song. Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd By Dorothy Clapp Robinson Chapter One OU might as well save your breath, I'm not going." I looked up at the rudely defiant girl and caught my words before they were spoken. What a change had come over her. Head up, eyes flashing, cheeks rouged © by the intensity of her feelings, she became, on the instant, strikingly attractive. I could hardly believe that a moment before she had been a rather listless, ordinary looking girl. I had always suspected she was capable of a wealth of emotion but why, oh, why, was she so apologetic among people? "That's the way she is," her harassed mother spoke bitterly, "She is always complaining of being without friends and of not being wanted but she won't try to get acquainted. When anyone asks her to go with them she won't." Mrs. Richards was a widow who had her own living to make and Salle, her only daughter, instead of being a help was fast becoming a problem. That was why the mother had spoken to us about her. "It's too bad she can't fit in with the Mutual crowd," Rhoda Blomquist, my second counselor, said tactlessly, "My girls have a grand time." Salle condescended to cover us with a withering glance. "Why shouldn't they? Mutuals are for their kind. They have clothes and position and backing. They live in the right part of town. I don't and I am not going where people remind me of it." a "Tf she would stay away sem that awful Mrs. Grow," the mother began, but Salle turned to her. "Don't you say a word about her." Then to us, "Of course, women like you would know all about it." Head high she swept abruptly from the room, banging the door behind her. ' Again I caught my breath. This time on a vision of understanding. The girl was being hurt by something and how else could she hide her bruised feeling except behind a wall? Walls could hide many things. How well I knew. Then I heard Mary Grosbeck, my first counselor, ask, ""Doesn't she go out at all?" "Oh, yes," for a moment the mother struggled with her emotions. "She is running with Nedra Williams and that Mrs. Grow. You heard how she defended her a moment ago." At the mention of that woman's name I felt my face go scarlet. I rose hastily. "I think we had better go." I did not like this semi-public discussion of a problem that needed so much tact. True, we were the Relief Society presidency but that meant less than nothing to Salle. Likely she would never forgive her mother for telling us about her. To Mrs. Richards I added, "I would say as little as possible about it to avoid antagonizing her. But any time you think I can help don't hesitate to ask me. I'll talk to the Mutual people. They might be able to get her interested." When we were on the sidewalk Rhoda. Blomquist said, "If you ask me, I think all that is wrong 228 with Salle is the knowledge that Kent Evans will be home from his mission soon and find she isn't the girl she once was." "That was a very unkind thing to say,' Mary rebuked her sharply and my heart warmed with her defense. "Salle is a girl of great possibilities but very proud and sensitive; but she is being warped emotionally by circumstances. Your girl or mine might do worse." W HEN six weeks before, our Bishop had asked me to be President of our Relief Society my first reaction was one of incredulity. I, Dona Maylord, president of such an organization? In comparison with some other women who might have been asked I was almost an infant in experience and age. The more I thought of it the more incapable I felt but with that ran a bright thread of joy that he had considered me worthy to be asked. I would love the work. I had had some training in sociology and loved to work with 'people, especially underprivileged ones. "Tam choosing you because you assume responsibility understandingly,' Bishop had said to me. "I have always thought our Relief Society could do more progressive work. You have vision to see and courage to materialize your vision. The work is waiting for you." That was a big order; but if I did not have those qualities, I had one other that would help me through. It was, Tim often said teasingly, that I did not know enough to give up after I had tackled a problem. This day we were visiting the ward in preparation for the opening RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the season's work. I felt that to do good work I must know the personnel of the ward as they were in their own homes. Only then would I be able to see their problems as they saw them. At the second stop from the Richards home we found ourselves facing a small dilapidated house with broken screens and windows and a littered dirt yard. When the door opened to our knock we had to step over an accumulation of toys, old shoes, dirty clothes and dirtier babies to get inside. With suds-soaked hands our hostess cleared three chairs of doubtful dependability, at the same time talking rapidly. "Sit down, all of you. Don't be afraid of the chairs. I'll sit here on this old couch. You'll have to excuse this mess but you know how it is when a buddy has so many babies and nothing to do with. The flies are nearly to run us out. I have been wanting to have the screens fixed all summer but the Husband don't get time to do nothing around home. Seems like it is more than a buddy can do to keep things straight. I tell the children they ought to be ashamed to live like this. My mother never allowed us to strew up her sitting room this way, but I guess poor people have poor ways and it seems like we will never get on our feet." Poor ways. Poor mother. Through an open door I could see into a bedroom. The bedding was ragged and inexpressibly dirty. From the kitchen came the smell of cold suds mingling with and making more unbearable the acrid odor of long unventilated rooms. A wave of discouragement engulfed me. Why must there be so much misery in the world? DEAR TO THE HEART OF THE SHEPHERD Why must people be forced to build walls and live less than humans? "Are you washing, Mrs. Holman?" Rhoda Blomquist asked. "If you are we had better go on and not hinder you." I knew she was anxious to get out into the open air but Mrs. Holman answered quickly, "Oh, you are not bothering me. I have been washing for two days and if T don't get it done today I can tomorrow. My land, I just love to have Relief Society teachers. They are the only women that ever come near me. Seems like—Susie, behave yourself. I'll declare, my children don't show no raising a tall. The Husband's mother is all the time telling me how rude they are breaking things up. O' course we don't have much furniture but I do have a piano but it is out to her place." "And they won't let me play it," a dark-haired girl spoke from a corner where she had been listening. Here was an opening and I seized it eagerly. "Would you like to play?" "Uh-huh," the child's soiled face lighted with the flame of desire. "I'd love to. I can pick out tunes when they let me." It seemed almost fate that gave me such a chance. I am a musician and have a group of students. Nothing would give me more delight than developing this waif—aad who knows but it might ne to a way of helping the family. "If your mother doesn't mind, come to my place tomorrow at ten o'clock. I will see what we can do about giving you lessons." It was hard to tell who's face expressed the most eagerness, mother's or child's. 229 "Oh, she's smart," pride softened the strident tones. "My children are all smart. I wish I could do better by them." Looking into their eyes I could well believe they were "smart." As a group they would average high in intelligence. What a crime it would be to have it wasted or perverted. "Haven't you a washer?" practical, methodical Mrs. Blomquist was plainly worried about the unfinished state of the washing. "Yes, she's got one," a small boy answered. "But it is out in the back yard and Dad is too lazy to bring it in." "Don't you speak that way about your father, young man." "Will too," the youngster began but the dark-haired girl pounced on him with a shrill, "you hush," and he subsided momentarily. Her influence was a fact to store away for future reference. Mrs. Blomquist had risen and Mary looked as if she would like to also but our work here was not finished. I had been watching the children. "Would you like me to tell you a story?" "I”ll tell you about a poor lost sheep." "TI saw a sheep out to the fair," four-year-old Susie managed to take her thumb from her mouth long enough to voice the startling fact. "Don't like stories of sheep," the boy declared and emphasized his dislike by pushing over a chair. It was in the last stage of decreptitude and broke hopelessly. "Jerold Holman, see what you have done to the poor chair. You go in the kitchen right now." "Won't do it. I'll break another one." When he looked about for 230 one the mother roused from her inertia and tried to take him from the room. He was too much for her but Jeanie rushed to her assistance and soon they had him behind the closed kitchen door. An instant later he appeared at the front screen. Ignoring the commotion I began telling them the immortal story of the Lost Sheep. I put all I had into it. When I finished there were deep sighs of satisfaction from the children. "That was our lesson," I told Mrs. Holman. Then to the children, "When the teachers come again they will tell you another story. Like those you hear in Sunday School." "We don't go to School." "Well," the mother defended herself, "the Husband won't let me send them unless they look just right and how can I keep clothes on their backs without money?" How could she, indeed. How could anyone? It was hard enough to keep up a home when one had a modest salary to use. This woman had six babies and no certain income. Only a strong woman could handle such a problem. We had hardly reached the sidewalk when Rhoda expelled her breath with gusto and then drew her lungs full of afternoon air that was so clean and fresh. "What a relief." "Wasn't it pitiful?" Mary asked. "But you can't blame Mr. Holman too much for staying away from home the way he does." No, I thought, one couldn't blame him too much. Each was seeking release in the way they knew. They were children of the Sunday RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ward and would have to be helped to a solution. OUR next hostess made no effort to express an opinion or ask a question. She listened quietly until we asked her to come to Relief Society and then the words fairly tumbled over each other in her eagerness. "No. I am not going to that meeting again. I went a number of times when we first moved here and I might as well have been to a meeting of South Sea Islanders. If I have to be alone T'll stay home for it." "The first thing we will do, tomorrow," I said, when we were back on the sidewalk, "is organize a committee to welcome the women—especially the strangers." "Some people need so much attention.". "Perhaps you have never had the experience she spoke of. I have and it wasn't pleasant." "We'd better go in here." I had been walking with my thoughts on the problems when Mary spoke. I looked up quickly at the house indicated. "No, no!" I cried involuntarily. "T couldn't go into that house. I just couldn't." "Why, what is the matter with you?" Mary demanded. "She belongs to the ward no matter what people say of her." - "And they say plenty," Rhoda added. By that time I had control of myself. My personal likes or worries had no place in this work I had assumed. Besides there was no reason why I should dislike Mrs. Grow. Tim laughed and joked with many who came into his store. As we turned toward the house we met Mr. Holman coming out. DEAR TO THE HEART OF THE SHEPHERD But there was no answer to our knock. The next three places we visited were like refreshing rain after a drought. Clean, well-ordered homes; smiling hostesses who received us gladly and from their own experience enriched us. Such women, I knew, were the salt of the organization and I gave silent thanks that they were in the majority. OUR last visit that day, while not far in distance, was far removed in appearance and atmosphere from the rest of the district. We were admitted by a maid and led to a small music room where we waited. When the hostess came, a vision of loveliness, she greeted us laughingly. "How lovely to see you. Dona, don't tell me you have decided to work with me! You know I strayed from the fold long ago." I watched her closely as she spoke. She was beautiful. Too beautiful, almost, to be true. But her eyes were too 'bright and there was a metallic ring in her voice that had not been there when I had last seen her. "Our lesson today is the parable of the Lost Sheep. It might point a way back." "I am very happy where I am, thank you. But I will gladly listen to your message. "We are not district teachers this time, Mrs. Holsinger. Mrs. Maylord is our new president and we are her counselors." "How splendid. I always expected such things of you, Dona." This time there was a genuine- 231 ness in her voice that had been lacking before. "We have come a long way since high school days, haven't we? You have worked so hard and I have had such fun." Yes. We had each gone a long way since we had been pals in school, and I suspected Gloria Holsinger's way had not been too satisfying. "I shall probably call on you for help, Gloria." Again she laughed. "You'd lose your position if you did. Imagine me in Relief Society. But I really would enjoy your lesson." She made a gesture of settling herself comfortably but I knew her too well to be deceived. There was a controlled nervousness about her that set me thinking. When the lesson was finished I said, "Sing for us, will you? I'll play for you. It will be like old times." I went to her beautiful piano and struck the opening chord of, "Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd." Without a word Gloria came to stand by me and the way she sang that beautiful old hymn brought peace to my heart for the first time that day. The thought came suddenly to me, "why not use her as chorister?" What poise and what vision she could: bring to our organization with her music if she only would. Mentally, I made a note of speaking to my counselors and the Bishop this very night. Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd were all these blindly wandering sheep. God grant me the power to point out to them the vision of returning paths. (To be continued) Our Easter Customs By Dorothy Nell Mair THEN the last blizzard of winter has vanished and the cold winds cease their eerie whistling in the chimney, spring has come. With the springtime comes the Easter season, and the resurrection of things that are good and beautiful. As Christ rose from the darkness of the tomb, so rise the plants from the sleeping darkness of the earth to carpet the barren ground with green grass and embroider it with flowers. At Eastertide we cast off the old and worn-out things and accept the vigorous new ones. It is the season of renewed hopes and spiritual happiness, when life begins again. Mankind, in a joyous state of mind, must celebrate such a season. Since antiquity Easter has been observed in various ways and with various symbols, not all of them having origin in the age of Christianity. Just why we celebrate Easter has even been disputed by some historians. The Christian world generally accepts it to be in commemoration of the Resurrection of Christ, but some authorities tell us that it is an old Saxon custom celebrating the festival of the Saxon goddess, Eastre, who was honored each spring. The word Easter comes from the Saxon word oster, meaning "to rise." In the spring all plant life arises. Nature awakens from the winter's slumber and growing things appear upon the earth. Likewise mankind's spirit arises, too, with hopefulness. He must express this happiness, and he does so, with festivals that are both gay and religious. WHEN we think of Easter, we think of the longiflorum lilium, or Easter lily. Its waxen whiteness signifies purity; its fragrance is refreshing. How much one of these beautiful potted lilies add to a room when it graces a mantel, a window seat, a draped corner, or an end table beside a cozy chair. Lilies were the flowers of the ancients, and no others have had their beauty extolled in prose and poetry quite as much. They are the Biblical flowers; the white ones symbolic of purity, consecrated to the Virgin Mary. It is believed, however, that the lilies mentioned in the Bible were not true liliums, but true lilies were known to the ancients. The appearance of lily designs upon pottery proves that. Also, there are a number of flowers termed lily which are not true lilies—the Lily of the Valley being one, although in church history this dainty little flower is symbolic of the Virgin's tears. There are many varieties of liliums, aside from the Easter lily. When colonization of North America began lilies were found growing in the woods and meadows. The bulbs were shipped back to England where cultivation has been going on for three centuries. It has been only within the last seventy-five years that they have been cultivated on this continent. Some of the largest lily blooms ever grown are now extinct and their cultivation lost to the world. The longiflorum or Easter lily, as we call it, is not a native of North America, but an imported bulb OUR EASTER CUSTOMS from Japan, extensively cultivated by our American florists. This is the variety grown in pots by the thousands to meet the trade of the Easter season, and everyone loves this fragrant flower. NOTHER symbol of this new life which begins at the Easter season is our Easter egg. We trace this custom back to the Persians who celebrated the beginning of the new year in the springtime and presented each other with an egg, believing that within the egg * was the secret of life. The "Festival of the Eggs" each spring was preserved by the Christian world when the calendar was changed and the new year moved up to January first. Symbolizing new life and a resurrection of things dormant, it fitted into the celebration of the Easter season. The custom of coloring the eggs is exceedingly ancient and was done by the Jews at the Passover time. The early Christian custom' was to decorate the eggs with red, to represent the blood of Christ. Even the downy yellow chick has his place in our Easter symbols. His breaking through the hard shell and entering into the world as a thing alive is suggestive of Christ's victory over the tomb and his again walking about upon the earth until the Ascension. The Easter rabbit comes into our observance of the season through an old superstition, believed to be of Teutonic origin, which says that rabbits laid eggs on Easter Eve. Es 233 JP until the fourth century the celebration of Easter consisted of simple church ceremonies. Then came Constantine, of Rome, the lover of pomp and display, who made the festival one of extravagance. He it was who appeared in church on Easter morning attired in his richest and newest robes. Others, not to be outdone, began dressing up to keep the occasion. Each year more people appeared in church attired in modish dress, until the fashion to look one's best on Easter morning became a universal practice. But there is more behind the desire to wear new clothes on Easter morning, than just to satisfy the vanity of being well-dressed. After the long dreary days of winter when daylight is all too short, and we are compelled to spend a good share of the twenty-four hours in darkness, each soul is clamoring for a release. Eagerly we await the springtime, the lengthening of the daylight, and we grasp for a new and better chance to reestablish our physical resources. We discard our old bundlesome wearing apparel much as we put aside old heartaches and unpleasant experiences of the year before. We don fresh new clothes with the same joy and eagerness with which we herald the good and beautiful growing things of the Easter season. Our new clothes are nothing more than a material manifestation of the happiness within the heart, and the custom now has an established place in the celebration of our Easter festival. 234 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THE GIFT OLIVE AND MADELYN By Juliaetta B. Jensen "Love is all, and Death is naught."—Browning You say she was too young to die, That life was opening up As does a flower; That leaf and bud were giving way To bloom and precious fruit: A promised dower. Her gifts were manifold, 'tis true, She gave to all, and blessed Each one she met. The sun is brighter, moonbeams softer, The flowers lovelier, because her smile Is on them yet. Love played his game, and smiled with pride That one so lovely should be a bride In the month of June. But Death loved too, this precious girl; He won; but by his winning, lost her All too soon. She stands upon that radiant dawn, And in her arms, like lovely flowers, she bears Her gifts of song and love, Unspoiled, undaunted, there she goes. Ah happy they, and blessed, who share Her youth and hopes above. The Fountain of Youth—Recreation Loren H. Basler, Supervisor of Recreation—Idaho while recreation for mature women, my thoughts immediately fly to a woman whom I admire and love very much, my mother. Born into a normal American home, with the average amount of education, she raised a family of four children, under the handicap of a very modest financial budget. The things I remember about her are not the long hours she spent washing, mending, cooking and dishwashing, but the time she managed to work into her time budget in order that she could do some of the things she liked and desired to do. I remember the plans she made for her own recreation, the art, the music and the dramatic lessons she took, the little trips she managed, the hats she made, the home decorating which she planned and executed, the parties and socials she arranged. This mother of mine planned her twenty-four hours so that she not only had time for her own rest and relaxation periods, but she also had a lot of pleasure planning recreation for both her family and community. How well I remember the family and neighborhood "sings" we had as we sat in front of the big fireplace, popping corn and shining apples which would later be eaten with fudge; the birthday cakes, candles and parties; the little family orchestra, the pony, dogs, sleds, bicycles, and swings which were somehow I. Thinking of wholesome, worth provided for out of her meager - funds; the group socials of quiet, pen and pencil and co-recreational games she planned, the picnics, camping and outing trips; the thrilling joy she got from entertaining a group with her songs and dramatic readings. She is still alive and happy in her joyous life adventure, at this present minute off on a recreational trip, entertaining others, going surf bathing, singing her songs, getting her recreation by being happy and making others play —''a seventy-year-old adolescent." Because I have known this woman who has always lived recreation I have the courage to attempt to discuss the subject of recreation for mature women. HAVE yet to find a woman who thinks of herself as old—rather she thinks, if she considers the question at all, of herself as a girl. She has the same instinctive desires for fun, play, mental and social activi- - ties as she had in her childhood. The specific activities in which she participates should be carefully selected and tactfully presented, as she is still as shy and self-conscious about anything new as an eight-year-old. Activities must be presented which are recreational and too easy rather than those which involve fine techniques and savor of work rather than play. We can divide the kinds of recreation in which women of mature years are interested into five main divisions. Figure No. 1 shows these five phases of recreation and the relative value of each, according to the interest of mature women. Joseph Lee, formerly of the National Recreation Association of America, says: "The impulse to play is universal." Physical activities do not play as prominent a part in the recreation program for women as they do in the program for 236 Figure No. 1 youth. The specific physical activities for mature women should be carefully planned for recreational and health values. Any event which endangers health or physical fitness should be excluded from the women's program. Women are more interested in having fun by means of stunts, novelty races, non-intricate dances and games using large, free movements rather than in competing with other women in skill types of games and sports. Activities involving very little running should be used. THE physical kinds of recreation are divided into fields. First, the individual and dual events. Below is suggested a list of these activities. INDIVIDUAL AND DUAL PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES FOR WOMEN 1. Novelty Races and Contests. A. Egg and spoon race b. Lighted candle race c. With partner, one walk forward one walk backward and return race. Nail driving contest. Needle threading contest. Feather on paper plate race. Suitcase race. Potato race DQ rho RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE i. Balloon blowing contest j. Various water races and stunts k. Clothes pin race 1. Bean bag contests m. Walking forward, backward and sidewise races n. Imitative walk races o. Various types of ball throwing contests. Dual Games.. Archery. Bowling. Croquet. Shuffleboard. Horseshoes. Tennis. Golf. Archery golf badminton. Table tennis F. Paddle tennis. Tin can bowling m. Curling n. Bounce ball o. Clock golf — No one woman should attempt to participate in them all, rather she should select a few which would give her the most immediate enjoyment and satisfaction. "THE next list suggests some of the activities of the second type, group events. Women are, by nature, social; they prefer to be with congenial people when they play. Group events, when participated in with good companions, give joyous, healthful exercise, are not dangerous and are suited in every way to women, if well supervised. Many women like to join a group for reducing exercises but will stay with the group and the activity only as long as they are having a good time. GROUP PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES FOR WOMEN outings summer camps aquatics coasting skating horseback riding. Roller skating folk dancing old-time dances mSg mo BO op THE FOUNTAIN OF YOUTH j. Tap dancing k, social dancing 1. Gymnasium class m. Low organized games reducing exercises relays. Game skills volley ball walking "THE best known phase of recreation for women of mature age comes through creative activitfes. If they enter into these creative arts, free from strain, under no compulsion and utterly relaxed, they will get much joy and satisfaction from them. A list of crafts, music and dramatic activities which women really enjoy follows: rapos CREATIVE ACTIVITIES FOR WOMEN Crafts. Plain sewing. Fancy sewing hook and braided rugs. Quilting cooking. Gardening. Raising pets. Metal work leather work flowers. Silhouettes painting, drawing m. Sculpturing n. China painting o. Home decorating Music a. Music appreciation club. Orchestra string band. Chorus. Singing mothers group. Choral or choir group. Kitchen band. Music contest minstrels. J. Group singing Dramatics a. Tableaux b. Living statues c. Shadow plays 237. Vaudeville shows. Costuming amateur hours. Pageants h. Festivals i. Stunts j. Pantomime k. Playlets 1. One-act plays m. Marionettes n. Play writing o. Dramatic contests rho F all types of recreation, crafts give women the greatest thrill, satisfaction and feeling of success, for the smallest amount of effort. Hand skill and dexterity is the one basic skill that nearly every woman developed in her girlhood. She may not have learned to sing, dance, play active games or act, but she did learn to use her hands. In directing these activities it will be necessary for the leader to learn the background, skills and interests of the women in a given group and see that the unskilled woman starts with the simplest project and provide the most difficult crafts for the clever ones. In Oregon lives a woman whom I know very well. Her children are grown, she has always been an extremely busy individual, managing a splendid home and also finding time to care for a small needlecraft business. She has given up her business and at the present time would probably be a restless, unhappy, listless woman if she had not gone back to the craft she first learned as a small girl in a little old log house on a Canadian prairie. For the past several years this woman has made exquisite hooked rugs. She cuts, dyes and prepares her own material, designs her patterns, plans the colors and even makes the frames. The value of these rugs could not be estimated in dollars and cents. Year after year they take blue ribbons at the Oregon State Fair. The real 238 value lies, not in the rugs, but in the happiness and satisfaction which comes from having successfully made some beautiful object. NEARLY every woman has a small amount of fundamental skill and plenty of love, for music. Under wise leadership she may have joyous success in some artistic musical group. Even if a woman has had very little training, or none, she has, deep down within her, a real love of self-expression through music. Start with simple types of musical groups and lead from these into more difficult, really artistic achievements. Once a woman tastes the thrill of success, the joy of group endeavor, she will always enter these musical activities and find, therein, recreation; relief from strain and the spiritual uplift she needs to help her through the routine and monotonous drudgery which is so often her lot.
In the soul of nearly every woman lies the desire to be an actress. We find that many women like a means of self-expression through some form of dramatics. This can be accomplished in some recreation center, church or other organization. At the present time a play is being coached at one of the recreation centers in Idaho, in which six women, all sixty years of age or older, are playing the major parts.
Another phase of recreation, suitable for mature women, and a kind in which she gets relief from strain, worry and pent-up emotions, due to household drudgery, is social recreation. The next list suggests some of the forms of social life in which women get relaxation and enjoyment. Many women enter into clubs with such a serious purpose and under such a mental strain that it is leisure unwisely spent. Others enter into service and welfare work so earnestly that they need relief activities and socializers even during serious meetings and conventions.
SOCIAL ACTIVITIES FOR WOMEN. a. Finger and hand games. b. Coordination stunts. c. Circle mixer games. d. Progressive stunt parties e. Early American folk dances. f. Action and stunt songs. g. Quiet games. h. Observation games and contests i. World alertness games j. Pen and pencil games k. Social dance mixers l. Mental games m. Table games
Women, with their husbands and friends, can get a whole lot of nonsensical enjoyment out of social dance mixers and learning some of the Early American Folk and simple Square Dances.
Mental recreation is probably more important for matrons than any other group for which recreation programs are organized. Women are not so eager for strenuous physical activities; they realize that they need to overcome the handicap of time lost because of family duties, and also to improve their education. Those of us who are working with community and state recreation programs know that it is the mature women to whom we look in order to get the help needed in organizing, planning and developing a free, democratic, tax-supported recreation project, because these are the women who are eager to give time and effort to those things which are worth while. Women of middle or later years find their greatest joy in helping others secure health and happiness. Especially are they willing to help those who are poor or in need. They make wonderful volunteer workers on recreation programs.
A modern mother should realize that rest and pleasure are no longer considered stolen but are legitimate and necessary. She should, therefore, prepare a daily and weekly time budget which shall include time for planned leisure. She should use this planned leisure so that rest, relaxation and refreshment will come, hand in hand with healthful, stimulating, wholesome fun.
Dr. Hugh Woodward, of Utah, makes this statement: "Recreation comprises all those activities which deliver to the individual an immediate cash value in satisfaction."
Women have or can arrange to have leisure. Leisure time should not be spent in a motion picture theater, before a radio or in reading poor literature. All women wish to enrich their lives, develop poise, personality and character. If they become an active participator, self-development will result.
In conclusion, check yourself against the following list of questions. If you can answer "yes" to most of them you are probably wholesomely adjusted and a healthy, respected member of society.
1. Can you sing a song from memory?
2. Can you repeat a poem or a passage of prose?
3. Do you know how to play a table game, a quiet game, an active game?
4. Are you skilled in one sport?
5. Do you know something about one phase of nature?
6. Can you do well some type of handcraft?
7. Do you have a hobby?
8. Can you guide a group in some worth while recreational activity?
THE UTAH PLOWMAN By Celia A. VanCott
Slowly he moves beside his team Through the stubbled field below Saged purple hills, tall stately pines; The tranquil beauty of the dawning glow.
He hears the stir of awakening things, The soft low rustle through the trees, The robins' welcome for the dawn, The bluebirds' lilting melodies.
From far away through paling skies He hears the seagull's scream on flight, The hungry greedy little throng Soar high above him, wing and light.
All day they follow the shining plough As he turns the riffled dark brown soil; By sweat-flanked team with accurate eye He scans the furrowed acres of his daily toil.
In The Ring With Father Time By H. C. Mortensen, General Manager of the Deseret Gymnasium
All the world's a Prize Ring, and all the men in the world are Prize Fighters. From the moment the doctor announces, "It's a boy," until the last round, you are in the ring and your opponent is the world's undisputed champion, Old Father Time. You have accepted no challenge, signed no contract nor agreed to any purse. You have set no place for the fight, posted no guarantee for your appearance, nor have you received permission from any state or commission to stage the fight. No matter how peaceful or law abiding you may be, how much you mind your own business, whether you like to fight or not, you are in the squared ring, giving or taking punches, with a scowl or a smile—for this is the Battle of the Centuries—every man's battle for life.
Your chief concern is to stay in the ring as long as you can, make the best showing you can—win, lose or draw. Most fights with Father Time last from forty to seventy rounds. Sometimes one goes to eighty, rarely to ninety, and only one in a million goes to one hundred. The number of rounds you stay in the ring and your condition when you come out, depends on the equipment nature provided you with, the care you take of that equipment, how well you live up to the rules of the game and your determination to succeed.
If your waist line out-runs the rest of your body and your wind fails, you had better consult your trainer, for these are red flags of warning. If your appetite fails and you don't listen eagerly for the dinner bell, you had better consult your doctor who will, no doubt, prescribe a more suitable diet and a necessary daily dozen. If your joints creak and you limp and groan with "rheumatiz" something has probably gone wrong with your blood and you need medical attention. If you are dull and lifeless, can't get your work done, don't have that sparkle in your eye and the glow of health on your cheek, you are neglecting that most important thing in your life, and for which there is no substitute—your good health—and the big fight will be very short.
Most men are completely deceived as to the ability, condition and skill of Father Time. He is invariably pictured, and believed by many to be, an old, thin, weak man, with a long, gray beard and sunken eyes—the picture of age and decrepitude. However, when you face him, you will find that he is a rugged, strong athlete, six feet six, weighing over two hundred pounds, with keen eyes, boxing skill, marvelous endurance and a real fighting heart. He never breaks training and is always in fighting condition. His habits are regular, he never neglects his diet nor misses his daily workouts. He needs no manager, no press agent, no sparring partners, no doctors, no trainers; he never loafs, rests nor rusts; but he is on the job at the same old stand every day in the year.
The strange thing about all of Father's matches is that he does not seem particularly eager to end the fight quickly, but is willing to let you stay in for a good long bout, especially if you put up any kind of a fight. But if you are weak, out of condition, sickly, careless or untrained he will soon put you out. Long experience has taught him all the tricks and fine points of the game. He is a good boxer, has a good knockout punch in both fists, is fast, aggressive, and knows just when to finish the job.
From the eighteenth to the thirtieth round you are sure you will win the fight. You have all the confidence in the world, need no advice, consult no manager, doctor or trainer, care nothing for training rules and are cocksure he can be knocked out in any round. There's blood in your eye and you are out for a kill as you rush in with wild swings, right crosses, upper cuts and a great assortment of haymakers, any one of which should end the battle. But somehow the "old fellow" weathers the storm, blocks the haymakers, ducks the swings, absorbs all you can land, hands back a few good punches on the jaw, a stiff poke on the nose, and generally seems to be as fresh and strong as he was in the first round, while you find yourself stalling and clinching and trying to hold on until the bell. A lot of cocksureness has gone at the end of that thirtieth round.
As the fortieth round progresses the old man seems to detect your weak points. He knows you have been smoking. He forces the fighting, keeps you running around the ring, and with your wind gone, soon has you over the ropes. You have been drinking, have no vitality and are in poor condition generally. He quickly drives you to the ropes with lefts and rights, and all that saves you from a knockout is the gong. That was an easy round for him but a tough one for you. You have been staying out late nights, breaking training rules, neglecting diet, sleep and rest. He seems to look right through you and sees these weaknesses. Knowing his own strength and fitness he goes merrily into the next round with complete confidence, soon has you groggy and then on your knees for the count of nine—and the bell saves you again.
When you reach the fiftieth round you begin to wonder whether or not you are ever going to put him out. You don't seem to have quite the confidence in yourself and your punches. Your wind is not as good as it was a few rounds back, your legs wobble and your muscles do not respond with the same speed. Your eyesight is not so good and there is not the same coordination between brain and muscle. Generally speaking you are somewhat on the fence. But you have not yet given up and are sure you will still be able to land that knockout. But the old fellow guards against that surprise and stalls it off with his usual perfect defense.
By the sixtieth round you begin to feel that if you can manage to stay in the ring and on your feet you will be doing pretty well. You are perfectly content to take it easy, you do not force the fighting. You are slow to leave your corner, do a lot of sparring, stalling and clinching. You cast appealing eyes toward the referee and quite often call for a foul. You drop to your knees and wait for the count of nine every time he lands. You protest that he hit below the belt; but the referee orders the fight to go on. The master boxer just waits and smiles. He knows the end is very near. You are glad to get into your corner at the end of this round.
With the aid of trainers and seconds you shuffle out for the seventieth round. You would like to stay on your feet this round as he might drop his guard and your chance to put one over might come. You do not feel like matching punches and are beginning to have greater respect for the man in the other corner. You realize more than ever that your training has been irregular, your condition bad. Instead of being in the pink of condition you have been pitifully weak and stale—in fact the old man seems to pity you and hesitates to finish the job. However, the bell sounds, you are in the middle of the ring, the crowd yells for a finish. When consciousness returns the fight is over, you are in an ambulance on the road to the hospital with the hearse following close behind.
After the last round Father Time jumped over the ropes and into his dressing room with hardly a scratch. A shower, a quick rubdown and he is ready to take on the next challenger. He looks as if he had just come in from a short run in the country. His eyes sparkle, his cheeks are red and he shows every evidence of perfect condition. When asked how he maintains such marvelous condition he says that he lives simply, keeps close to nature, eats wholesome food only, does not use tobacco, does not drink liquor, tea or coffee, keeps regular working and sleeping hours and has no worries. He declares that he is ready for the ring and waiting to take on all comers.
With John Citizen there is a different story. With great difficulty the doctors revived him. He was completely down and out. His face was battered and bruised, one eye closed, lips cut and swollen, miserable defeat written all over his face. He readily conceded that Time was a better man and said no one could stand against such strength and endurance. He had not employed the same methods of training and was not in the same condition as Father Time. He might have been more consistent in his training and mode of living so that he could have made a better showing and put up a better fight. He warned all challengers for the world's championship to profit by his experience and keep mentally awake and physically fit, for, said he: "the race is not to the swift nor the battle to the strong but he that endures to the end."

APRIL'S OVERFLOW By Belle Watson Anderson
Lyrical buds of tender beauty Veiled on April's apple tree, Tomorrow's blooms on shadowy branches, Rhythm's pulsing prophecy.
Fragrance bursting into splendor, Vision of a flowering sea, The overflow of tinted blossoms, Spring's fulfillment on the lea.

Mother of This Land By Wilford D. Lee
Ben Hawkins slapped his bay mare on the rump and sent her down to the spring for a drink; and then, without so much as a glance at the scarlet sky that flamed clear across the western heavens, he dragged the harness into the pole and straw stable and hung it up on a peg. He went to the feed box, and as he dipped up the grain with a gallon fruit tin, he swore. Like many men who are used to being very much alone, he often conversed with himself; in this instance he was no respecter of persons. His square, work-stained face was drawn and bitter. His horses, all eight of them hard muscled and lank, came trooping back from the water, and greedily poked their noses into the grain boxes. When he had slapped and prodded them into their right places, he left the barn and walked with tired, bent shoulders toward the little unpainted house that snuggled against the hill.
The whole scene, to one who had eyes to see, was one of inestimable grandeur. The house and barn, facing east, nestled well back against the great crescent of the hill. Behind them, on the steep slope, was a tangle of quaking asp, choke cherry, service berry and wild rose, all massed together in an impenetrable thicket. High above, the bare rim of the hill lay black against the flaming sky, and was only partly softened by the few tree tops that made a lacy tangle against the clouds. To the east of the hill, the fallow land stretched out in rhythmic loveliness, at this moment washed in a rose light, which was reflected from the evening sky. The robins were singing their evening song, and on the fresh night breeze the smell of fresh growing things mingled with the odor of wood smoke and frying bacon. Farther to the east where another swell rose above the hollow a patch of young wheat rippled in the evening breeze.
Coming to the front of the house, Ben knocked the dust off his overalls with his gloves, and with a sigh, sat down in the doorway. With his elbows on his knees, he gazed with speculative pessimism over the whole scene. This pessimism of his was not a new thing, for lately he had developed a constantly taciturn mood. Last fall when an admiring visitor had remarked upon the grandeur of his view, Ben cut him off with the remark that this wasn't an amusement park, but a wheat ranch; and the view didn't make the price of wheat any better. But tonight he seemed too disgusted with everything even to be argumentative about it.
From where he sat he could hear his wife's steps as she hurried from stove to table and back again. Even the click of Mary's heels on the worn linoleum, a sound which ordinarily tended to revive his spirits, seemed to have no effect upon him. His head dropped to his breast and his fingers worried the frayed edges of his gloves. He didn't glance up when he felt the swish of his wife's dress against his sweat-soaked back.
Mary Hawkins was not a big woman, but she was as lithe and supple as a boy. Due to the strenuous work of the farm her tanned arms showed long thin strands of hard muscle, and the set of her shoulders, though they were small, was vigorous. Mary's face was plain, and a little too delicate for a ranch in the hills; but her mouth was a small, determined slit in the tan; her eyes, wide open and luminous, were intensely alive; yet they radiated a calm power within. She stood lightly touching her shoulder against the doorframe, and her whole countenance, for the moment, was lighted up by the vibrant excitement of the scene before her. When he sat up her strong fingers twisted absently at a strand of her husband's work-damped hair which fell about his ears.
"Seen the cow?" he mumbled. "Myrtle and Billie have gone after her. The horses have eaten off all the feed close around. She has to go a long ways to get anything."
For some time they remained thus in silence; Ben's eyes were screwed up in an agony of thought, and remained fixed on the cleanly swept ground in front of the door; but the woman watched the color shift in intensity from the swales to the ridges, and then melt away altogether leaving the low places in velvety darkness. As the color gathered itself back into the sky to tint the far-off mountains, the robins were silenced, and flew on soft wings to their nests. One little frog squawked lonesomely in the mud about the spring; then into it all came the far-off tolling of a cowbell.
Ben heaved himself around so that he sat crosswise in the door. With his back against the frame, he looked up into the calm steady features of his wife now obscured by the failing light. "Bill Jensen was by as I made that last round to the east fence. He says that wheat's down again, an' prob'ly will go lower. I guess I ought to've sold a month ago when it was higher. There won't be half enough now to pay the taxes."
The woman stood immobile for some minutes while he looked up half expectantly into her face. Finally she said softly, "The color on those mountains to the east tonight was lovelier than I've ever seen it before."
He let his feet fall heavily to the ground. "But Mary!" he groaned, "what shall we do!" He arose, and shoving his fists deep into his overalls pockets, stamped about the yard. "Great heavens! Here we are about to lose our place, and you stand there like a kid mumblin' about pretty colors!" The pain of pent up weeks of anxiety was in his voice. "We can't go on like this. This is the third year the taxes have gone by," he explained as if to a child, "and we will lose the place if they are not paid!"
She said nothing for a time, but when she did, her voice was as velvety as the night that was fast gathering around them. "Will you wash, Ben? The children will soon be here."
While her husband was splashing in the basin on the bench beside the door, the woman lighted a lamp and started putting the food on the table. Presently, with an ever increasing crescendo of sound, the cow came trotting into the yard, and the two children, a girl twelve, and a boy several years younger, hurried into the house.
"Oh, Daddy, Daddy," cried the boy, "look what I've brought. There's six of them... Four big ones, and two half grown!" He held up by their tails for an indifferent inspection a half dozen ground squirrels. "I've learned how to set the traps now so that they run right into 'em. Gee, Ma," he turned noisily to his mother, "it won't be long now, at this rate!" Then he clapped a grimy hand over his mouth and leaped out into the darkness, crying, "I've got a secret, I've got a secret!"
Myrtle, dark eyes mysteriously mature for her age, smiled. "This makes twenty-one pelts that he has stretched on that log. He thinks they will make you a magnificent squirrel coat!" And the two winked at each other understandingly and laughed.
Ben came in and combed his hair, throwing it back from his forehead, exposing an intensely white streak of skin between the tan of his face and the darkness of his hair. His once good looking face, was now, toward middle age, settling into a hard, half wrinkled block, with the light of youth slowly dying. Within a few minutes Billie returned, and they all sat down to their meal.
The food was simple enough: potatoes, gravy, home-cured meat, and eggs. But the potatoes were whipped up into a snowy mound with a generous lump of butter on top. The meat had been diced, and an omelet poured over them. The mother quartered the omelet and served it smoking on their plates. A salad of lettuce and radishes, made from vegetables out of her own little garden, topped with a cream dressing, added a fresh touch to the whole meal. A great plate of bread, sliced not too thick, was stacked neatly and set near the husband's elbow. The father and his boy attacked the food with silent earnestness, the boy imitating his father not only in his large and vigorous bites, but also in having his elbows placed akimbo on the blue checkered table cloth. But the girl and her mother chatted in little humorous sentences about nothing, enjoying their food as they talked.
After the supper was over, the girl prepared to do the dishes while her mother tied on an old apron in preparation for milking the cow. "I'll milk tonight," her husband growled. But the mother, knowing that he didn't really mean it, yet appreciative that he made the gesture, merely smiled. "No, sit still. Alice sent up several Western Farmers for you. They are there on the machine."
Ben thumbed through the magazines absently during the few minutes that his wife was out. Before he had finished looking at the pictures, she was back with her froth-flecked pail. She strained the milk and put it away in the cupboard; then as she washed her hands she said, "I turned the horses out. Do you think they will get down on the grain?"
"Might just as well let them eat it off," he growled ill-humoredly. "We won't get anything out of it anyway."
They all sat at the table. The shaded lamp in the middle cast flickering furtive shadows about the bare little room. The mother sat with her basket full of mending while the father pretended to read. But her husband's eyes would not stay on the page. Glue them as he would, they crept away, here, there, and everywhere except on the lines before him. The deep hurt of life haunted them.
Presently the boy's head sank down on the table, and was asleep. "Myrtle, get Billie to bed," the mother suggested. Then smiling, she added, "Poor child, he runs around as much as a puppy with an overshoe."
"Bill says the sale will take place on the courtyard steps," Ben said, with a strange continuation as if an hour of time had not elapsed since he had spoken of the subject which caused such a tumult in his mind. When his wife did not reply, he hurried on, his lower lip almost trembling in fear. "We've got to raise the money. I'm going down to the valley tomorrow and sell the wheat for what I can get out of it; then maybe I can sell a team or two. If I can get what they are worth, that will save the place." With nervous fingers he ripped off a piece of paper and slowly tore it to bits. "They'll sell it!" he went on, his voice trembling in deep intensity. "They'll sell it, after all the work I've done on it, right over my head. They'll sell it and never think a thing about it... Nor of me. I can go an' starve as far as they're concerned! They'll pauperize me.... Oh, say something!" He pounded the table with his fists.
His wife reached out and covered his rough work-hardened hands with her own. "Please don't think that I haven't any feeling, Ben," she said softly. "I suppose that I'm built different than you. I saw this coming a year ago and I have prepared myself for it."
"A year ago!"
"Yes.... Don't you remember that I suggested last spring that we quit and move to town. Maybe we could have got something to do there."
"A quitter!" he charged, derisively.
"Yes," she replied without emotion, "that is what you said then. And yet I saw this.... We had five hundred dollars then, and now we haven't."
Ben leaped to his feet and paced back and forth, his sock feet making soft thudding sounds on the floor. "But I had to go on!" he cried. "Look what I have invested! I couldn't do that... Just up and quit... Leave everything. I'm not built that way."
"I know you're not," his wife replied without accusation. "You are the heroic kind that must die fighting. I suppose that I'm just coward enough to know too well when to quit. It is your enthusiasm, your eternal hope, that makes you go on. I know how you like to see the stubble roll under the plow, and I know how you like to see the new wheat sprout, and I know how you love to plunge your hands into the stream of grain coming out of the thresher."
"And a lot of good it does me...."
"You are not the first one who has been betrayed by his love."
For a time they remained silent while she carefully drew together the hole in Billie's sock. "Did Bill say they were going to sell his place, too?" she asked.
"No, his is a foreclosure. It's only a couple of months off, though. And so is Les Anderson's and Will Miller's and Andy McGregor's. Two-thirds of the dry farmers in these hills will lose their places this year!"
There was a brilliant light dancing in the woman's eyes. "Alice said that Bill was going to sell what they have and go to California," she remarked.
"He'll never be able to get out of the state," Ben snapped.
"It seems as if there will be lots of horses on the market, now the spring work is about over," the woman observed.
Ben spoke again. "If I can't beat them to it we'll never be able to sell an animal. At that last auction Jim Norton sold a matched team for a hundred and a quarter."
"I wouldn't try to sell," said his wife without looking up.
Ben stopped in his pacing. "You wouldn't!"
"No."
With a little hurt but indulgent smile, he turned and looked down on her. "Well, what would you do?" Ben was not sarcastic. He just had never been impressed with women's opinions. Nor could he understand a woman's way of dealing with things. The only way he knew to deal with a problem was to fight it.
After a moment she replied, "I would keep them."
Ben rolled his eyes to heaven. "What would you keep them for!"
"Oh, we're apt to need them. In fact, I would take the money that you get from the wheat, and buy as many good plows and drills as you can get with it."
Glaring at the woman as if she were mad, he started to speak, then stopped, his mouth half open in consternation. "Ben, come here and sit down," she urged. "We will never get out of this fix by walking the floor all night."
There were times, in his greatest extremity, when Ben found that he could listen to his wife. Usually she was too matter of fact and prosaic for him, usually he would tear himself loose and do something else rather than talk with her. But tonight he was tired. He had fought this question for weeks, and his soul was utterly exhausted. When he sat down, he slumped into his chair, with a blank, whipped expression covering his face.
His wife reached over and pulled the stub of a pencil from the bib of his overalls. On the edge of the farm paper she calculated in round, childish figures. "Let's see; we have 160 acres in wheat... At ten bushels..." A light of belligerency leaped into the man's eyes. "It should go twenty-five," he snapped. He felt intensely that the low figure which she proposed was an insult. "Yes, it should," she repeated, "but it won't. I've seen only one year in the last ten that the wheat went twenty-five. You men remember that year so well that you think it is an average." Ben was about to burst out and argue the question, but he let it pass with a gesture. Yet he dimly realized that she was right.
"One hundred and sixty acres at ten bushels is sixteen hundred. Now at fifty cents...."
"Aw, the price can't stay down forever. We'll get more than that out of this year's crop. If we could just hold on...."
"Yes, that's what we thought last year. But the price is lower now than then.... That gives us about $800 to pay all expenses with and live.... Of course, we have to live," she added parenthetically.
There it was before him in cold figures. He had the feeling of having been trapped. How he hated these sessions! How he hated figures. Figures! As long as he could keep away from them, he could keep his mind somewhat at peace. But figures were the wreckers of fancy. How he loved to dream, day by day as he sat on his plow, watching the sod roll under; dream of the harvest, and fat sacks of grain littering his field like gorged banqueters. It was then that his ever present, effervescent hope would rise within him. How he loved the smell of the new damp earth, and the perfume of broken stems, and the steaming heat of the horses! That was grand soil... You could tell it was by the texture. Twenty-five bushel soil... Yes, thirty, or fifty, if the rain came... But these last few years.... Everybody said that the climate was changing... Getting dryer. It never used to be so dry that... But there were the figures, stark, irrevocable. He looked at them.
"Well, by your own figures," he reminded her doggedly, "you can see that we can't go on. An' yet you say, 'Don't sell the horses!'"
Mary continued as if she had not heard him. "I wonder who will buy this land?" she mused. "I wonder who will come here and live in this house? Who will plow this ground?"
"Say, somebody will snap this land up in a hurry! This is the best land in the hills. Good soil, good slope, and a spring of excellent water, that lasts until August. Why shouldn't they?"
"Why should they?"
"Why should they!" It was totally incredible to Ben Hawkins that anyone should be such a fool as not to grab this land if they had the money. "Will they buy it when thousands of acres just like it are going for taxes, or they are being foreclosed on mortgages? Jones' place has been idle for two years. No one would farm it, even rent free. You know that there are thousands of acres throughout these hills that are vacant right now."
"Well, that's just because the fellows haven't enough money to buy seed, and feed for their horses. They've had hard luck...."
"It means," his wife insisted, with irritating logic, "that dry farming like this just simply doesn't pay."
The inevitable truth sank into the man's work-numbed brain. Why of course, a person would be a fool to buy. He himself was a fool for trying to hang onto it. It was only his love for the land that... His picture of a great excited crowd surging about the Sheriff, anxiously waiting to bid on the land gradually faded, leaving that forlorn executive alone on his court house steps. "Why Mary, maybe there won't be anyone..."
She allowed him to exult over this possibility for a moment, then continued, "Do you remember Billie's thumb last year, when he got it in the tie rope?" Ben's wandering attention was suddenly jerked up. His wife had a disconcerting way of starting off on a new subject without any cause at all, and then later making some obscure connection with the thing which they were talking about. He looked at her suspiciously. "Well, what's that got to do..." He thought a minute, but gave it up. He dimly remembered having given up before...
"That horse was scared when Billie was trying to untie him, and when he reared back, it caught Billie's thumb in the rope."
"Well..." Ben pretended not to be much interested, but that he was listening merely to be polite.
"If Billie had just stood still, and not jerked back, he wouldn't have lost the end of his thumb."
"Well... Still I..."
"We are in a tight place right now. If we don't jerk back, but wait for things to loosen up, maybe we will come out all right."
Ah! There was the connection. The imagination in it intrigued him, though he would never have admitted as much to his wife. Yes, he thought, yes, now if we just don't rear back.... It was a good idea....
"I was thinking," the woman went on after awhile, "that even if we did lose this place, we can rent it back for little or nothing. We will be able to rent Bill's place too, and Andy's, and Will Miller's. They all join on, and would make a grand field if they were all in one piece. With enough horses and equipment we could work a thousand acres as well as we can work this that we have. The profit from, say, five hundred acres of wheat, if it all came to one family, would be enough.... And then, there might come one of those twenty-five bushel years again...."
Eight years later, Bill Jensen drove along the east fence of a huge field which must contain, he calculated in quick side glances from the road, at least five thousand acres. He slowed up automatically where some grass-grown tracks turned in at a gate. He stopped his panting, sizzling old rattletrap, and snapping the decrepit door open and shut, he stepped to the ground. He looked about a bit, then crawled through the barb wire fence. When he was through, he turned and tested the tautness of the wire, remarking to himself of its good repair. He walked off over the finely-mulched soil to a point where once had stood the house in which he and his wife had spent long heartbreaking years. Not a vestige or sign of the old homesite remained. All was smooth rolled soil. He shoved his hands deep into his pockets and viewed the landscape. Over to the west, across the rolling billows of land, he could see the place where Andy had once lived, but no house or barn was visible there now. To the south he turned. Les Anderson and Will Miller used to live down there, but now he could see only great waves of nodding grain.
Bill shook his head and marveled at the change as he stood in the shimmering heat. In his day, the great silence of such moments was never marred except by the swish of the breeze through the dry grass, or the plaintive sweet song of the chirping sparrow. But now he could hear before him, and off to the west, the steady throb and roar of motors. He shook his head again. As he gazed to the south through dim, half-shut eyes, his gaze caught the sight of rising billows of yellow dust. If it had been black, it would have looked like the smoke of a fast-moving locomotive. Bill watched it idly for awhile, and in a surprisingly short time it developed into a new red truck which came tearing along the east fence, and bumped to a stop at his own gate. A half grown young man leaped from the cab, opened the gate, and with jamming gears, plunged the truck through the soft dirt for about fifty yards into the field. Bill looked for a minute, then he shouted, "Well, if it isn't Billie Hawkins." Striding over to the truck, he held out his hand exclaiming, "Well say, Billie, don't you know me?"
The boy looked at the newcomer for a moment, then a flash of recognition flashed across his dust and grease begrimed face. "Well hello, Mr. Jensen. Where'd you drop in from? I thought you was in California."
"Oh, I have just been nosing about the old homestead," he replied, turning away. "Thought I'd come back home for awhile."
The man stood idly by while the boy let down the end gate of the truck and dropped a large drum of gasoline on its side. "I didn't expect to find you here," the old neighbor remarked. "I thought you'd all be moved out."
The boy glanced down at him. "Nope, we ain't moved out yet. Don't suppose we will, either."
"That so?" exclaimed the older man. "Well, well. Workin' for the man that bought all us poor devils out, eh?"
Billie grinned with something of a superior air. "Yep," he admitted non-committally.
The roar of a motor which had been throbbing its crescendo for the last ten minutes grew suddenly louder as a caterpillar tractor thrust its blunt nose over the curve of the knoll. It pulled rapidly up to the truck and stopped, with the dust from its twelve sections of harrow settling in a grey film over everything. Ben Hawkins, now older and more begrimed than ever, leaped from the seat and came forward. Bill stood where he was, looking over the whole outfit with an uncertain feeling of awe and respect. When Ben recognized the visitor, he came over quickly, exclaiming, "Well, well. Old Bill Jensen! Why, I thought you was in California."
Bill grinned sheepishly. "Yeah, I went down there, but we didn't have no luck." Then after a little awkward pause, he went on, "I worked for a Jap on an asparagus ranch for awhile; an' then we picked fruit a lot." He gazed about in envious interest. The boy was filling the tractor's tank with fuel oil, and its radiator with water. "Hey, Billie," the father called. "Did you bring any drinking water up with you? My bag's dry."
"Yeah, here's a bag hanging on this side of the cab."
"Come an' have a drink," he invited his old neighbor with a wink. When they had slaked their thirst Bill remarked, "Golly, but things have sure changed. You'd never think when we was all up here that things'd go this way, would you? Tractors, an' trucks, an' all that. They've sure made a difference, ain't they?"
"Yes they have," Ben agreed seriously, sweeping the vast stretches of land with a look of satisfaction.
When Bill spoke again, it was with a little feeling of hesitation and embarrassment. "Well, you've got a pretty good job here. Who owns the land now?"
"I own every foot of it," Ben announced with pride.
"You do! Why I thought they sold you out with the rest of us."
Ben nodded wisely. "Yeah, they did. But I stuck. I saw something here that I guess some others probably didn't. You see, years ago, we was farmin' pieces that were too small to support a family." Then he recited as if he were saying the words of someone else, "When your profit per acre is low, you've got to farm lots more acres to make a go of it."
"Well, well. So you own this place! By George, that's some different than when I saw you last."
Ben chuckled and shook his head depreciatingly. "Well, you know when you've got your thumb in a rope, you hadn't better do much rearin' back, or you're goin' to lose your thumb. I always say, wait until things loosen up a bit, then work your thumb out." He pulled on his gloves with a professional air. "You know, a man has to be pretty shrewd to beat this game." He hustled over to the tractor and swung into the seat like an engineer mounting his locomotive. "Drive over to the house," he called back to Bill. "The road goes up around the corner. You'll find the house over where it used to be, only the place don't look the same now. Maybe the wife'll be able to scare us up a little something for supper."
Billie spun the motor, and Ben and his tractor were off again in a cloud of dust.

RETURN OF SPRING By Lottie Hammer Singley
My Robin friends came back again, As greying dawn burst into light They settled on my window sill And rested, weary from their flight.
Their rest was short; their aim was plain. They builded well. And at their ease, With perfect faith, through dripping rain Nested in my apple trees.
I, too, was weary from life's flight, Dark gripped my soul; no spring could be. Their fortitude, their lilting song Surrounded and enveloped me.
And through the message of a bird I see more plainly life, my part; I'll trust, rebuild, I'll try again; Springtime has come into my heart.

Some Run By Lena B. Price
"Sunrise! What a glorious morning for a sail!" cried Nell, as she gazed across the lake. It was five o'clock, the night had been unusually sultry and the two little sons, one two and a half years old, the other six months, had been fretful but were now sleeping peacefully. After thinking a moment Frank Blake turned to his wife and said, "I'll tell you what let's do, let's slip into our bathing suits and have a plunge in the lake for about ten minutes. Then while you get breakfast and put up a lunch, I'll bring the boat around to the pier, and we'll run over to Syracuse. The grapes should be ready by now in the Adams' orchard; we can do our shopping, visit with Will and Ida for an hour and start home about four-thirty. How will that be for an outing?"
"Glorious!" said Nell, as she grabbed her suit from the line and dashed into the house to put it on.
Frank Blake and his wife had taken up a homestead on Antelope Island, one of the largest islands in the Great Salt Lake, and this was their first summer there. Their little cottage was built on a level plateau that rose gradually from the white sandy beach. A large fresh-water spring furnished the culinary water. As they swam in invigorating abandon, Frank said, "The wind is exactly right for the trip and we should cross in forty-five minutes. Cook a good breakfast, Nell, these morning swims give a fellow a huge appetite."
"All right," she replied. "I'll race you to the house and start it at once," and she sped up the beach only to be overtaken, as she knew she would be. With their arms around each other they reached the house.
In less than an hour everything was ready. The boat which had been freshly painted, with her gleaming mainsail and jib looked like a beautiful swan in the early sunshine. She was a comfortable, staunch little craft built especially for salt water with a broader beam than fresh water vessels. When Nell and the babies were settled the mainsail was raised and caught the breeze, and the boat glided out of the bay. As she cleared the point Harry cried, "See Daddy, there's another boat." They looked, and in the cove adjoining their own bay was the "Night Hawk," a small lake steamer owned by an Investment Company. They had evidently come during the night to get fresh water from the spring and were getting up steam to continue their trip. "If I mistake not," said Frank, "we will land before they get started. Let's show them a thing or two in fast sailing. I didn't intend to use the jib, but we will put 'Louise' through her paces." Eagerly Nell watched the steamer for signs of its starting. In the clear atmosphere every movement of the men on board could be seen for many miles. To be absolutely sure, however, she got the glasses Frank kept in a locker and watched so intently she could see them raising the anchor. "How about it, Nell, have they started?" asked Frank.
"No, but they are all ready," she answered.
"All right, come and take the tiller while I lower the sail. We're across! Some run, I'll say!" and he laughed happily. How he did love the sport! Nell's sparkling eyes and glowing cheeks told how she too had enjoyed the excitement.
A short walk brought them to the orchard and grape vineyard. The early peaches and pears were ripe and grapes hung in heavy bunches from the vines. "Nell, can you think of anything the city has to offer that compares with what we have enjoyed this morning? Our joy in the beauty around us, the ever changing lake, the sunrise and sunsets that are not surpassed anywhere in the world, our morning swims before breakfast, that glorious sail across the lake and now this Eden where we are invited to partake of all the fruit we desire without restriction." A loving glance and a happy sigh was all the answer needed.
Leaving a basket to be filled upon their return, they walked to the store and purchased their needed supplies then called on their friends, Will and Ida Benson, who also had lived on the island but had come to Syracuse where the children could attend school. How time flies when kindred spirits meet! Dinner was over and it was time to start back. As they stepped outside they could feel a subtle change in the air. Nell glanced apprehensively at her husband's face. He gave her a reassuring smile and said, "We may have a bit of a blow before we reach home; the wind is not in our favor as it was this morning."
When they arrived at the orchard they saw Mr. Adams coming toward them. He had filled their basket and tied a cloth securely over the precious fruit to keep it in place. As he neared them Nell could read anxiety written upon his kindly face. "Better come to the house and stay with us tonight, Frank. I don't like the looks of the sky yonder."
"We may have a bit of a blow," answered Frank, "but I am sure we'll make it all right."
"Then take good care of those kiddies, and God be with you," said Mr. Adams as he shook their hands in parting.
They could see that the waves were running high and covered with white caps, but Nell knew her husband's skill with boats and had absolute confidence in his ability to pilot their little craft into their own harbor. "I'll reef the sail before we start," he said, "and you get the quilts from the locker to make yourself and the youngsters as comfortable as possible. Use the center board as a brace for your feet in case she pitches badly. We will have to tack the whole way across, which will mean a distance of nearly forty-five miles, instead of fifteen." In spite of herself an unreasoning fear was gripping Nell's heart. The sun was no longer visible, black clouds were being driven across the sky, the waves struck the tiny craft with sledge hammer blows as she zigzagged her way across the Jake. Suddenly it seemed as though the heavens were torn asunder, as a flash of lightning crashed across the sky and roll after roll of thunder deadened the roar of the waves. Nell felt in the locker for a light rope which she knew Frank always carried. Then she tied one end around Harry's body, using the rest to tie herself and the baby. No matter what happened, if it were to be the end, her babies must be found with her. It was now so dark she could no 254 longer see her husband's face or hear his encouraging voice above the sound of the waves. She only knew they were voing like mad through the blackness of the night. "If only the rain holds off," prayed Nell, "we will reach home sometime, but if it comes, heaven help us for we have no protection,' and a great sob shook her. She knew the meaning of rain under those conditions. It came as a cloudburst and required strong men to bale the water out of the boat, it fell so fast. She had lived through one such storm and been saved only by a miracle. Just then, through a rift in the clouds, the moon shone full for a moment then all was dark again, but it was long enough for Frank to see the outline of the island, and he shouted the glad news to her, "We'll be home in half an hour." Was it in answer to her prayer, that moment of light in which she could see his face and hear his comforting voice? Be that as it may, the anguish passed and she lowered her head on her baby's curls and gave way to the tears of thanksgiving that need no longer be restrained. True to his estimate Frank beached the boat within a rod of his own pier. Nell slipped the rope from the sleeping babies and her own body, straightened her cramped limbs, and with baby Noel in her arms, followed Frank, with Harry and the basket of fruit, up the shore to the house—or what was left of it. The kitchen had been unroofed and the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE south wall partly blown in, but the living room and bed room were intact. That was enough. She tucked the babies in their beds and prepared for her own. "Look at the clock,- Nell," said Frank, "just three a. M." She blew out the light, and as she drifted off to sleep she heard Frank say, "Some Run!". HIS story was the writer's own experience. The six-months-old baby mentioned, lived to bring honor to his native State, Utah. Noel Davis was born and reared in Salt Lake City. He graduated from the L. D. S. University in 1910, and then obtained an appointment to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland, from which school he was a graduate. During the World War he made a brilliant naval record. At the close of the war, Commander Davis was placed on the reserve list, while he attended Harvard law school, specializing in aviation law. After his graduation he wrote several books on aerodynamics which are now being used by navy pilots. He was killed when his plane, "The American Legion," crashed at Langly Field while testing it for a non-stop flight from New York to Paris. A landing field has since been named in his honor. When Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh flew over the home of Noel's mother in Oakley, Idaho, he dropped a greeting in honor of her illustrious son. Hospitality Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe Department of Home Economics, University of Utah SPRINGTIME is here. The air has been thoroughly washed and is filled with that peculiar odor that comes only in the early spring. Nature is giving the great out-of-doors its spring cleaning preparatory to putting on its fresh, green garb. Crocuses, daffodils, hyacinths and many other early spring flowers are adding variety of color and perfume. The inside of our homes are likewise undergoing a change, the grimy walls and soiled window hangings are giving way to clean walls and freshened hangings. Rugs have been cleaned, floors, woodwork and furniture have been polished. Everything is clean and orderly. Instinctively at this time of year we think of our friends, and in our thoughts, crystallizes a desire to do something for them. The spirit of hospitality is in the air. Hospitality is so much a part of human nature that it seems to be instinctive. It came very early into the life of mankind. The spirit of giving was its chief characteristic. Throughout the ages it has mattered not whether it took the form of an elaborate, expensive feast given by tribal chiefs, the formal European dinner in honor of nobility, our elaborate occasional banquets such as characterize our Thanksgiving and Christmas dinners, or the sharing of whatever one has under the most humble conditions. There is no doubt but that the spirit of hospitality, entering into the darkness and confusion of early times and continuing to the present, has made its contribution to the development of civilization. "THROUGH the generations of the development of hospitality it has had as its central theme —sharing food. Later it came to include shelter. Breaking bread together under the roof of. One's own home has long since been a symbol of friendship. With the coming of Christ, great changes in the form of hospitality took place. Through His teachings of simplicity, kindliness and generosity, the extravagant, costly entertainments characteristic of the Greeks and Romans, gave way to the simple feast of the loaves and the fishes, the sharing of what-so-ever one had with those who had not. A splendid example of simple but wholesome hospitality has been set for us by the early Pilgrim Fathers, by the men and women who blazed the traiis on our many frontiers, by our pioneers who were held together by bonds of friendship and adversity. In modern life hospitality still plays an important role. It has assumed a variety of forms, but its chief characteristic is still closely connected with the sharing of food. The form of food service is immaterial, the spirit of giving is the main consideration. HE art of home-making has made wonderful progress in every detail. The home owner is taking greater pride in the kind of house, its setting, and its interior and exterior decorations. 256 Tandscape gardening and improvement of grounds has never before received so much consideration. With hospitality in the private home has come pride in doing whatever is done, on a higher standard than ever before. Since much of our home hospitality has assumed the form of luncheon or dinner service, the desire to do this well, to conform to conventions in so far as it is practical, has become very pronounced. In an effort to assist those who have this desire and who are not familiar with many of the accepted conventions the author has drawn heavily upon these rules of table service, particularly as compiled by society's outstanding authority, Emily Post. Happily the modern trend is still further towards simplicity. The strictly formal dinner service has its place in society, but the occasions for such service are becoming fewer and fewer. The spirit of hospitality, the friendliness and charm may characterize the entertainment no matter how elaborate or how humble it may be. Types of Dinner Service. THERE are three distinct classifications of table service which automatically place the dinner service in its proper place. First, the strictly formal or European service in which every detail is studied, from the selection of the guest list, to be sure that all will be congenial, through the thoughtful selection of a suitable menu, the faultless laying of the table, the skillful service of the food, and last but not least, a charming hostess who has perfect poise, tact, understanding and graceful manners. The second or semi-formal dinner, spoken of as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the American service, permits many modifications of the formal service. It may be very formal or it can be adapted to whatever is practical and sensible in terms of the family's particular circumstances. The third type of service or the family style is without the help of a waitress, where everything is served by the hostess at the table. A consideration of the formal service will give one a foundation upon which to build and to modify according to one's facilities. While this service is not so generally used, it serves as a model in most details. Formal Dinner Service. The Guest List. HE responsibility of every hostess is to bring together only people who are congenial. The finest type of entertainment may be spoiled by discordant spirits. The number of guests should be limited to conveniences of space and equipment. Custom no longer requires written dinner invitations, except the strictly formal ceremonious dinners. Telephone invitations are perfectly in order. If at the last moment one or more of the guests has been under the necessity of sending regrets, which may be done by telephone, it is permissible to telephone an intimate friend and ask if she will do you a favor by filling a place at dinner. In this case the hostess does the telephoning herself. The friend is rather bound by good manners to accept if possible. The Menu. HE menu is thoughtfully prepared to preserve balance, palatability and ease of service. No season of the year offers greater possibilities than springtime. HOSPITALITY Such a variety of fresh, green growing things, vegetables and fruits galore from our neighboring more tropical states; spring fries, spring lamb with its mint sauce and fresh green peas! Now that society has decreed that an accepted menu today must under no circumstances include more than four or five courses, it is an easy matter to decide upon a variety of menus that will be attractive. A five course dinner will include: 1. A fruit cocktail or a soup. 2. Fish or Entree. 3. Roast or other meat. 4. Salad. 5. Dessert. If a hostess wishes to serve both a fruit cocktail and a soup she may omit the fish or entree. A four course dinner would also omit the entree. The fruit cocktail may be almost any combination of fresh or canned fruits. The soup will be clear, either a bouillon or consomme, never a rich heavy soup for a course dinner. The meat will usually be roast spring lamb boned and rolled or a crown roast of lamb, boned capon, or fillet mignon. Highly flavored or unusual meats should not be served at a company dinner. Two vegetables not including potatoes are desirable. New peas, buttered beets, string beans cut in thin slices and cooked uncovered, and carrots are among the favorites. Potatoes may or may not be served, but if served, pains should be taken to prepare them in an attractive manner. The common potato has many possibilities. The salad course lends itself to an unlimited choice, it must however not be a heavy salad after a meat course. Relish vegetables such as lettuce, watercress, raw spinach, green peppers, etc., 257 accompanied with fresh tomatoes, cooked string beans, raw fresh peas, pickled beets, grated carrots, or any of the fresh raw or canned fruits make delicious salads. A French dressing is more appropriate for such a salad than mayonnaise. Frozen desserts are always in good taste for a dinner service and should be served without accompaniment unless it be a small service of sponge or angel cake or a wafer. Pie is not considered an appropriate dessert for a formal dinner. Setting the Table. EMILY POST says that the one unbreakable rule in table setting is that everything on the table must be geometrically spaced, the table must be set straight, the silence cloth must be smooth, the tablecloth, if of white damask, will be laid with the middle crease in a straight unwavering line down the center of the table. If the cloth is of lace or embroidery see that it is put on straight and is right side up. As to the propriety of using lace or embroidery tablecloths for a dinner service, the best authority says that in a lowceilinged, beautifully decorated room with a highly polished table, they may be used. The tablecloth of white damask, however, is always in good taste for a formal dinner. Next in order is the centerpiece, usually a flower arrangement or it may be fruit or an ornament of silver, glass or china which needs no flowers. Whatever the centerpiece, it must be in the exact center of the table and low enough so as not to obstruct the view from one end of the table to the other. The places are set at least two feet from plate center to plate center. One must allow 258 sufficient elbow room and also room so that dishes may be passed without danger of spilling food. The service plates which are always used with a formal service, are equally spaced around the table. The silver is then placed in the order in which it is to be used. The salad fork is placed on the left of each plate and nearest to it with the handle towards the edge of the table and prongs up; the meat fork is placed next, then the fish or entree fork if one is needed. On the right of the plate and nearest to it is the steel-bladed meat knife, then the silver fish knife if one is needed, and then the soup spoon and next the oyster fork or grapefruit spoon. Not more than three forks and three knives should ever be placed on the table at one time. Emily Post says that tarnished silver should never be used; that it is just as poor taste to use dull, tarnished silver as it is to use a wrinkled table-cloth. Additional silver is put on the table just preceding the course with which it is to be used. The water glass which is a goblet or tumbler is placed directly above the knives, at the right of the plate. If other glasses are needed they are placed at the right of the water glass running obliquely towards the edge of the table. Dinner napkins are folded square and laid flat in the service plate. If the napkin is very large the sides of the square fold may be tucked under. Napkins are placed at the left side of the plate only in semi-formal dinners when there is limited service and it is necessary to put food on the table. Bread should not be put in the napkin as was formerly done. Bread and butter plates are never put on a formal dinner table. The place cards should be put on the napkin in the center of the plate. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE If candlesticks are to be used there should be four placed at the four corners about half-way between the edge and the center of the table, or two candelabra may be used, placed at either end halfway between the end of the table and the centerpiece. If the candles are used without shades, which is the accepted style at present, the candlesticks or candelabra should be tall, carrying candles tall enough to carry the flame above the eyes of the guests. Dishes, bowls or ornaments are placed at the corners of the table hetween the candlesticks and centerpiece. Such dishes may hold'candy, fruit or fancy cakes. Salted nuts do not belong in any dishes which remain on the table after it is crumbed. Properly nuts are put on the table either in two larger dishes or in small individual containers at each place. These are always removed with the salt and pepper pots after the salad course. The expression from "soup 'to nuts" does not apply to a formal dinner. The custom of serving ntits and raisins after the dessert applies only to an informal dinner. If the table is very large and appears rather bare, flowers in smaller vases may be used in addition to the center piece. Pepper pots and salt cellars should be put at every other place. Olives and celery are passed by the waitress during the soup course. Pickles have no place in a correct formal dinner menu. Announcing the Dinner. WHEN all is in readiness, the food ready to be served, the candles lighted, the waitress goes up to the hostess or catches her eye and says quietly, "Dinner is served." The place cards being on the table, the hostess does not direct HOSPITALITY her guests where to sit. Ina semi-formal service the hostess stands at her place and directs the seating by saying, "Mrs. Brown, will you sit at the right of the host, etc." When the guests enter the dining room for a formal dinner, the host will seat the guest of honor, if it is a woman, at his right and in like manner each gentleman will hold the chair of the lady on his right. The gentleman of honor will be seated at the right of the hostess. Correct Service of a Formal Dinner. IN every strictly formal dinner service, whether there are few or many being served, the routine is the same. In such a service no food is ever placed on the table, except ornamental dishes of fruit and candy. The meat is carved in the kitchen, vegetables are passed and returned to the side-table. From the setting of the table until it is cleared for dessert, a service plate must remain at each place. The relish course which may be oysters or clams are served on a small plate which is placed on the service plate. The plate holding the fish or fruit cocktail served in stemmed glasses, is placed on the service plate. At the end of such courses the small plate is removed leaving the service plate in place. The soup is served in the same manner except that when this course is removed the service plate is removed with the soup plate and a hot plate is immediately exchanged for the two taken away. The dessert plate is placed directly on the tablecloth or on a china plate. The order of service decrees that the hostess shall be served first but Emily Post says this is extremely rude. However, the lady at the foot of the table is 259 served first and the dishes are passed to the right. With a second service the lady at the host's right is served first and the service proceeds to the right. As soon as the guests are seated and the first course is in place, the waitress goes to the right of each guest and fills the water glasses leaving them in their position at the point of the knife and using a folded napkin to catch the drop. As soon as the soup is served, the rolls are served from a basket. The old fashioned silver cake basket is ideal or a shallow wicker basket may be used. A napkin is placed in the bread container with the corners brought up over the rolls. A guest helps himself, laying the roll on the tablecloth. Bread and butter plates are never used at a formal dinner. Rolls should be passed frequently and the water glasses kept filled. All dishes are presented to the guests, held flat on the waitress's left hand—hot dishes require a folded napkin under them. A heavy meat platter is held in the left hand and steadied with the right hand. Each dish is supplied with the necessary serving silver. Usually this is a serv- - ing spoon and a fork. It may, however, be only a spoon. A second helping is never offered at a strictly formal dinner, so the serving dishes are taken directly to the kitchen after they are passed. The serving table is a half way station between the dining table and the kitchen. It holds extra cold plates, extra silver, the dessert plates, and the finger bowls. At all dinners, formal or otherwise, the table is cleared for dessert. The salad plates, salt and pepper dishes, unused silver and nut dishes are taken off on a tray—without a doily—and the crumbs are brushed off each place at the table with 260 a folded napkin into a tray or plate held under the edge of the table. A frozen dessert—ice cream—is the most popular American dessert. The glass plate for the ice cream, is placed on a china plate, with or without a doily between them. The glass finger bowl to match is brought in on the glass plate with the dessert spoon and fork on either side. The finger bowl is less than half filled with cold water. The guest lifts the finger bowl off and sets it just in front of his plate. The ice cream is served on the glass plate, after which the glass plate is removed and the china one left in place. The finger bowl may have a few violets or other small flowers put in. It; but never a piece of lemon. There should be a waitress for every six persons served and a complete service for each waitress, otherwise food gets cold before all the guests are served. Dishes are never passed from hand to hand at a formal dinner. People may pass nuts or sweets near by but not circling the table. At the end of the dinner, when everyone is finished eating, the hostess rises and the guests quickly follow. Ig is a gross social error to be late to a dinner engagement. After waiting twenty minutes past the announced dinner hour, the dinner is served. When the late guest arrives he goes up to the hostess and apologizes for being late. The hostess remains seated and the guest merely shakes hands quickly in order that all the men at the table need not rise. The late comer starts with the course that is being served. The Semi-Formal or American Service. THE one detail that distinguishes the formal from the semiformal American service is that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE there is no carving by the host at the table or serving by the hostess. In the American service the host carves at the table. In the formal service the carving is done in the kitchen, the meat is arranged on a platter and passed by the waitress to the left of each person who helps himself. In the American Service the meat is placed on a platter and set directly in front of the host who carves and serves the hot plate that is placed before him by the waitress. The waitress takes up the plate with the right hand, immediately replacing it with a hot plate with the left hand; she then goes to the one who is to be served as designated by the host, picking up the service plate or used plate and placing the served plate in its place. She then goes to the side table and leaves the soiled plate, getting a fresh hot plate, returning to the host and repeating the procedure until all are served. This service is usually simplified by putting the stack of hot plates in front of the host and the waitress lifts each plate as it is served and takes it to the person designated. When all have been served she passes the vegetables. The soup and entree are served by the waitress. The water glasses are filled on the table and bread, relishes, etc., are passed by the waitress. This service may be still further simplified by placing the soup tureen and stack of soup plates in front of the hostess. The waitress carries the service to each person in turn. The water is on the table, and the bread and butter on each bread and butter plate before the guests are seated. The maid removes the soup course two plates at a time, stacks them quietly on the serving table and then removes the tureen. She brings in the stack of hot dinner plates and sets them in front of the host who serves the plate with meat, stuffing, gravy, etc., and hands it either to the right or left and it is passed on to the person designated. No service plates are used with this service. Meantime the waitress brings in the vegetables and passes to the left of each person who has been served with meat. She also serves bread and keeps the water glasses filled. The salad and dessert are served by the hostess and passed by the waitress.
HOSPITALITY
The American Service Table Setting.
The table cover may be what you please, damask, tablerunners or doilies with candlesticks or candelabra for evening light. The placing of the silver is the same as in the formal service. The service plate is used in the informal service only when it is to be used to set another service on. Otherwise each place is left plateless when the courses are removed.
Luncheon Service.
The table is laid in much the same way as for a dinner with a few exceptions. Candles have no place on a luncheon or breakfast table unless they are really needed for light. The table cover is of lace, embroidery, or colored damask. Doilies, mats, or runners may be used. The decorations may be the same as for a dinner. If the luncheon is formal, service plates are used. The silver is the same as for dinner. The napkin is smaller than the dinner napkin and is folded in a square and laid on the service plate. When service plates are not used it may be placed on the table at the left of the place. The bread and butter plate is used at a luncheon. It is put at the left of each place just above the fork. Butter may be put on the plate before the meal is served, or it may be passed. Hot breads are an important feature of luncheons. These hot breads are passed by the waitress as often as they are needed. Bread and butter plates are removed just before the dessert is served, also the salt and pepper dishes. The formal luncheon service is exactly the same as a formal dinner. The carving is done in the kitchen and no food is placed on the table except ornamental dishes, of fruit and candy. The table is cleared and crumbed before the dessert. The luncheon menu is seldom more than four courses which consist of fruit or soup in cups, a light entree of eggs or shell fish, meat and vegetables, salad and dessert. The soup must always be served in a cup, preferably a two-handled cup and it may be eaten with a teaspoon or bouillon spoon, or drunk from the cup. The soup must always be a light soup such as chicken or clam broth with a spoon of whipped cream on top, or strained chicken, or tomato broth. An informal luncheon may cut out one course and simpler dishes may be served. A luncheon should always include one hot dish. There are many other food services that are attractive such as buffet suppers, breakfasts, and teas, but space will not permit further discussion.
The selection, preparation and service of food is a big responsibility which cannot be left to tradition. It requires painstaking effort in the fields of Science and Art together with experience in developing the necessary skills, to fully meet this responsibility. A woman can possess no finer accomplishment than to be able to select food which will insure adequate nutrition, cook it in such a manner as to preserve its nutritive value and increase its palatability and its digestion and to serve it attractively. If this can be successfully done for one's family, it can be done with ease and grace for one's friends.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Springtime and the Resurrection By Grace W. Ball
The year's at the spring And day's at the morn; Morning's at seven; The hillside's dew-pearled; The lark's on the wing, The snail's on the thorn God's in His heaven— All's right with the world. —Robert Browning.
Springtime and Easter are heavenly gifts to us and reveal beautiful promises of renewal of life to all nature and mankind. Our Father in Heaven, once a year gives the earth the beautiful springtime. If He can give the earth the spring surely He can give the springtime to every other living thing. For a little while we sorrow and grieve—when the leaves fall and the meadows and marshes turn brown. Winter comes and spreads its protecting mantle of silence over all that nature holds dear. Rest and a refining process of purification take the place of active growth. Soon the gentle soft spring rains and warm radiant rays of sunshine permeate the earth and air announcing the renewal of the fragile beauty of early flowers, fresh bursting buds, tender shoots of bright green grass, and the joyous lilt of the first robins. Then we step out of all dead things with a new hope—with rebirth from failure, heartbreak, sorrow and sin. We rise above the mist and fog of misunderstanding and doubt. Our yesterdays are all cancelled and buried deep. It is Easter, the commemoration of the resurrection of the Savior of the world, and we drink in the sunlit beauty of a new life beyond.
White Hyacinths By Myrtle Wentworth
"If I had two loaves of bread," said a certain wise person, "I should sell one and buy white hyacinths for my soul." If I have two hours of time, shall I not profit by this suggestion and use one of them for the same purpose? There are so many white hyacinths—and they are so lovely! How sad it is to go through life without gathering as many of them as possible. For, after all, it is the soul that is eternal, that should be enriched with beauty, grace, and intelligence, rather than spending all effort in making the body comfortable.
It is very fortunate that most white hyacinths cost so little, except in time. Where are these precious blooms found? We mention the radio. Of course, one must be very careful in this field to pick out the lovely flowers from the many weeds which surround them. But if searched with discrimination, one can find many blooms that are very much worth while. An organ recital, for instance, when the deep melodious tones roll forth soothes the fretted and weary mind. A travel talk may take one for a few brief moments away from the familiar fireside to distant places, dreamed of but never seen. Even a grand opera, formerly within reach of the very fortunate few, can now be enjoyed by anyone who is willing to spend a few hours of time.
Equally accessible, and oh, so delightful, is a good book of poetry. Nearly everyone reads—short stories, novels and so on, but only a comparatively few people have learned the joy that comes from reading poetry. The rhythm, the descriptions of nature, the emotions, the lofty thoughts, all offer a rich beauty to the soul that should never be missed.
Perhaps you are among those fortunate persons who can express themselves in song. If so, your joy will be greatly increased by lifting up your voice with those of other singers. There is always abundant opportunity in ward choirs, Relief Society choruses and similar groups, and your happiness here is increased because you are helping to fill the souls of others with the beauty of the white hyacinths.
How many of us have gone through life without learning the pleasure that comes from an intelligent appreciation of art? Or how many of us pass by the opportunities of viewing fine paintings? Many high schools have the beginnings of fine collections which some of the townspeople have never looked upon. Cities invariably have one or more galleries which are open to the public. If just one good picture could be placed in every home it would repay its cost many times over, for a fine picture is a "window of the soul."
For unlimited wealth of beauty, let us not forget the walk at twilight when dusk blots out the unlovely things of day and leaves only the soft, the gracious and the friendly. If you live in the city, walk to some high spot and look down upon the myriad twinkling lights that turn the city of bricks and stones into a fairyland. If your home is in the country, walk out and see the tall trees become the silent protecting guardians of the houses beneath their branches. Watch the lights that shine forth from cottage windows, telling a story of warmth and cheer within. See a pasture become a covering of rich velvet with the cattle therein gathered together for the comforting presence of their kind.
Never neglect the richness that may come to your soul by the acquaintance of some superior person. Visit with her—not to spend idle hours, but for mutual encouragement, spiritual uplift and mental development. Exchange your flowers with her and you will both have larger and finer blossoms.
Gain white hyacinths for your soul by literally growing flowers in your garden. There is something so satisfying about putting tiny seeds that appear to be utter nonentities, into the ground and then watching while they send forth tender shoots of green to be followed by a gorgeous array of blooms. They respond so gratefully to the loving care you bestow upon them and they repay your efforts many times. If you have no spot for an out-of-doors garden, then surely there is at least one south window in your house where you can keep a bit of living green to add brightness to both your home and your heart.
Very precious indeed, are the hours spent in meditation within the sacred walls of a house of God. Go early to your chapel on Sunday evening and sit in the dim recesses before the congregation has gathered. Throw aside the petty cares and small annoyances of the week and in their place, welcome into your soul the pure fragrance of love, and reverence.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Sleep By Christie Lund
We do not fear to sleep, gladly we go Into the realm of the unknowable unknown; Glad for the gentle darkness and the slow Enveloping peace which soothes the mind, grown Tired and eager for these hours of healing rest, This quiet slumber beyond doubt and fear; Glad for the night which comes as some dear guest Whom we have known and loved for many a year. We think of sleep as kind, the weary head, The aching limbs sink deep in its embrace; We go as children to the familiar bed And leave the morning to an invisible grace. To the lonely spirit and the weary mind Will not death, too, seem infinitely kind?
Children's Reading By Florence Ivins Hyde No. IV—Romantic Period
"Could we give but one gift to every child, We should choose the love of books." —William Fredrick Bigelow.*
In the previous talks of this series we have attempted to discuss, briefly, the various interests of childhood in their relation to habits of reading and have given a few suggestions which might help to meet the demands of the periods up to 12 or 14. At about this time, a new type of thing must be supplied. The rougher instincts begin to soften and romance and sentiments begin to develop. Your daughter no longer wants to be a tom-boy and your son begins to take pride in his personal appearance. The crucial point in the guidance of children's reading during any period of life, lies in having certain books at hand at the psychological moment. For instance, it is a fatal thing to delay the first reading of Alice in Wonderland, to the reasoning years. Although the humor of the story cannot be appreciated until adulthood is reached, its imaginative value has made it a children's classic.
At this period the interest in physical prowess which has dominated your child makes place for stories of fiery idealism in which knights risk limb and life in loyalty to principle or in defense of some fair lady. At about 14, children begin to enjoy love stories and should have them. Some girls suffer real love sickness. This is Ellen Key's remedy. She says, "Boys will be attracted to girls. The thing to do is to satisfy this craving by giving love stories that are pure in tone and high in ideal, to make this feeling an elevating one rather than a debasing one." We can do this by tactfully leading them to delightful, wholesome stories, recent as well as old.
To guide their reading successfully, parents must get their point of view. At the period from 13 to 16 they will read what is interesting, not to you or me, but to them. More than ever before they want to select their own books. This is the time to place before them a variety of good things from which to choose.
At this age fiction seems to sway all else, but there are other books which will stand up against this overwhelming urge. Boys and girls alike show a tremendous interest in themselves and will welcome such books as "Making the Most of Your Looks," by Dorothy Stote; "Being a Friend," by Bertha Conde, for girls; "The High School Boy and His Problems," by T. A. Clarke; "Keeping in Condition," by H. H. Moore, for boys. At this age, too, they begin to want to know how to be successful. This is the function of biography. It is the moral element in history and serves two purposes. John Muir's story of his boyhood and youth, for boys, or Mary Austin's "Promised Land" for girls, are two of many that we may suggest.
Books of travel and adventure will also stand up against this fiction urge. The point is to get books with both action and adventure rather than books that are merely descriptive. Every boy will like Byrd's "Skyward" and most girls will be thrilled with the Japanese story of "The Daughter of a Samurai," by Sugimoto. Joseph Altsheler has now taken the place of Cooper. He takes the American boy into the wilderness making him realize his heritage in the history of his country. His appeal lies in three points—his deep love of nature, his ability to select subjects of human interest and a natural gift for story-telling. His stories may awaken an interest in Kipling, Stevenson, Dumas, Poe and Bret Harte.
Never forbid a book you think is not fit for your daughter to read. Psychologists tell us this is the surest way to create a desire for it. Take a chance on her not coming in contact with it and if she does, poke fun, with her, at its absurdity. Positive advice is so much better than negative! Call attention to a book you desire her to read by saying, "That is a fine story," rather than by saying, "Don't" of a bad book. As mothers, we become over zealous in our efforts to keep our children innocent. The point to bear in mind may be that if the atmosphere of the book is natural, moral and healthy it is wisdom to let a girl read of both the good and bad in the world, thus preventing the development of a morbid curiosity.
Lucile Fargo, a woman librarian and a student of children's tastes, says, "All you need to be sure of in fiction is that the story you give your boy or girl is well written, that it is true to life, and that it does not make crime attractive or immorality desirable."
It is possible to give the right thing even in this age when so many "popular" novels are flooding the market. A few shelves of books well chosen will be far more likely to give our young people the right start toward life and art than an expensive piece of furniture. Let us not begrudge the time this study will take. Mothers will then be doing a far more important thing than dusting furniture. Our sons and daughters are going to get their thrills somewhere. The real problem is to find out the sort they demand and feed them with the truth.
Books To Own "The Correct Thing," W. A. Stevens—etiquette for boys. "It's More Fun When You Know the Rules," Beatrice Pierce—for girls.
The Reading Mother
I had a mother who read me the things That wholesome life to the boy heart brings— Stories that stir with an upward touch, Oh, that each mother of boys were such!
You may have tangible wealth untold; Caskets of jewels and coffers of gold. Richer than I you can never be— I had a mother who read to me.
—From the lovely poem by Strickland Gillilan.
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
Oh fickle April, through your cloudy mists Are flowers, and songs and skies sun-kissed.
In the spring the young maid's fancy madly turns to thoughts of clothes. Why not, with the shops gay as flower gardens with attractive gowns, blouses, accessories and hats—well, beyond description.
Jessie Pastor of New Jersey has manufactured a synthetic ice. She calls it Iccolite and declares it perfect for skating. It may not have as many thrills as a frozen river but is much safer.
Deanna Durbin is charming as ever in her latest picture "Mad About Music."
Sonja Henie, piquant and popular, is one of the biggest money-makers in filmdom. The two amateur skaters Joan Tozzer and Audrey Peppe are becoming her competitors.
Ishbel McDonald, gifted daughter of the late Premier J. Ramsey McDonald, was quietly married last month to Norman Ridgeley in London.
Frances Perkins, Secretary of Labor, asserts the loyalty of the American workers. She declares they only seek to improve their economic condition with no desire to undermine the system of private enterprise.
Lucile Papin Borden's "Starforth" and "The Joppa Door," by Hope Williams Sykes are popular late novels.
Melissa S. Messenger, Eliza A. Munson and Lydia Metcalf of Utah, aged 95, 90, 93, respectively, are still engaging in social and welfare work. Each recently was the recipient of honors in her home community.
Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, 91, who practiced her profession for over 60 years was one of eight women in Salt Lake City given a medal and singularly honored for civic service by the Salt Lake City Federation of Women's Clubs.
Rosa Ponselle, metropolitan opera star, has taken a long vacation to enjoy a honeymoon with her polo-playing husband in California.
Princesses Rubije, Myzejan, and Maxhide, sisters of King Zog of Albania, while in America lunched with the President and Mrs. Roosevelt at the White House. The conversation was in French.
Emma Golders Sternes' novel, "Some Plant Olive Trees" is a 19th century story of French exiles, colonizing in the Louisiana Territory. A similar story "The Checkered Years" by Edith Cawdrey, an early Dakota story, seems somewhat like the Icarians who occupied Nauvoo after the expulsion of the "Mormons."
Mme. Chiang Kai-Shek has resigned as commander of the Chinese air force but still Chinese women are being organized and trained to take up arms against Japan.
Centennial of the Revelation on Tithing
The centennial anniversary of the first revelation in this dispensation on the subject of tithing will be celebrated on July 8th of this year. A Church-wide observance of this important event is now being planned, beginning in May, when Ward Teachers throughout the Church will carry the message of tithing to every home. It was on July 8, 1838, at Far West, Missouri, when the Saints were in sore distress that they turned to the Lord for help for the Church. In response to the supplication of the Prophet Joseph Smith the answer was given as contained in Section 119 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Which reads as follows:
1. Verily, thus saith the Lord, I require all their surplus property to be put into the hands of the bishop of my church in Zion,
2. For the building of mine house, and for the laying of the foundation of Zion and for the priesthood, and for the debts of the Presidency of my Church.
3. And this shall be the beginning of the tithing of my people.
4. And after that, those who have thus been tithed shall pay one-tenth of all their interest annually; and this shall be a standing law unto them forever, for my holy priesthood, saith the Lord.
5. Verily I say unto you, it shall come to pass that all those who gather unto the land of Zion shall be tithed of their surplus properties, and shall observe this law, or they shall not be found worthy to abide among you.
6. And I say unto you, if my people observe not this law, to keep it holy, and by this law sanctify the land of Zion unto me, that my statutes and my judgments may be kept thereon, that it may be most holy, behold, verily I say unto you, it shall not be a land of Zion unto you.
7. And this shall be an ensample unto all the stakes of Zion. Even so. Amen.
The program for the general observance of the anniversary will be announced soon.
Friends are an aid to the young to guard them from error; to the elderly, to attend to their wants and to supplement their failing power of action; to those in the prime of life, to assist them to noble deeds.—Aristotle.
Greatness is not absolute; comparison increases it or lessens it: A ship which looms large in the river seems tiny when on the ocean.—Seneca.
Notes To The Field
Literary Department.
One can scarcely contemplate hours more enjoyable than lie before the Relief Society literary classes this season in the review and study of "The Romance of an Old Playhouse," by George D. Pyper; nor ought one to begin without first paying a tribute to the author who in a simple and charming manner gives the history and genesis of a peerless institution and loved landmark of the pioneers. Of importance is the fact that the building and operating of a high-class, beautiful theatre in the desert, became an almost unconscious temple of learning, wherein young and old may have gone, presumably to be amused, but at the same time imbibed a cultural knowledge of classical literature and histrionic art. The book from the foreword to the close affords choice opportunity for enrichment whether followed chapter after chapter as written, or chapters by choice, as the director of the work may prefer. The introduction of suitable music, pictures, readings or perhaps an occasional dramatic presentation would enhance the interest. Perhaps in some old chest may be found albums or scrapbooks telling of some of these plays, or laid among some grandmother's treasures with a lace and ivory fan and a pair of white kid gloves, a program on which is written, "when I went with................ to see Adelaide Neilson as Juliet," or "Junius Brutus Booth as King John," or "John McCullough as Macbeth," or "heard the divine voice of Parepa Rosa," or "the magic tones of Ole Bull's violin" and so on ad infinitum. In many communities there are those who either by personal contact or at least by tradition could bring something of worthwhile interest, and always the plays and operas themselves by retelling give valuable entertainment. It is interesting to note the long list of stars of first magnitude and read the titles of the plays presented during the stage coach days: Julia Dean Hayne, the Waldrons, the Couldocks and others. Here your local musicians might introduce some Elizabethan music or other early period, and readings or recitations from Shakespeare, Sheridan and others would be appropriate. The trial scene from "The Merchant of Venice," the balcony scene from "Romeo and Juliet," selections from "Enoch Arden," or perhaps that lesson on human relations from "Uncle Tom's Cabin," where Topsy "who just growed" figures.
After the railroad, the later and more modern plays with all star casts, the light operas and the local dramatic and operatic companies all lend an unforgettable charm to the lessons. Remembered now with many heart throbs! To have witnessed the tragedies, dramas, comedies portrayed by the world's most famous actors and actresses, to have heard the finest music interpreted by great masters of the divine art was the privilege of the patrons of the old theatre; it is the privilege of the present generation to vision it all again in the perusal of "The Romance of an Old Playhouse."
Work and Business Department.
Do you know in laundering that:
To find out exactly how much soap to use with your kind of hard water, send a small bottle of the water to one of the large soap companies. They'll tell you all about it.
For hard water, tri-sodium phosphate or one of the commercial water softeners will cut down on your soap bill. Add it to the hot wash water and wait about five minutes for the curds to form on the top. Skim and add the soap.
Tests have shown that neither overloading nor underloading your machine gives as good results as the normal load. Be guided by the recommendations which are made for your particular washing machine. Use the following figures—approximate, of course—as a guide: Luncheon cloth or bath towel, one-half pound; pillow case, one-third pound; linen towel, one-sixth pound; night gown, one-third pound; cotton pajamas, two-thirds pound; man's shirt, one-half pound; boy's shirt, one-fourth pound; child's dress, one-third pound.
To make starch that won't lump and isn't likely to stick to the iron, follow these directions: Mix one-fourth cup starch with one-fourth cup cold water. Add five cups boiling water slowly. Boil two or three minutes or until clear. Boiling keeps the starch from sticking. Dilute with water to desired thickness.
Theology Department.
The lesson The Influence of the Christ on Civilization refers to George Frederick Handel, composer of The Messiah, as an Englishman. In order that this statement may be clear in the minds of class leaders we quote the following from Britannica: "Handel, George Frederick (1685-1759), English musical composer, German by origin, was born at Halle in Lower Saxony, on the 23rd of February 1685. His name was Handel, but like most 18th century musicians who traveled, he compromised with its pronunciation by foreigners, and when in Italy spelled it Hendel, and in England (where he became naturalized) accepted the version Handel, which is therefore correct for English writers, while Handel remains the correct version in Germany.... The Messiah was produced at Dublin on the 13th of April 1742..... His death took place in April 1759. He was buried in Westminster Abbey."
New Easter News By Nephi Jensen
Speak not to me of endless death; Beyond the Grave's dreadful portal Ever stirs spirits' deathless breath Waking souls to life immortal.
The One who heroically won The Tomb's conquest and victory— The Maker of earth, stars and sun, Brought our unending life to be.
In Palmyra's temple of trees Shone anew the Light resplendent, A youth's troubled soul to appease With truth and glory transcendent.
From out celestial burning, Spoke again the voice Eternal Answering a Seer's heart-yearning With new Easter news, supernal.
Notes From The Field By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
Eastern States Mission
Prior to the creation of the New England Mission a survey was made of the Eastern States Mission by Relief Society Mission President Grace S. Colton. Every branch from Boston to Washington, D. C., was included. This survey showed a fine field of labor prepared for Sister Eyring and Sister Evans. The broad scope of Relief Society was revealed. In some localities there were Visiting Teachers. The excellent work of the Class Leaders had increased the membership and been the means of accomplishing good missionary work. Some branches had made the enviable record of one hundred per cent annual dues paid for two years. People generously responded to the Relief Society Special Activity project and donated supplies and cash. The spirit of cooperation was expressed in sewing for Red Cross. Though many of the organizations were small, the attendance was regular. Music played quite a part and groups of Singing Mothers were organized. The Scripture reading project was conducted most enthusiastically. The Magazine subscriptions were carried to new high levels. The President urged all the branches to write the history of their work and bring their records up to date. The office is in receipt of the Eastern Ensign for February, 1938. This is a report of the Eastern States Mission with all the auxiliary work now in operation. The Relief Society is happy to acknowledge the excellent resume of its work under Relief Society President Priscilla L. Evans. The statistical report shows that all departments of the organization are in operation and the success of the work for the last year greatly in excess of the previous one.
Eliza Tillery
Nell C. Alleman, Relief Society President of the Baltimore, Maryland, Branch, reports the following: "The members of the Baltimore, Maryland Branch of the Relief Society are proud to have on the active roll Sister Eliza Tillery, shown in the picture holding a birthday cake presented to her at a party held in her honor on her ninety-third birthday, October 26. One of the leading broadcasting stations in the state, WFBR, announced her birthday three different times, and sent her flowers for being awarded the title that day of 'Captain of the Old Guard.'
"Sister Tillery, still remarkably strong of body and keen of mind, tells, with a twinkle in her eyes, of the progress of the Church in Baltimore, of the missionaries who have come and gone, and of interesting events in the history of the country back to pre-Civil War times in Maryland.
"Sister Tillery reads eagerly without glasses each issue of the Relief Society Magazine."
Logan Stake
The President of Logan Stake reports increased interest in all phases of Relief Society work. This includes attendance at meetings and all forms of activity. The following account of a project carried out in one of the smaller wards gives an example of the frugality and thrift of the women. To start the project an apron sale was held and from the proceeds, which the women reinvested, many things were accomplished. Magazine subscriptions were paid for, articles of clothing were reconditioned and sold, garden supplies were purchased, and materials for binding the Magazine, which was taught in the Work and Business meetings, were sold at a profit. Much good was accomplished and a tidy sum realized from the original investment.
Beaver Stake
In this Stake the Singing Mothers have been very active and their influence is felt in stimulating interest in Relief Society. The picture below is the cast of a group from the Milford Ward who presented the beautiful cantata "Bethlehem," during the last mid-winter holidays.
Raft River Stake
From the President of the Raft River Stake Relief Society word comes that the organization is enjoying its work very much and has started the year with fine hopes for a most successful season. The ward conferences have been held and the great objective has been to offer in these meetings a program that would improve the regular weekly meetings. A part of the program was a model Work and Business meeting and demonstration. It was greatly appreciated, especially by the Priesthood members, and was a concrete example of what Relief Society is doing. The wards have each been asked to conduct in turn an ideal Work and Business meeting in this department at Union Meeting. Every ward has exhibited finished work and is greatly interested in the new feature. The activity in the field of child health was very successful. Last summer the Relief Society arranged with local doctors to give physical examinations to the pre-school and school children. About 100 responded and had tonsils removed and other corrective work done. Those in the other wards came to Malta because the equipment was there and it was possible for them to return home in the evening. This two-day clinic was a great success and was a means of rendering much greatly needed service. A suitable home was used as a hospital and supplied with the equipment necessary. Since this time, a health unit has been organized consisting of Relief Society workers, with fine cooperation from the Parent-Teacher Association. Work is done under the supervision of the County nurses. After school started in the fall, a dental clinic was arranged for everyone needing help. This, too, was very satisfactory. The women and the County nurses give their time and service.
North Weber Stake
From this progressive Stake comes the following interesting account of some of the outstanding events of the Relief Society year's accomplishment: "Our most outstanding events of 1937 were the Field Day and the Christmas Pageant.
"The purpose of the Field Day was to demonstrate what had been accomplished by the Work and Business Department. Each of the fourteen wards of the Stake arranged a dinner table symbolic of a chosen subject, with arrangements, decorations, and menu, all conforming with the motif represented. They were judged on the following points: conformity, 20 points; neatness, 20 points; artistic arrangements, 20 points; color harmony, 20 points; general effect, 20 points.
"The West Weber Ward, under the direction of Sister Charlotte Green, chose the theme, 'Let Thy Light So Shine.' A miniature lighthouse formed the centerpiece. This ward tied for first place with the Slaterville Ward which used a Japanese motif. Wilson Ward, with a patriotic theme, and Marriott Ward, with an Hawaiian setting, were awarded second places. Third places were awarded to Harrisville Ward, with a Southern motif, and to Ogden Fifteenth Ward, with a Hobo Jungle Town idea. Honorable mention was made of Ogden Tenth Ward's Bridal Luncheon, and Ogden Third Ward's Blue and Gold display.
"The afternoon's activities were under the supervision of Stake President, Julia E. Parry, and the contest was directed by Erica L. Soderberg, Work and Business director.
"On the evening of December 29, 'The Life of Christ,' a pageant written and directed by Laura Moench Jenkins, was presented in the Weber County High School Auditorium. Scenes from the ministry of the Savior were portrayed in tableaux. Some of them were, 'The Babe of Bethlehem,' 'Jesus in the Temple,' 'The Beatitudes,' 'Jesus Blesses Little Children,' 'The Ten Virgins,' and 'Mary, Mother of Jesus, at the Cross.'
"The music was under the direction of Stake Chorister, Eliza M. Kerr, and Stake Organist, Julia A. Bingham. The text was read by Hulvia Upton."
Education is a controlling grace to the young, consolation to the old, wealth to the poor, and ornament to the rich.—Diogenes.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
THE GENERAL BOARD
LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - President AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - First Counselor KATE M. BARKER - - - - Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Jennie B. Knight Nettie D. Bradford Emma A. Empey Ida P. Beal Annie Wells Cannon Marcia K. Howells Lalene H. Hart Emeline Y. Nebeker Cora L. Bennion Janet M. Thompson Amy Whipple Evans Belle S. Spafford Rosannah C. Irvine Youna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Belle S. Spafford - - - - Editor Louise Y. Robison - - - - Manager Amy Brown Lyman - - - - Assistant Manager
Vol. XXV APRIL, 1938 No. 4
Editorials Growth and Leadership A WORTHY program coupled with able leadership generally assures growth and continued existence to an organization. The great church to which you and I belong, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, offers a perfect program of life and salvation to its membership, one that assures peace, comfort, strength and security. Its leadership has always been without peer. On April 6, the Church will be 108 years of age. From a very small membership it has grown until today its membership approaches 800,000 in number, living in all parts of the world. There are 121 established stakes, 1,104 wards, and 32 missions. The vitality and phenomenal growth of the Church lies in its divine origin and inspired leadership. Apostle Orson F. Whitney says, "Mormonism is strong because God is its author— the engineer directing its course, and all the might of Omnipotence is behind it, impelling it on to its destiny." Joseph Smith, Jr., the prophet, seer, and revelator, through whom was restored to earth the Gospel of Jesus Christ in the nineteenth century, founded a religious organization which has made his name known among most of the civilized nations. The marvelous enlargement of the work under the six inspired and intelligent leaders who have followed the Prophet Joseph has increased the faith of the members in the organization itself and in the things for which it stands. Brigham Young, the second leader was made president, December 24, 1847. Known as an "Empire Founder" it has been said of him. "He was for daring a Cromwell, for executive force a Moses." George Q. Cannon at the time of President Young's death said of him, "From the organization of the Church, and the construction of Temples, the building of Tabernacles; from the creation of a provisional state government and a Ter- 276 ritorial government, down to the smallest matter of directing the. Making of the seats upon which we sit this day; upon all these things as well as upon the settlements of the Territory, the impress of his genius is apparent." With the passing of President Young a new leader was raised up. October 10, 1880, John Taylor was made president. President Taylor possessed a spirituality and a veneration for God and truth so great that few men in this world have equaled him in the possession of such qualities. Following the death of President Taylor, Wilford Woodruff was sustained April 7, 1889, to lead in the task of building on earth "the Kingdom of God." Never was a leader more loved by his people than he. Loved by his own and respected by the nation, thus he advanced the work of the Church. Lorenzo Snow, the fifth president, was sustained Sept. 13, 1898. There is not to be found a more interesting or inspired man. Placidity of mind, even in the midst of trouble and danger was characteristic of this great leader. He was a natural financier, and at the same time a spiritually-minded man, of literary tastes and poetic temperament; a broad-minded and charitable man. His administration, though short, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was one of the most notable in the history of the Church because of the improvement in the temporal as well as spiritual condition. Joseph F. Smith followed President Snow, October 17, 1901, a friend of the people, easily approached, a wise counselor, and a man of broad views. Inured to hardships, patient in trial, God-fearing, selfsacrificing, full of love for the human race, powerful in spiritual, mental and physical strength he carried forward the work of the Lord as ably as any who had gone before. November 23, 1918, Heber J. Grant became president of the Church, than whom there has. Been no more zealous leader. Self-effort and force of determination are outstanding character qualities of this great man. An eminent business man, a courageous and powerful spiritual and religious leader, he is today revered by thousands the world over. The Church has always known courageous, tireless, inspired leadership, men who have given their all to the establishment of the Gospel upon the earth in this day. The Latter-day Saint Church has the truth. As long as its members seek after the truth, following the teachings and counsel of those chosen to lead, the Church will continue to grow and bring unbounded blessings to its thousands of members. Women's Opinions ary issue, the Ladies' Home Journal is reporting a new nation-wide survey on what the women of America think about marriage, divorce, birth control, money, war, strikes, and other human problems. Thirty-seven million women have been interviewed, representing Bey issue, ¢ with the Februall classes, degrees of education, and religious beliefs, in an effort to get a scientific cross section of women's opinions. The answers have been tabulated with precision. The Journal states that this is the first time that an effort has been made to measure the opinion of American women on social and human relationship EDITORIALS problems. The opinions regarding the various problems are to be released monthly.. The February issue dealt with marriage and divorce and revealed some interesting and challenging ideas. Sixty-nine per cent of the women believe in divorce, with the highest income groups showing the highest percentage. Ninety-four per cent believe in uniform divorce laws. The survey shows that women believe money to be the chief cause of friction in marriage. Many traditionally accepted theories about marital friction are refuted. Kindness and consideration, the ability to provide, and faithfulness are listed as the most essential qualifications of a husband. A wife should be first a good homemaker, with a good disposition, kindness and _ consideration next in line. The answers on the problem of birth control show that a majority of the women believe in having children. Ninety-eight per cent of the mothers said they are glad they have children; 40 per cent said they wish they had more than they have. Opinions regarding money are interesting. Thirty dollars a week 277 is considered enough, in the average community, on which to start married life; expenditures for the wife's clothes are considered the chief cause of financial discord in the home; money should be controlled by neither husband nor wife, but by both. Of special interest are the opinions on installment buying. The articles are interesting and the answers given important. The very fact that the Journal is undertaking such a survey shows that women's opinions are being recognized. The thinking of women today will profoundly influence the laws of tomorrow, There are many laws definitely affecting home and family life with which women are dissatisfied and which women today are qualified to improve. Women banded together are a force for right. Parents and schools may well be awakened to their responsibilities in placing greater emphasis upon homemaking, particularly the financial aspects. Women profoundly influence the boys and girls of the nation as they grow to maturity. Much depends upon what women are thinking. Martha Horne Tingey A we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially unto them who are of the household of faith."—Gal. 6:10. Forty-nine years in the general presidency of the Y. W. M. I. A. Provided Sister Martha Horne Tingey abundant opportunity to do good, especially to the girls and women of the Church. That these opportunities were utilized to the fullest, thousands can bear testimony. Called to act as counselor to Sister Elmina S. Taylor, the first general president of Y. W. M. I. A., when but twenty-three years of age, Sister Tingey served with love and efficiency until ill health made it necessary for her to retire as President in 1929. During her presidency the Y. W. M. I. A. Grew in membership and increased in interest and activity. Traveling throughout the stakes she has made many friends who hold her in fond remembrance. Her passing March 11, 1938, leaves a Latter-day Saint sisterhood grateful for a life faithfully and effectively lived. Music Department MEMORIZATION By Alta B. Cassity HE importance of memorization of music can hardly be overestimated. To be able to memorize, it is necessary to attend particularly to the thing at hand. Thus we see that concentration is the foundation of all memory work, so it follows that the more one concentrates the more rapidly one is able to memorize. All music should be memorized as quickly as possible for only in this way can the best rendition be had. Finer interpretative study can be accomplished when the performer knows by memory the material elements of a composition and its performance. The mind can concentrate upon hearing and feeling a composition only when demands on other senses such as sight for example, (reading of notes) are eliminated. It is possible to achieve greater artistic insight when all pieces are memorized. This fact alone stresses the importance of memorizing. There are various ways of doing this work. Some people visualize, that is, actually see the printed page mentally when singing or playing. Others memorize kinaesthetically, that is, depending on the fingers in playing, or on habits formed of singing certain tones, repeated, in vocal music until a fixed mode is established. Memorizing comes from the association of ideas, directly or indirectly related to the actual notes of the score. The association of two or more ideas with a note will identify that note with the preceding notes more strongly than mere repetition of the note unrelated. It is advisable to memorize only a small section of a composition at a time as better results are obtained than when the entire number is attempted at once. When the mind is given too much to assimilate at one time the small details are likely to escape notice. An eminent present-day artist and teacher, Robert Schmitz, has listed some forms of association of ideas which contribute to memorizing, as follows: 1. Accuracy in sight reading, because first impressions are most vivid. 2. Harmonic analysis, modulation. 3. Form analysis. 4. Rhythmical analysis. 5. Visual memory according to aspect of music on the page. 6. Ear memory correlated with intervals. Memorization is an automatic process when correct emphasis is placed on the various ways of practice. Very often performers will have a number memorized without being aware of it, if the different methods of practice have been carried out properly. Some people seem to memorize much more easily than others, but _after all, it is a habit which can be acquired and should be cultivated by everyone. Outside Interests By Sara O. Moss side her husband, as she always did in spring and summer, showing him a new-blown rose here and there, or the pansy bed and the bleeding hearts. This little walk around the lawns had become quite a habit with the Fenstones prior to Thomas entering his high powered car and driving away to his business each morning. "Well! Said Patricia, stopping suddenly to stare at a moving van pulling into the driveway of the vacant cottage across the street. "I'll bet it's another big family! It certainly is Thomas! See that baby buggy they're unloading, and the tricycle and the wagon!" Thomas laughed heartily as he hurried to his car. "I'm late," he said. "Don't worry too much about the kids that family might not have." But Patricia did worry. The last family that had lived there, and had moved because the payments on the house were too high for a meagre income, had had boys. Lots of boys who ganged and played street games, like baseball and run sheep. Sometimes the big rough feet had tramped among Patricia's flowers to retrieye a stray ball. Once a window was broken, and often the young tikes hid in the expensive shrubs surrounding the Fenstone grounds. Boys were awful! A small car drove up to the cottage too, and as Patricia had surmised, quite a drove of youngsters tumbled out. "Thank goodness there's some girls,' said Patricia, hidden from view by her dense shrubs. "They're little too. Oh, there's a good sized one though, and there's a boy. Let's see, there’s two, three, four, five, six. That poor woman! I do hope she keeps them home." THE new family went about the usual tasks which moving involves, and after some days of strenuous labor, the cottage attained a livable appearance. The family seemed to settle themselves in the new surroundings without bother or trouble to anyone, nor did they find any excuses to call upon their neighbors, who lived in the expensive homes along the block. The windows of the little house were washed until they shone, and pretty curtains and potted plants adorned them. The screened porch too, looked inviting, with its bright rugs, wicker and pillows. "She must be quite a homemaker," Patricia told her husband one morning, as they walked over their grounds. "That house has never looked so clean, or so homelike before. But still, it will always be an eyesore in the neighborhood. It's so old-fashioned and the families that move in and out never seem to have enough money to buy paint. I wish it wasn't there." But Thomas cared little and gave no thought to the cottage, although Patricia's comments on her neighbors amused him greatly, but so long as the people didn't bother him, it did not matter whether the occupants of the shabby house painted it, or whether they had ten children or none. AFTER an interval of ten days, Patricia called on her new neighbors and found Mrs. Wesley to be a retiring little woman, but a charming one too. Her home was 280 orderly and neat and her inexpensive furnishings tastefully arranged to meet the requirements of her six children. Patricia found also, that Mrs. Wesley had no social aspirations in the neighborhood, and seemed perfectly content with life as she lived it—busy, healthy, and happy. "Poor thing!" thought Patricia. "One wouldn't think life could be worth living. No outside interests of any kind. I think I should go mad!" Still it was quite nice here. The cooling drink served by the oldest girl, who was twelve, was a lovely gesture of hospitality. Patricia was afraid she was going to like Mrs. Wesley and her family in spite of herself, and her prejudice of the little old cottage had eased into indifference for the present. "Well I must run along now," said Patricia. "I have so much to do today. I am serving on the committee of Conservation of National Resources, and we expect to have several meetings in the near future. I am busy getting material and speakers." "How interesting!" said Mrs. Wesley. "I have a sister, Nell, who does that very thing." But Patricia was moving along, feeling important as a public-spirited woman who was in a position to entertain even celebrities in her home because she was rich, because she had leisure. There was never anything she really enjoyed so much as having her picture snapped at the airport, meeting important figures who stepped from the planes.
So the late summer passed into autumn days, the two women having had few visits, probably because each was so busy; probably too, because their interests were so varied and far apart. Patricia was grateful that Mrs. Wesley had kept her children home. Still she had enjoyed those two little tykes who sometimes toddled across the street to her lawns. Such talkers! And that oldest girl was charming! One day in late autumn, Patricia was ringing Mrs. Wesley's doorbell. "Oh, Mrs. Fenstone! Such a surprise! Do come in." But Patricia had no time today. "I'm sorry I can't stay Mrs. Wesley, I'm so rushed. We're having our big meeting on Conservation tonight at the auditorium, and we're having a famous speaker from Washington, D. C. I shall probably be expected to meet her, and most likely have her to dinner." Patricia was out of breath, but she felt so important. Rather fun to let people know what prestige you held in the community. Then seeing Mrs. Wesley's tired face and work-worn hands, she said, "Perhaps you would like to come. I think you would enjoy it, you have to stay in so much." She was really sincere, for she liked Mrs. Wesley. Mrs. Wesley considered. "I'll see. Perhaps I can leave the babies with my husband." Patricia smiled warmly, and started down the steps, all but forgetting her errand. "Oh, I nearly forgot. I have a telephone message for you from your sister. She said it was Nell calling. She asked me to let you know she was in town and would be right out." Mrs. Wesley was taken aback, but happily surprised. "Oh not really! I can hardly believe it. I haven't seen Nell for two years! I'm sorry you had to bother though, Mrs. Fenstone. I wish we could afford a telephone, but you know how it is when the children are small.... To think Nell is here.... I'll have to change this dress if she's coming right out...." Patricia was glad to see her little neighbor so happy. She surely needed something to brighten her drab existence. Then she remembered her many duties for the day, and started down the path against the autumn wind with a hurried, "Try to come, Mrs. Wesley." It was then Mrs. Wesley thought of something. "Mrs. Fenstone," she called, "Nell must be...." But Patricia was half way home and did not hear her, so intent was she on meeting the famous Washington speaker, Mrs. Cowels. As she ran along to her home, she hoped the woman would arrive by plane. A plane made such a smart setting for a snapshot.
The auditorium was filled to capacity and Patricia, as chairman, looked regal, as she sat behind the banks of potted plants, lending charm and beauty to the affair. She was a little nervous though. The speaker had not arrived, only a message had come saying she would be on time. Patricia hoped so. An intelligent audience waited patiently for the meeting to begin. Then Patricia saw Mrs. Wesley enter the door. She did get here after all! Little home body! She's probably wondering what this is all about. But who is that distinguished looking woman with her? They look alike. Why that must be Nellie. They're coming right up in front, too. Well of all things! It's Mrs. Cowels! Patricia hardly heard what the woman said all evening. She was thinking of the little old cottage, the cottage she had said was such an "eye-sore" among the lovely homes along the block, yet it had welcomed the woman speaking; a woman who was known from coast to coast, and a woman whom Patricia had so urgently hoped to "cultivate." Mrs. Cowels was holding the audience spell-bound. "We talk about conservation. We plead with an adult public to build up the defenses we've torn down; defenses which will take three hundred years to rebuild. But it's our children to whom we must turn...."
Patricia felt lonely among all those people. She wanted to be home with all her beautiful surroundings and with Thomas. But home was sometimes lonely, too, with just Thomas. It was so quiet and so still. There should have been more in so large a house. What was the use? Her thoughts raced through her brain, commanding her, defending her, upbraiding her. She hadn't been fair with humanity, with the Wesleys, and with the cottage. She had been a poor neighbor. She could have tended those little tots once in a while. She could have loaned the oldest girl some books, and given all Mrs. Wesley's children the use of the beautiful pool in her back yard through the hot summer days. She had been striving for public acclaim, for praise and honor from the activities she called "outside interests," and had pitied Mrs. Wesley for having so little, yet now Patricia realized she had everything worth while. Patricia felt suddenly very tired, as the meeting dragged through to the end. She thanked the speaker, the committee and the audience. Out of courtesy she asked Mrs. Cowels and Mrs. Wesley if she could drive them home. To her surprise they accepted gratefully. When Patricia stopped at the cottage to let her occupants out, Mrs. Wesley graciously asked her in. "Run over and get your husband, and we'll have a bite of lunch. I know you and Nellie will have so much to talk about. Our husbands can at least talk cars and fishing." Patricia laughed, but said humbly, "You're so sweet Mrs. Wesley. You don't know what it means to me." Mrs. Wesley never did know, quite, what it had all meant to a new Patricia.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Inspiration By Lola Sedgwick
I stood in silent awe and admiration before the completed handiwork of a great master. "The Mystery of Life" conceived in marble was doing to my soul what the artist had intended his work to do. Each carved figure, perfect in its beauty, whispered a message to my soul. Ten minutes passed before I was aware of the function of breathing. I wanted to keep the spell of beauty, which for a moment had been mine. When at last I drew a quivering breath, I wished with my whole being that the good Lord had given me the talent of creating beauty. I longed for the power to give the world a masterpiece, that humanity might be uplifted through my efforts and thrill as I was being thrilled by the perfect piece of statuary before me. I sighed for I knew my clumsy hands couldn't fashion a small clay vase perfectly. Then the voice of inspiration whispered to me. "But you can give the world a masterpiece, a work of true art. Instead of hard marble to work with, you have a pliable human soul and body, a tiny bit of raw material given by God to be fashioned as you will. Select carefully the proper tools to smooth away the rough places, tools of love, kindness and patience. Keep them sharpened and new by education. Keep them shining and beautiful through constant humble contact with the Great Giver of all truth. Yes you can strive to give to the world a human breathing masterpiece, one who will hold the Priesthood of God. How wide and lasting can be his influence for good and beauty!" I hurried home to my fresh bundle of new humanity, thrilled and happy with my new ambition, yet fearful of my great responsibility. Who was I to dare work on a piece of God's handiwork? Yet he had given my baby to me. I could do my best. I lifted him lovingly and breathed a prayer that I might always carry in my heart the inspiration of "The Mystery of Life," that each day my mother work be done well and joyfully to complete a work of art.
Little Things By Roberta Bates
I love best the little things— A tiny nest... A bird that sings... A wild white rose... A pansy face... A doily of fine Irish lace... A wee brown house... A baby's smile... It's little things make life worth while.
Women of the Battalion By J. B. Jennings
"You shall have your battalion, Captain Allen," said Brigham Young, "and if there are not young men enough, we will take the old men; and if they are not enough, we will take the women." There is something of grim humor in the words by which President Young promised a battalion of Mormon volunteers for the service of the nation in the war with Mexico. The march was to be across long desert reaches where it was difficult for any living thing to survive, through mountain gorges where a path must be made with pickaxe and crowbar—more than two thousand miles over the trackless wastes of Western America. It was a venture which only the young and hardy could undertake with any prospect of surviving, yet, almost as if Brigham Young had spoken with the vision of a prophet, women did set forth with their husbands upon that historic march to the sea. History has been kind to the men who comprised the Battalion, and their names are recorded in its pages for the information of posterity. Yet the brave women who accompanied their husbands, like so many of the brave women of the past, have received scant mention in the chronicles of the march of the Mormon Battalion. If their deed was not so spectacular, it was equally courageous. About sixty women and children accompanied the volunteers when they set out upon their pilgrimage from the Mormon camps in Missouri. The first leg of the march was to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, from whence the company was to set forth on the arduous journey to California via Santa Fe. Even before reaching Fort Leavenworth they experienced considerable hardship. One man died and others were stricken with fever before many miles had been covered. A wagon in which were riding the sick and a number of women upset while crossing a creek. Such incidents were not uncommon even in the early stages of the journey. Fort Leavenworth was reached by the first of August. Here the Battalion was fully organized, equipment was issued to the men, and provisions were gathered for the journey. By the middle of August the march was resumed. Santa Fe seven hundred miles away over an almost trackless wilderness, was the destination. Food was not always to be had in sufficient quantities to satisfy the hunger of the Battalion. It was sometimes necessary to make a day's march—and on at least one occasion a hundred miles were traveled—without water. Fuel was so scarce on the desert that it was often impossible to build fires. Henry Standage describes in his journal what was perhaps a typical day in the life of the Battalion: "Started soon after daylight and commenced our toils on this sandy desert; not a drop of water to be seen this morning, nothing to look at but a large dreary desert and here and there a herd of buffaloes or antelopes. I suffered much more than yesterday for want of water; found some rain water about 2 o'clock; drank some of it which seemed to be a blessing. About night we came to a creek called Sand Creek and encamped. Some little grass; 26 miles today." What must have been bitter tragedy to the women and children is described in terse, laconic phrases, "Bro. Dimick Huntington had a cow killed by lightning this evening. He belonged to Co. D. And had his family along." Sickness was common and an occasional death occurred. On August 28, an aged woman named Jane Bosco, died. Two days later, on a Sunday, her husband John Bosco also died. The aged couple had intended to accompany the Battalion to California, where they had expected to settle with others of the Saints. They were buried near the camp, together in death as they had been in life; large stones were heaped over the graves so that those who slept might not be disturbed by wolves; and the march was resumed. Almost every day some progress was made, even though nightfall sometimes found the Battalion encamped but a few miles further along the trail. The mules and oxen frequently gave out and many of them had to be left behind. The volunteers wore themselves out attempting to help the animals drag the heavy wagons through the desert sands.
On the evening of October 9, 1846, the first division of the Battalion marched into Santa Fe, the capital of New Mexico. They were greeted with a salute of one hundred guns ordered by General Doniphan, commander of the post. The remainder of the Battalion did not arrive until three days later. We can judge the arduousness of the march by the fact that at Santa Fe many of the men were deemed too ill to proceed further. There was yet before the Battalion a march of more than one thousand miles through country that was virtually a pathless desert. General Doniphan and Colonel P. St. George Cooke, who headed the Battalion, therefore offered to send the invalided volunteers and the women and children who belonged to the Battalion to Pueblo for the winter rather than have them attempt to reach the Coast. Pueblo was then the rallying point for many of the Saints, who were westward bound, and the offer of escort and assistance to Pueblo for the sick and the women and children was therefore accepted. Goodbyes were said at Santa Fe, the half-way mark in the Battalion's march to the sea. Those who were able trudged on toward San Diego, still more than a thousand miles away; the others wintered in Pueblo, one hundred and eighty miles from Santa Fe, in company with a group of converts from Mississippi. During the following year many of them made their way to Great Salt Lake Valley. Four Mormon wives made the entire journey, which has been described as unequalled in history for a march made by infantry.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Personality By Elsie C. Carroll
She is beautiful. She is brilliant. She is efficient. She is clever. She has a wonderful personality. Perhaps any of the above tributes would be music to a woman's ears. But to a great many, the last would be most highly prized. At a convention of the American Association of Psychologists, considerable attention was given to the subject of personality. Such questions were considered as: What is personality? Of what characteristics is it composed? What relation does it bear to mental hygiene, to social adjustments? How is it related to crime, to success, to happiness, and how can it be cultivated? A number of interesting papers were given reporting various studies in this complex field. One study of special significance aimed to determine what characteristics, or traits, make up a pleasing personality. Over a period of several years this study has been in progress at the Horace Mann school in Teachers' College at Columbia University. The professor who gave the report took the high school girls of this institution as a group for study. He chose them, because they were girls from well-to-do families, who had more than average opportunities for cultural contacts and training. In other words, they were girls who should have a lot of personality according to popular understanding. These girls were asked at different intervals during the period of the study to list the members of their group according to the best or most pleasing personalities. The teachers of these girls made similar lists. The girls and teachers also listed what they considered the particular traits which contributed to the pleasingness or charm of each girl's personality. Another part of the procedure was to obtain from each girl and each teacher a list of the names of five persons, other than relatives, most loved or liked, and a summary of the characteristics which drew forth that love. The psychologist found that the girls and their teachers listed forty-six personality traits, which fell into eight groups. According to the judgments of these persons, a girl has a pleasing personality if she has one or more of the following classes of traits: 1. If she is entertaining, that is, interesting, amusing, original, etc. 2. If she is brilliant, having competence, wit, a sense of humor. 3. If she has culture, under which were included talents, accomplishments, broad interests, etc. 4. If she is just, fair in her dealings with others, has good judgment, is idealistic, broad-minded. 5. If she is attractive, pretty, athletic, endowed with or accomplished in the social graces. 6. If she is a good-fellow, possessing naturalness, frankness, generosity, good-sportsmanship. 7. If she is a good neighbor, dependable, loyal, tolerant, unselfish. 8. If she is diplomatic, that is, tactful, adaptable, has a pleasing voice, etc. The traits which both the teachers and the girls listed first and most frequently were: "interesting conversationalists," "wide range of interests," "sincere," "adaptable," "dependable." This study, conducted in a more or less scientific manner, reveals what all of us from our own observation and experience already know. We all react just as these girls and these teachers did to persons having the traits they listed.
More vitally important than knowing what qualities make up a pleasing personality, is the problem of improving one's own personality. The first step in an effort to improve is the desire to do so. The next is an analysis of our own characteristics in order to determine our short-comings. The next step is to set up an ideal toward which to build. Every great achievement in the physical, the intellectual, or the spiritual world begins first as a dream, an ideal, a goal. Such studies as the one cited above help to give us a pattern. For instance, I may discover that I am not an interesting conversationalist. How can I help myself in this direction? I may read more, observe more carefully, meditate over what I have read or seen or experienced in order to have more things to talk about. I can practice telling my family and my friends what I have read, observed, or thought, trying to be as truthful and as graphic as possible.
A girl who went to live in a dormitory of one of the large universities of our country, realized that she could not compete with the others there in personal attractiveness, in dress, or in cultural background. She made up her mind, however, that she could become the most interesting conversationalist of the group, and set about to achieve that goal. She kept her senses alert. Instead of being satisfied, as most of us are, with seeing and hearing things in a blurred sort of way, she looked and listened until she saw and heard clearly, being able to make fine distinctions in colors, shapes, and sounds. When she went down town, or even across the campus, she was constantly on the lookout for something new, something unusual—and she always found it. It might be a humorous situation, or a tragic one, an odd or unusual character, a new tint in the sky at sunset, a spray of leaves or a flower. Whatever it was, she carried its impression vividly in her mind and shared it with her companions. It was not long until she found herself the most popular girl in the dormitory. The students and even the teachers, made it a point to be on hand wherever this girl was because she always had something interesting to talk about. As with this accomplishment, so with the others. We learn to do by doing, and we learn to be by being. We can become more attractive by consciously taking better care of our health, by giving more attention to our bodies and our clothing. We can cultivate good-fellowship by conscientious efforts to be natural and sincere under all circumstances, by practicing generosity. We can become better neighbors by seeking opportunities to develop loyalty, tolerance, unselfishness, and dependability. Gradually we may become more pleasing in personality by striving to do the things we admire in others and by trying to be the kind of person we like our friends to be.
The Attic By Agnes Just Reid
I cleaned up the attic this morning, That is, I moved things about; I wasted hours in deciding Which I had best throw out.
There are boxes and piles and bundles, Things that I never use, Yet, things my silly heart says I cannot burn or abuse.
I went with a resolution To burn everything in sight, And leave the room empty and tidy, Full of order and light.
I picked up a box for the furnace And something fell out at my feet, A bunch of letters from Mary When she was so young and so sweet.
I opened another box firmly And there lay some tiny shoes, Shoes that were worn by our first born, They almost gave me the blues.
And there was a baby's record I kept with such tender care For David during those precious years When every breath was a prayer.
Another one held some purses, Worn and useless you'd say, But each one came from a loved one, How could I throw them away?
And there was a box of wedding things, Dresses and slips and hose, Wrinkled and badly out of style But dear to me, goodness knows.
So I left them all in the attic Just as I found them there, Everything old and useless But not a thing I could spare.
[Various advertisements and organizational content follow, including business college information, funeral directors, paint companies, etc.]
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. XXV MAY, 1938 No. 5
CONTENTS [Table of contents with various articles and page numbers]
Relief Society Singing Mothers By President Louise Y. Robison KSL Radio Address, Sunday, April 3, 1938
The Relief Society Singing Mothers who so gloriously express praise to our Father in song, are sustained by the same power which Moses had when he sang "The Lord is my strength and my song." Surely the Lord has given strength and song to the nine hundred women who have come from their homes in ten of the Western States, and have blessed multitudes with their beautiful singing during the past four days. Were it not for the strength of the Lord which has sustained these mothers, they never could have accomplished what they have. Many have traveled long distances for rehearsals—some report as much as eighty miles twice a week. One singer who missed the group with whom she was to have traveled came to Salt Lake City by airplane. Tonight we wish to dedicate this program to the great group of Singing Mothers, to the Stake Officers of Relief Society for their support, to the Ward and Stake Choristers who have trained the voices so beautifully, that although practicing in wards located many hundreds of miles from each other, have developed a tone quality which is superb. To sing the seven new selections without copy added greatly to the enjoyment of the rendition. It is a very great pleasure to pay tribute to the families and friends who have cooperated in this stupendous undertaking. We especially appreciate the husbands and children for the sacrifice which is always made when mothers leave the home. Can you visualize the preparation which was necessary to leave three thousand five hundred children at home, and the joy which will come to these sons and daughters through the beautiful service given by their mothers? This service and all effort made pays because it has accomplished development, which is the supreme end of life. We remember, too, the friends who have assisted, one of whom said, "I cannot sing, but I shall be happy to make the blouses to be worn, and in this way help in bearing the expense of the trip." Relief Society Singing Mothers, Choristers, Husbands and Children, we salute you! You have made history for our Society! Nor would this tribute be complete without mentioning the enthusiastic, talented chief conductor, Charlotte O. Sackett, and the 292 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pianist, Alta Burton Cassity, who so. Efficiently supported Sister Sackett. Every member of the chorus will carry home a delightful memory of the contact made with Professor Frank Asper, who has been tireless in his effort to make each selection a success. Our earnest desire is that you will carry the high standard you have attained into your Wards, Stakes and Missions, ever remembering that your strength is in the nobility of your work, the worthiness of your purpose. These will give power of patience and assurance of victory. The people of the world need song, the kind that will bring peace and establish friendliness. The creation was not complete until there was music — it is necessary today. The following verse is from an author unknown to me: "When the earth was finished and fashioned well There was never a musical note to tell How glad God was, save the voice of the rain,. The sea and the wind o'er the lonely plain, And the rivers among the hills. And so God made the wondrous birds, For a choir of joy transcending words, That the world might know and understand That music and harmony can mend -the spirit's hurts and ills." There can be no higher mission than to bring peace and harmony into the world, then all hearts will join in the great chorus, "How Lovely are the Messengers." SINGING MOTHERS By Maud Frazer Jackson To all heroic souls high praise, All those who serve their brothers; But when the great you crown with bays Forget not Singing Mothers; The kind, the patient mothers Whose hours of toil are long; Who trust in God though dark the skies, Keep smiling in their children's eyes And sing a cheery song. No organ in cathedral vast, No trained and vested choir, When doubt my soul has overcast, Can faith anew inspire Like mother's tender singing That banished childhood's tears. ° Sweet echoes from the golden shore Sound in my heart forevermore, The Music of the Spheres. Unlettered in theology And isms, this, the other, Undoubted is God's Word by me— I had a singing mother; Who came through tribulations With heart still brave and strong; Who proved to me from day to day That help is given when we pray And Faith fills life with song. —Selected. Recollections of Rachel Ivins Grant By Lucy Grant Cannon THE knowledge of a well spent life is a priceless heritage. Such a life is our inheritance who are of the lineage of Rachel Ivins Grant. Hers was a life given to willing and loving service to her child, her Church, and her people. Through her unselfish service she developed a character which was as nearly perfect as one attains in mortality. She was indeed a true Latter-day Saint. The following is Grandmother's own account of her conversion to the Church, dictated shortly before her death, January 1909, when she was. Over eighty years old. MY parents died when I was quite young. My grandparents on both sides were Quakers, consequently I was brought up under that influence. But the silent worship of the 'Friends' did not satisfy the cravings of my soul. I longed to hear the beautiful hymns that my mother had taught to her little children even in our tender years, and the spirit often moved me to burst out in songs of praise, and it was with difficulty I could refrain from doing so. "At the age of sixteen years, with the consent of my relatives, I joined the Baptist church. The singing pleased me and the prayers were somewhat inspiring, but the sermons were not much more satisfactory than the none-at-all of the Quakers. I was religiously inclined but not of the long-faced variety. I thought religion ought to make people happier, and that was the kind of religion I was looking for. "About this time we heard of some strange preachers called 'Mormons' who had come to our neighborhood. I concluded they were some of the false prophets that the Bible speaks of and I had no desire to see or hear them. Soon after I left my home in New Jersey to visit relatives in Philadelphia, little thinking what would transpire in my absence. The elders held meetings near our home and soon after my sister Anna and some of my cousins accepted the truth and were baptized. She was filled with the spirit of the Gospel, and when I returned she urged me to attend the meetings with her. I went to the meeting on Saturday, but when she asked me to go on Sunday I did not know whether I ought to break the Sabbath day by going to hear them or not, but through her persuasion and that of a schoolmate, who had come some distance on purpose to hear them, I finally went, but upon returning home I went to my room, knelt down and asked the Lord to forgive me for thus breaking the Sabbath day. "T attended some more meetings and commenced reading the Book of Mormon, Voice of Warning and other works, and was soon convinced that they were true. A new light seemed to break in upon me, the scriptures were plainer to my mind, and the light of the everlasting Gospel began to illuminate my soul. While thus investigating, a little child died whose mother had joined the Latter-day Saints. The Baptist minister preached about it, regretting that its parents had neglected to have RACHEL IVINS GRANT RECOLLECTIONS OF RACHEL IVINS GRANT it baptized and thereby it was lost and could not have salvation. Afterwards Elder Hyde preached the funeral sermon and portrayed the glories of our Father's kingdom and the saved condition of the little innocent ones who died before they came to the years of accountability—'For of such is the kingdom of heaven.' "The contrast was very great. I was steadily being drawn to the Gospel net. One day while attending the Baptist prayer meeting our pastor admonished me for the course I was taking and said if I did not stop going to the 'Mormon' meetings I could not hold my seat in the Baptist church, and they would be obliged to disfellowship me for they could not fellowship anyone who would listen to such false doctrine. "This seemed to settle the question with me. One wanted to hold me against my convictions, and the other was free salvation without money and without price. I soon handed my name for baptism and rendered willing obedience to the first four requirements of the Gospel of Jesus Christ as revealed through the Prophet Joseph in this the last dispensation of the fullness of times. And, oh, what joy filled my being! I could sing all the day long and rejoice in the glorious promises of the Gospel. Brother Joseph and Brother Grant and others came and preached to us, and truly the light of the Gospel was shed abroad in our hearts. The Bible I could understand as never before—its truths were made plain to me, and the plan of salvation lay clear before me. The spirit of gathering found a ready response in my heart, and I decided to go with my cousins to Nauvoo, the gathering place of the Saints. "The first year of my stay was a very happy one. The Saints were enjoying comparative peace and much prosperity. I became better 295 acquainted with the Prophet Joseph and I learned more of the principles of the Gospel. The doctrine of salvation for the dead was very pleasing to me, and the thought that my parents and others who were dead, as well as the living, could all be united together in happy family union in the eternity to come was very precious to my soul. My second year in Nauvoo was not so peaceful. These were troublous times for the Saints, much persecution and turmoil. I was sick with a long siege of fever and my life was despaired of, still my faith did not waver. I felt that I should live. I was administered to many times, and always felt better. After my recovery I went back to New Jersey on a visit where I remained till the Spring of 1853. "I started on my journey across the plains to Utah, arriving August 10, 1853. I have accepted every principle of the Gospel that has been revealed for the benefit and salvation of the human family. I rejoice greatly in the work of redemption. I acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all things. I realize that He has watched over me and guided me through life. I feel to give thanks unto Him every day of my life for His mercies and blessings unto me and mine. I rejoice in the hope of a glorious reunion with the faithful in our Father's kingdom in the world to come. I know that this is the kingdom of God. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I have had great joy and satisfaction in communion with the Saints, and desire to remain faithful to the end." FARLY in her life Grandmother was deprived of both father and mother. After the death of her parents she lived for some time with her father's father, Caleb Ivins, a man of lovable character; known throughout the countryside as the "Good Samaritan.” 296 When about twelve years old she went to live with a cousin, Thedosia Wright, who was known the country round as a _ housekeeper without a peer. Cousin Thedosia arose with her army of workers early each morning. The housework was carried through each day with precision and regularity. Grandmother, although just a young girl, had her definite assignment of tasks. She helped with the bedroom work, and washed up the glass and silver-ware after each meal. Fruit drying, bottling, preserving, meat curing and drying, cheese making, butter making, and all the culinary arts were taught her. Her brothers and sisters who still lived with the grandfather sympathized with her because of the rigid discipline of her cousin Thedosia, and her Grandfather Ivins assured her she was welcome to come home to him any time she wanted. Although Grandmother was young and discipline strict, she enjoyed her work here. She loved to see the rows of shining glasses on the shelves in the dining room and to polish the silver until it shone. She took delight in helping with the milk and butter and cheese making. When she was about eighteen, a cousin, a widower, needed a housekeeper, so Grandmother went to fill the position. The careful training of Cousin Thedosia was now used to advantage. Grandmother became quite famous for her fine housekeeping and wonderful cooking. ER acceptance of the Gospel - changed her entire life. In the spring of 1853 her sister Anna, who was married to a cousin, Israel Ivins, and who had joined the Church prior to Grandmother's joining, wrote her saying they had decided to go West. Grandmother began immediately to prepare to go with them. She had a little more than a hundred dollars. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE This money she spent for bleach, calico, goods for both cotton and woolen dresses, thread, needles, bedding, pillow cases, sheets, and other: "store articles' which she thought she would not be able to get in Utah. (I might say here that she found great use for these, giving most of them away to people who were in greater need than herself. She often laughingly remarked that her store was so depleted that when she had to make clothes for her baby, it was necessary to make over things as she had given all of her new goods away.) Uncle Israel was well outfitted for the journey. Grandmother often remarked with what comfort they came compared to many in their company. One would think such a radical change in the environment and mode of living as was necessary after arriving in Utah would probably change all the niceties to which she had been accustomed, but this was not so. It was necessary for her to work very hard, but she maintained her high standards of neatness and personal care. SOME years after the death of her husband, Jedediah M. Grant, President Young bought the original Grant homestead located where Z. C. M. I. Now stands. Grandmother had $500 from the estate and purchased a home on Second East Street. This home is still standing; it is No. 14. Into this little old home, which was badly in need of repair, she moved. Her store of household goods was very meager. She had a few broken dishes, some old furniture and a few things that had been given her. However, it was a start. Grandmother had to support herself and her son, who was but nine days old at the time of his father's death. It was hard in pioneer days to pay in cash for work and she would take anything RECOLLECTIONS OF RACHEL IVINS GRANT people were able to pay. It was during the early days in this home that she experienced severe poverty. She said one year they only had a few pounds of sugar, seldom did they have butter. Fruit and vegetables were scarce, and many meals consisted of bread fried in a little grease. Many a night she and father had to go to bed to keep warm because they had no fire. One day one of her friends, Daniel H. Wells, called to see her. She was busily sewing. He said he had received a letter from a friend who was coming to Salt Lake to open a business. This friend wanted a place to board, and Brother Wells asked if she would take the gentleman. He said to her, "Rachel, he will pay you forty dollars a month and that is far more than you earn sewing."' Grandmother decided to take Mr. Park Wood, although it was rather an unorthodox thing to do as the man was a "Gentile." Mr. Park Wood came and brought his wife, paying Grandmother eighty dollars a month. I have often heard father say that no matter how big a sum of money he has had in his possession that first offer of eighty dollars a month stands out as the greatest riches. One day Park Wood had a friend in the city and asked Grandmother to invite him to dinner. After the dinner was over the man, Col. Alex G. Haws, said to Grandmother, "Madam, I like your cooking, I like your face, and I am coming here tomorrow to board." Grandmother protested. She had no place to put him. He said, '"Madam when I came into your home I saw the signs of poverty." | Grandmother told him that she had borrowed the dishes he had eaten from. He then asked where my father slept and grandmother showed him a closet in which she had some boxes upon which she made her boy's bed. He 297 laughed and said he thought the closet was large enough for a single bed and if he couldn't get into the bed from the side he would step over the foot. He gave Grandmother a hundred dollars and told her to get the necessary things to fix up the room for him. Col. Haws came to live with them and a truer friend no one ever had. UNTIL Grandmother was past sixty-five she maintained her own home, but due to her deafness father then decided it was unwise for her to live alone, so her home was enlarged and we came to live with her. Now instead of a whole house she had only one room and an attic. We children loved to go to her room, the younger ones to hear stories and have Grandmother sing to them, the older ones to study and read where it was quiet. Grandmother seemed to radiate a peaceful spirit. She had a little private income of her own, quite sufficient for her needs. In times of financial trouble she helped father with taxes and other bills. She was always very generous. Sometimes when we were in need of a dress or an apron or something or other Grandmother would help us out. I remember when I was about sixteen and was invited to a party. All the girls were having new dotted swiss dresses. I had spent all my allowance and so couldn't have a new dress. I was fixing my old one and telling Grandma about my troubles. She sent me down to get some samples of swiss and she went over to Sister Spencer's, a neighbor, while I was gone. When I came back, it was arranged that. Sister Spencer would make the dress for tithing pay and Grandma would purchase the goods. I remember I bought the cheapest piece I could because I knew Grandma was giving up something she needed in 298 order for me to have it. I didn't get any ribbon for it. After it was done, Grandma asked me if I didn't want some ribbon like the other girls had, and she gave me another dollar to purchase that. I wore that dress till every dot was washed off. OR more than thirty years Grandmother was the President of the 13th Ward Relief Society. In season and out she was visiting the sick, going to the house of mourning, dressing the dead, and in every possible way relieving human suffering. She was a very sympathetic listener to all troubled people, and while her own handicap of deafness often made people feel she was among the afflicted ones, she never seemed to feel sorry for herself. She would often say with her cheerful smile, "I am glad I can see; IJ feel blindness would be a great affliction." She loved to entertain her friends, and was always at her best when surrounded by congenial people. She had a happy faculty of making friends. When she entertained, she had the young, middle-aged, the old, all mingled together in sweet companionship. She read constantly. Her eyesight was remarkable. At the age of eighty-seven she could see as well as when she was a girl. She kept abreast of the times reading the newspaper, magazines, and good books. She had no time for fiction. She used to say life was too short for her to spend time on stories. She enjoyed the sermons in the Saturday News, and would watch for and read all the Conference proceedings. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Grandmother loved to sew, taking real pride in her needle work. It was indeed "art needle work". She made the finest linen handkerchiefs when she was in her eighties, using No. 250 thread to sew with. She did not look old, her skin retained its freshness. She was rather plump and had an erect carriage. One would have guessed her age several years younger than she was. Grandmother had a very satisfying philosophy of life. She believed in God with all her heart and in the innate goodness of man. She could see good in everything and everybody. She disliked anything bordering on coarseness. She had a high sense of honor and a fine feeling of sympathy for anyone in distress or sorrow. She was very liberal. Father has often quoted from a letter written to him by Colonel Haws after Grandmother's death in which the Colonel said, "If ever God has planted the stamp of serenity on the face of anyone He has planted it on the face of dear Aunt Rachel." HE testimony was always strong. She knew for herself that God had again spoken from the heavens and established His Church. Her Church was her life, and to it she gave her undying allegiance and her best efforts. Her heritage of faith has found lodgment in the heart of her son and in the hearts of her grandchildren and their hope is that they may have the sublime faith, the undying courage of this mother and grandmother. Dao * Sylvester Quayle Cannon By Julia A. F. Lund "By their fruits ye shall know them." T would be difficult to find a subject more thoroughly a "fruit" of our Church in its ideals and its standards, than is Sylvester Quayle Cannon. He was born on a farm just outside Salt Lake City at a time when the sturdy spirit of the Pioneers was still strongly reflected, for June 10, 1877 is not too far removed from July, 1847. His was the immense advantage of coming from parents who are in every sense "goodly parents." His mother, Elizabeth Hoaglund Cannon, was descended from those who laid the foundation of our American nation, achieved its independence, and established its government. His father 300 was George Quayle Cannon, one of the "pillars of our Church," gifted, scholarly, staunch of faith. Their influence was a powerful factor in the life of their son. His educational training began in a private school when he was only four years of age. He later attended the L. D. S. High School and Junior College and University of Utah. When only 18 he entered the Massachusetts Institute of Technology at Boston, being graduated in 1899 with the degree of Bachelor of Science in Mining Engineering and Metallurgy. As achild, Bishop Cannon enjoyed unusual advantages of travel. While still a boy he acted as private secretary to his father on a trip to England. The year of his graduation he was sent to examine an irrigation project in Alberta, Canada. This was followed by extensive travel in many foreign countries. He has visited every part of the United States. He has been given wide recognition in his chosen profession of Engineering. He had charge of Weber River Land and Irrigation Surveys for the State Engineer of Utah, from 1905 to 1907. He was Water Supply Engineer for Salt Lake City from 1913 to 1925— the longest term of any City Engineer of this city. He was in charge of all engineering and construction work, including supervision of all public improvements. Three storage reservoirs were constructed during this period. A new sewer outfall system and sewage pumping plant were built and the first special lighting systems were installed during his incumbency as City Engineer. A very important event in his life was his marriage to Winnifred Saville, June 15, 1904. Four fine sons and three lovely daughters have blessed this union. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Outstanding as Bishop Cannon has been in his professional and business fields, his greatest devotion has been evidenced in his service to the Church. His service as a missionary in Europe from 1899 to 1902 was of such high quality that in 1900 he was given the honor of presiding over the NetherlandsBelgium Mission comprising Holland and Belgium. In March, 1904, he was appointed First Counselor in the Stake Presidency of Pioneer Stake in Salt Lake City, a geographical division of the Church comprising about ten thousand members. In 1907 he was again appointed President of the Netherlands-Belgium Mission, spending two years (until 1909) with his family in that mission and traveling in Europe. In 1917 he was appointed President of the Stake in which he had served as counselor. His service to his Church received distinct recognition by his appointment in 1925 as Presiding Bishop of the Church. The Presiding Bishopric have supervision of about 96,700 members of the Aaronic Priesthood, are in charge of compilation of all ward, stake, mission and Priesthood reports, membership transfers, receiving of tithes, supervision of Church building construction, as well as many other details. This is a broad and fine preparation for the higher calling of apostleship which has now come to him. The General Presidency and Board of Relief Society work under the direction of the Presiding Bishopric. For many years this association has been very close, always on a basis of clear understanding and broad sympathy. The Relief Society feels greatly indebted to Bishop Cannon and the willing, capable advisers who have done so much to further the health and welfare projects and the general educational and cultural programs of the organization, Testament of Motherhood By Vesta P. Crawford ELAINE turned restlessly in the narrow bed. Pale sunlight of early morning touched the window with slow fingers. Elaine saw the delicate etching of the dotted-swiss curtains. Morning. The morning of this farewell day. With sharp returning pain she thought of the quiet one sleeping in the big parlor downstairs —her mother, who had been so ill and so tired—now strangely at rest. "I can't believe it yet," she sobbed to herself. "I can't stand it." This day they would cover the dear one with earth and flowers and set her name in stone. Slowly the light touched the room, glowed on the little dressing table that had been Elaine's in girlhood, traced a pattern on the rug that long ago childish feet had worn thin. Familiar place, where mother and daughter had sat together sewing of a summer afternoon, reading by the fire of a winter night. But now these things would never be again. They were ended. And Elaine thought of how carefree youth: is, and then, when maturity comes, one is suddenly stricken with disappointments and loss. There were words that slipped back and forth in her mind, words that her mother had said on some nearly forgotten birthday long ago. What were -they—about mother's head lying low and the daughter being a woman grown—or something like that. Mother had said these words with tenderness in her gray eyes, for mother knew that life without cares and responsibilities is but an incomplete and narrow segment. And the poem said, "When my girl is a woman grown and the cares of life surround her, may mother's prayers be known...." A woman grown... And here she was choked up with tears, afraid to get up and dress and go down the stairs and face this day. She was ashamed of her lack of courage. Courage. She thought of the word, for more than any other, it symbolized her mother's life. Courage. Elaine shook out the pillows and piled them up again, sank her head into the softness and turned toward the wall. "Mother darling," she sobbed with her eyes shut tight, "if only I were brave." It seemed then, in that quietness, that the days of her mother's life were like a path that only now, in newer vision, the daughter could see. "THE first was a day in summer. There was a deep canyon in the cedared hills and far up the slope against a wall of rock, a stream bubbled out and filled a little pond with clear water that trickled slowly down the ravine in a bed of moss and ferns. A boy, perhaps four, a chap with freckled face and mended overalls, bent over the pond, carefully dipping water into a bucket. Then the mother reached down and with her strong arms lifted up the bucket and poured the water into the barrel. She set the bucket back down and the boy dipped again. Then the mother turned to look at her other children. "Be careful, Elaine, don't drop the baby. You know it's quite a piece down that hill." Elaine looked up, sat further back on the rock, and braced her feet 302 into the ground. "I'm holding him plenty tight, and when I get tired T'll let Susan take a turn." Susan peeped out from behind a willow bush, her arms full of late blue flowers. "Look, Mama, what do you think Daddy will say when we get home with flowers?" She held them out and the mother gathered up a handful of wet moss and bound it around the stems. "Now they'll keep fresh until we get home." She turned back to the spring and again lifted the brimming bucket. The water splashed down with a delightful sound. "All hands busy," she called, and Susan and the boy pushed with her until they got the barrel to the edge of an inclined plank that connected the hillside with the wagon box. Then slowly up the plank they rolled the slippery barrel, the mother walking along on one side and the children on the other. The mother climbed into the wagon, turned the barrel upright again and pushed it back into the wagon box against the other full barrels. Her arms moved quickly, the smooth muscles straining. Finally she pulled the plank up into the wagon and fastened up the end gate. She untied the horses from a cedar tree and hitched them up, clipping the tugs expertly. She lifted the children up front and sat with Elaine and the baby, Susan and the boy, in the hard spring seat. Tightly she grasped the lines in her left hand and clung to the brake with her right, and they slid slowly down the steep road, listening to the water swishing about in the barrels. Finally the wagon rumbled out of the hills and down the road that skirted the fields. Yellow as sunlight was the wheat land with the grain tall and ripened. They could see a binder moving around the level patch with its wide bars moving like RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE wings. They could see where the pale stubble joined the gold of the proud uncut wheat heads. The binder stopped and a man stood up and waved his hand and the mother waved back again. She was beautiful, sitting there on the high spring seat with afternoon sun on her face and her brown hands holding the lines, driving toward a log house that almost hid itself among the cedars on a rocky knoll. "THERE was a winter night, years later, when they lived in town, and there was a blazing fire on the hearth. Elaine and Susan were head over heels in school work and the biggest boy lay sprawled out on the floor playing checkers with himself. The little boy, with a chubby finger pointing to the words, moved his lips slowly, delving into the mysteries of a primer. There was a baby asleep in the next room with the door wedged open a little so that the mother might hear any sound that came. One could tell the mother was tired, for occasionally she laid down her sewing and leaned back against the chair and closed her eyes. When the firelight fell in just the right place one could see that her hair was getting gray. Elaine turned from the table and saw the glow on her mother's hair. Suddenly she put her arms around her mother's neck and kissed her face. The girl, in her teens now, felt a deep and strange fear, for the mother was getting old and the gray hair of her temples lay soft and smooth above a network of fine wrinkles. "Is it my new apron you're making now, Mama?" Elaine asked, touching the fine white lace. "That's right. It will be a little differént from the one you have on." Elaine was dressed in a plain little dark wool frock made over from her - TESTAMENT OF MOTHERHOOD mother's last-winter dress, but the plainness of it was glorified by a white apron of finest dimity trimmed with lace insertions. The mother wanted the girls to look pretty and dainty and the aprons were inexpensive—except for time and the mother's eyesight. Elaine held the new apron up against her and touched it tenderly. "Thanks, Mama. Everyone thinks I have the prettiest clothes." Then she looked down at her mother's rough red hands and wondered how they could make a thing so fine and lovely as a white apron adorned with lace. What a quiet courage mother has, Elaine thought, what loving hands. A a HERE came a day in June, fragrant with roses and soft with leaves and wind. It was graduation day. The college building, old, trimmed with ivy, had opened wide doors for the day. The mother, in a crowd of other mothers, made her way up the unfamiliar stairs. She looked timidly into the deserted classrooms as she passed and wondered how Elaine had spent the precious hours in these rooms. The mother wished, deep in her heart, that she might have gone to college and learned more abcut poetry and music and painting, and even science, perhaps. The world, she thought, must be very wide, and she had seen only a little niche of it. A niche bounded by home, husband, children. But the mother was proud of Elaine and she forgot that her own suit was old and mended and that her hat was two seasons out of date, her shoes polished and repolished many times. She forgot these things because Elaine had a new dress of finest organdy, hemstitched in rows of narrow tucks, and Elaine had silk stockings, webby fine, and white slip- 303 pers—lovely clothes to go with her black college robe. The mother hurried into the assembly hall and down the aisle. She found a seat near the front where she could see Elaine. There the girl sat in the center of the big stage, her gold-colored hair beautifully coiled under the black cap, her dress gleaming white where the folds of the robe fell away. After the band music and after the singing, the mother heard a clear young voice speaking, breaking the silence of a June morning. Elaine was valedictorian. "We face the future,'' the young voice said, "but we cannot forget that our tomorrow is based upon the yesterdays in which our parents worked and sacrificed to open for us a larger world. I stand here today because they, my father and mother, struggled bravely that my life might be made broad... Because of their courage I am here today..." Tears slowly dropped on the mother's pale cheeks, but she held her head high. HERE came a night deep in November with rain and wind and darkness outside. Elaine lay upon a high hard bed in a clean white room. Dimly she heard voices, footsteps. Dimly she saw white figures passing back and forth. But there was a wall of pain between her and reality. Again and again sharp stabs convulsed her muscles, shot through her body with insistent terror. Tears brimmed her eyes and she cried out, "Mother... Mother..." Then soft lips touched her forehead. Unbelievably cool hands caught her own fevered ones and held them still. Elaine closed her eyes and rested a moment, then straightened her 304 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE body to bear the next onslaught of pain. So this is what it was like, this frenzied darkness, this black despair. There came again the comforting touch of the cool hands. Elaine relaxed and thought for a moment of the gleaming chain that is motherhood through the ages. One mother comforting her daughter, who, in turn, was bringing another life into the world. Tightly the mother held Elaine's hands. 'Patience, dear. When you see your baby you will forget all this..." Such comfort in the words. Interval of peace. There, with her mother bending over her, it seemed to Elaine that courage came from her mother's body to hers so that she could endure the pain. "THE days of her mother's life, linked with her own. Now it was a morning in spring, and the last of these days was gone. Never again would Elaine call and be answered faithfully as mothers answer. The silver cord was broken. She turned restlessly in the narrow bed in this room of her girlhood, and the morning came in a pattern of flecked sunlight that made a radiance in the room. Elaine got out of bed slowly, went over to the washstand and splashed cold water on her face. She dressed carefully in a plain black frock with white collar and cuffs, and stood a moment before the mirror. Last night she had laid her little pocket Bible on the dressing table, the Bible her mother had given her long ago. She turned the pages now, noticed the passages that her mother had underlined... Fragments of beauty from the Psalms, paragraphs in the story of Ruth. And then, there in the nineteenth chapter of Job, the immortal words, scored with the mother's pen... "For I know that my Redeemer liveth... Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold..." Elaine closed the book softly, laid it back on the dressing table. She lifted her head and turned toward the door. "I can go down now," she said to herself, "this day shall be a testament of motherhood." MOTHER'S DAY By Ruth Partridge Richan Today should be a happy day, No mother e'er loved tears or sighs, Yet days of happiness may bring Wet dimness to our yearning eyes. The tears that come unbidden now Are not the tears of our despair, But love within us grown so dear It's hard for human hearts to bear. Some Thoughts Addressed to the Mothers of Israel By Leah D. Widtsoe HE presiding authority of this Church feels the pressing need of a more definite stand in helping our people to understand why they must refrain from the debilitating and demoralizing liquor and tobacco habits. They have addressed their plea to all Church members; but there is a distinct responsibility i in this regard resting upon the mothers and the homes of the Church. It has been said of old that "the hand that rocks the cradle rules the world." No truer thought was ever expressed. The mother's influence and the home environment truly shape the habits as well as the characters of all the family. Our greatest efforts should be directed toward the prevention of these vicious habits and to do that effectively everyone must be made aware of the dangers involved and how they may be avoided. In the first place, the body must be adequately nourished so that the nerves may be healthy and normal. When through improper nourishment the nerves cry out with an unsatisfied craving for something indefinite or unknown, it is an easy leap to the use of the tempting, well advertised drugs so commonly used today. And even though the first trial may cause nausea or definite illness the urge of common usage may be enough to prompt repeated trials with the consequent soothing sensation which is the only positive factor the addict can advance. Then, almost before one is aware, the habit is established and one is on the road to complete drug enslavement. 'This applies especially to young girls and women who in their unwise desire for the slab-like silhouette in vogue at present will often starve themselves, if necessary, so that they may preserve (as they hope!) their youthful girlish figures. They then become an easy prey for the deadly drugs masked in well advertised brands of cigarettes or cocktails which soothe for the moment, but wh. Ch in reality enslave their victims. Too often definite illness may result with a complete nervous or physical breakdown. This may come gradually, but unless the eating and other habits are changed it is inevitable. THE physical health of an individual as of a family or a community is basic for mental and moral health. Whatever builds health of body is desirable; that which depletes the physical or nervous energy should be shunned by all who would be well and joyous throughout life's journey. Thus it becomes most imperative that mothers study and apply the laws which insure physical health and well being. The proper food must be provided and wise eating habits established. In the second place, all must recognize that the drugs most commonly used by man today are all in the same category. Dr. George F. Butler of the medical department of the University of Illinois is authority for the statement that "the intimate relationship existing between the three great narcotic groups—tobacco, alcohol and opium—has been recognized by outstanding medical investigators. 306 Their effects are so similar that they may be regarded as a single entity— the drug habit." Harmful in a lesser degree, though certainly habit-forming and injurious, are the drugs found in tea, coffee, chocolate and all the advertised drinks that "give you a lift." The "drink that refreshes" as all others of like quality depends upon the powerful drug caffein to do the "'lifting" and "'refreshing.'" Their effects are insidious and distinctly injurious to the delicate organs of digestion and especially to the brain and nerves. The great danger in the use of any drug-containing substance is that the one of ten leads to the other with an increasingly larger dose ever in demand. While it may not be true that every user of tobacco or alcohol will in time become an opium addict, it is true that one scarcely ever becomes enslaved to the deadly opium or morphine habit who was not first. A user of tobacco or alcohol or both. Certain it is that when one begins the use of any drug concoction no matter how mild or what the motive, one is "on the way" to future enslavement. The pity of it is that the more delicate the nervous organization, the more definite and rapid is the enslavement. That is the great menace to the use of any of these things by children or young women. All authorities agree that smoking and drinking are much more harmful to women than to men because women are much more apt to go to excess. If the lot of any drug addict is pitiable for men, it is most pitiable for women for they are the conservers of the race; through them the "Torch of Life" is passed on to future generations! If the torch be dim and uncertain then one may well ask "What does the future hold for the race?" If not for self, then for unborn children, girls and boys should refuse to mortgage the future. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MANY people feel that while it is definitely wrong to use alcohol or opium, there is practically little danger in the use of tobacco. It is true that smoking tobacco does not leave one intoxicated nor definitely incompetent as does the use of alcohol and other drugs. It is also true that many men who are recognized leaders in their field are users of tobacco. Yet the harmful effects of tobacco are inevitable and definite. All physiologists agree that the use of tobacco interferes definitely with heart action and induces a "constriction of the small blood vessels in certain parts of the body." Heart disease today is increasing enormously and counts among its victims young and old. Indeed it causes more deaths among civilized people today than any other disease. Its incidence has greatly increased since the World War. May there not be a definite connection between the increasing incidence of heart disease and the great increase in the use of tobacco? While there are other causes, certainly the use of tobacco greatly aggravates the disease. The great increase of gastric ulcer among civilized people is another evidence that their living habits are not right. The cause undoubtedly is wrong diet, yet this condition also is greatly aggravated by the use of tobacco. "Every smoker knows that smoking dries up the secretions of the mouth and many of them know that it causes high acidity of the stomach." There are conscientious doctors who refuse to treat patients with gastric ulcer unless they discontinue smoking. The same may be said about other diseases, notably all the diseases of the respiratory tract and the entire digestive system. While the cause of these diseases may be wrong or THOUGHTS ADDRESSED TO MOTHERS OF ISRAEL 307 inadequate nutrition yet they are all greatly aggravated by the use of tobacco in any form as well as by other deadly drugs. Probably the greatest menace of the tobacco and other drug habits are the effect upon the reproductive powers of men and women and eventually upon the human race. Doctors are agreed that smoking not only affects the intimate sex life of men and women, but that it also has a "profound and deleterious effect upon all of their other sexual and reproductive functions." Surely the cigarette must stand condemned!
Alcohol, or its use in any form as punch, wine, or the social cocktail, is equally dangerous and may lead to far more human misery. While tobacco is a nerve poison affecting especially those which control the terminal blood vessels, alcohol is an active glandular and tissue poison, causing their destruction or conversion into fatty tissue. It is especially liable to affect the heart, liver, and other organs of the body; but its deadliest effect is on the brain where it "acts in such a way as to block nervous impulses not merely in outer nerve channels but in the brain itself." The most direct effect is upon the higher brain centers, leaving the lower impulses in the ascendancy; thus intoxication results and one becomes something less than a human being. This is sure to cause much physical suffering in time and to greatly shorten life. That this is a calm statement of fact, instead of the plea of a would-be reformer, one need only accept the findings of the great insurance companies of this and other countries. They all agree that the death rate among the strictly temperate or moderate drinkers is 15 per cent to 100 per cent higher than among those who are total abstainers. These are facts, not mere theories. Indeed there seems to be a direct relation between the amount of alcohol consumed and the bodily harm that results therefrom. Were the harm that comes to the user of alcohol in any form the only consideration it would be enough to make one pause before taking a first sip of the deadly stuff. But that is too often the least part of the misery that may be caused by its indulgence. It always inflicts unnecessary suffering upon all the family and dear ones of the user and too often the torture or even death of innocent strangers when he sits behind the wheel of an automobile.
No one may deny that the use of alcohol and tobacco, as of other deadly drugs is greatly on the increase amongst so-called civilized peoples. Dr. Frank Leighton Wood sounds a needed warning: "What is to be the outcome of the narcotic drug addiction in this country? Must we forget the lessons taught us by the Greeks and Romans? Although we have advanced marvelously in science and mechanics, in many respects we are not more cultured than were the Romans in the year A. D. 300. They had advanced to a high state of civilization, but, with wine and debauchery, came physical, moral, social, and political ruin. Perhaps our civilization has not already gone to pieces to the extent that Hendrik Van Loon thinks, but, unless something is done to stop the present trend toward the enslavement of American women with race-destroying drug habits, we are on our way and will follow in the footsteps of the founders of former civilizations."
In this fight for right the mothers of this Church must take a stand. Did not the Lord intend that his people should be leaders in this regard when He gave us the Word of Wisdom over one hundred years ago? Then, what are we doing about it, Mothers of Israel? Our duty shall not be done until we ourselves learn and then teach our children the harm and suffering caused by these destructive agencies and how to avoid them. Our greatest efforts must be placed on the prevention of these habits amongst our dear ones. Our homes must be free from taint and we must learn to control our appetites if we expect our children to resist these insidious temptations when they leave the parental roof. The mother who indulges her own appetite for tea and coffee; who serves her brandy pudding sauce, "doctored" punch, or holiday egg-nog; who makes fermented root beers or wines; or permits the use of hard cider in the home must not be surprised when her son or daughter yields to the Tempter outside the home, especially when met at the social or party and surrounded by pleading or scoffing friends (?) who may ridicule their refusal. Nothing but a firm background of faith in a Higher Power, a sure knowledge of the consequences, with a mental picture of Mother and Father standing consistently firm against these practices, will give your child the strength to say "No!" on this all too common occasion. Shall we not dedicate ourselves to live every day as Mothers and providers of the home-morale so that we and our children may not be victims of any enslaving habit, that thereby we may help our children and others to understand the Joy of Being Free!
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The Apple Orchard By Grace Candland Jacobsen
Did you ever see an apple orchard In full bloom, When each bough is bending low, With its wealth of drifted snow, And an orchestra of bees Fills the air with symphonies?
Have you ever stood beneath that heavenly bower Of sweet perfume, Folding you within its subtle sway, While the sunbeams there at play, Add their glory to the day?
Have you ever walked adown the orchard path When the wind In saucy wanton mischief strayed, And watched that billowing cascade, Of pink and white brocade?
If you have not, then you cannot Know the beauty hidden there, For the earth holds naught so lovely As a blossomed orchard fair.
Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
CHAPTER TWO
The ward had all been visited and I felt that a good foundation had been laid for our winter's work. We had seen every woman in her own home. This had given us a workable grasp of her problems and her needs. We were having an officer's meeting to see that everything was in readiness for the opening of the season's work. Toward the close of the meeting when I asked if there were any other problems to be brought before the meeting, Mrs. Stimmel, our Literary class leader, rose and in a "do-or-die" tone said:
"Frankly, I am worried over my lessons. I heard Bessie Dye and a group of her friends talking and they expressed themselves as opposed to the Literary lessons—and the Social Service too. They doubted if they would attend."
"Why did they take that attitude?"
"Bessie said if there was any good reason for reading the books outlined she would stay home and read them instead of wasting time listening to some one else tell them. They all agreed that literature had no place in their lives."
"We have always had a larger attendance at Theology and Work and Business meetings." Mrs. Blomquist had charge of the work meetings and she was justly proud of the attendance.
"You feed them," Mary Grosbeck said, "that does the trick."
They all laughed, then looked to me. I was slow to speak for I had noticed this condition last year and now that I was in a position that gave me authority I was determined to break it up.
Mrs. Horne, the Social Service leader spoke. "I had that trouble last year. Ridiculous as it may seem much of the lesson material is over the heads of some of the group."
"That is true," Mrs. Blomquist nodded in agreement, "but there is nothing can be done about it. If the lessons were put to their level they would bore the others."
Sometimes Rhoda Blomquist irritates me. She had been in the former presidency and had acquired the attitude that certain conditions could not be remedied and it was best not to stir up something we couldn't handle. She opposed all changes on general principles. But she was most excellent in her work, and a balance for Mary and me. In choosing workers I had tried to have all groups in the ward represented. Only through them, it seemed to me, could we really reach all of the women, and such varied experiences and opinions would tend to keep us from becoming smug and rut-satisfied.
"Once," I began, praying for tact, "I was in a teacher-training class, that resembled a lesson in Greek to most of us. The attendance dropped to almost nothing. Then the teacher was changed and in two lessons we were a different class. He attacked each new problem from a familiar standpoint and from there led us into the realm of the unfamiliar."
"I get your point," Mrs. Horne said, "but where in literature or social service can one find familiar ground from which to start?"
"Literature is life and social service problems are so thick about us we do not recognize them as such. Both are bound inextricably to theology—and to me no lesson is a lesson unless each woman gets something to carry away and use in her daily life. There is another reason why work meeting is more popular. Who takes part?"
"Why—why everyone."
"Exactly. And I have noticed if the women come to Work and Business meeting and there isn't anything for them to do the attendance drops the next time. We are all interested in that in which we have a part. Moreover, I think our organization has a more far-reaching responsibility than merely giving book reviews. They may go any number of places and hear them. To us lessons are a means to an end, and that end is the development of our women. My vision includes every mother in Zion growing with the group and only when all are advancing can an organization be said to be growing."
"And," Mary added, "we chose you two for class leaders because we thought you could do the work."
Happily they caught the viewpoint and after some discussion we were dismissed.
Going home I wondered if I had said too much. "I chose you because you have vision and courage," the words came back to me. That did not mean rationalizing nor following the line of least resistance. If that were true then my organization must include women from all classes and each must find food for her soul.
I stopped in the Emporium to do some shopping and just inside the door ran into Mrs. Holman and Jeanie.
"Oh, Mrs. Maylord," the girl cried, her eyes shining with happiness, "Grandma says we can take the piano home if I will keep the front room clean and don't let anyone scratch it."
"Do you think you can do that, Jeanie?"
"I'll help her," the mother said, "it would be easier if we had that back room fixed so we could sleep in it."
"Then you may come for your lesson next Thursday. Be there at four."
How much better that neither suspected I had influenced the grandmother's decision. It was going to be very hard to give time to the child but I could not have done otherwise. One never knows what little things might lead to.
In the drygoods department I came suddenly upon Salle Richards. She stood against a counter talking to Don Grow. Everywhere I turned lately I faced this boy and his equally intrusive mother. What could I do to keep Salle away from them?
"Too bad she has to run with him. It is all his mother's doings. She is crazy about Salle."
Startled, I turned. Nedra Williams stood beside me, her glance turned to the couple, her lips curled with bitterness.
"What do you mean?"
"Oh, you know what I mean. You were looking at them and not with approval. Don and I were to have been married and I know he still loves me but Salle butted in and now he is crazy about her. He thinks it is a feather in his cap to go with a girl like her."
Muttering some excuse I moved away. She had told the truth but it made me uncomfortable. Under pretense of examining linens I watched. Nedra joined them but Salle handled the situation with poise and assurance. I caught snatches of their conversation and was surprised at Salle's wit.
"May I do something for you?"
I forgot her then in the problem of purchasing; but fifteen minutes later when I again passed that way they were still talking. Don lounged near Salle, possessiveness crying aloud from his every move. Nedra was still with them and doing a very good job of taking it on the chin. I started toward them and as I did so Kent Evans came through the swinging door and walked toward them. Instantly Salle turned rigid and when he stopped to speak to them I could have cried aloud in dismay. The girl's poise and grace slipped from her like an unfastened gown. She flushed and stammered and made no move to introduce the two men. But Nedra did and when Kent left the group she went with him. As I passed, Salle looked up and our glances met. I had forgotten my own eyes were full of tears but in hers I saw such stark misery and self-depreciation I hurried away; but even in that instant of seeing that I was watching her she turned defiant.
I was nearly to Maylord's grocery when I heard a quick step beside me and a hand touched my arm. Startled, I whirled about. It was Salle.
"Oh, you nearly frightened me."
She did not answer immediately but walked with her head high, her eyes turned ahead. When she did speak the question seemed jerked unwillingly from her lips.
"What is the matter with me?"
I glanced swiftly over her shoes, her dress and finally her face. She was in deadly earnest. This was no angling for consolation. She must have stark truth.
"Your hair would be beautiful if it were better cared for. Your dress should be a little shorter and should have been cleaned instead of washed—and it could be better pressed. Your chin goes down instead of up and there is a whine in your face."
My frankness took her breath. She flung her head in sudden anger.
"Hold it," I cried, "you are positively beautiful now. Not your anger but your attitude, your self-forgetfulness. Keep your eyes that way, alive and shining."
Her anger passed and she drooped again. Tears threatened.
"Why am I not like other girls? You saw how flustered and idiotic I acted when Kent came up. That was the first time I have seen him since his return."
The way her tone caressed his name told me volumes. She had so hoped to register a good impression. No wonder she was heartsick.
I asked, "You like Kent, don't you?"
She nodded numbly. "I—I always have. We ran around together a lot when we were younger. But lately I can't be myself when he is around. He doesn't really see me at all."
We had reached the store and I turned to go inside. She followed. The first thing I noticed was that the office door was open and Tim was showing Mrs. Grow back into the store. He was laughing at something she had said and I had not seen such a carefree look on his face for a long time. Something primitive and terrible rose within me. Why did she come so often to his store and what attraction was there about her? She was a rather large, raw-boned woman, with a very bright eye and ready tongue, and she dressed to attract attention, I thought. What could Timothy have in common with her? As they came toward the front of the store my fighting spirit rose. I stepped into their line of vision.
"Hello," I greeted them gaily. Both looked suddenly at me. Was Tim startled or pleased? I couldn't tell. He smiled and turned to a customer.
"Oh, hello," Mrs. Grow answered and her glance shifted to Salle. "There you are, Dearie. I was wishing for some one to walk home with me."
She wasn't going to do it that easy. "I should say not," I said crisply. "Salle is going home with me."
A light that was gone before I could identify it flicked through Mrs. Grow's eyes. Her tone changed.
"Then come over this evening, Dearie. Don and I will both be looking for you."
"Okay," Salle answered.
I helped myself to what I wanted and made a slip for it. There was nothing unusual about that but for some reason I felt slighted. That made me act all the merrier.
Salle left with me. "Why did you tell her that?" she demanded suspiciously when we were on the sidewalk.
"Tell her what? Oh, that you were going home with me? You are, aren't you? I want you to stay for dinner."
The girl's keen eyes searched for a hidden reason. "You don't like Mrs. Grow, do you?"
That shocked me. If my feelings were so obvious I must take care. I evaded. "Do you?"
"Yes," the girl cried fiercely. "I love her. She is one of the nicest women I know. I know what people say of her but there is no truth in it. Your husband knows that. I am glad he is so courteous to her. Of course she has her own standards about some things."
Now what did she mean by that? I could not trust myself to ask. Luckily we reached my home and there on the steps sat little Jeanie Holman. She rose as we approached.
"My, you are a long time coming. I have been here most an hour."
"Come in with us." I opened the door and my own children smothered me with embraces. It was some minutes before I remembered Jeanie. "What did you want, Jean?" I asked then.
"Mom wants you to come. Daddy took all the money and left. He talked mean to her."
My eyes turned involuntarily to Mrs. Jenkins who had been caring for my children. She shook her head, "I'm sorry but I must go."
"I'll stay," Salle offered abruptly.
"But,"—
"Go along. The children will stay with me. Won't you, Denise?"
Denise turned her appraising eyes upon the older girl. After a moment she said, "I like you."
I sighed with relief. Denise did not take up readily with people. That said something for Salle.
Two hours later I came wearily up my steps again. I was tired and so discouraged. Mrs. Holman feared her husband had left her for good and woman-like wanted him back. The only thing I could do was listen to the depressing, heart-breaking story. It would take a wiser person than I to adjust matters between them. Order and regularity were almost a ritual with me so I could sympathize with the husband. And here was my own tired husband who would have to wait for his dinner. A glance at the living room showed me he hadn't come yet. I went to the dining room. There little Tim was laboriously placing silverware, being directed by Denise.
"I'm helping," he cried.
I kissed them hurriedly and with a sigh of relief turned to the kitchen.
"Um-m-m, it smells good in here."
Salle enveloped in one of my aprons was whipping cream. Perched beside her and listening wide-eyed was baby Rob. She looked up as I spoke and paused.
"You are back?"
"Yes," and I thought, "and worried needlessly over a late dinner. It smells so good."
"I thought perhaps you would be late so I went ahead. I hope you don't mind."
"Mind! You saved my happy home."
The dinner tasted as good as it looked and smelled. In the dining room, before Timothy, Salle was again awkward and constrained. I was more determined than ever to do something for this girl who was so capable and yet so incapable. "She is overconscious of a social situation," I told myself, "and the remedy for that is familiarity."
Before we were through eating the doorbell rang. Timothy went to answer it. We heard him say, "Hello, Kent. By George, I had forgotten we were to fix those teacher's lists. Come in until I finish my dinner."
Fate. It could be nothing else that would send Kent Evans here tonight of all nights. I decided to take time by the forelock or whatever it is he is grasped by. When dinner was over and I saw an opportunity I said, "What luck you came, Kent. I thought I would have to loan my husband to Salle but now you are here you may see her home and I will keep my tired Tim."
"Splendid." Kent laughed, I thought, a little eagerly. "There is a new moon outside. Just the night for a stroll."
Later I remembered that Salle's face had darkened but at the time I took no notice of it. When I returned from putting the children to bed she was gone. In the kitchen was a note. "I don't need someone to make dates for me."
There was nothing to do but tell Kent. He laughed it off, but I noticed his eyes snapped. I laughed with him. It was the only thing I could do but it taught me a lesson. Next time I would not be quite so obvious. Such things to be genuine must, like a flower, unfold slowly and naturally. Anyway it took my mind away from the thing Salle had said about my Tim.
(To be continued)
My Creed By Sarah Maria Davis Thatcher (April 5, 1877)
One by one thy duties wait thee, Let thy whole strength go to each: Let no future dreams elate thee, Learn thou first what these can teach.
Every hour that fleets so slowly, Has its task to do or bear, Luminous the crown and holy, If thou set each gem with care.
Do not linger with regretting, Or for passing hours despond; Nor thy daily toil forgetting Look too eagerly beyond.
Spring Messengers By Ella J. Coulam
When zephyr breezes stir the new green dress Of willow trees that wave in Maytime glee, And lilacs sway in orchid loveliness, I catch my breath in glorious ecstasy— For these are silent messengers that bring A promise of sweet summer after spring.
Women and Tithe Paying By Donna D. Sorensen
Much has been spoken and written of the power and influence of women in promoting a cause. Probably not many women have realized how potent can be their influence upon the family in the payment of tithes. Generally men are the providers and as such they desire to make available to their families the best within their power to supply, and the present day budgeting of the income is largely left to the women. Because tithing involves the finances of the family and women usually spend the greater proportion of the family income, a wife and mother fully converted to the law of tithing usually means a household where this obligation is met.
A few years ago when a young couple were married the husband expressed to the wife his earnest desire to pay his tithing. As time went on and added responsibility came, the wages of the couple never seemed to more than meet their expenses and the law of tithing was not kept. The plea of the wife was that the income was insufficient. Dissatisfaction entered the heart of the husband, and the wife was not happy over her attitude either as she had been taught differently. However, she was not sufficiently converted to the principle to catch the vision and to change her attitude. Had each had the same desire in this matter, love and peace would have thrived in their midst instead of loss of respect, bickerings and general dissatisfaction. Surely no woman can purchase anything that would give the inner satisfaction and the promise of blessings from our Father as much as in making the income provide for the payment of tithing.
Even though the Prophet Joseph Smith charged the women of Relief Society with the instruction "to provoke the brethren to good works," a woman's influence in the home extends further than aiding and abetting her husband to obey this principle. It is her responsibility in part as parent to remember that the Lord has given specific instruction in this day that it is the duty of parents to teach their children to "walk uprightly before the Lord." He says further that "I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth," for, says He, "I, the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness; they also seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness. These things ought not to be, and must be done away from among them."—(Doctrine and Covenants 69:31-32.)
The late Apostle James E. Talmage has said that "The prime or great purpose behind the establishment of the law of the tithe is the development of the soul of the tithepayer," and "Tithing is the Lord's order of revenue, and He requires it of the people, not because He is lacking in gold and silver, but because they need to pay it." Greediness is not engendered but rather unselfishness is taught the child when the mother teaches that child to take the tithe from his allowance or his small earnings and present in person such a tithe to his bishop.
Psychologists tell us that the way to establish a habit is to give the child practice in the habit and to make it extremely satisfying. With this knowledge in mind then the more often the mother can give the child practice in the payment of his tithing and the more ways she can devise to make such a practice satisfying means added assurance that the habit will become a fixed one. Certainly the praise of the mother and various family members, the keeping of the individual receipts of tithing paid by the child and reference to them at the end of the year and various other devices will make this a most satisfying experience to the child.
Women are usually the guardians of details in the home and the zealous pursuance of suggestions in the matter of meeting this law of tithing will yield rich dividends. What gratitude would a child taught such a principle have when that child is grown and that habit has been established to find that he has learned not only obedience to a commandment of God but has been blessed by the Lord to the extent that the Lord has opened the windows of heaven and poured him out a blessing even as He promised one of His prophets He would.
Children may be taught the law of tithing in the Church auxiliaries but all such teaching cannot equal the example of the parents in the home in this matter. Here a child may gain a comprehension of his obligation to our Father. Here he may learn that the Lord is no respecter of persons and what He requires of the greatest He requires of the least.
The responsibility of the mothers to teach their children this law is greater when we realize that not only was this a law which was known anciently but that it has been re-enacted in the Church in this dispensation of restoration and fulness. Women might well examine with what attitude they meet this obligation, for often the attitude of the entire family is the attitude of the mother. There are those whose attitude is one of mere acceptance toward a duty. Some may go a step further and express a willingness to comply, but blessed indeed is the household where the mother regards the payment of tithing with eagerness and happiness of spirit that the Lord has given to the faithful this means of promoting His work on the earth and meriting untold blessings.
In obeying the will of our Father in regard to this law many women can testify that there has come to members of their household renewed eagerness and willingness to conform to the word and will of the Lord in other matters. It seems to be a law of life that the more perfectly we measure up and live a law of God the more we desire to measure up in other commandments. Especially is this true of the law of tithing, for as Apostle Rudger Clawson has said: "It is the test of every man's faith, and it is the test of every woman's faith who earns means and should be a tithepayer. That is the test, if a man is an honest tithepayer he will be pretty honest in everything else. I declare unto you, if a man pays tithing, he will pray, he will go to his quorum meetings, he will go to his sacrament meetings, and he will do a great many other things. I do not know that you could apply a greater or a stronger test."
This same idea too is in a statement by Brigham Young but treated conversely when he said, "If we neglect to pay our tithes and offerings we will neglect other things and this will grow upon us until the spirit of the Gospel is entirely gone from us, and we are in the dark, and know not whither we are going."
If women use their influence in promoting this law in their households they will have the privilege of having their families numbered with those who have the interests of this Church at heart inasmuch as they have contributed their proportion to the upbuilding of Zion and the maintenance of the work of the Lord on the earth. Satisfaction will flow into their inmost beings and there will be implanted within their souls "the peace that passeth understanding."
My Little Son By Afton Free Baird
Tenderly we gaze in rapture At the golden curls and star-lit eyes, And wonder if Heaven's gates had opened And we had looked inside, Would we have chosen so wisely?
Would we have chosen this babe From all the glorious unborn souls To fill our hearts with love and sunshine? Could we have known his smile and tiny hands Could lift us both from mortal sod, Close up to God?
The Children's Reading By Florence Ivins Hyde NO. V—THE "GROWN-UP" PERIOD
"Could we give one gift to every child We should choose the love of books."* —William Fredrick Bigelow.
More important than the training of the body or the education of the mind, is the development of character. This is not the place to debate ethical theories, but it is the place to call attention to the fact that character is developed by instilling in children sound views of conduct and by strengthening the proper motives.
With grown children we can't be too rigid about what they read. We can't hold the reins too tight, but we can read with them and poke fun with them at the extravagances of poor stories. Even well-brought-up boys are likely to get the lazy-minded series habit unless they have some antidote. If you and your daughter have read together enough that she stops, voluntarily in her reading to say, "Oh, mother, listen to this," if you have made her want to share the delights of a book with you, you have taken a long step. It is infinitely better that your training provide her with a capacity for the enjoyment of literature, than that the schools teach her a technical knowledge of a few pieces.
Occasionally, a parent's conscience prods him into saying, "What's that you're reading, a novel? I wish you would read something worth while." When the child says, "What, for example?" the parent stammers, "Oh, your history, or chemistry, or literature, anything worth while. Your grades aren't so good that you can waste time on stories." When you feel like that, think back upon what has been done with novels; the nation-wide effects of the novels of Dickens and George Eliot; the pleasures found in reading the stories of Arnold Bennett, Edna Ferber and Willa Cather. Be careful not to speak slightingly of novels lest you skip some of the best literature we have. Read with your children. Discuss books with them and so make reading a family interest and a family pleasure.
One of the best reasons for reading is for companionship! In books you often come across someone who understands you, who speaks your language and thinks your thoughts; who has troubles and solves them, temptations and overcomes them. They act as an anchor to you. Though they are not your special troubles, it is the struggle and the way it is carried through that counts. Take "Jane Eyre" for example. Read it again with this thought in mind. Jane Eyre was plain in physical appearance. Most heroines are beautiful, but the average girl is not, and so your daughter immediately finds a sympathetic soul. The story is wild and romantic, but through all the tempests Jane Eyre manages to keep steering straight ahead. Read "Mill on the Floss" again with your daughter for the loves and griefs, rebellions and questionings of one girlhood, and incidentally, for many of the emotions your own daughter has felt but hasn't known how to express.
Most people in their teens are helped more by fiction than by biography. Most adults are helped more by biography. In novels you can know what people are thinking, feeling, wishing. This you do not know of the people you meet. We may learn, vicariously, through people in books, if they are real people. And that is what life is—learning by experience. It is worth while for your son to live through the experiences of other people as we do in such books as "Kidnapped," "Moby Dick," or "The Man Who Did the Right Thing."
There is no cut and dried rule for the choice of books. They are supposed to prepare us for the life we will live. And who knows in this changing world, what it will be for our children, now in their teens. But one thing we do know. Truth is truth from one generation to another, and a good novel will always tell the truth. It may do this in many different ways. It may deal with yesterday, today, or tomorrow; it may deal with good people or bad, but it is good so long as it deals with them honestly.
In reading love stories—and young people should read them—let us select novels with intense but splendid emotions, which show that life may be full of splendor and romance. A few intense things such as "The Cloister and the Hearth," will take the taste out of the next worthless book.
The finest literature is the simplest, the most vivid and vital. When we have learned to appreciate exquisite simplicity, we will be a long way on the road to an appreciation of the best in literature. There is no disgrace in not being able to see the beauty and meaning in many fine things the first time we read them. One way to exercise a mind is to try it occasionally on something we don't quite understand, then come back to it later. As we develop these new beauties appear. One writer says: "For the high adventure of reading you must develop not only sight but insight, and that sometimes comes slowly, partly by growth, partly by cultivation, and partly by the grace of God."
QUOTATIONS
Happy is he that is happy in his children.—Thomas Fuller.
The childhood shows the man, as the morning shows the day.—Milton.
Impartially their talents scan: Real education forms the man.—John Gay.
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
Dearer are the lanes of Earth today, As the spirit of flowering May In perfumed glory adorns the way.
Countess Geraldine Apponyi, Queen of Albania, is the beautiful daughter of an American mother and Hungarian father. Through Mussolini's intercession the Catholic Church's opposition to her marriage to King Zog was overcome.
Rachel Crothers, a successful woman playwright, has a score of Broadway productions as well as many Hollywood films to her credit.
Former Empress Zita gathered her children around her at midnight mass to pray for Austria and the Hapsburgs. However futile were her prayers, this tragic picture made a pathetic appeal for world sympathy.
Betzy Kjelsberg, of Norway, vice president of the International Council of Women, is touring America, lecturing on social problems.
Young Elizabeth Steele Stapley who died last month was the first white child born in Utah. Death also claimed last month Elizabeth Pixton Harker, Eliza Ann Wertoner Redd, and Armeda Snow Young, all faithful and devoted Relief Society workers.
Helen Wills Moody again expects to compete in two English tennis tournaments and enter the Wimbledon championships.
Katharine Grey of California, aged 100 years, says she has no formula for longevity. She reads, sews, and crochets for pastime.
Among the new books, written by women and praised by the reviewers this year, are first, "Young Doctor Galahad," by Elizabeth Siefert, which won the $10,000 prize for the best first novel of the year; and "We Americans," by Elin L. Anderson, which won the $1,000 Armisfield prize. Then Isak Dinesen's "Out of Africa," a lyrical picture of an African farm; "Funny Kemble," a famous Juliet of the long ago, by Margaret Armstrong; "An Infamous Army," by Georgette Heyer; "Caroline of England," a novel of English social life from the early nineties to the death of George V, by Noel Streatfield; "The Light of Other Days," by Elizabeth Corbett; "This Proud Heart," by Pearl S. Buck, her first novel with an American setting; "A World Can End," by Princess Irina Skariatina, an autobiography embracing the period of the World War and Russian Revolution, all interesting vacation reading.
Mrs. Clarence Weber is the first woman member from the state of Victoria elected to the Australian Parliament.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - President AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - First Counselor KATE M. BARKER - - - - Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD
Jennie B. Knight Nettie D. Bradford Emma A. Empey Ida P. Beal Annie Wells Cannon Marcia K. Howells Lalene H. Hart Emeline Y. Nebeker Cora L. Bennion Janet M. Thompson Amy Whipple Evans Belle S. Spafford Rosannah C. Irvine Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Belle S. Spafford - - - - Editor Louise Y. Robison - - - - Manager Amy Brown Lyman - - - - Assistant Manager
Vol. XXV MAY, 1938 No. 5
Editorials
Merited Honor
For the purpose of honoring and uplifting motherhood the second Sunday in May is designated Mother's Day by national act. The observance of a national Mother's Day is to be commended. Prompting expressions of love and kindness this day has brought joy to mother hearts the nation over. Helping children, young and old, to a realization of their indebtedness and responsibility to "the best mother who ever lived" has expanded the joy and enlarged the characters of thousands.
People generally like to be honored but in motherhood as well as in any situation let us be honored because of genuine merit. There are as many degrees of excellence in motherhood as in any other thing in life. It is a great privilege to mother children whether they be ours by birth or circumstance. With mothering are born love, hope, pride, ambition, and many other glorious attributes of character. With privilege comes responsibility. In mothering, that responsibility is to intelligently rear our children, wisely guiding and directing them toward honorable living.
Intelligent mothering is certainly more than highly emotionalized mothering which showers love and adoration upon the child to the point of overindulgence; mothering which so sacrifices itself to the weakness of the child and justifies and upholds him when he errs; mothering which so sacrifices itself to the child that he never learns the meaning of cooperation and unselfishness. Intelligent mothering realizes that the child's future to a large extent is measured in the mother's ability to influence and direct wisely. It establishes in the home worthy ideals and standards; it teaches faith; it trains the child to conquer self; it teaches the gospel of work; it develops honesty and loyalty. It provides opportunity for the best development of the child physically, mentally, morally and spiritually. It constantly holds the child up to his best efforts.
The genuine mother reaches beyond her own, sensing her responsibility to all children. Wherever a child is found cold, hungry, in need of attention or care of any kind she renders loving and intelligent service. Mother's Day is a good day for taking stock, for reflection upon the ambitions we hold for our children and for all children, and also for consideration of the way in which we are performing our tasks as mothers. No greater honor can come to any woman than to rear a child to manhood or womanhood, reflecting her teachings in worth while and honorable living. No greater tribute does the mother ask.
Distinguished Visitors
The West has been distinctly honored in the recent visits of two distinguished women, Dr. Mary E. Woolley, and Mrs. Betzy Kjelsberg. Dr. Woolley, former president of Mt. Holyoke College and national Chairman of the People's Mandate to End War, made a strong plea for women to be active in the cause of peace. Hope for peace in the future she placed on the long range peace movement among youth "who are determined that theirs shall be a different kind of world." "Either we believe that we can build a more kind and logical world or we believe that life is but an idle dream," she declared.
Mrs. Kjelsberg, internationally prominent Norwegian social worker is Vice-President of the International Council of Women and President of the Norway Council of Women. Twice decorated by her King for service to Norway's workers she is making a tour of America to study labor and social problems. Like Dr. Woolley, she urges American women to bend every effort to keep out of war.
Both women have rendered unusual service to their native lands as well as exerting an international influence. Contact with women of such vision and influence brings an appreciation of the place women hold in the world today, and the service women are now rendering the world. It is a stimulant to all women to become active in furthering worthy causes such as peace, social reform, etc., which improve human relations.
Presiding Bishopric
The General Presidency and Board of Relief Society are privileged to have as their advisory council the Presiding Bishopric. During the administration of Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon, David A. Smith and John Wells, the relationship has been most pleasant and of inestimable value. The clear vision of these leaders with regard to Relief Society objectives and problems, their sympathetic understanding, has enabled them to counsel with wisdom. The Relief Society is indebted to these men for the service they have rendered in furthering its work.
The new Presiding Bishopric, Elders LeGrande Richards, Marvin O. Ashton and Joseph L. Wirthlin, bring to the position the wisdom and understanding of years of service in the Church. As Church workers they have had opportunity to understand and appreciate the work of Relief Society. That the same spirit of understanding and cooperation will continue to exist there can be no doubt. We extend to these brethren the best wishes of the Relief Society Organization.
Acknowledgment
The office has received many communications from different sources expressing appreciation and commendation for the contributions of the Singing Mothers to our recent Conference. We acknowledge these with gratitude, gratitude for the talented and well trained women, gratitude for the thoughtfulness which has prompted so many kindly expressions. The following is typical of the letters received: "I cannot refrain from letting you know how I appreciate the marvelous contribution of your Singing Mothers to the recent Conference. I have never seen a more beautiful sight or heard finer music, and to all I extend my congratulations." RESPONSE By Mabel L. Gleason You're giving me praise today For reasons I know not why; For love I've shown my children For whom I'd gladly die. Don't think I've minded the long hours I've tended, watched and prayed; These are golden links in my memory, The only ones I'd hoped to have stayed. The days I've watched o'er the cradle The little ones lying there; Don't thank me for care I've given, Care I'd not have been willing to share. Now they've grown tall—these babies of mine Grown to manhood,. Womanhood too; And I long for the old days And those lost little jobs to do. I ask no praise for my life's work, Their love is all that I need; Just knowing they're filling their niche in life Is honor and praise indeed. Relief Society Conference April 1 and 2, 1938 By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary THE Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held April 1 and 2, 1938, in Salt Lake City, Utah. President Louise Y. Robison presided. The following sessions were held: Officers' Meeting, Social Welfare Department, Work and Business Department, Relief Society Magazine Department, Secretaries' Department, Music Department. Two general sessions were held in the Tabernacle. The reception for the Singing Mothers, the one for the Stake Officers, and the President's Breakfast were delightful events. The attendance was very gratifying, and included enthusiastic workers from 116 stakes and 12 missions. The following is the attendance record at the Officers' Meeting held in the Assembly Hall, Friday morning, April 1, at 10 o'clock: Mission Presidents, 12; Stake Presidents, 108; Counselors, 135; Secretaries, 67; Board Members, 404; Total, 726. The ushers were from the Salt Lake OFFICERS' and Liberty Stake Relief Societies. Among the outstanding features of the Conference were the magnificent music, and the launching of the Membership Campaign. In connection with this, special attention must be called to the membership song, "One Hundred Thousand Strong," composed by Beatrice F. Stevens of the General Board of Relief Society. The "Rallying Song" was introduced by a double trio from the Ensign Stake, directed by Ruth Jensen Clawson, and a talented group representative of Relief Society members with Jean H. Wesseman as accompanist. Others whose talents in music added much to the meetings were Lily Priestly's organ prelude. Inez Robinson Preece's quartet, and the beautiful solo by Eliza Bringhurst. The combined choruses of Relief Society Singing - Mothers, directed by Charlotte O. Sackett, with Alta B. Cassity and Frank Asper as accompanists, made Relief Society history. MEETING GREETINGS AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS By President Louise Y. Robison MEETING with the devoted leaders of Relief Society is a continued source of joy and inspiration. REFERRING to the ruling on donations received by Visiting Teachers, we feel more strongly than ever that all donations collected by Visiting Teachers belong in the Charity Fund. If members of Relief Society or others wish to contribute to the General Fund, we shall be most grateful to them if they will give or send such contributions to the President or Secretary of the Relief Society. WE would like to emphasize the request that officers refrain from using Relief Society for advertising purposes. The fine project for better methods of laundering clothes brought many offers from soap manufacturers for demonstration in Relief Society. We are quite opposed to having any commercial article featured in our meetings. WE have received many compliments from the General Authorities of the Church, morticians, and from Relief Society Presidents on our suggestion that funeral flowers remain undisturbed until after the mourners have gone from the building. We were advised to take this action by members of the General Authorities. IN a few of our stakes, a charge is made for luncheon served on Work and Business day. We hope you will find some other way of obtaining finances. Many of our sisters would be happy to pay for their luncheon, but in each ward there are fine, faithful members who cannot afford this expense and who will not feel comfortable in attending these meetings. "THERE are occasionally Ward Presidents who do not work in harmony with their Stake President. They do not attend Union meetings and feel that they need no advice in the conduct of the Relief Society work. This is a serious condition. There must be complete harmony between stake and ward officers or the work of Relief Society suffers. Before any woman accepts an office in any department of Relief Society she should know what the requirements are and be willing to live up to them. Unless ward officers give loyal support to stake officers, they cannot expect loyalty from their own group. Remember always that the spirit of the Lord is with us only when there is harmony and a desire to cooperate for the good of the whole group. WE have had a wonderful response to the hurried request sent from our office a week ago for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 325 a report on what the Relief Society had done for Church Security, The Presiding Bishopric asked us to get the report for the First Presidency to use at Conference. Within a week, ninety-nine stakes and missions had reported. Although the Southern States Mission is so far away our Mission Mother, Sister Clayson, had her report in the office on time. N making the survey for the clothing requirements of our people Relief Society has discovered some families in urgent need at the present time. In a few cases the bishops have requested the Relief Society to supply those needs from their funds. Evidently these bishops are new in the work, as Relief Society has not now, nor ever has had, sufficient funds to care for rent, light, food and clothing. Relief Society offers service. Our funds are to be used in cases of emergency and to supplement the work of the bishop. HERE are some very fine organizations outside of our Relief Society who are working for the benefit of humanity. We are eager to have our Societies cooperate in spreading useful information but we are opposed to having regular Relief Society class work interfered with or having dues to any other organization collected in our meetings. To'the extent that individual members can subscribe to these helpful movements we are in hearty accord, but this is entirely outside of the Relief Society. WE advise Relief Societies to cooperate with the Agricultural Colleges, with the county agents and demonstrators in any state in which they reside. These trained people have valuable information on the needs of the body and the kinds of 326 food which supply those needs. Deficiency diseases, which result from improper diet, are as great a menace as the contagious diseases. To understand the chemical requirements of the body and to know the foods which supply those needs is of great importance to mothers. WE are making a change in the Relief Society Magazine Honor Roll awards. Instead of all Relief Societies competing on the same basis, there will be three groups. One group will include all wards and branches with membership up to 49 inclusive. One group will be those Societies whose membership is from 50 to 99 inclusive, and a third group will include those with a membership of 100 or over. We feel this is more just. Presidents will please appoint a member of the Board to be responsible for the activities of ward Magazine Agents. We have had heartbreaking experiences when some of the ward Agents, who have worked RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE very hard to get subscriptions, have sent their reports to the stakes and the stakes have failed to get the information to headquarters in time for the credits to be awarded. E acknowledge with deep appreciation the very interesting publications which come to us from the missions. One recently reached us from Sister Nibley of the Northwestern States Mission with some very fine reports. The Northern States Mission sends them to us frequently. They are most helpful. Sister May Green Hinckley of the Northern States Mission gave us the very fine idea of placing useful Relief Society information on the back of our membership cards. We shall adopt this suggestion when we print other cards. May the Lord bless you with vision to see the needs, and health to carry forward the work in a manner pleasing and acceptable to yourselves and to our Heavenly Father. ANNOUNCEMENT By President Louise Y. Robison THE Government has appointed Miss Daisy Duncombe to make a survey of the hard of hearing who are living in Utah. If you know any persons who are hard of hearing, please advise them to communicate with Miss Duncombe, 1259 Sherman Avenue, Salt Lake City, giving information relative to age, sex, and education. ANNUAL REPORT Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary IT is always a rare opportunity to present a very brief summary of the Annual Report of the Relief Society and to express the deep appreciation the general office feels for the splendid cooperation of the Stakes and Missions. The reports this year were more perfect than ever before. We are grateful to our fine secretaries. The following is a brief annual statement for the year 1937. This includes Missions, Stake Boards and Ward organizations. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 327 ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1937 (Missions, Stake Boards and Ward Organizations) Total Balance on Hand, January 1, 1937........$ 205,042.91 Total Receipts During 1937.....323,871.20 Total Balance on Hand and Receipts.......... 528,914.11 Total Balance, December 31, 1937......... 223,546.65 Total Assets...... 1,019,328.36 Ward Conferences Held 1,499 Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers............. 991,623 Number of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound................... Membership in 1936, 73,062; in 1937, 75,064; an increase of 2,002. The Membership includes: Executive and Special Officers.............16,026 Visiting Teachers..........25,486 Other Members........33,552 Average attendance in 1936, 31,784; in 1937, 31,203; a decrease of 581. Paid, tot Caer Purposes in 1936, $66,189.48; in 1937, $67,632.09; an increase of MORMON HANDICRAFT Counselor Kate M. Barker 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FROM CORNER STONE TO KEYSTONE By Rae B. Barker I. DUES. The dues for Mormon Handicraft are one dollar a year. The membership year will be the same as the membership in Relief Society—January to January. II. STANDARD OF WORK. On the whole the work has been excellent, but some which was sent in could not be accepted. Work must be examined by the stake Work and Business leader before being sent to the shop. When the work has once been accepted by her, other articles of the same kind may be sent without her accepting then, but any new type of article must be taken to her for approval. III. ORIGINAL WORK. The articles which sell best are the ones with some distinctive feature and originality, providing they are artistic and well made. Stamped articles, such as anyone can buy at the department stores, do not sell well. IV. PATENTs. The material must be good and the handwork fine No article will be accepted which is a copy of articles already in the shop. I. DUES. The dues for Mormon . PRICING. The articles should be priced by the person sending—the price that she wishes for the article. The shop will then add 25% to her price for overhead. No handwork will bring wages such as is paid by the hour for work outside the home. This is an opportunity for women to stay in the home and supplement the family income. Our motto is: “A little profit in a little time not wasted.” VI. CONTROLLING THE SUPPLY. There are now about three hundred and seventy-five women participating. Some means must be taken to control the supply. Before any thing is is sent to the shop, the stake Work and Business leader should write and ask if there is room for it. FROM CORNER STONE TO KEYSTONE By Rae B. Barker. ONE sweep of the mind carries us from March 17, 1842 to March 17, 1942. In these two dates, and the two significant events associated with them, we find the impetus for our present Relief Society Membership Campaign. On that original Relief Society birthday a little handful of women gathered to hear the plan conceived by the Prophet Joseph Smith. With him they built the foundation and laid the corner stone of our great organization. That is now history—we are still making history. The momentous event of the one-hundredth, or centennial, birthday is but a short time off. We are anticipating that date with eager interest for it is our keen ambition to be one hundred thousand strong by that time. The time is ripe to launch a big membership building program. There is an underlying purpose in this campaign which is much deeper than the mere enrollment of numbers. That purpose is to build Latter-day Saint women, and_ to strengthen our organization so that it can serve in ever wider fields. The strength and power of Relief Society is measured by the number of women it serves. How great can be the force of an ever increasing membership of spirited workers, positively charged with a desire for intellectual and spiritual growth, with high moral standards, and with the desire to serve others! The magnitude and scope of such a force not only improves the morale and fiber of our Church, community and nation, but it strengthens the individual so that with greater assurance she may meet the ever changing conditions of this interesting age. In 1842 we numbered only eighteen. By the end of the first year our membership had increased to about one thousand. By the end of the 75th year (1917), our numbers had increased to approximately fifty thousand. Then came the war period with its increased demands for welfare service. The result? Our rate of increase was about four times as great as it had previously been. During the past fifteen years, our growth, even though it was not as pronounced as during the war period, has continued steady and sound. What of the next four years? Spotlight of Attention RELIEF SOCIETY wants to do big things. In the next four years we want to definitely accelerate our rate of growth. The present tempo of living is much faster than it was a century ago. Consequently, we expect big things to be done in a short time. Interest usually follows attention; so we are turning the spotlight of attention upon the challenging problem of increasing our membership. Shall we be One Hundred Thousand strong by 1942?. Let us emphasize the strong, for we must continue to build substantially, always maintaining and elevating the high standards that have formed the foundations of this enduring structure. We must build for permanency. General Plan THAT shall be the general approach to our problem? Growth and building seem to connote the same thing. The membership campaign is in. Every sense a building program. Down through the years many, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE many women, each finding personal satisfaction and each making a personal contribution, have in the aggregate been building a serviceable "living monument". The arch has been chosen to symbolize this monument, and we will set out to complete this particular membership arch. Significance of Corner Stone and Keystone A LITTLE about the construction of an arch may be of interest. Two terms used to designate important features of the structure are the corner stone and the keystone. The tradition of the corner stone is common knowledge. Often within the corner stone are sealed historical information, resolutions and ideals. The significance of the keystone may not be so commonly known. We often hear of a key man—one who is so important that he is indispensable to his organization; or a key situation—a situation upon which other conditions hinge. The keystone is just as vital to the arch. It is the center of the crown of the arch, and, being the last member to be set in place, is regarded as binding the whole together. Thus the strength and solidarity of the arch depends upon the keystone. Use of the Keystone F, in the next four years we can average a 3314% increase over the 1937 enrollment of about 75,000, we can reach the 100,000 goal. For example, if a stake with a present enrollment of 300 increases to 325 the first year, to 350 in two years, and to 400 in four years, it will have reached its objective. Any stake, ward or mission making its 3314 9% increase in four years will have achieved "keystone success." 329 Plan WE are immediately concerned with a plan that will help us reach our objective. Since we are looking ahead to 1942, a four-year program suggests itself. Our four-year theme is "Building the Membership Arch." The slogan, which we hope will be lavishly used to make our people Relief Society conscious, is: Members Old, Members New, One Hundred Thousand by 42. For psychological reasons, short plans are best. So, the four-year plan will be broken up into one-year plans. Fundamentals in any Campaign HERE are certain fundamentals which are important to the success of any campaign. First: A name, or theme can serve a real purpose. Second: A short time for an intensive drive is most successful. Third: Competent leadership is necessary. Fourth: The use of showmanship is decidedly important. Fifth: Follow-up work is essential to success. Sixth: There should be a simple and effective system of awards. Theme THEME can transform an uninteresting matter-of-fact subject into something of special interest. An idea becomes concrete enough to attract attention. It identifies. A theme serves also as a motif which lends itself to featuring. A theme appropriate to this year's membership activity is ""New Construction." We leave it to you as stakes and wards to develop this idea of new construction in your own way. We might keep in mind that, 330 as always, the ward is the actual building site, and that quality materials and skilled labor are of utmost importance to the success of the project. Short Time Drive INTEREST fades to the vanishing point if a drive continues too long. The 1938 campaign will be launched with the opening of Relief Society next fall, and the drive will end on December 15th. All reports can and should be in the general office with the regular annual reports. Competent Leadership NO drive can be very successful without competent leadership. More will be said on this point under the heading of "Personnel." Showmanship SHOWMANSHIP is the art of dressing up an idea. By this means, a point may be stressed in a more effective way than by the use of words alone. Everyone likes a show, enjoying the play atmosphere. Often we are willing to work hardest at our play. "We are visual minded. Eye impressions stick." An old Chinese proverb says, "One time seeing is worth one thousand times hearing." You will find many opportunities for the use of showmanship: in publicity features, stunts, displays, progress charts, etc. For instance, to visualize the progress being made, one suggestion might be to use an arch designed as a picture frame, and mount on it snapshots of new members as they join your group. Much interest and fun might be stimulated by selecting "catchy" snapshots where possible. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Follow-Up Work "THE value of consistent, quiet, follow-up work can hardly be overemphasized. To illustrate: A progressive group of executive officers invited all Relief Society members, both active and inactive, and all women who might be potential members, to a delightful "At Home." It was given in the president's home. For several weeks following, an increase in attendance was noticed at the weekly meetings, but it was not permanent. Perhaps some definite follow-up work would have paid big dividends on the initial investment; personal visits, perhaps leaving a magazine to be called for on a second visit, etc. Awards AWARDS of various kinds have long been used to stimulate interest and activity. We might pass on this interesting observation from Mr. Zenn Kaufman who, from his wide experience in conducting sales contests, says that the honor award —the satisfaction in succeeding— seems to be a greater incentive to work than material or monetary awards. There will be many opportunities to stimulate ward activity through awards offered by the Stake Boards. Personnel WE have always worked to increase membership, but concentrated work on membership is a new departure. Careful preliminary planning will be necessary before actual work begins. For best results the main responsibility should be fixed on some one individual in each stake and ward. It is advised that a member of each Stake Board be assigned as Stake Membership Coordinator for RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE this drive, and that she be relieved of other special duties as far as possible. Where a board is not already too large, and where some particular woman, not now a member of the Stake Board, seems to have outstanding qualifications for managing such a campaign, she might be added to the board for this particular work. Likewise in each ward, a woman especially qualified for the work should be chosen as Ward Membership Coordinator. This ward appointment could be made for the period of one year, and where desirable, the same person could be re-sustained the following year. The coordinator, whether of the ward or stake, should, of course, work in close touch with the presidency. May we impress the thought that this calling is an important one, for the success of the project depends in large measure upon the ability of those who plan, coordinate, and direct the drive. Coordinators should be chosen with the following qualifications in mind: 1. A projective personality; some one genuinely interested in people; one whose friendliness is felt. 2. Someone who can approach the work with sound enthusiasm and who has a zest for tackling problems. The person with an original idea and who is afire with enthusiasm is an inestimable power. 3. Executive ability; the ability to plan, to organize, and to make the plan work. We must all be good saleswomen. A good saleswoman is one who knows the A B C's of her product —in this case Relief Society work— and then has the ability to interest her prospect in trying it. As representatives of Relief Society, are we familiar with: 1. The course of study. 331 2. The use of membership dues. 3. The significance and benefits of welfare work. 4. The duties and opportunities of visiting teachers. 5. Some of the outstanding services rendered by the general organization for community, national and international welfare. Do we know, for instance, the part played by Relief Society in improving local health conditions; the food conservation and Red Cross work done by Relief Society organizations during the World War? Having the above mentioned information is a part of preparation in the art of securing members. Department In Union Meeting THE coordinators should be appointed at once, as considerable time is needed for effecting concrete workable plans. Will the Stake Presidents please note the need of a department in Union meetings. Coordinators and Existing Groups THE existing groups of Relief Society officers make a splendid set-up to carry on the membership building program. Each of the groups in the various departments will be asked to handle some part of the drive: executive officers, class leaders, work and business leaders, enlistment committee, and visiting teachers. The stake and ward coordinators should jointly plan the work of the intensive drive. It will be the definite responsibility of the ward coordinator to meet with each group, plan with them which phase of the work they can handle best, and see that it is carried out. 332 The responsibility may sound heavy, but the most successful executive is an artist in sharing the work. There is a real advantage in delegating much of the work. Every woman used is another one interested. Stress the importance of dividing the work. Opening the Campaign WITH regard to actually launching the work, it is suggested that the executive officers open the campaign, perhaps with a guest day, or with any function which suits best. Keep in mind the fact that you will have to create your own atmosphere—one of enthusiasm. The Work and Business day offers opportunities for fruitful contacts through social functions. Since the enlistment committee in many wards acts as a standing hospitality committee, these two groups might work together on a social occasion. The details of plans to be used with each group will take shape as you get into the work. We are sure you will find it challenging to your resourcefulness. Sales Talk IF we examine the assets column of the Relief Society ledger, we will find many values accruing to its members. We are affiliated with a women's organization of national and international standing. Alone, any one person's influence would be negligible in solving a community problem, but the organized strength of many women can be, and is, a real power. Relief Society is democratic; its doors stand open to all women of high purpose. It offers a broad scope RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of opportunity for personal development. The rise of adult education is an indication of the sweeping urge for more culture. For many women, Relief Society has been a serviceable instrument in satisfying the need for complete development, head, hand and heart. A vital part of our work is to concern ourselves with the wellbeing of others. Through this phase of the work we increase our capacity to love one another—a rare virtue. One of our greatest assets is that we are auxiliary to the Priesthood of the Church. Our organization is unique among women's study groups in that it offers an opportunity for religious study, thus crystallizing our spiritual concepts and nourishing our faith. Merit is eventually reflected in our membership rolls. To merit what we want, is to attract more women; we must always be rediscovering Relief Society, reexamining our general practices, and making opportunities to be friendly. We must discover our women's talents and interests, and make use of them. We must find our strength, sense our weaknesses, and overcome our handicaps. We have set out to do a big piece of work by 1942, but this is a day of stupendous achievement. We aim for "keystone success." Let the spirit of gathering spread among the women throughout the entire Church, and let this be our creed—Faith to Succeed. The address given by Rena B. Maycock in the in the Officer's Meeting will appear in a later issue of the Magazine. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 333 WORK AND BUSINESS DEPARTMENT Lalene H. Hart, Chairman RESULT OF WORK AND BUSINESS PROJECT By Lalene H. Hart WHEN something has been accomplished everyone is ready to declare it was easy, but before it is begun they say it is impossible. This was somewhat the feeling many of our Relief Society women had when our Work and Business Project was launched Jast April. All the difficulties of such an enterprise were seen at once, yet, a thing well begun is half done, and moreover, the surmounting of: the first barrier gives courage and strength for those following. This proved to be the case with our project. In order to get definite and tangible information as to the contribution our organization is making in its legitimate field of economics and family relationship we asked that a survey be made with two objectives in mind, first, to supply factual data to verify or challenge general statements about present day family life; second, to help women to understand and evaluate their own work and problems. The following is a brief summary of that survey: No. Of stakes reporting, 99; No. Of stakes participating in project, 94; No. Of stakes reporting more than 50 per cent of membership participating, 35; No. Of wards reporting, 849; No. Of wards participating, 720; No. Of women making bread, 84 per cent, 25,459; No. Of women doing sewing, 75 per cent, 24,485; No. Of women doing launering, 92 per cent, 28,832; No. Of women carrying on project in bread making, 64 per cent, 5,652; No. Of women carrying on project in sewing, 61 per cent, 4,342; No. Of women carrying on project in laundering, 76 per cent, 5,836. The figures show that more women do their own laundering than other activities. Only 50 per cent of women were interested in the project at first, but as it progressed more became active. Many liked the discussions and the actual work, but did not want to keep records or file reports. Demonstrations, lectures, discussions, exhibits, contests, debates, visits to flour mills and laundries were some of the methods used to put over the project. To the question of what definite value the project was such answers as these were given: It has created an interest in women's problems, and a desire to do more efficient, scientific and professional work. More wholesome and better bread is being made and used than ever before. Non-members have become interested with the result that they want to know more about Relief Society work. All the women participating agree that it is more economical and satisfying to create and do things at home. While our objectives have not been fully realized, the project has been very much worth while, and is more far reaching than we know. Since many women feel they are just home makers and these activities too commonplace to be studied, Work and Business leaders have a big opportunity to help them to be the very best home makers. This department is comparable in its cultural value to the other prescribed courses, and requires thorough preparation in making it one of the best departments in the Relief Society. It can be done! 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SUGGESTIONS FOR WORK AND BUSINESS FOR 1938-39 By Donna D. Sorensen FROM the beginning of our organization sewing for the needy has been, and probably ever will be, the most important obligation of the Work and Business department. This activity should never be neglected. However, in response to repeated demands which have come from the stakes for additional help in planning for this day the General Board will print in the July Magazine nine topics for discussion for the coming year on the "Selection and Preparation of Food for Proper Nutrition." Under each of these topics will be given the names of various pamphlets and addresses where these may be obtained. No lessons will be written and the way the stakes and wards utilize this material in the Magazine will be largely left to them. However, the General Board suggests:
1. That the use of this material be optional in the wards and may be used in connection with the traditional activities of the day.
2. That this matter of nutrition is worthy of serious consideration by the wards of the Church as it is timely and worth while.
3. That if any additional material or any other subject be selected by the wards it must be presented by the ward Work and Business leader to the stake for its approval and at any event any subject selected must be on some phase of homemaking. Book reviews or any program on any subject other than home making are out of order on Work and Business day.
4. That the stake Work and Business leader will be responsible for obtaining the pamphlets for her various wards and obtain them early enough to distribute at the Union meeting preceding the day they will be utilized.
5. That if this material on nutrition is used in the wards that the treatment of it be considered in an informal manner with the idea of having an interchange of the thoughts and opinions of all the women present, rather than presenting the material as a formal lesson.
6. That in wards where this material is considered the ward counselor in charge of Work and Business and the ward Work and Business leader consult, and conjointly choose a woman to lead in this informal discussion on Work and Business day. A different woman will be chosen to lead the discussion each month, thus distributing the responsibility and bringing more women into activity. We suggest that each of these women chosen be asked to attend the Union meeting where the pamphlets on her subject for discussion will be distributed.
7. That if the wards in a stake choose to discuss this subject of nutrition the stake leader of Work and Business give it some consideration at Union meeting and the time and emphasis be left to the discretion of the stake leader.
PLANNING FOR SOCIABILITY
Nellie O. Parker
Sociability is an important gateway to an abundant life. The more we use this gate and extend our friendly contacts the more we enlarge our world.
"The world stands out on either side No wider than the heart is wide."
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
Friendship is one of the sweetest things in the world. The intellectual and spiritual things we share with others make us richer. The more we give away of this spiritual wealth the richer we are.
Social recreation of any type that helps us enjoy fellowship with one another and gives an opportunity for growth, opportunity to be and become one's self, and to have joy in living is very desirable. It is fundamental to our nature to crave companionship. We get pleasure from doing things together. Even hard work is enjoyable when done in a group—for example, a ward dinner or community fruit canning. We experience recreation of spirit in singing and playing together, and when we share food with one another we obtain a completeness of sociability that nothing else seems to give.
We should aim to make our Relief Society contacts as friendly as possible. Let us think about what others are interested in and try to make them happy. This is a vital element of true etiquette. Assign certain members to welcome everyone who comes to meeting. Strangers and visitors should be given special attention and introduced at least to those by whom they are seated. Let someone look after their comfort and see that they enjoy themselves.
We recommend that Work and Business day be made a happy social day, a sewing circle linked to a party spirit with an atmosphere of informality, insuring free and easy discussion and a feeling of friendly cooperation. Secure constructive conversation by directing it in proper channels to correlate with the project in hand. See that everyone feels she is a vital part of the organization. Plan the social hour so that everyone takes her turn in helping when luncheon or refreshments are served. Give thought to planning the social hour; draw on your originality; vary your menus; have little surprises and glorify the common things, but keep them simple and within the reach of the frugal purse. Keep abreast of the times.
If members, especially leaders, will radiate their enthusiasm and give their best thought to Relief Society, planning ahead and looking forward to it as one of the big things of their lives, they will stimulate interest and enthusiasm in others. Everyone will want Relief Society; it will gain in prestige. Those who work in the organization love it enthusiastically. Our problem is to give everyone something to do. The good leader will divide work, getting as many to participate as possible. Make an important occasion of the installation of new members, and also the welcoming back of inactive ones into active service again. Let someone sponsor the prospective member and make a little talk in her behalf, telling of her interests, talents and achievements. During the social hour the new members can be the honored guests. Everyone should meet them and extend a friendly hand in welcoming them into the Society.
For festive days plan decorations that are typically "our own." We have great ideals and traditions, we have only to work out our own symbols. Let us encourage originality and artistic talent. Let us make Relief Society very alluring and desirable, remembering that those who serve Relief Society most, love it best.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
MAGAZINE DEPARTMENT
Belle S. Spafford, Chairman
SERVICE AND SELLING
By Vida Fox Clawson
A good magazine representative must first have the ambition to place the Magazine in the home of every Latter-day Saint. She must think about it. Why should it go into the home of every Latter-day Saint? In the first place, the very fact that it is there testifies that the home is a home of culture and the mother discriminating in her taste. The fact that it is there increases the faith of the children. Even if they don't read it, it is good for them to have the Magazine in the home.
This is a day when the good and the bad are so closely intertwined that it is difficult to choose the right. For example, we listen to a glorious radio rendition of Aida or some grand opera, and we are uplifted, then we realize that the sponsors are perhaps cigarette advertisers. This advertising is very subtle but very effective. Few of us realize the effect of it. After months of such advertising, we become used to the thing which at first shocks us. We say, "Well, I guess it's all right. I guess it isn't as harmful as we thought it was." We grow less and less rebellious.
The same thing happens to the boy who learns to admire the editor of a magazine through reading his editorials, and then some day perhaps he sees a picture of this man with a cigarette in his hand. The boy, if young and brought up according to Mormon ideals, is shocked. But he begins this process of thinking, "Well, I guess it's not so bad after all," and finally gets to the point where he thinks it is not so wrong to smoke.
The more magazines advertising tobacco, liquor and things of that kind which we have in our homes the more we need the Relief Society Magazine as a supporting anchor, for it comes to us absolutely unpolluted, not only in its articles but in its advertising.
It is difficult these days to choose the right from the wrong. Right now you and I would have no definite convictions about this life and the life to come if we didn't feel that we are being led by divine leadership, inspired leadership. Those who have the publication of this Magazine in charge are inspired women. How grateful we should be to have this Magazine come into our homes and how eager we should be to carry the news to others.
A good representative should feel it just as much a mission to sell the Magazine and place it in every Latter-day Saint home as any missionary who goes out into the field.
Let us take a peek into some of the Magazines. Suppose there is a boy who is in his early teens and is just a little bit wayward. His companions are not always what his mother wants them to be. He picks up the Magazine and sees this one little sentence, "No man can be provident of his time who is not prudent in the choice of his company." This makes an impression upon the mind of that boy and he becomes more careful in the selection of his companions. If you had been the representative to place the Magazine in that home, don't you think you would have rendered a real service?
Suppose you have a neighbor who for some reason cannot make ends meet, nevertheless she buys the Relief Society Magazine, and a few months later when she meets you, she says, "You know when I bought that Magazine, I made a real investment. In the September number there was an unusually easy and good recipe for whole wheat bread. I never had baked before. It was so delicious and the family liked it so well that I just formed the habit of making my own bread. It's just unbelievable, but that little Magazine has paid for itself over and over again with just that one recipe." Wouldn't you be thrilled?
Now suppose that some one, as I did, came across the title, "Home Scriptural Reading," and thought, "We don't do enough of that in our home, but we are going to gather around the fireside every day and read the scriptures." Wouldn't you be happy if you had been the woman fortunate enough to place the Magazine in that home?
"By their fruits ye shall know them." This is just as true of magazines as it is of persons. What kind of women read the Relief Society Magazines? They are the salt of the earth. Reading the Relief Society Magazine helps every person to form a better life.
"By their fruits ye shall know them." What kind of women are they who publish the Relief Society Magazine? They are the salt of the earth. What a privilege it is for you and for me to come in contact with such women, and I sometimes think that they let us look into their souls much more distinctly through their writing than through any other source. In the January issue of this year two women whom I have known and loved for a long time have permitted me to see both of them better—Mary Connelly Kimball, the Editor of the Magazine for a long time, and Sister Talmage, a constant reader and an occasional contributor. These two women are the type of women whom we contact through the Magazine. It is a great blessing.
God bless the women who gather together and bind the lessons, the editorials, the stories, the poems, month after month, into a magazine worthy of our best selling efforts.
ACHIEVING THE GOAL
By Rose H. Neeley—Ensign Stake
When called to work on the Stake Board, my President told me my work would be with the Magazine. After careful checking with the wards, we found the subscription list low and felt that we had work ahead of us in building it up. Each chain is as strong as its weakest link and we had no desire to be the weak link in our organization.
The ward Agents were called together in Union meeting and plans made. We felt that we must become fully acquainted with the contents of the Magazine in order to present it intelligently to our subscribers. We arranged a program which was very helpful to us, and which we still follow. We have roll call which is answered by a verse or quotation taken from the Magazine, then an article, story or poem given by a member. This helps in our study of the Magazine. We have reports on what each ward is doing in regard to renewals, etc. We have discussions, and study instructions given us by the General Board.
Our aim is for each ward to go over 100 per cent each year. When we began this work we had less than 50 per cent of our members taking the Magazine. When our 1937 drive was completed we had a stake percentage of 96, with six wards over the top and the other two wards on the 75 per cent roll. We have two wards that have gone over the top each year for the past six years.
We thank our Heavenly Father for the help and inspiration He has given us; also our Stake Board, ward officers, and members who have so loyally supported us, and the ward Agents, fine, dependable sisters who work so faithfully throughout the year.
ACHIEVING THE GOAL
By Clara B. Wright—Salt Lake Stake
As a group in Union meeting we have studied the pamphlet, "Instructions To Magazine Agents." We have spent several Union meetings in intensive study. By our first Union meeting we have prepared and handed to President Williams a year-round program. In February our Stake Secretary gives us the entire individual ward enrollments. As a group in Union meeting we take these figures by wards and analyze them to find out just how much work has to be done each month, as we feel that it takes twelve months to accomplish our work. By carefully watching subscriptions we are able to secure large percentages.
A yearly report is compiled by the Stake at the close of the year and on the day that we make our awards in Union meeting this report is handed to the ward Magazine Representative who in turn takes the report to her President. We have found this has been a stimulus for effort the next year.
To illustrate: The Seventeenth Ward has an enrollment of 175 for 1938. Their total 1937 Magazine subscriptions were 123. Since October 1937, they have secured ten new subscriptions which makes a total of 133 subscriptions. 175 total enrollment minus 133 subscriptions equals 42 subscriptions to obtain in order to reach 100 per cent. From March to October is six months, and 42 divided by 6 equals 7 new subscriptions to be obtained each month. Of course we must not lose one active subscription. To guard against this we carry a pocket note book record of all subscriptions.
Special ward activities were used in achieving the goal. In one ward the President worked with the Representative. By interesting non-members of the Relief Society in the Magazine and by receiving small contributions here and there they were able to place 11 subscriptions in homes where the Magazine had not been before. The Relief Society gave eight subscriptions to retired Visiting Teachers from money taken from the General Fund.
In another ward the President and Magazine Representative called for volunteer service during the summer months in the cause of Magazine work. Another ward gave as a Christmas gift a year's Magazine subscription to each of the six oldest members of their organization.
In several of our wards the Presidency and Magazine Representatives have gone out in the interest of increased membership and the Magazine and have been more than successful.
In three years through these and other activities we have been able to raise our percentage from 21 per cent to 85 per cent, and we feel that it has been worth while.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
KEYNOTES TO SUCCESS
By Marcia K. Howells
One's best effort produces happiness, and usually makes for success. One Magazine agent traveled seventy-five miles in one day to visit three families and found them eager for the Magazine. Another took fruit and vegetables from those who could not pay cash. She also reported an exchange of work, such as washing or cleaning, for subscriptions.
Realizing the privilege of making friends and influencing other lives overcomes obstacles. "Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of Heaven."
Quoting from Magazine agents:
"You have to work enthusiastically, efficiently, and unselfishly."
"This year I obtained three subscriptions that I have been working on for six years. It takes real perseverance and lots of walking. I am willing to go a long distance and spend a lot of time to get one subscription. I love the work."
"I've visited returned missionaries; in every case they were glad to send the Magazine to friends in the mission field."
From Alaska: "I received the sample copies of the Magazine. I loaned them and they did the work. I didn't care to be the only one in 'Uncle Sam's Attic' enjoying our wonderful Magazine."
One of the missions reports: "I have in mind a conference where some of the members have never had the opportunity of going to school and the Relief Society Magazine has been a God-send to them. They have learned to do much of their reading from it."
In the Australian Mission, where 337½ per cent was obtained: "I wrote letters to members 1300 miles south and 1800 miles north." This representative reported one fourteen-year-old girl as subscribing for two aged people; also a fifteen-year-old investigator who purchased the Magazine for the Sidney Library in addition to her own subscription.
The Magazine has so many uses. It radiates the spirit of Relief Society and the spirit of the Gospel. Read the Magazine for its stimulating effect as well as for information and inspiration.
THE MAGAZINE IN THE MISSION
By Lewella R. Christiansen—Texas Mission
The Magazine is an effective aid in missionary work, especially in teaching women of the world the practical, cultural and spiritual sides of Mormonism. It is a real missionary. Sometimes women of other beliefs are hesitant to read the regular missionary tracts and pamphlets but are attracted by the poems, stories, lessons and articles of the Magazine. In this way the Gospel truths are presented in an indirect manner which makes an appeal, and a simple foundation is laid for the missionaries to build upon.
In one of the branches in Louisiana, we have a Sister whose husband is in the paper business and also mayor of the city. Recently she was asked to join some of the very fine clubs. She said to me, "I was asked to give a talk to my club and I found material for that talk in the Relief Society Magazine and was highly complimented. I also gave a talk at the P. T. A. Meeting, again taking the material from the same source."
The distribution of sample copies helped prepare the way for the organization of the Gonzales Relief Society. Realizing that there were a great many things in it that would build people, I wondered what was the best way to have everyone read it. So I outlined a program, to be given solely by Relief Society women at a Sunday service. The talks were short and well prepared and based on carefully selected articles from the Magazine. The program proved interesting and uplifting and acquainted those who listened with the rich content of the Magazine, besides giving the most timid women a chance to participate.
The Magazine has been used: as gifts for birthdays and Christmas, and to bring cheer to those who are numbered among the shut-ins. One can receive comfort and culture from the Magazine. I think the Lord inspires those who write the wonderful material found in it.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
Belle S. Spafford, Editor
In order to give both large and small wards equal opportunity to participate in the awards given at April Conference we are now dividing the wards into groups according to enrollment. There will be three groups, A, B, C.
Group A will include all wards or branches with a total enrollment of 100 or more.
Group B will include all wards or branches with a total enrollment of 50 to 99, inclusive.
Group C will include all wards or branches with a total enrollment up to 49.
To the four Ward or Branch Agents in each group obtaining the highest percentage, provided they have a minimum of 25 subscriptions, a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine will be presented at the Relief Society General Conference held in April.
To all Ward or Branch Agents not receiving a bound volume, who obtain subscriptions equal to 75 per cent or above of their net enrollment, provided such subscription lists contain a minimum of 25 names, a one-year subscription to the Relief Society Magazine will be awarded. In case the Agent does not want the free subscription herself, it may be sent to some one designated by her.
Report Forms. New report forms for both wards and stakes will be sent to the stake representatives this year. We are indebted to Sister Christina V. Wilson of Bonneville Stake for suggesting these very fine forms. They are self-explanatory and must be very carefully filled out. Only stake reports should be returned to this office. Ward reports should be filled out and sent to the stake in sufficient time for the stake representative to compile and send her report to our office not later than November 10, 1938, otherwise wards cannot be included on the Honor Roll published in December nor receive free subscriptions.
Enrollment figures are based on active, honorary, and inactive enrollment. The enrollment as of January 1, 1938, will be used in figuring 1938 percentages. These figures must be identical with those given in the Secretaries' annual report.
Order Blanks. Send subscriptions on order blanks, furnished by our office. Writing should be legible. State the proper address of the individual to whom the Magazine is to be sent, the street number, if there is one, and the name of the town and the state. Please state the month when the subscription is to begin. Failure to do this often causes duplication, the subscriber receiving two numbers of one or more issues.
Receipts. Keep all receipts sent by this office. These are a check for us and for you in case of errors. Complaints must be made within two months in order to be rectified.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
Janet M. Thompson, Chairman
Great enthusiasm was manifested in the music program for the coming year 1938-1939. The response to the roll call indicated that there were very few stakes not represented. This was very gratifying and an index to the interest in improvement of music in the wards and stakes.
The chairman complimented the choristers on their devotion to the work and also gave suggestions which will prove helpful in future accomplishments.
A rallying song, "One Hundred Thousand Strong," composed by Mrs. Beatrice F. Stevens, a member of the Music Committee of the General Board, was sung by a double trio from Ensign Stake directed by Mrs. Ruth Jensen Clawson. It was enthusiastically received. This song was composed as a "rallying song" to assist in our membership drive.
Mrs. Charlotte O. Sackett presented the new songs to be learned during the year, stressing tone, phrasing, proper posture and breathing, and the memorizing of the words. Some of the new songs were sung by a group of Singing Mothers.
Renewed enthusiasm for good music in our organizations was the keynote of the Music Department.
The list of songs with serial numbers are as follows:
SONGS TO BE LEARNED FOR AUGMENTED CHORUS OF SINGING MOTHERS
"O Morn of Beauty"—Sibelius—Ditson—14,715. "O Bread of Life"—Cesar Franck—Ditson—13,651. "Sanctus"—Gounod—Boston—734. "Hail, Thou Star Resplendent"—Grieg—Ditson—12,411. "The Lord's Prayer"—Gates—672 North 1st West, Salt Lake City.
SUGGESTIVE SONGS FOR USE IN THE STAKES
"By the Bend of the River"—Edwards—Schirmer—7,526. "In the Time of Roses"—Reichardt—Ditson—11,804. "Annie Laurie"—Parks—1,410. "Dedication"—Franz—Boston—1,934.
CORRELATION OF MUSIC TO LESSON MATERIAL
By Rose D. Ostler
Humanity everywhere is athirst for music. It might justly be called a holy cause, requiring a spirit of consecration. The field from which to gather song and music material is as broad as the field of music itself. Relief Society songs and music soften, glorify and feed the souls of our sisters. They add charm, a melodious background, and create a spiritual setting for the lessons.
In preparing for the use of songs in Relief Society, various plans have been carried out in Union meeting. It is suggested that stake music directors read very carefully the lessons before Union meeting and confer with the various class leaders as to the objectives of their lessons and secure suggestions for songs. The ward chorister may also be asked to read the lessons and confer with her ward class leaders and aid in bringing in suggestions for music to Union meeting. New songs may be introduced at this meeting. Write the words of the song on a blackboard, play the song as the preliminary music. After it has been played through once or twice many spontaneously join in the singing.
Hymns are always appropriate for the opening song of every ward Relief Society meeting. Especially do hymns and sacred music vitalize and beautify Theological lessons. Hymns are a treasure house of spiritual truth and beauty.
The songs our mothers and grandmothers used to sing can bring a wealth of joy to the Work and Business meeting, echoing the past. We find sweet music in the songs of long ago. Besides these lovely family songs, we may use some written by our women. This would be a fitting place for their inspired contributions.
A special music program suggests itself for the Literary lessons. Characters and the historical period in which the book was written provide suggestions. New songs of various types, solos, ensemble numbers, both vocal and instrumental, furnish a wealth of music material which may be used in the music department.
Lessons portrayed in the form of a tableau accompanied by music are very effective. Songs of our country and songs of home are appropriate for the Social Service lessons.
A typed outline given out each month at Union meeting, might include material to build a background of music for the chorister as well as for the lessons. Current musical events of the various wards, stories of the hymns and of the composers are interesting.
The calling of the chorister is a sacred one. To her falls the joy of bringing correlation of lesson and song, and of bringing the beauty that testifies to the reality of the spiritual life.
SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT
Amy W. Evans, Chairman
President Louise Y. Robison was the first speaker in this department meeting. She briefly discussed the subject, "The Relief Society and Child Welfare," a subject very dear to her heart. The Relief Society has always given very special attention to child welfare in its study program and in its activities, stressing the Word of Wisdom, cooperating extensively with state and federal agencies in carrying forth the work. She concluded with an earnest appeal for women to put forth every effort in setting higher standards for this work.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
NUTRITION AND ITS RELATION TO CHILD WELFARE
By Dr. William McKay
As public health workers we are delighted to know that the mothers are devoting so much of their activities to the study and solution of vital health problems. By giving place on your program to the subject of nutrition and child welfare, I think I can safely assume that you, as representatives of the Social Welfare Department of the Relief Society of the Church, are convinced that throughout our state there is ample evidence among our children of the lack of proper nutrition. A study of the reports of the many health agencies and dental clinics showing the numbers of physical defects, the prevalence of malnutrition, and the very high percentage of our child population with carious teeth should be sufficient to convince anyone that education on the subject of nutrition is urgently needed.
The first question which naturally arises in our minds is, "What is the meaning of the word nutrition?" One of the best definitions I have found is that given by Sir Robert McCarrison who defined nutrition as the fundamental function on which the condition of the body, that is to say, health depends. It is not merely food, nor that which nourishes. Food is the instrument of nourishment, nutrition is the act of using it—the series of coordinated processes whereby the nourishment of the body is effected. A primary purpose of the function of nutrition is: thus, to establish and to sustain the structure and function of all organs and parts of the body—to keep, in short, the mechanisms of the body in perfect running order.
Since body development and function begin months before that body is born into the world it is of the greatest importance that our expectant mothers have a clear understanding of the importance of diet during pregnancy. Sherman of Columbia University has shown the very marked physical differences in the offspring from mothers afforded an adequate diet as compared with the offspring of mothers with an inadequate diet. Sound healthy bodies with strong, well built bones, and teeth are the birthright of every child. The foundation for these is laid long before the child is born. Every expectant mother develops a mental image of the sort of boy or girl she would like to bear. Naturally, she hopes, and may I say—prays, that her child will be strong, sturdy, well shaped, of sound frame and have beautiful teeth. Not every mother realizes that the care she takes of herself during pregnancy to ensure a safe delivery is also a vital part of the planning necessary for sound bones and teeth. Regulated diets, under competent medical supervision, mean sufficient quantities of all the essential elements needed for proper growth and development of the body and the proper formation and calcifying of the teeth and bones. Systematic schedules of rest, sleep, exercise, and fresh air are essential for the mother, and these in turn play a part in the development of the expected child. If we accept the report of our dentists that fewer than twenty-five per cent of our children have sound teeth, I feel sure that this number might be greatly increased, if our expectant mothers realized that the formation of their babies' permanent teeth begins as early as the fourth month of fetal life.
The problem of adequate nutrition becomes even more complex after birth. If the mother elects to nurse her baby and has an adequate supply of milk which the child can tolerate, the problem for the first few months is comparatively simple. She must not, however, forget the importance of the protective elements found in cod liver oil, orange and tomato juices. Felding, a German investigator, reports that of 86,000 infants in Germany in 1935 who died before reaching one year of age, one-half succumbed to dietary disturbances, caused in very many instances by lack of breast feeding.
The importance of diet as the child develops is aptly expressed by Dr. W. McKim Marriott: "As the pediatrician deals with the body during the growing period, he may be compared with the builder of edifices; the internist and surgeon with the repair men. Given a solidly constructed structure, it will last well, and the minimum of repair work will be required. We cannot alter the general plans of the architect, but we can see that the proper materials go into the construction. Two buildings of the same size, and outward appearance may differ greatly, depending upon the care taken in construction; the one may approach perfection in structure and wear well, the other, because of the use of poor materials will not withstand wear and tear. It is so with the child's body; the architectural plan of nature may be excellent, but with skimping on materials a poor structure may result."
Adequate nutrition implies far more than the attainment and maintenance of a certain body size and weight or a certain thickness of adipose tissue. A child may be of average stature for the age and have an average height-weight ratio, yet, the nutrition cannot be considered as satisfactory if the child is anemic, has weak, flabby muscles, poor posture, carious teeth, has but little resistance to infection, and is incapable of sustained physical or mental effort. The growing body must be supplied with necessary building materials to perfect its structure and to provide adequately for functional activity. If the total fuel or caloric value of the food is inadequate to provide for the energy exchange, the laying down of body tissues is of necessity interfered with, or else tissues already formed are destroyed to meet the energy demands.
What are the materials necessary for proper and adequate nutrition? They are oxygen, water, and the digestion products of proteins, fats, carbohydrates, mineral elements and vitamins. These may be derived from the following food stuffs:
(1) A good whole-cereal grain or mixture of whole-cereal grains or a good whole-meal bread. (2) Milk and the products of milk—butter, cheese, buttermilk, etc. (3) Eggs. (4) Green leaf vegetables. (5) Root vegetables such as potatoes, carrots, etc. (6) Legumes—such as peas, beans, etc. (7) Fruit. (8) Meat. (9) Water.
That these provide all elements and vitamins needed for normal nutrition is evident from the fact that they are the ingredients of the national diets of certain races of northern India whose physique and health, when they make use of their national diets in their entirety, are unsurpassed by any other races of mankind.
Detailed information on adequate diets as well as suggestions on how to make them appetizing to children can be secured from circulars and pamphlets furnished by our own State Board of Health as well as by the U. S. Public Health Service and Department of Agriculture.
The appetite serves, in general, as a good guide to the total amount of food needed, and providing a suitable dietary mixture is offered there is little danger of under or overfeeding when the amount of food taken is regulated by the appetite of a normal infant or child. Normal infants and children, given all they wish to eat of a well balanced diet, are not likely to become overnourished.
It is often stated that the instinct serves as a fairly reliable guide in the selection of foods, and examples are cited of primitive people with no knowledge of nutrition who instinctively choose well balanced diets and even of young children who, given free selection, choose diets which meet their nutritional requirements. While in general the instinct may lead the individual to select a complete diet this cannot always be relied upon. In most families, mothers must be constantly on the alert if every child in the family receives an adequate supply of all the necessary elements of a balanced diet.
When President Brigham Young said, "This is the place," he probably little realized that the land of Deseret could be made to produce every necessary nutritional element for his people. That being true, it is a reflection on our intelligence when we must admit that there are large groups of children in almost every community in the state suffering from some degree of malnutrition. It is an interesting fact that children in many of our rural and farming areas are actually malnourished from the lack of milk and vegetables. Then too, we must not overlook the economic factor in our present social set-up. It is tragic, but true, that in many of our poorer homes, the diet consists almost wholly of bread and potatoes. Under a proper functioning of our Church Security program such conditions ought not to exist.
The problem of proper nutrition of our children resolves itself largely into one of education. I know of no organization which, in cooperation with our state and local health agencies, is in a better position or better qualified to carry on such an educational program than the Relief Society of the Church! What greater objective could any relief organization have than the development of generations of normal, well developed, healthy children? While spiritual growth is not dependent upon proper physical development, I feel sincerely that the Creator intended that His children should be physically sound and well in order that they might be mentally and spiritually strong.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ADEQUATE PERSONALITY DEVELOPMENT—ITS RELATION TO CHILD WELFARE
By Ora W. Chipman
"For every child understanding and the guarding of his personality as his most precious right."—The Children's Charter.
One of the major objectives in the field of child welfare is that of attempting to secure for every child the development of a personality and of a character capable of meeting every stress and strain of life with confidence and eventual happiness—a personality which will enable him to realize his highest possibilities.
A good concept of personality was submitted at the White House Conference by Dr. Bronson Crothers, who defined it as, "the individual with all his emotional and intellectual peculiarities, trying to realize happiness and efficiency in the environment in which he lives."
Everyone, then, has personality; everyone—even he who seems to fail—is trying to create a successful life. The fortunate individual with the healthful mental attitudes of an adequate personality will succeed.
It is now the belief of many psychologists that adult behavior is the direct result of seeds of behavior planted in early childhood. The opinion of experts at the White House Conference was that factors that distort personality development exercise their greatest effects during the first six or seven years of life, and that those are the best years for development of desirable character traits and for modification of undesirable traits already established.
It has been estimated by authorities that there is a vast number of mentally ill people, not under treatment, who are suffering from serious but wholly avoidable distortions of personality probably caused by faulty training in childhood. There are, also, vast numbers of children who are seriously delinquent and of children and adolescents who are inmates of mental hospitals. One child out of every three is considered by child welfare representatives at the White House Conference to have personality difficulties which are serious enough to require the attention of a psychiatrist. These estimates help us to realize the significance of the development of healthful mental attitudes in childhood.
Conclusions from surveys to discover qualities generally considered as attributes of an attractive personality indicate that the most outstanding are: attractive physical appearance, intelligence, pleasing temperament, and sound character. Of these temperament and character are the most important. It is a common belief that temperament is inherited, but it now seems probable that this assumption is incorrect. "Temperamental reactions are learned habits formed in the early years. Much of the fundamental nature of temperament has been determined by the end of the first three years." The child's temperament consists of his attitudes toward the various phases of life. These attitudes are developed, not born. "Children who are gloomy or optimistic, suspicious or trustful, timid or courageous, loving or hateful, have been taught these modes of feeling, or they have stumbled into them, for these characteristics are not inherent in child nature." Regarding character much has been written and detail will be unnecessary here. The most admirable

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
and most successful characters seem to be based on attitudes of love and trust both in a supreme being and in fellow man. Fundamental also is faith in their own ability to live happy useful lives. But even these characteristics are implanted in early childhood.
Diverging from the positive values of character let us consider some of the most outstanding pitfalls into which children drift and often remain with consequent damage to their personalities. Some of these are excessive modesty, suspiciousness, bashfulness, withdrawing into one's self, desire to play alone, constant whining, fears, day dreaming, demands for attention, sensitiveness, sulkiness, and anger. Of these fear and anger seem to be most damaging. Fear has played such an important part in breaking down personality that eminent students of mental health speak of it as the "chaos of fear," and the "bogey of fear." Many fears are in the subconscious,
347
influencing lives without the conscious knowledge of the person. It probably produces more unhappiness and more abnormalities than any other known cause. It can be overcome by proper treatment. A fear carefully examined usually disappears. A fear should be replaced with a situation which a child can meet with confidence, keeping his faith in God and restoring his faith in himself. We should provide in our training for the formation of the habit of facing difficulties now and practically, for the need of constructive work, and for habits of normal reaction to feeling—or healthful emotions.
It is our aim in child welfare work to help mothers lay the foundations for these healthful mental attitudes of normal buoyant personalities equipped to develop the greatest possibilities of life. The more we learn of the exact science of creating adequate well integrated personalities in our children the more progress we make, the happier we help to make the lives of generations now and to come.
First General Session
WHO'S WHO IN RELIEF SOCIETY IN 1937
By Ida Petersen Beal
A golden opportunity is ours to draw to your attention the Who's Who in Relief Society for the year 1937. Ten Magazine agents have "gone over the top" in securing the highest percentage of subscriptions. We wish to thank all our Magazine Agents who have been so earnest in their efforts. These splendid women have worked so faithfully, unmindful many times of their own physical discomfort, and we see them and their labor as a bright background for our Who's Who today.

The women who rate as our Who's Who come from many sections of the United States, and one from faroff Australia, which they say "lies under the world." Naturally we ask, "How did they do it?" What was their equipment? Some few items are listed which have helped materially in their success. When on duty, they were prepared; pencil, paper for accuracy, reinforced with prayer, purpose, personality, and perseverance. They translated an ideal into a purpose and
348
they have brought honor to our beloved organization. So in behalf of the Relief Society it is a pleasure to present each of these ten women, with a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine for 1937 in recognition of their achievement. The names of our winners are as follows:
1.—Hurstville Branch        Violet Cook
2.—Worland Branch          Clara Gheen
3.—Milo Branch             Lila Gildea
4.—Cody Big Horn           Zelda Moore
5.—Elko Nevada             Claris Cameron
6.—Basin Big Horn          Lova Kinghorn
7.—La Grande First Union   Emma Stringham
8.—Pittsburg Australian Mission   Gwen R. Wrathall
9.—McGill Nevada           Louisa Johnson
10.—Eighth Ogden           Alta H. Poulson
Big Horn Mission
North Idaho Falls
Eastern States Mission
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ADDRESS
By Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon
As I have reviewed the Relief Society in the ninety-six years of its existence, I have come to the conclusion that it is the greatest welfare organization of women in the world. I know of no other with the number of members and engaged in the same field which is doing such splendid volunteer welfare work and performing other activities as efficiently as is this organization.

I have here a brief statement prepared under the direction of the General Presidency of Relief Society, not entirely complete, of what was done in a general way in cooperation with the Church Security program last year in 99 out of 118 stakes. I will take time enough to read it: Number of Quilts made, 4,097; Number of New Articles of Clothing Made, 8,452; Number of Articles of Clothing Remodeled, 15,808; Number of Quarts of Fruit Canned, 102,803; Number of Quarts of Vegetables Canned, 134,585; Number of Pounds of Fruit Dried, 42,205; Number of Pounds of Vegetables Dried, 4,479; Number of Families Taught to Put Up Their Own Food Supplies, 3,301; Number of Families Taught to Do Their Own Sewing, 2,293; Number of Women Given Work Relief in Canning Centers, 2,027; Total Number of Days of Work Relief in Canning, Sewing and Other Centers, 40,850; Number of Women Given Work Relief in Canning, Sewing and Other Centers, 3,997; Number of Women Who Have Given Volunteer Service in Canning, Sewing or Other Projects, 14,319.
The volunteer service was given by women who are largely engaged in their own households, but who also work in Relief Society as officers and teachers, finding time to give much service for the benefit and blessing of others. In addition thereto, the Relief Society has collected and has disbursed for relief in cash donations last year $67,632.00. To me this is a very remarkable statement. When the report is entirely complete it will doubtless show about 16% more.
In my experience of twenty-one years while in the Stake Presidency, and approximately thirteen years in the Presiding Bishopric, Relief Society officers and teachers have shown themselves to be among the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
most active and dependable workers in the Church.
A question has been presented to me which I have been requested to answer. The question is: "The Relief Society has been given the responsibility of making investigations, and finding the needs of the families. When this is done and the report given to the Bishop, and he ignores the report and says the family doesn't need the help suggested, what is the Relief Society President to do?"
To answer that properly I should like to present it to the particular Bishop concerned. But I will say that all should appreciate the importance, as they have been requested to do, of having the Relief Society officers who are trained in the essentials of social service, investigate for them all cases who desire relief, and recommend the necessary help. Also they should have the Relief Society administer the relief under their direction.
The Bishoprics have a great variety of responsibilities. Besides, they do not have the facilities at hand to investigate for themselves. To conserve their time, and to employ the means available through the Relief Society Social Service, this work will be more effectually done. Except in very urgent cases the Bishopric should not expend money for relief on any cases without having the investigation and the recommendation by the Relief Society officers. If that is done I am sure that in every case greater justice and fairness will be shown.
There are people who will try to take advantage of the Church. I had a telegram from the Branch President of one of the Eastern cities only yesterday, in which a man who had just arrived from the West, asked for relief upon his arrival there. How could he travel all the way to that Eastern city and then have
349
spent all his money and be in need of help? There may be conditions where people might be short of means temporarily. But for people to travel across the continent and ask for help immediately upon their arrival, looks rather suspicious. It is rather surprising to me. It happened that we had in our office a reliable report from California that this man had been for years going from ward to ward begging from various Bishops, depending on the Church, without doing anything in return. We suggested if he were able to get to Washington he should find a way to get back to his home, that we do not encourage those in need to travel from place to place. They should remain in their own communities, because there they have established residence, and they are entitled to help either from the County, Government or Church where necessary. But when they come as strangers, it is not fair that they should call upon the Church organizations for help; and they certainly cannot get it from the Government or County relief sources.
The Relief Society Social Service workers are trained in the essentials of social welfare. They are generally women of mature experience, possessed of the spirit of kindness, sympathy and good judgment. When they make a report to the Bishop as to whether or not any families need help, I feel, and I have told the Bishops, it should be their pleasure to accept the Relief Society recommendations. The Relief Society is generally better able to get at the real conditions and to distribute relief fairly and sympathetically. If the Bishop refuses to do that, I can only say the Bishop, under the revelation of the Lord, is the judge in Israel and he must be responsible. As a judge, he should accept the information about what is needed by those
350
who are competent to advise, and he should rightly approve their recommendations.
We are so concerned to see that the Bishoprics avail themselves of the fine social service of the Relief Society in properly determining and caring for the needs of members in distress, that we shall call this important matter again to their prompt attention.
I need not say how important it is to try and bring about conditions which will enable the people who are on relief to obtain employment. It seems there are some conditions prevailing at present throughout the nation which are interfering with economic improvement, and the employment that should be available. There are many factors which appear to be favorable toward increased industrial activity throughout the nation. We must all realize that the way to increase employment must come through fostering private industry. Yet we must take conditions as they are and try to make the best of them by promoting employment and furnishing relief wherever necessary among the members of the Church.
I would like to say a few words about what I think the women of Relief Society can do. This proposition of developing handcraft is one that will offer possibilities. For example, in one of the hotels in this city, the draperies for the windows were woven and made in a little backwoods section of West Virginia by a group of women in that locality. There is much in the nature of handicraft being fostered by Relief Society that may develop into very worth while industries, and there are many more, as suggested by Director Peterson, that can be promoted throughout this State.
Another thing I would like to mention is the importance of civic and home improvements. By advancing cleanliness and neatness and by tree
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
planting and all of those things that help to beautify, homes and communities are made much more attractive. In the early days, if you drove through Davis and some parts of Utah Counties, you would find a lot of very beautiful evergreen trees, junipers, pines, firs and others of the evergreen type, and also evergreen shrubbery. They give a greenness and life to our communities in the winter. If we plant some evergreens by the sides and as a background to the houses throughout our communities, it gives life, greenness and beauty and adds much to our surroundings.
In the communities as a whole there is the matter of improving home surroundings. I noticed throughout California that if they cannot afford paint, they will at least whitewash their out-buildings and fences. This is very much worth while. It costs so little to get a little whitewash for these buildings, and it gives a neatness that cannot be obtained otherwise. Of course, good paint is still better in appearance and as a protection for wood.
There is a statement made by President Brigham Young in this connection. Speaking to the women of the Church in early days he said: "It is your right, wives, to ask your husbands to set out beautiful shade and fruit trees, and to get you some vines and flowers with which to adorn the outside of your dwellings; and if your husbands have not time, get them yourselves and plant them out. Some, perhaps, will say, 'O, I have nothing but a log house, and it is not worth that.' Yes, it is worth it. Whitewash and plaster it up, and get vines to run over the door, so that everybody who passes will say, 'What a lovely little cottage!'"
This advice is just as applicable today as it was then. May I suggest to you mothers,
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
that after all, the greatest responsibility which rests upon you and your husbands is the training of your children, the greatest resource we have in this state and nation and in this Church—the training of young people to resist vice and immorality, to resist the temptations which will interfere with their progress. Temperance, clean living, and morality are the strong points in the building of character. In connection with the Spirit of the Lord they will help our young people to grow in righteousness. We are in the world, but we are not of the world. We have to meet these temptations,
351
but let us train our children to learn to resist them. We cannot hide or conceal vices, but we can advise, counsel and train our children so that they will have the power in themselves to resist such temptations as they are bound to meet in life.
The addresses by Director William Peterson of Utah Agricultural College, and Henry D. Moyle, Chairman of General Church Security Committee, will appear in a later issue of the Magazine.
Second General Session
The following are organizations and reorganizations since October Conference.
ORGANIZATIONS
Date                    Stake             Appointed President
February, 1938         Mount Graham      Ethel D. Payne
                      (Divided from St. Joseph)
February, 1938         Phoenix           Elnora Shupe
                      (Divided from Maricopa)
January, 1938          Smithfield        Annie M. Farr
                      (Divided from Benson)

REORGANIZATIONS
Date        Stake         Released          Appointed President
Jan. 1938   Benson        Annie M. Farr     Lula E. Johnson
Feb. 1938   Summit        Myrtle Richens    Katherine M. Judd
East German Mission—Ida D. Rees
West German Mission—Susan G. Kelly
Swiss-Austrian Mission—Fawn B. McKay
Dec. 1937   Big Horn      Hazel N. Boyack   Mary Davis
Feb. 1938   Maricopa      Elnora Shupe      Ella T. Lee
Feb. 1938   St. Joseph    Ethel D. Payne    Martha Westenskow
Jan. 1938   Union         Fay H. Harris     Ellen S. Bean
352                    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
STANDARDS OF LIVING
By Counselor Kate M. Barker
Today when there is so much revolt against old orders, many of the standards which we thought were fixed and stable are being lowered. Some youth are asking, "Can one succeed in a business way, and be honest?" Someone must carry these banners forward.
There are certain standards of living which are basic to which we must adhere. The future depends on the willingness of today's leadership to carry these banners, and to awaken and arouse youth. It is not resources we lack, either material or human. It is the will to be and to lead. Surely our Father in Heaven has the right to expect that the members of His Church will assume this leadership. "For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required."
In our country we have mass civilization, schools, libraries, science in service for all, and we are now talking of security for all. No amount of emphasis upon education, opportunity or security can obscure the basic necessity of the fundamental qualities of honesty, loyalty, industry, cooperation, absolute integrity of mind and heart. Culture is only a veneer unless there is this integrity of heart. This must be built in the homes.
But most people are spiritually lazy. It is easy to send a child to school to learn history, etc., but it takes time to watch the child in his play and all the acts of everyday life to see that he plays fair, that he is loyal to what he knows is right, that he is learning to cooperate, to get down to hard work and to do his work thoroughly. The same characteristics that are developed in little things will carry over to the bigger things of life.
We must build such a sensitiveness to truth and beauty that anything that is false or vulgar is repulsive. This is our only safety. We want our boys and girls to fulfill fine missions. These must be planned for. The Gospel is truth and beauty, and unless a person is fundamentally honest and clean he will not appreciate the real beauty of the Gospel. We cannot have moral integrity without mental honesty.
We must learn to think; we must not pick up an opinion here and a carelessly thrown scrap of information there, or fill our minds with ready-made statements and imagine we know how to think. The world needs straight and honest thinking.

There is no doubt that the world is progressing in social thinking—relief for the needy, make-work for the unemployed, old age assistance. But this type of civilization calls for a higher type of individual—higher in those fundamental qualities of honesty, industry and cooperation. These projects are for those who need. Any attempt on the part of parents and grandparents to evade the law by taking what is not absolutely needed, by not giving an honest day's work, by concealing their property or turning it over to children, is dishonesty. It cannot be concealed from the children and grandchildren.
Standards are not lowered suddenly. A certain mental attitude is developed in a few, and unless counteracted by the active influence of the majority, develops slowly into a general lowering of standards, a generalized mode of thinking. A definite, positive effort must be made to counteract this growing tendency of wanting something for
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
nothing, of doing only enough to get by. Think of the mothers, to say nothing of the youth of the next generation, depending on our success in maintaining a high standard of integrity.
SOCIAL ETHICS
General Secretary Julia A. F. Lund
The term social must be understood in its first meaning—companionship or mutual relationships with others of one's kind; group life in other words. Ethics is the science which deals with conduct in so far as it is considered right or wrong, good or bad. In group life there must be organization and effort. This subject, naturally, has a great appeal for Relief Society as it emphasizes the ideal of the organization, the animating spirit of our Church and the spirit of sisterhood, to be willing to serve each other and share burdens and privileges, and to develop the spirit of self-help so vital to success in life.
We stand today facing one of the great crises of the world. We need clear thinking, great courage, firm faith to guide us. Our heritage is one of traditions which have been developed through a study of the past.
We must teach them to realize that liberty is a great ethical ideal, and cannot exist without justice, and the highest aim of justice is the protection of liberty, which always must depend upon self-discipline and self-control.
As we regard the world today, deep gratitude fills our hearts for this land of "choice above all other lands," where we live under the finest pronouncement of social ethics ever to be given of a government, guaranteed under the Constitution of the United States. During the current year we have witnessed great epic in history, Lewis and Clark, and William Clark, that daring woman Sacajawea, have told the heart and soul of America's story.

Of all the civilizing agencies of the human family, the Bible is therefore the greatest treasure house of social ethics. Our art, literature and music, laws and government, our family and
354
community life, the mold of our civilization and all that it implies are shaped by this greatest contribution from the ancient to the modern world. From beginning to end it is full of priceless stories and examples of all our highest ideals. We know that the New Testament is the most ethical book ever given to the world. It is the source of the only perfect social order. Every miracle performed, every parable uttered is a perfect example of applied social ethics. True neighborliness and brotherhood were the cornerstones of Christ's teaching. This is one way of expressing the great value of every human personality which is so precious in the sight of our Father in Heaven. "If you love me, feed my sheep." Is this after all not the source of all good manners—the very flower of our civilization? What we need is more application of the principles in our daily life. Historic and spiritual examples are of no value unless we can use them in solving our problems. A very RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE beautiful and a very useful lesson is expressed in The Log Cabin Lady. It was an eloquent plea for appreciation of the real values in life, yet it called attention to many of our shortcomings and demonstrated how one may be just as manly and just as womanly and yet pay due respect to the refinements of life. This is not a reverent age and lack of reverence often leads to a Jack of courtesy. I believe we are all shocked at times by the lack of respect shown to elderly people, to women, and oh, so often to things which others hold sacred. These offenses against good manners just couldn't happen if we applied the rule of conduct given by the greatest Teacher who ever lived. If we exercised the same care in public buildings and places of worship that we do in our own highly prized homes, the vandalism so common, would be abolished. If we could only live the two laws upon which hang, "all the law and the Gospel,' we would insure the observance of a perfect system of social ethics as well as realize fullest spiritual development. ADDRESS By President Louise Y. Robison REVIEWING the activities of Relief Society during the past six months, one is amazed at the amount of work which has been accomplished by the members of the organization. In many avenues of service women are endeavoring to raise life to its highest level. Spiritual security is found only in action, which like the plane's onward motion is necessary to preserve buoyancy and balance. In understanding, in love, in usefulness, the opportunities for service are boundless. Spiritual and intellectual development are given to Relief Society members in the meetings held each week. Here lessons are studied in Theology, Literature, Social Service or Child Guidance, and household arts are taught. Rich experience comes to 1,918 class leaders who prepare lessons each week, and faith is strengthened through the opportunity of bearing testimony. At these meetings the Relief Society Singing Mothers are a source of real pleasure, bringing a spiritual as well as a cultural influence to the group. Visiting Teachers are also a RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE mighty force for good. Their labors never cease, summer or winter; whatever the weather the work goes on. It would be interesting if we could compute the miles and miles these sisters walk each year in performing their service of love. Aid to the Bishops in caring for the sick and needy, especially in rehabilitating families, has been one of the Society's outstanding activities. What tact, what love and patience are required to understand the heartaches and sorrows of those whose load is too heavy to be borne alone. In order to do all in our power to strengthen Church Security, an industry, under the name of Mormon Handicraft, has been established. Thousands of dollars have gone into homes from this enterprise to supplement family incomes. The Bread-making Project has been helpful. Hundreds of demonstrations have been given and reports of the interest revived in this important household art has been most gratifying. Improved methods of laundering have created great interest. The skill in remodeling used clothing has been developed to a stage of perfection that is truly amazing. Cooperating with the State Board of Health, Relief Society women have assisted in holding clinics, and much remedial work has been accomplished. The Magazine drive which closed in November was _ outstanding. While the Australian Mission carried off the laurels with 338% subscriptions in the Hurstville Branch, we remember with gratitude each Magazine Agent for the excellent service to Relief Society. Even if the goal of 100% was not always reached, the fine missionary work accomplished in wards and branches was of great worth. Relief Society work is not confined 355 to the United States alone. Lessons are given in many tongues, but the spirit of the work is the same. Our records show that 18,290 days were spent with: the sick and lonely since last Conference. These were not leisure hours. Home work was not neglected, but women testify in all seriousness that they are given added strength when in service to humanity. Has not our Father in Heaven always lifted our burdens to the extent that we have diligently sought Him? Although Relief Society has accomplished much, there is still the call for service. As long as there are ill, malnourished children, as long as there are poorly managed homes,' as long as there are lonely hearts and people who have lost faith in God, there is work for women of Relief Society. Would we have the power to do these things? The secret of power lies in willing obedience to the small requirements, the things we sometimes feel are too insignificant. The burden of the Savior's message, when He dwelt among men, was, "I do not mine own will but the will of my Father that sent me." Could any principle of the Gospel or any advice given by the Prophet of God for our good be too simple to win our attention? At heart we are all religious but following our own ideas or desires often deprives us of great blessings. If we could only realize that the things the Gospel stands for are the things of most value in life! Do human beings ever get so much on a small investment as on the little actually invested in willing obedience to the word of the Lord? This is the simple cost of spiritual power. More than anything else, our world needs spirituality. Multitudes have lost faith and vision and courage. These are inside values. They are qualities of the spirit. 356 How can Relief Society women help to restore this spirituality? How can they develop such faith as the Centurion exhibited when he asked the Lord, Jesus Christ, to heal his servant? He said, "Speak the word only and my servant shall be healed." We have two avenues given to us in which to use our influence, the home and the community. We have been given the injunction, "'to correct the morals and strengthen the virtues of community life". To develop faith in our homes we should have cleanliness, order, industry, and love. We should establish the practice of family prayer, keep the Sabbath day holy, and cheerfully perform acts of kindness for our families. The Relief Society Home Scriptural Reading Project offers subject matter for spiritual development. How many of our children know the names of the Church Authorities and the offices they hold? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE How many read the Book of Mormon and know how it was given to us, the Articles of Faith? Are children taught to take care of their bodies and that health depends very largely on what one eats? In community life we can lead in reverence for houses of worship, respect for public property, health through cooperation with county nurses. Conduct depends largely upon health, and health upon the food one eats. In our Membership Campaign the best way to get new members is to show by our lives that Relief Society is a benefit to us. I count it an asset to be a member of Relief Society. One's strength is in the righteousness of the cause, the worthiness of its purpose, the nobility of the work. They nerve us for effort, sustain in defeat, inspire to further endeavor. The Gospel gives us the power of patience, endurance in the long wait and assurance of final victory.

GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
STAKE, WARD AND MISSION REPORTS
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1937
Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary

Balance Cash on Hand January 1, 1937:
Charity Fund........................$ 51,620.83
General Fund........................ 106,949.66
Wheat Trust Fund.................... 6,260.91
Stake Board Funds................... 40,211.51

Total Cash Receipts:
Charity Fund........................$ 78,839.50
General Fund:
    Contributions....................$101,957.49
    Annual Dues..................... 25,992.46
    Other Receipts.................. 57,952.39
    Total General Fund Receipts..... $185,902.34
Stake Board Receipts................ 59,129.36

Total Cash Receipts.................$323,871.20
Total Cash to Account For...........$528,914.11

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE                           357

Cash Disbursements:
Charity Paid........................$ 67,632.09
General Fund:
    General Expenses................$124,670.57
    Annual Dues..................... 27,707.17
    Other Disbursements............. 25,377.26
    Total General Fund Disbursements $177,755.00
Wheat Trust Fund.................... 2,061.40
Stake Board Disbursements........... 57,918.97

Total Cash Disbursements...........$305,367.46

Balance Cash on Hand December 31, 1937:
Charity Fund........................$ 62,828.24
General Fund........................ 115,097.36
Wheat Trust Fund.................... 4,199.51
Stake Board Funds................... 41,421.90

Total...............................$223,546.65

Merchandise Received................$ 20,688.94
Merchandise Disbursed............... 15,169.95
Balance on Hand....................$ 5,518.99

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
STAKE, WARD AND MISSION REPORTS
DECEMBER 31, 1937

ASSETS
Cash on Hand, All Funds.............$ 223,547.43
Cash on Hand, Presiding Bishop's Office.. 409,919.41
(Wheat Trust Fund)
Other Invested Funds................ 32,841.81
Total..............................$ 666,308.65

Real Estate and Buildings...........$ 161,033.46
Furniture and Fixtures.............. 91,077.51
Total..............................$ 252,110.97

Other Stake Board Assets............$ 64,734.79
Other Assets........................ 36,173.95
Total..............................$ 100,908.74

Total..............................$1,019,328.36

LIABILITIES
Indebtedness.......................$ 1,176.82
Stake Board Net Assets.............. 105,857.51
Balance, Net Assets................. 912,294.03

Total..............................$1,019,328.36

STATISTICS
Membership:
January 1, 1937:
Executive and Special Officers....... 15,711
Visiting Teachers................... 24,860
Other Members....................... 32,491
Total Membership January 1, 1937..... 73,062

Increase:
Admitted to Membership During Year... 10,341
Total Membership and Increase........ 83,403

Decrease:
Removed or Resigned................. 7,415
Died............................... 924

358                    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Membership:
December 31, 1937:
Executive and Special Officers....... 16,026
Visiting Teachers................... 25,486
Other Members....................... 33,552
Total Membership December 31, 1937... 75,064

The Total Membership Includes:
General Officers and Board Members... 23
Stake Officers and Board Members..... 1,372
Mission Presidents and Officers...... 156

Number of Stakes.................... 118
Number of Missions.................. 32
Number of Relief Society Ward and Branch Organizations... 1,918
Number of Visiting Teachers' Districts... 14,296
Number of L. D. S. Families in Wards... 149,851
Number of Relief Society Magazines Taken... 41,721
Number of Executive Officers Taking Relief Society Magazine... 6,321
Number of Meetings Held in Wards.... 65,001
Number of Stake Meetings Held....... 2,377
Number of Stake and Ward Officers' (Union) Meetings Held... 1,250
Number of Ward Conferences Held..... 1,499
Average Attendance at Ward Meetings.. 31,203
Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers... 991,623
Number of Families Helped........... 16,185
Number of Days Spent with the Sick... 36,477
Number of Special Visits to the Sick and Homebound... 204,125
Number of Bodies Prepared for Burial... 1,663
Number of Visits to Wards by Stake Officers... 7,595

COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS
                                    1935      1936      1937
Paid for Charitable Purposes.......$66,863.86 $67,189.48 $67,632.09
Total or Present Membership....... 72,093    73,062    75,064
No. Of Relief Society Organizations 1,744     1,782     1,918
No. Of Relief Society Magazines Taken 35,899  40,075    41,721
No. Of Days Spent with the Sick.... 43,996   39,929    36,477
No. Of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound 228,871 215,260 204,125
No. Of Families Helped............ 16,647   15,152    16,185
No. Of Visits by Relief Society Officers to Wards 6,113 6,690 7,595
No. Of Visits by Relief Society Visiting Teachers 994,261 986,687 991,623

DISTRIBUTION OF MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Stakes                          Missions
Arizona........................ 2,711    Argentina.................. 200
California.................... 3,274    Australia.................. 191
Illinois...................... 238      Canada.................... 115
Canada........................ 1,379    Europe.................... 4,481
Colorado...................... 504      Hawaii.................... 644
Hawaii........................ 442      Mexico.................... 182
Idaho......................... 10,415   New Zealand............... 432
Mexico........................ 154      Samoa..................... 447
Nevada........................ 949      South Africa.............. 156
New York...................... 174      Tahiti.................... 265
Oregon........................ 180      Tonga..................... 177
Utah.......................... 39,007   United States............. 6,326
Wyoming....................... 2,023    
                                       Total Membership in Missions 13,616

Total Membership in Stakes........ 61,448

Total Membership in Stakes and Missions......... 75,064

(Note: In the foregoing report all funds are held and disbursed in the various Wards, with the exception of the Annual Membership Dues.)

L. D. S. Training Doesn't Cost—It Pays!

THE L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE IS DEDICATED TO THE SERVICE OF YOUTH

Your time is short! Your name and address on a card will bring full information.

L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
70 North Main
Salt Lake City
Wasatch 1812

The School Of Efficient Instruction, Friendly Counsel, and Active Employment Service

A Word to the Bride

We are prepared, now, more than ever before, to supply you with the smartest and most modern wedding stationery. New styles, new types, new methods of treatment are constantly being developed to bring smartness and style to this feature of your great adventure. And prices are most reasonable. Call or write today.

The DESERET NEWS PRESS
29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City
The leading printers in the West for Eighty Years

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

YOUTH is the time for vocational education—and the time is short!

The L. D. S. Business College is on a par with the best schools of its kind ANYWHERE AT ANY PRICE.

HAPPY DAYS AHEAD??

This happy scene of Mother and children is pleasant to see. Mother is serene in the knowledge that BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY makes certain the protection and care of her children in future days. Naturally, she wants them to have a good start in life, an education, and a chance. That's why she has laid the foundation for them with a BENEFICIAL policy.

Let us help plan the future of YOUR family. Call our nearest agent or write the home office now!

BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
HOME OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Vol. XXV                        JUNE, 1938                        No. 6

SEE STRANGE NEW SIGHTS NOT FAR AWAY

A thirty-minute spin to a favorite picnic spot—a week-end jaunt—or a long vacation trip. It will give you something new to talk about if you have a copy of "Travel Hints." This handy, 48-page, illustrated booklet contains unusual facts about more than 100 interesting places to visit in your car. There's no other book like it.

FREE TO MOTORISTS

Drive in and ask for this helpful travel book. Also "Fishing Hints"—booklets for motorists who enjoy fishing.

Pep 88—Vico, the tough-bodied, longer lasting motor oil—are the team mates that give you more economical motoring.

GASOLINE STATIONS EVERYWHERE IN UTAH & IDAHO

WHAT BRIGHAM YOUNG SPECIFIED

Sixty-three years ago, when President Brigham Young founded B. Y. U., he instructed that practical vocational training be given and that all work be taught in the spirit of God.

Therefore the Church University offers training in more than one hundred occupations and provides spiritual and ethical development.

SUMMER QUARTER
First Term, June 13-July 22; Alpine Term, July 25-August 27
National Recreation Institute, June 13-July 22
Conference on Elementary Education, June 20-24
Writers' Roundup, July 18-19

AUTUMN QUARTER
REGISTRATION September 23, 24, 26, 1938.

BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY
Provo, Utah

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

—at any Pep 88—Vico Station

Thrifty—Modern

Follow the Thrifty Buyers to O. P. S. Stores. Follow them and see them shop in our modern stores. Follow them and see the pleasant surroundings they shop in. Follow them and see the fine quality they buy. Follow them and see them save money on their food buying.

Immediately and enjoy O. P. S. Profitable, pleasurable food shopping.

SKAGGS
Efficient Service System
"Surety of Purity"

BOOKS—for young and old

If you have children in your home, you will be delighted at our wide selection of really good books for young people.

Of course—we also have the largest stock of books in the Intermountain Region for grown-ups.

New and Standard Editions
Reference Books, Fiction, Church Publications, and a thousand and one items for home, school, office or classroom.

DESERET BOOK COMPANY
44 East South Temple                    Salt Lake City, Utah

Specially Selected RELIEF SOCIETY MUSIC

Send for Sample Copies

O Bread of Life                    In The Time of Roses
O Morn of Beauty                  The Lord's Prayer
Annie Laurie                       By The Bend of The River
Sanctus                           Dedication
and many others

Largest stock of Sheet Music and Musicians' supplies in the Intermountain West

Daynes Music Co.
Successors to Consolidated Music Company and Daynes-Beebe Music Company

47 South Main St.                  Salt Lake City, Utah

Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty
Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders

Temple and Burial Clothes
Variety of Grades and Prices

GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY
Open Daily—9 A. M. To 5 P. M.
Telephone Wasatch 3286
29 Bishop's Building                Salt Lake City, Utah.

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Vol. XXV                        JUNE, 1938                        No. 6

CONTENTS

Spring Weaver.........................Ruth Harwood    359
Frontispiece (Spring Weaver)..........Ruth Harwood    360
Utilizing Local Resources.............William Peterson 361
For Father On His Day................Vesta P. Crawford 367
Brigham Young's Qualities of Leadership...Nephi L. Morris 368
Ruth Harwood—Artist-Poet.............Ramona W. Cannon 376
You Are Going To Be Married..........Helen Spencer Williams 380
Devotional..........................Christie Lund Coles 384
June...............................Elsie E. Barrett 385
Generations........................Wilford D. Lee 386
Golden Anniversary of Manti Temple....J. B. Jennings 395
The Setting Sun—To Professor Alfred Osmond...Lorine Hutchinson Lee 397
Hannah.............................Elizabeth Worthington Shane 398
Our Father Knows...................Leah D. Widtsoe 401
What Think You?....................Glenn G. Smith 404
Progress..........................Henry D. Moyle 405
Song of Service...................Zelda Davis Howard 410
Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd...Dorothy Clapp Robinson 411
An Old Lady Prays.................Thyrza R. Berrett 415
When The Desert Blooms............Dorothy Nell Mair 416
The Children's Reading............Florence Ivins Hyde 418
Precious Word....................Eva Willes Wangsgaard 419
Real Happenings..................Annie Wells Cannon 420

Editorials:
Anti-Liquor-Tobacco Campaign........................ 421
Good Manners........................................... 422
Preview of Lessons..................................... 424
Notes From The Field.....................Julia A. F. Lund 427
Burgeoning.........................Beatrice Knowlton Ekman 430

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Editorial and Business Offices: 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Telephone Wasatch 980

Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c.

The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.

Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.

Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.

"Everything to Furnish the Home"

THE GREATEST VARIETY AND LARGEST STOCK OF
Living Room, Dining Room and Bedroom Furniture in the Intermountain Territory

400 Suites to Choose From

GRANITE FURNITURE CO.
Out of the High Rent District

The Home of
THE ROUND OAK RANGE, AMERICAN BEAUTY WASHERS.
KELVINATOR, FRIGIDAIRE AND STEWART WARNER REFRIGERATORS

Quality and Service Come First—We Deliver Everywhere

MURRAY                    SUGAR HOUSE                    PROVO

MURRAY LAUNDRY
"More Leisure Time for Women"

Try Our Most Popular Family Service
Damp Wash with the Flat Work Carefully Ironed
For Only 6c Per Pound

PHONE HYLAND 612 OR MURRAY 213

Your Clothes Last Longer

Don't be Deceived!
Our Charges Are According to Your Desires

Lindquist Sons
Carlquist Co.

FUNERAL DIRECTORS
2128 So. State, Salt Lake                    Phone Hy. 1572

LINDQUIST & SONS
Ogden                    2620 Wash. Blvd.                    Phone 520

UNDERWEAR—Newest Improved Patterns for both Men and Women—we have served you now for 38 years—can be purchased as usual at

SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE
42 South Main Street

1938 Samples and Prices sent FREE on Request

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

Because They are washed in Soft Water

FISHER'S VITAMIN "D" BREAD

Try this superior health-giving bread, it is your greatest source of food-energy.
Also delicious cakes!

Products of
AMERICAN LADY BAKING COMPANY
Salt Lake City, Utah
The Big Home-Owned Bakery

There is no substitute for quality!

The Lovely June Bride

She'll need so many things

TEA TOWELS                    PILLOW CASES
QUILTS, RUGS                  LUNCHEON SETS
GUEST TOWELS                  BED SPREADS

MORMON HANDICRAFT
Bureau of Information—Temple Square

Cook Fast! Cook Better! Save Money!
WITH AN ELECTRIC RANGE!

More than 140,000 people in the territory we serve, are now enjoying the many advantages of ELECTRIC COOKING!

SEE YOUR DEALER or
UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

By RUTH HARWOOD

The bare branches of the poplars reaching high
Are an empty warp upon a loom of sky.
It is waiting for the hands of Spring who weaves
A finished pattern with a web of leaves.

—From "The Lyric Road"

SPRING WEAVER

SPRING WEAVER
RUTH HARWOOD

The Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XXV                        JUNE, 1938                        No. 6

Utilizing Local Resources
By William Peterson
Director Extension Service, Utah State Agricultural College
(Conference Address)

I know of no group of people with whom I meet where I would rather attempt to put over a project than with the Relief Society of the Mormon Church. I represent the Extension Service of the Agricultural College. Our program and work extends over the entire state, but in every county and in almost every community we work through the Relief Society in putting over the work we are doing, and we have the cooperation and support of the Relief Society workers in the county and community programs.

I am going to attempt to tell you some of the real facts about a few of the problems that we must meet if we are to go forward in the State of Utah and in the surrounding states. I wonder if you have ever tried to give serious consideration to why we came to Utah. Of course, there was the seeking of religious freedom, but in addition, there was an opportunity to establish homes and make a living. Land and water were found here. To begin with, probably the realization that we were living in a semi-desert was not as definitely before us as at present. We do live in a semi-desert and most cultivated plants will not mature without water in addition to rainfall. The rainfall is light, humidity is low, and even in the better valleys the rainfall is only about half that necessary for maturing plants.

I remember, as a lad, hearing people talk regarding the richness and abundance found in the soils occupying the valleys in Utah and Idaho. The preachers took the stand that our soils were so rich that they would last forever. I am sure some of our communities have gone on ever since with that thought in mind, but we are now confronted with problems in the use of these soils in order to determine whether they are going to be continually productive.

The best and most outstanding resource we have in the state of Utah is that parcel of land we are cultivating. I say parcel of land. Why? There are 52,500,000 acres in the State of Utah, outside of the lakes, and after 90 years of settlement we can boast that we have 1,324,000 acres under cultivation—only 2.6 per cent. In addition to that we have plowed about 480,000 acres which are used for dry farming, but the total acreage from which we are extracting cultivated crops is less than two million in the State of Utah.

Have we reached our growth? It is rather striking that no appreciable new acres have been added to the farm lands of Utah in 20 years. Some of us believe we must expand. The land we are plowing, when considered in its entirety, is going gradually down in production. We are extracting less from it each year. The records I have collected in meetings in 26 counties of the state in the last three months give the testimony of the people themselves, that our production of crops has gone down about 25 per cent. Our income from crops has gone down twelve to fifteen million dollars as compared with that received a decade or so ago. The annual income from agricultural crops, livestock and livestock products from 1920 to 1930 was approximately sixty to sixty-eight million dollars. Since 1931 it has been only from thirty to forty-eight million dollars, and in the meantime our indebtedness has increased. In 1910 the farm mortgage debt recorded on the lands of Utah was approximately seven and one-half million dollars. In 1937 the recorded mortgage debt was approximately forty-five million dollars.

I should like to appeal to you to consider the soil we have as a heritage that must be preserved for ourselves and those who come after us. It is a heritage in which the fertility must be kept up—a heritage that must continue to produce and give us a satisfying living. The soil of this state is our greatest resource. Many of us think of it as only commonplace. We are treating it as though there were plenty of it. Many farming methods are a process of mining the soil, apparently

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

with the feeling that nature will replace whatever has been mined out. After ninety years of cultivation and scarcely more than three per cent of the total land plowed, we should consider the cultivated acres as a precious heritage that must be preserved. If we are to continue to live in this area and grow, we must increase the cultivated area. The good soils in these valleys are our future and our living.

In order to preserve the soil, we must give consideration to the natural resources about us. The report from the Natural Resources Board indicates we are extracting the phosphorus from the soils of the nation about thirty times as fast as we are replacing it, and our production is going down accordingly. Land values have fallen off in proportion to the lost fertility. Available plant food must be maintained and all available fertilizer used.

The next most precious resource we have is water. There is not a balance between the good land we have and the water available. Five or six million acres of land in the State of Utah are good enough to cultivate and continue production. Apparently there is not enough water to cultivate that amount, but our present use of water has not been the most economical. The history of the use of water in Utah, as we look back over the years of its development, is strikingly interesting. It has been the very life blood of our agricultural existence. We have made the supreme exertion in diversion dams, storage reservoirs, and the building of canals, and out on the ditch people have fought most intensely over the water rights. The most striking thing is that after that unusual struggle—a veritable battle for the proper allocation of water—when water is finally conveyed to one's farm it is not always economically used. It is often wasted in the irrigation process. Yes, worse than wasted, because we use the water to wash away the cream of the soil. The high nutriment and the high food value appear in the upper few inches of the soil, and careless irrigation can easily wash that material away. As a result we are destroying a resource, and we are cutting down our incomes because of it.

In Weber and Davis counties last year, through the Agricultural Conservation program, we offered the farmers a certain payment in order that all water might be measured on all crops and used in the best way we know how to use water. The stipulation required that the water must be measured on each crop; that not more than six acre inches should be used in each irrigation and there must be no erosion. The number of irrigations was not limited. Records of yields on these farms were kept and the index of one season's work indicates that above normal yields were produced with considerable less water than is ordinarily applied.

The reason I emphasize water as a waste of natural resources, is that if we can spread the water economically over a larger area, we can make more homes, which is the growing need of this state at the present time. Probably some of us have not realized how dry this state is, as a whole. We are told that 60 per cent of the state's area does not have enough rainfall to produce permanent streams, and the other sections only about half enough. Most of the area cultivated requires from one acre foot to three acre feet of water per year in order to satisfactorily produce ordinary crops. Without

363

this great natural resource, we could not live here. We must learn to preserve water, to extend it to the largest economic application, and adopt irrigation practices that will build our soils rather than destroy them.

There are several specific needs that should be remembered which would add to our water resources in Utah, if we are to accomplish what we desire. We are told that only 40 per cent of the water diverted from the streams ever reaches the land. Measurements indicate that only from 12 to 35 per cent of the water that is put on the land is actually used by the growing plants. Therefore, a more economic practice is necessary. At present, as precious as water is, we allow great quantities of our flood waters to run down and go to waste. This water is money in our locality. It is wealth. It means the possibility of new homes. Therefore, if we are going to grow, we must save that water which is now going to waste. I hope to live long enough to see that even the Church will advocate that the waste of water is both sinful and immoral. If we are to live and grow in this arid region, water must be completely used. The water which is now going to waste in the winter flow and during the flood season must be preserved in reservoirs. A more economic use of underground water must be accomplished. Then, we have this great last resource before us—the Colorado River. Everyone should interest himself in the possibility of the new lands which might be irrigated from the Colorado River, both by irrigation within the Colorado basin and by trans-mountain diversion of water to the large valleys over the divide.

364

Probably the next item that comes to us as a resource is the range. I should like to take you back for a moment to the time of settlement in this locality. You know of many homes that were established on a small tract of land from which a satisfied living could not be extracted, but the intention of the home maker was that part of the living should be taken from the livestock on the range and part from work on the farm. Distress has come to many families of the state because the range has gone down in its production, and employment on the farm has been taken away by large machinery. If we are going to get the most out of our natural resources, we must preserve and protect the range. Seven and one-half million acres of the range are in the Forest Reserves, and about 25 million acres in public domain, all of which is now under supervision. If we would apply to this thing a larger measurement, we would rather be led to the conclusion that the land we are cultivating is only about sufficient to produce winter forage which would allow complete utilization of the range. Rehabilitating and preserving the range is as vital in the State of Utah as preserving the fertility on the lands we are cropping.

Probably there is no land we have in the State of Utah more important than the water-shed land. This is the natural reservoir that feeds our summer streams, and must be protected. About nine million acres are considered fundamentally important for water shed protection. About six million acres of this amount are in the Forest Service, but there are still approximately three million acres that are either out in the open or in private ownership. The fact that a lot of this land is in private holdings

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

does not seem to have helped materially. The Forest Service has other items of interest to us. Of the seven and one-half million acres in the forest, a little over four million acres are timber land. The Forest Service tells us there are 7,120,000,000 board feet in the standing timber of the forest lands in the state. It is estimated that this timber would yield 86 million board feet annually and maintain. At present we are cutting about 30 to 35 million board feet annually. In other words, the forests will yield approximately 50 million more board feet annually than we are taking from them. It would seem only wise that we use that which we have in our own forest and make a little better use of the industry which might come as a result of these trees fabricated into building material.

We have in connection with the forests, the wild life. Much has been said about what we get out of that resource, but I find we are not getting all we should. We get the recreation—and recreation in the state is growing rapidly. Probably this is one of our resources and it should be counted as an income over the entire state. During 1937, 231,735 people visited the two parks, Bryce and Zion. I do not have the records on some of the smaller parks. During the same year, 600,000 visited Rocky Mountain park in Colorado, and the trend is upward. Our increase last year was eight per cent, while the increase in Colorado was 14 per cent. People come here and they want something. They come to the West and expect to see something that is wild, and if that is what they want we should sell it to them. There is no reason why they can not find things as wild as they want them. I know of no more profitable business than selling scenery. We sell

UTILIZING LOCAL RESOURCES

it year after year and we have it all left in the fall. Some of us have not appreciated some of the things we really have. This is the only state in the Union where we have the great laccolith mountains. These are written up in every geology book published in the world. They are very well known except in Utah. We should say more about them. We make a great deal of fuss over a natural bridge, but the larger things by the side we let pass by.

We are not doing enough in the working up of our native materials. Utah is always among the highest, never less than third, in the production of silver, but as you look around, practically every silversmith is gone, for silver offered in this state has usually been shaped and engraved somewhere else. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we had in our group someone who could take that silver and begin an industry that would give our young people something to do, and at the same time have something to sell! It is the youth about whom we are worried. This problem of youth has crept upon us so gradually that probably we think it will take care of itself. But when we stop to realize that records indicate that 2,450 boys and girls from the rural districts of Utah are arriving at the age of 21 each year, with 1,213 young men on the average for the last five years arriving at the age of 21, it presents a serious problem. What are we offering them? This means under normal living and normal procedure, a probable one thousand new rural families each year, which should mean a probable one thousand new homes to be occupied. We must have some expansion, and I appeal to you women, especially, to analyze your own locality and see what you might

365

have in your section in the possibility of expanding lands, new water development, or other things that will offer these young people new homes.

If I were asked what is the most crying need in Utah today, I would answer that it is a few thousand new homes and new industries—not a home consisting of two rooms, with a kitchen and living room in one end and the bedroom in the other—but a home from which a decent standard of living might be extracted. Industries should be developed in the state to use Utah's natural resources that will give to the young unemployed people a place to work and place to earn. We have in the state many natural resources. The time has come when these should receive attention. The wonderful marble and marble onyx that is prized so highly in several localities has not received sufficient attention in the state. Even onyx marble specimens or polished articles are not available to the tourists. This material is a novelty everywhere except here. The great deposit of bentonite in Box Elder county should be worked into an industry. The variscites and fluorites of Tooele county should be worked into ornaments and attractive specimens, and probably combined with silver, which is so easily available, to make an industry. As it is, our own people buy large quantities of similar materials and bring them home rather than selling the natural resources we have. The salt from the lake has long been a novelty. Halite specimens from the salt mines of Sevier county would be a great attraction. We have spoken of the necessity of phosphorus to rehabilitate our soils. There are only three places in the United States other than the West where phosphate is found. 

366

There is a small tonnage in Tennessee, some in the northern part of Florida, and some in South Carolina. About 95 per cent is found in Utah, Wyoming and Idaho. This material should be available so people can see it and be permitted to purchase specimens and carry them away. The little area known as the Crawford mountain in Rich county contains more than six million tons of very high grade phosphate. This should be worked into an industry. Little benefit has been obtained from the application of raw rock, but the ore must be treated to make it water soluble before plants can use it.

We have a great mining district in Utah. The income from the mines is reported by a bank in California as $88,000,000 for the year 1937. Fine specimens of ore should be available for tourists. Some mines are known for their fine crystals, with the probable highest value in keepsake specimens rather than their metalliferous content. In many parts of the state, agate, onyx and petrified woods are available. To make, cut and polish these specimens might easily furnish an industry to some young people. The great alunite deposit of Piute county is quite well known over the nation. High grade alunite is attractive and possibly could be sold more for hand specimens than its aluminum and potash values. The alabaster found in Emery county is most attractive but not available. The magnetite of Iron county is a novelty, and almost everyone is interested in a rock that will pick up iron. The natural coke in the coal mines is described in many localities but I have never seen a piece available for distribution or sale to our tourists. Topaz mountain is known quite well to mineral collectors. It would seem possible to make an asset out of it. Gilsonite, elaterite and ozokerite are found principally in Utah. There are many fine fossil forms for which the formations of Utah are famous. Cornetite and uranite specimens are found quite abundantly in Emery and Grand counties. This material is a novelty because of its radio activity.

The essential ingredients in paint are lead and zinc with oil. Utah is among the first two or three states in the nation in the production of lead and zinc. As one rides up and down the state he is thoroughly convinced that Utah needs paint and has been needing it for years. Is it not possible to develop an industry for the manufacture of white lead and zinc oxide, rather than shipping these materials to St. Louis or a farther distance, then buying the material back as paint at a greatly increased cost, having paid the freight both ways?

There are many attractive natural woods in Utah, especially our mountain mahogany, oaks and maples. There are still some few people left in the districts of the state who have the fine art of wood carving, novelty furniture making, etc., which might easily offer remunerative rewards. There is the possibility of working up wools and skins, which are always attractive to tourist purchasers. Utah has more than two and one-half million sheep, producing more than 20 million pounds of wool. All its wool is shipped out of the state for washing and fabricating, and even our knitting mills essentially buy yarns prepared somewhere else.

Let us give our natural resources careful consideration. It is my conviction there are a great number of things we can do that we have not attempted yet. I feel chagrined when I talk of the indebtedness we owe to the

UTILIZING LOCAL RESOURCES

Federal Land Bank. At the present time Utah owes 30 million dollars. When they gave us a rating two years ago we were put in 47th place, with only one state below us, and that state is made up largely of colored people. Our present position today is only 40th. This debt must be paid. It is not that the people are trying to avoid it but we must have more income. It means working up every solitary thing we have in our communities. Be your own dreamers, be your own promoters. Let's not allow someone else to come here and take this thing up and make money from it. Develop your own industries, and I am sure we can increase the income we have.

367

We still have one thing, to my mind, that is the greatest of our natural resources. When the pioneers came to this country they came with a definite code of ethics; they came with definite standards of living in honesty, integrity and morality, and a definite code of behavior toward each other. As long as we can maintain that same code of ethics I feel we are rich, and that we will go forward and get out of this difficulty we are in at present. I pray the Lord to bless us, bless us with the courage of our convictions, and courage enough to do the thing that we know we ought to do, and I am sure we will go forward with a better standard of living.

FOR FATHER ON HIS DAY
By Vesta P. Crawford

It was from you I learned to love a field
And watch the rhythm of the seasons pass
From falling of the mantled web of snow
Unto the bending of the seeded grass;
The miracle within a furrow's yield
To you was like the moving of God's hand
That turned the tender blades to yellow glow
And flamed the harvest on the eager land.
I've seen you look upon the withered grain
In time of drought, and with no bitter word
Make ready for another year. I have heard
You ask of summer night a prayer for rain.
And ever I would stand as you have done
With courage high between the earth and sun!

Brigham Young's Qualities of Leadership
By Elder Nephi L. Morris

One hundred thirty-seven years ago last June first a child was born in the little village of Whittingham, Windham County, Vermont. The parents gave the child the unusual name of Brigham. Little did they think that name would be boldly and legibly written across the western continent particularly from the Mississippi River to the Pacific coast. The name of Brigham Young after the lapse of a century and a third, looms with increasing boldness with the passing of each decade.

Woodrow Wilson once said that the eight horses which draw the triumphal chariot of every ruler and leader of free men are: Force of Character, Readiness of Resources, Clearness of Vision, Grasp of Intellect, Courage of Conviction, Earnestness of Purpose, and an Instinct and Capacity for Leadership. To these outstanding qualities, essential in any great leader, I must, in order to do justice to and complete the character under consideration, add two additional qualifications. They are first, a Love and a Desire to Bless Mankind, and second, the indefinable but unmistakable thing known as Divine Inspiration.

One observation before we proceed: Good leadership is nullified only by poor followers. It can succeed only through good followers. What made Brigham Young's tremendous work successful was the high average quality of his followers. What he didn't know, what he couldn't do, they did know and did do. As a natural result the outstanding success was attained by the happy combination of excellent leadership and as equally splendid quality of following.

Taking up the well defined elements of great leadership let us first consider those of Instinct and Capacity in combination. They are necessarily associated.

It is faithfully recorded in Church history that upon the first meeting of Brigham Young and the Prophet Joseph Smith the latter made the statement that Brigham Young would some day preside over this people. Some ten or twelve years later, at the time of the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum, the Saints were for a time in a state of bewilderment and serious confusion. Sidney Rigdon, once counselor to the Prophet and member of the First Presidency, vigorously asserted his claims to a "trusteeship" over the Church. For days he publicly contended before the people that he should be recognized in that capacity.

It should be remembered that authority in the Church was first bestowed by ordination upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. Upon their heads was conferred a fulness of Apostolic authority and the Keys of Presidency over the Dispensation established upon the earth were distinctly given to them. In due course of time the Quorum of Twelve was organized and upon the shoulders of the members of that quorum Joseph placed the responsibility and authority of leadership. That is the quorum second in authority and upon the

BRIGHAM YOUNG

dissolution of the quorum of the First Presidency the right of jurisdiction and authority devolves upon the Twelve. Sidney Rigdon was not a member of the Quorum of the Twelve.

With the passing of the Prophet the quorum of the Presidency was dissolved and the successor in authority was the quorum of apostles. By a singular succession of events the senior member of the Twelve, one Thomas B. Marsh, apostatized and had been excommunicated from the Church. The second member in order of seniority was the sainted David W. Patten who suffered martyrdom at the hands of an infuriated mob, about seventy-five in number, on Log Creek, Missouri. Brigham Young was next in order of seniority. He arrived at Nauvoo some time after Mr. Rigdon had amply set forth his claims. Other members of the quorum had also arrived upon the scene. A public meeting of the members of the distressed people was called. Brigham Young addressed the multitude. As he proceeded with his counsel to the Church and set before the throng the proper line of procedure the people listened to him with satisfaction. His hearers were amazed at the resemblance of his voice and facial features to those of the martyred Prophet. They are said to have exclaimed in great numbers, "It is the face of Joseph." "It is the voice of Joseph." Confusion and perplexity were removed from their minds and they heeded the voice of a modern Moses whose leadership was so providentially manifest to them.

The Prophet's prophecy was to be fulfilled. The great body of the Church followed Brigham. He was at once recognized as the presiding member of the Twelve and as

369

such presided over the Church and was soon afterwards formally sustained as President of the Church. This exalted office he successfully administered from then until the day of his demise, in 1877. In this remarkable manner were the qualities of leadership recognized by the people and indicated by the Almighty. Time vindicated both. Now history gives her generous approval. But more than this, by his selection as a leader of the Church. This exalted office he successfully administered from then until the day of his demise, in 1877. In this remarkable manner were the qualities of leadership recognized by the 'people and indicated by the Almighty. Time vindicated both. Now history gives her generous approval. But more than this, by his selection as a leader of the people, the integrity of church organization has been once for all established and preserved in the Church. Innocence in childhood, or in the untutored mind of the savage oftentimes may recognize true character more clearly than the mere subtle minds of cultured and cunning people. I relate an incident in demonstration of this truth because it again demonstrates the conspicuous qualities of leadership inherent in the subject of our sketch. Many of the Indian tribes were unfriendly to the settlers and travelers here in pioneer days. Unfortunately, in many instances, this attitide was justified. But Brigham Young maintained very friendly relations with the tribes. And their chiefs. Two outstanding chiefs, viz., Arapeen and Peteetnit were among that class. Under the Territorial government President Brigham Young was appointed by the Federal government to the position of Indian Agent. He was succeeded in that capacity by one Mr. Farney. Chief Arapeen made a striking observation concerning the two men and the comparative trustworthiness of each. He said: "The words of Farney are mere bawling. What he says goes into one ear and passes out of the other. When Brigham Young, he speak, what he says goes into both ears and 370 sink down into the heart and stay there." I repeat, a child, a simple-minded but honest savage may be unerring in his interpretation of human nature. Perhaps it is one of nature's intuitive weapons of self-defense. I WILL be remembered that the original band of "Mormon" Pioneers left Winter Quarters, now called Florence, Nebraska, in April, 1847, and reached the end of their memorable journey on July 24, 1847. It consisted of one hundred forty-eight persons in all and they had seventy-three wagons in their train. The year before, the unhappy Donner-Reed party of western-bound emigrants started from Springfield, Illinois, in the month of May. Their party consisted of approximately ninety people. They traveled along safely and pleasantly as far as Fort Bridger. By the time of their arrival there, their numbers had become greatly augmented by large and small groups uniting with them until they then numbered about four hundred. Donner, because of his age, wealth, experience and influence was chosen leader. Reed was a close second choice and made a substantial contribution to the management of affairs as long as things went well with the sturdy band. Their personnel was made up of a splendid lot of miscellaneous people among whom were many kind, courageous, self-sacrificing and noble men and women. Some of these were cast in the mold from which heroes come. Yet there were among them those who had elements of weakness, selfishness, and treachery. Man for man, however, there appears to be no substantial difference between the two historic pioneering groups—except for one thing and that was in the important matter RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of leadership and organization. The Donner party at Fort Bridger was persuaded by one Lansford W. Hastings to take an unknown route, supposedly shorter by three hundred miles, which took them around the south shores of Great Salt Lake instead of over the well traveled Oregon Trail via Fort Hall and northwest from that historic early day landmark. This ill-advised decision upon the part of the Donner party resulted in the reduction of the party back to about its original number. Proceeding from Fort Bridger they reached Salt Lake Valley by way of Emigration Canyon. HEIR trail, the "Mormon" Pioneers faithfully followed into the valley the following season. But this was the end of the journey to the latter group but to the former it was the end of safe and successful travel and resulted finally in their suffering from thirst, food for their cattle, and still more seriously in the loss of unity of effort and complete destruction of leadership and harmony in their now tragic journey. On the treacherous and impassible salt flats the cattle became exhausted and maddened from thirst. Eighteen of the Donner's oxen dashed out on the salt desert to die of thirst and hunger, never to be seen again by man. On and on slowly they trudged over the sterile saline ocean bed, leaving behind them by degrees, excess weight. Utensils, equipment, and finally wagons were abandoned, left to bleach in the summer's sun and the salty waters of the winters. Their tracks are still visible for no white man on wheels has since traversed or even crossed the trail they made. A cruel early winter set in upon their unhoused heads and October snows began to impede their already slow progress. November snows increased BRIGHAM YOUNG the depth and those of December buried them beneath 15 to 20 feet as they reached the beautiful lake since named after their leader. They made rude huts to shelter them from the bitter cold and the constantly deepening snows. Futile efforts were made to cross the Humbolt Mountains. Snow shoes were made of neck-yoke bows and rawhide strips. Death made heavy inroads. Oxen were killed for food. Finally the hides were eaten and the horrors of hunger ultimately drove these kindly, noble, men, women and children to the last fearful extremity. Lots were cast for the one to take the life of a starving fellow that others might live and probably save the rest. The executioner selected refused, but death took his place and then human flesh was eaten that women and children might be saved from the most terrible of deaths. Beautiful Donner Lake became their burial ground—the saddest, most tragic in all America. HESE unfortunate people were just as courageous, as valorous, as heroic and as kind as were the followers of Brigham Young. He did not pass through such a hazardous piece of territory. His leadership had inspired him to follow good advice and all information available to him and his associates was carefully weighed and divine guidance fervently sought every step of the way. In comparing Brigham Young with George or Jacob Donner or James Frazier Reed, I do not do so with the least suggestion of criticism or unkindness, but with thanksgiving in my heart that a capable leadership was provided for the "Mormon" Pioneers that was equal to every emergency that arose in their great undertaking. To show that Brigham Young and 371 his noble band was threatened by the disintegrating forces of disunion, quarreling and criminal tendencies, which could have easily brought the noble enterprise to complete ruin, I will submit for your consideration a few pages of pioneer history taken from the dependable journal of the intelligent and trustworthy William Clayton, written day-by-day along the way. The crisis of the journey seemed to come to a head on the 29th day of May. The company was near Chimney Rocks, not far from Scott's Bluffs. Brigham Young called a halt on the procedure and told them he felt like holding a meeting as he had some things to say to them. After defining the causes of past persecutions of his people and the behavior of evil men in seeking the destruction of the Saints, he continued thus: "Nobody has told me what has been going on in this camp, but I have known it all the while. I have been watching its movements, its influence, its effects, and I know the result of it if not put a stop to. If you do not open your hearts so that the spirit of God can enter into your hearts and teach you the right way, I know that you are a ruined people and will be destroyed, and that without remedy, and unless there is a change and a different course of conduct, a different spirit to what is now in this camp, I go no farther. I am in no hurry. Give me a man of prayer, give me a man of faith, give me a man of meditation, a sober-minded man, and I would far rather go amongst the savages with six or eight such men than to trust myself with the whole of this camp with the spirit they now possess." Describing their weaknesses, their petty wrong-doings, their idleness, their telling of unworthy jokes, indulging 72 in profanity, (Brigham Young came from a Methodist family) their gambling and giving away to anger and rage, he said, "If you had liquor with you, you would be at each other's throats with a knife." Then he admonished them, "Tf you do not wish to obey the laws of the kingdom of God, and seek for the spirit of Christ, walk in unity and humbly, I admonish you to turn around and go back. For I will not go any farther with this company as it is." "Do you suppose that we are going to look out a home for the Saints, a resting place, a place of peace where they can build up the kingdom (of God) and bid the nations welcome, with a low, mean, dirty, trifling, covetous, wicked spirit dwelling in your bosoms? It is vain, vain! I now tell you if you do not stop it (that is, your unseemly behavior) you shall be cursed by the Almighty and shall dwindle away and be damned. Such things shall not be suffered in this camp. You shall honor God and confess His name or else you shall suffer the penalty. I am one of the last to ask my brethren to enter into a solemn covenant, but if they will not enter into a covenant to put away their iniquity and turn to the Lord and serve Him and acknowledge and honor His name, I want them to take their wagons and retreat, for I shall. Go no farther under such a state of things. I think it will be good for us to have a fast meeting tomorrow and a prayer meeting to humble ourselves and turn to the Lord and He will forgive us." He then called upon all the men present, and there were eight apostles among them, four bishops, fifteen high priests, seventy-eight seventies and eight elders. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LL covenanted in a solemn meeting, with uplifted hands. Other leaders spoke favorably of the admonitions of the President, and the meeting adjourned and each man went back to his wagon, many expressing gratitude for what had transpired. Brother Clayton adds, "No loud laughter was heard, no swearing, no quarreling, no profane language, no hard speeches to man or beast, and it really seemed as though a cloud had burst and we had emerged into a new element, a new atmosphere and a new society." In this dramatic crisis which had slowly arisen the great spiritual leadership of Brigham Young was clearly manifest. Through the spirit of God he was able to touch the hearts of unruly and ungodly men and bring them to repentance,— back to their better selves. This incident gives a fine demonstration of instinct and capacity as well as divine inspiration in leadership. From then on the pioneers pursued their way, well-behaved, kind, orderly, happy, singing songs and hymns-- a united band of brethren. URING the prolonged series of persecutions suffered by the Latter-day Saints at the hands of mobs and militias in Missouri and Illinois it became very clear to Brigham Young that the body of religious worshippers to which he belonged would never be permanently welcomed in those states. It became increasingly clear to him that the Latter-day Saints, in order to develop as a people and work out their exalted hopes of world reform and salvation must have freedom of opportunity. As late as 1842 Joseph Smith had prophetically declared that the Saints were destined to become a "mighty people in the midst of the Rocky BRIGHAM YOUNG Mountains." Thus the Prophet had pointed the way to freedom and development. This made the course of procedure still more clear but it involved tremendous responsibility and required great wisdom and skill in planning the great migration. To select a place for the establishment of his people was his supreme task. Such an enterprise and venture involved the fate of his people and their relationship to this country which had now practically expatriated them. The situation was fraught with infinite potentialities. Clear thinking, proper behavior, and the ipreservation of unity among his people were paramount. Could all three be accomplished and the highest aims in respect to each be achieved? That was again his task. AFTER nearly a decade had passed President Young reviewed this trying situation in a sermon deJivered in 1853 from the pulpit of the "Old Tabernacle" (a building which stood about where the Assembly Hall now stands). He said, "I will mention a few things, a few doings, that transpired in Missouri, when they had Joseph and others in prison. General Clark had discretionary power from Governor Boggs to kill man, woman and child, or to spare the women and children, or distribute the whole community of Saints among the other inhabitants, just as he pleased. The cause of this was laid to the 'Mormon disturbances,' 'Mormon troubles,' though the 'Mormons' had not been off their own county, for they owned nearly the whole county where they lived, and they did not go beyond their own boundaries except on lawful and necessary business. We had given up our arms by their request to prove our loyalty to the government and then many of them said, 373 'Now G— D— you, we'll shoot you,' and some of the Saints were killed after they had surrendered their arms in faithful compliance with the requirements. "The starting point of our persecution arose by our enemies setting fire to their own houses, swearing they were burned out by the 'Mormons.' This I know for it came under my own observation. When General Clark came into Far West with his army, he sent George M. Hinkle, an apostate, to call out the remainder of the brethren on to the public square, and when they were assembled he surrounded them with his men, and said, 'Gentlemen, I have discretionary power in my hands, and I will tell you what we desire. We wish one to go home with this man, and another with that man, and take your wives and children with you, and distribute yourselves throughout the state. You are the best mechanics and the most industrious people we have, and you have accomplished more in two years than our whole settlers have in twelve. We wish you to live with us. Why cannot you associate with us? I want you to scatter among our people and give up your religion and Prophet, for I will tell you now, in the beginning, you will never see your Prophet Joseph Smith again.' (Said I to myself, "that is a falsehood," quoting Brigham Young.) 'Only mingle with us and give up your prophet and apostles, and your assembling yourselves together and we wish you to stay with us, for you are the best citizens in the state. “I thought that these expressions did not correspond well with many of his remarks, and being determined not to give up my religion, I at once concluded that he might go to Hades, and I would leave the state, and so 374 I did, with the balance of the Latterday Saints, as they had previously killed many." Observe in the following statement the position of the Latter-day Saints with respect to the Federal Constitution: "Brethren and sisters, our friends wish to know our feelings toward the government. I answer, they are first-rate and we will prove it, too, as you will see, if you live long enough; for that we shall live to prove it is certain; and when the Constitution of the United States hangs, as it were, upon a single thread, they will call for the 'Mormon' Elders to save it from utter destruction, and they will step forward and do it." Another observation: "We love the Constitution of our country. It is all we could ask; though in some few instances there might be some amendments made which would better it, etc." E HAD a clear vision as to the. Future of his people; a clear vision as to the rights of American citizens, religiously and politically; a clear vision as to the destiny of his people; that they should not be scattered by distribution even unto obliteration; a clear vision as to the enjoyment of religious freedom, by any and all Americans; he had a clear vision as to the nature and value of the Federal Constitution and the propriety of its amendment by lawful and proper procedure. Here is another instance in which Brigham Young had a clearness of vision in one of his bigger undertakings, which borders upon the superhuman, if it does not go altogether over into the domain of revelation. It is in connection with the building of the great Temple in this city. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE This extract is taken from a sermon he delivered in the Old Tabernacle April 3, 1853. Said he, "I do not like to prophesy much, I never do, but I will venture to guess that this day, and the work we have done (the laying of the corner stone of the Temple) will long be remembered by this people, and be sounded as with a trumpets' voice throughout the world, as far, as loud and as long as steam, wind and the electric current can carry it. "Some will say, 'Do you suppose we shall finish this temple, Brother Brigham?' I do not know. This I do know, there shall be a temple built here. I do know it is the duty of this people to commence to build a temple. Now some will want to know what kind of a temple it will be. I know what it will be. I am not a visionary man. I don't often speak of revelations and soon. I have Brother Kimball do my prophesying, but suffice it to say, five years ago last July (It was 1853 when he was speaking. That would throw the date back to July, 1847.) I was here and saw in the spirit the Temple not ten feet from where we have laid the chief corner stone. I have not inquired what kind of a temple it should be. Why? Because it was presented before me. I have never looked upon that ground but the vision of it was there. I see it as plainly as if it were in reality before me. Wait until itis done. I will say, however, it will have six towers, to begin with, instead of one. Now do not any of you apostatize because it will have six towers, and Joseph only built one on each of his temples. It is easier for us to build sixteen than it was for him to build one, and the time will come when there will be one in the center of temples we shall build and on the top groves BRIGHAM YOUNG and fishponds. But we shall not see them here at present." Here is a "clearness of vision" which only comes to the average trained mind after much painstaking study and calculation and the well worked out details of the structure asa whole. It was an accurate architectural conception which was afterwards expressed in admirable lines and has served its purpose nobly for upwards of a hundred years and is at present not threatened with obsolescence or deterioration. No small piece of work was this for it required full forty years to build and cost a little less than four million dollars. AFTER the barbarous expulsion from Nauvoo the exiled Saints were smitten and scattered like sheep upon whom a pack of hungry wolves had ferociously set themselves. To bring about common unity to action was a herculean task. To save them disaster and disintegration was of paramount importance. Of necessity they made a camp which was called Winter Quarters from the cold and inhuman circumstance which forced them to establish a community in the midst of severe winter. The great western migration was the challenging problem before them. Provisions, equipments and supplies were assembled from all quarters. All property at their command was consequently converted into these necessities. The country into which they were planning to go was without trail or highway so far as they knew. Information from all reliable sources was eagerly sought and carefully as- 375 similated. Aid from Washington was diplomatically and effectively sought. Senator Douglas had sent to them Capt. Fremont's report and topographical maps. These Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball studiously absorbed. Wisely chosen scouts were selected and "set apart" to scout and explore the region they were about to enter for the purpose of "building up Zion," and establishing the kingdom of God. By the spring of 1847, a carefully selected company of exploring pioneers was assembled, well equipped, properly organized and formed into smaller groups with capable captains presiding over each group. The utmost care was given to every detail and their safe arrival at their destination while the country was still under the summer's sway is evidence of great resourcefulness and master- — ful executive ability. Not one member of the company had been lost or seriously injured. All arrived who were expected to. Some few remained at certain posts to aid oncoming companies. And as before stated, the last hundred miles of their journey, though arduous and difficult in every way was made in peace and security and organized harmony prevailed. When the destination was reached, while many were sorely disappointed at the announcement that the end of the long trail had been attained, it was with characteristic clearness of vision and the power to see the resourcefulness of their promised land that Brigham Young uttered those decisive and memorable words: "THIS IS THE PLACE." Reprint—Deseret News To be concluded in July issue. Women We Should Know Ruth Harwood—Artist-Poet By Ramona W. Cannon sensitive and imaginative little girl with an unusual awareness of the beauty which surrounded her. She spent her youth in Salt Lake City, with occasional visits to Utah County. Color, contour, skies, mountains, lakes, trees and flowers, animal life—all affected her growing nature. Daughter of a sympathetic mother and an artist-father, Ruth was encouraged to express, both in poetry and in drawing or painting, the beauty in which she delighted. One of the joys of her childhood. Was to listen to tales of the Pioneers, narrated by her grandparents, or others of their day. She, herself, is a great-granddaughter of Willard Richards, whose influence and judgment were of great value to the Church in the historic period of the settlement of Utah. These dual influences of her youth, her desire to express beauty, and her subconscious response to her pioneer background with its ideals and its achievement in the fields of the New, were important in the shaping of her life. In her book, "Temple Builders," she says: "O Pioneers,... Surely somewhere there must be other plains to cross, and other mountains to climb which can challenge and use all that is best in us as your Gospel did in you." IT was in the field of art that Miss Harwood was to discover those unknown mountains and_ plains which her striving spirit longed to conquer in its search for truth, Even as a young girl, she was a pioneer among western artists in her use of vivid and vibrating colors, such as have since become the vogue. But far overshadowing this achievement is her later strikingly original work in creative designs which symbolize the aspirations of the human soul. This concept of presenting pictorially the universal spiritual struggle of man, and the method of working it out in black, white, and various tones of gray, came as the result of a long spiritual-artistic quest. Her groping began in Greenwich Village where she came to feel that the "turmoil of ambition and competition in which most artists whirled was a derangement, a disease, rather than a condition to be desired." (Temple Builders.) She sensed, as she expresses it, that much of the modern art is the fruit of discord rather than of the harmony which she was seeking. During these years she took her Master's Degree in Art at Berkeley, won the annual poetry prize there, and later studied in New York, Paris, and Italy. She won a national American poetry prize for a sonnet on Browning, illustrated a volume of verse for Miss Ruth St. Denis, and illustrated many of her own charming lyrics. One which has been particularly well liked appears as the frontispiece in this issue of the Magazine. It is also used as the frontispiece in her collection of poems, "The Lyric Road." A number of her lyrics have appeared in RUTH HARWOOD 377 RUTH HARWOOD both American and British Anthologies. In New York she became acquainted with Mary Carolyn Davies, Edwin Markham, Kahlil Gibran and other American poets. Through some of these friends she met Ruth St. Denis, pioneer in the field of the dance in America, and an earnest student of art in relation to life. This was an inspirational experience for the western girl, still engaged in her quest, for Miss St. Denis seemed to make articulate to the seeker the very ideas which were struggling in her own heart for expression. In "Temple Builders,' Ruth summarizes Miss St. Denis' interpretation of the mission of art as follows: "The lesser art of the world is for utility and pleasure, but the greater art is used for healing and spiritual unfoldment. The lesser arts express our longings and our lacks, but the 378 divine art radiates our glorious affirmation of life." Thenceforward, Ruth Harwoad's art history was a graduation from the realm of the personal and the emotional to the realm of the universal and: the spiritual, and her flowering was swift and true. ACH day Ruth spends time in ° meditation, reaching into that elusive borderland where the lower consciousness meets the higher consciousness of inspiration. She has the ability to capture the overtones of spiritual song, the ineffable shapes of thoughts and dreams and aspirations and to translate them into concrete form for the enlightenment of others. It is this quality which makes her a pioneer in her own field of art. Her poetry, prose, and design compositions, are all phases of her philosophy of divine "affirmation of life." She has a series of designs representing the eternal spiritual pil-. Grimage of humanity. In one of these we see man, standing a tip-toe on a mountain height, just at the moment when he succeeds in pressing aside the intricate webs of time and space, atid catches the majestic vision of the white radiating light of the Eternal. Without describing all the designs, we might summarize briefly their philosophy, as expressed by the artist herself in "Toward the Light," or in conversation regarding her work. Aspiring man _ passes through the stage of "greed for earthly possessions;" then comes 'the interlude of inward transformation," followed by "the chrysalis unfoldment which brings the first faint striving for the Light;" then the slow upward ascent. "Each man must find his own way of life which leads him truly upward toward the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Light." Lesser spirits become confused and overbalanced by the ills of life; great spirits do not lose their poise, but maintain a steadfast upward course. The upward path is the path of universal love. "By the glorious Jaw of spirit, all human circumstance can be transmuted into fuel for the burning of this divine fire' of enlightenment and progress. Was not this latter ideal the source of the Pioneers' strength during their persecutions and drivings? Accepted in the proper spirit, every hardship and trial meant spiritual growth. God would "sanctify" to them their "deepest distress." Miss Harwood uses numerous constant symbols in her work. There is white representing the Light of the Eternal—light, untouched and pure—behind all creation. Various designs indicate the pattern of time and space in its varying manifestations against this White Light of the Eternal. There is the life-giving ° sun, with its radiating balanced pattern, the rays representing Truth, and the concentric circles symbolizing Love. Black represents the dark or evil of life from which the soul is attempting to escape into a vision of the White Light. These and other elements are used in a stylized technique of rhythmical lines and geometric figures, all of which are inspired by the underlying patterns found in the art work of Nature. Over and over again Nature uses rhythmic and balanced patterns in her myriad designs—the tides of the sea, insects, forms of snowflakes, veining of leaves, flowers, the decorative pattern and the form of every sea-shell, man with his own beautiful balance, the poplar tree, with limbs upraised in worship. In one of Miss Harwood's designs, the lower soul is struggling RUTH HARWOOD to reach the higher, and the higher is represented by a small circle in which a picture is dimly outlined. This conception was inspired by a droplet of rain water, reflecting the surrounding landscape. All these patterns of line and shape, which are part of divine truth and eternal design, suggest the media through which Ruth Harwood pictures the spiritual pilgrimage of man. The human figures in these designs, as they leave behind them the more earthy aspects of life and attain higher realms of truth, are endowed with emotional qualities' of lightness, joy, victory, uplift in the long ascent. Some of these compositions have now been made into lantern slides, which, when projected, give an added effect of luminosity to the White Light of the Eternal, and a more dramatic contrast between this and the dark patterns. Mrs. Claire Stewart Boyer, who has given sympathetic reviews of "Temple Builders", comments with interpretations and quotations suitable to the atmosphere of the pictures. Such an hour is an upbuilding spiritual experience for those who participate. Miss HARWOOD resides with her partner, Miss Vere L. Matthews, in a hill-top cottage in Berkeley which they have converted into a workshop, The Guilders Publishing Center, for the preparation of their own products. Here reigns the ideal of the old guilds, the joy of a7 workmanship in every phase of artistic expression. Here, too, another pioneering project is being evolved, as these two young women print and publish and distribute their own work. This makes it possible to preserve their artistic integrity, and to produce with a sense of freedom from the restraints which so often hamper those who must please certain publishers or a certain public. Their independence has been surprisingly successful, and they build their own clientele without middlemen. Here have been created copies of "The Lyric Road"; "Toward the Light" with its pilgrimage designs and the poetry of their interpreta- 'tions; and "Temple Builders', the autobiographical book in prose which explains her approach to art. She has worked on this book for fifteen years and has set forth in it much of her soul and her mind. Miss Harwood confesses to a frequent nostalgia for the mountains and valleys of her home-place and for her old friends with their sympathetic understanding of her work. So she returns to Salt Lake every year or so. She is now here giving some art and literary programs and teaching University Extension and private classes. She feels that one owes a debt of gratitude to one's birthplace, and she has always had the desire to open for others the vistas of beauty which have given her so much joy.

A thing of beauty is a joy for ever; its loveliness increases; it will never pass into nothingness; but still will keep a bower quiet for us, and a sleep full of sweet dreams, and health and quiet breathing.
                                                                                        John Keats

You Are Going To Be Married
By Helen Spencer Williams

So you are going to be married! And right now you are not thinking of anything except your glorious good times—parties, showers, your dainty pink things, your neat little stacks of linen, embroidered with yours and his monogram. The romance of these last few weeks before you take your sacred vows is filled with one thrill after another. This is just as it should be, because a thrilling time it is—a time when all of the world seems to be made and planned for just you two. Stars shine for you. Music with all of its soft harmonies has been selected, it seems, especially because you love it. You never knew life could be so full. These things to you right now are paramount.

In the days prior to your courtship of course there were many things which concerned you both. You were very analytical of each other before your final decision was made, before you asked each other and accepted each other for the greatest experience in all life. There were certain things of which you were very sure—each other's health records and moral traits. Disposition entered into those first friendship days, because no one with intelligence desires to go through life hand in hand with a person who does not have the ability to look upon the sunny side of things as they happen. There were other things, such as the station in life from which you both came. This was most important to you, because being very intelligent persons you knew the only way to find happiness was to seek it with someone whose ideals, standards, likes, and dislikes were similar to your own.

Your analysis is in the background now and you are looking forward to this great new experience. You feel that on the foundation of those things which were laid during friendship days you are prepared to build a structure which will be permanent and eternal and which by putting into it all of the best materials available, will weather any storm or disaster which may come.

Soon all of this excitement of the few weeks prior to your wedding day and the exhilaration of that greatest of all days will have calmed down. Quite suddenly you will stand together looking into each other's eyes and realize that this game of marriage is before you to make of it success or failure.

There is nothing magical in the marriage ceremony. The words that are spoken which bind you together as husband and wife, which make you as one in the eyes of the world and before God, are after all words. It remains with you then, you two people, to bring into full meaning and life the sacredness of those vows and the fulfillment of the promises which are bestowed upon you on the day that you are married.

Let us think for a moment of the part the wife plays in making of marriage all that it may be. To Latter-day Saint girls the challenge of marriage is perhaps greater than to any other girls in the world, for it is an eternal vow which they take, not just for today, but forever and ever. Because of the importance of this, they must bring all of the intelligence, all of the spirituality in their power to make their marriage successful. After all, it is

YOU ARE GOING TO BE MARRIED

up to the girl to make of her house a home. For into the house where the man she loves carries her as a bride, unless there is perfect management, that house remains only a house. It is when the household runs smoothly, when meals are prepared on time, when they are attractively served, when fresh flowers adorn the house, that it becomes home. A girl without managerial ability, which after all is that power to make everything go easily without frustration and excitement, can never run her home as it should be.

One man once paid this tribute to his wife: "There have been many times when I have been late for dinner. I can never remember a time in my married life when dinner was late for me. There have been times when I appeared a bit unkempt and unshaved. I never remember of arriving home when I didn't find her cleaned up and the children with clean hands and faces waiting expectantly for me. It means much to a man to have his wife manage things so that he feels an air of importance when he comes home at night tired from a hectic day."

Yet how often all of the good management in the world will fail to make for happiness unless a girl has that blessed quality of good nature, the ability to laugh when the chops burn, when everything seems to go wrong. There is nothing which will endear a wife to her husband, to her friends, and particularly to his relatives, like the spirit of good nature. Once there was a little bride who was entertaining for the first time her husband's family. All day long she baked and cleaned and polished and primped. She was going to serve turkey. The hour of the dinner drew near. Her table was spotless with its bridal linen, shining with its wedding crystal and silver. Everything had turned out perfectly.

381

Then she tried to lift the turkey on its brand new platter to the table only to find that it was too heavy. So she called to her husband to come and carry the festive bird to the guests. He managed beautifully from the kitchen to the table and just as he went to place the platter, the turkey slipped, knocking glasses and flowers and splattering dressing and grease all over. For just a moment there was a tragic silence. No one knew what was going to happen. In that split second everyone wondered how the little bride would take the catastrophe, and then, bless her soul, she started to laugh—not an hysterical laugh, but a low rippling laugh of good nature. Immediately everyone joined in. The mother of the groom said, "You darling." The father muttered something which sounded like, "Good sport." The groom, after the guests had gone, took his little wife into the kitchen and putting his arms around her, said, "I will love you forever for the way you took the clumsy thing I did tonight."

Good nature will help married life over more rough places than anyone could ever imagine, and lucky is the lad who has a wife whose smiles are closer to the surface than are her tears.

Marriage takes loads of understanding, for there is hardly a day comes which does not bring its perplexities, its never-ending financial problems. And the girl who has an understanding heart will bring solace to the man who is out daily fighting battles which few women ever know about.

During the first few months of married life, no one will seem very important except just "Me and my wife." But soon the importance of friends will become manifest. No one can go through life without

382

friends. No man or woman is sufficient unto the other without the addition of friends. Consequently the girl who has social ability, that quality which acts as a magnet drawing people into her circle, is a valuable one. Not that any couple wants to "be on the go" continually. Yet if in the early days of married life there is an air of hospitality born within a home, it will carry throughout all of the years to come. When children grow up in that household, instead of always making excuses to be out, instead of carrying on their courtships in the back seats of automobiles, they will want to come home where mother and father will throw wide the doors and make these children and their friends welcome.

Refinement in married life becomes more important as the years go on. From refinement is born an ever increasing desire for the best that life has to offer. Into the home of a refined couple good books make their way, the sweet harmony of music is heard, pictures of beauty and good taste adorn the walls. Refinement sends its influence into the material things of the home as well as into the actions and words of all those who live therein.

Frequently the young wife is tempted by an alluring call from her old employer to come back at double her old salary and work for him for a few months. Temptation is the only thing it can be called, because the place of a young wife, if it is possible at all, is to establish her home and have her babies in those first early years of marriage. It is the natural thing to do. A thousand times better if parents would come to the aid of young couples who get into straitened financial difficulties than to have the wife go back to work. Of course there are exceptional cases. But often the husband, if his wife is making a

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

salary comparable to his own, gets to feel that after all she is perfectly able to take care of herself, and immediately one of the important qualities of a husband begins to weaken—that quality of being the provider and the protector—then a certain sweetness goes out of their wedded life.

The girl who works after marriage, especially during the first several years, finds it easier and easier to put off the time when she shall have her first baby. She argues: "If I work a few more months, I will have enough saved to pay all of the doctor bills, or 'we can afford to have the bedroom painted and papered." This is such faulty reasoning—balancing the everlasting thrills and joys of having a baby of their own, a family of their own, against material luxuries.

A wife's place is in her home, managing it for her husband, and bringing children into the world which will bless them and compensate them a thousand times for any sacrifice which they have to make. The wife plays an important role in establishing early the type of a home and the kind of a family spirit which she and her husband will have all of their long years together.

Now what of the husband? There has been much said about the responsibilities of the wife, but not one whit less important is the part which the husband plays. Into this marriage state which can be so gloriously happy or so matter-of-fact and humdrum comes the first thing which to a man may not seem important at all and which either makes or breaks a wife's continued love for him—consideration.

There are so many little sweet things which make a wife's twenty-four-hour-a-day job worth while. The expression in the morning of "How sweet you look, dear," "My, these rolls are good," are just little comments

YOU ARE GOING TO BE MARRIED

and yet to a woman's heart they sound the keynote of her entire day's song. Consideration—that certain something which causes a man to sense his wife's moods, her needs, and creates in him a desire to adjust to them. Ask any woman if she would rather have a dozen roses on special days like her birthday or Valentine's or if she would take just one thoughtful act, one appreciative expression every day in the year which would cost nothing, and the answer would be unanimously, "The little thing which comes daily to make me realize that he still cares."

The man who gives his wife an allowance, who makes her feel that she is his equal in managing, in budgeting, endears himself to her. Of course she is going to make mistakes, many of them, if she has never earned money and never had any of her own to spend, but how many of the marital quarrels and misunderstandings would be done away with if the young groom would start married life on a partnership basis instead of assuming the attitude that she should account to him for every bar of soap, every can of soup, and every spool of thread. Financial understanding is necessary for happiness.

The husband who, if he has criticisms to make, waits until he is alone with his wife to make them, will ever be beloved by her. So often young couples get into the habit, facetiously perhaps at first, of belittling and ridiculing each other before family and friends. One young couple pledged to each other that unless they could say something praiseworthy of the other when out in company, they would keep silent. Why shouldn't husband and wife be complimentary to each other? Why

383

fall into the habit of saying unkind things? A wife needs to feel an ever increasing and growing pride in her husband and in his ability. This comes about if her husband ever shows a spirit of ambition, for every girl in the earliest years of her dream of the home that she is someday to have, pictures in that future, security, and she is entitled to it. A man must ever press onward, must ever go forward, improving himself, seeking more knowledge, and endeavoring to better his condition. The spirit of "letting well enough alone" will dull the ardor of a woman's love. A wife's confidence in her husband, her belief that he has great possibilities, and that she knows that some day he is going to achieve and conquer, may be the requisites for keeping that ambition alive.

Marriage without spirituality is not marriage. It is only a few spoken words. The husband and wife who on their wedding day can kneel together and pray that their marriage may be blessed with divine guidance, who will seek each and every day for the fulfillment of the blessings which are promised to them in the Temple of God, who together attend to their Church duties, paying their tithing and giving their service to the Church, will have the greatest chance for successful marriage. With a spiritual foundation, with the desire to bring into their marriage state everything that is lovely, romantic, and good, they will go forward year by year, gaining more happiness, more thrills, and enjoying a more beautiful companionship than was ever dreamed of in those first few ecstatic weeks of planning their marriage.

Devotional

Youth
By Christie Lund Coles

Someone has called youth the gateway to the Temple of Life. And what an apt and beautiful expression. It is such a lovely time. Such an important time. Such a brief time to mean so much to all that follows after it. The Temple itself depends on this portal, this gateway through which hundreds of our youths are passing even now.

I wish I could reach out to all you young people and touch you and speak to you and in speaking to you, say something that would give you courage and faith, strength and vision. I wish, without preaching, without moralizing, I could make you understand how important it is that you be clean and fine, that you remain true to the best that you know. It isn't just that we who have gone before like to preach, like to deny you things. It is rather that we know how much greater will be the yield of the years if you are wise and prudent now.

We are still young enough to understand all that you feel, all that you want. We sense your impatience. Life seems so long to you now, love and the thrills of living seem slow in coming. But the real thrills of living are not quite what you think. Some of you are graduating this month from high schools or colleges, many of you are getting married. These are thrills that will endure and be sweet in memory as long as memories remain. That is, if you come to them worthily: If you graduate realizing that this marks not the end of school alone but the beginning of life, the beginning of responsibility; if you have prepared yourself well for what lies ahead and not wasted your opportunities and must come to look back and wish that you had taken advantage of them. If you come to marriage pure and sweet, understanding and tender, unselfish and forebearing, you will know the most perfect joy that can come to a man or woman. But if, on the other hand, you have been impatient, if you have believed that it wasn't important that you be absolutely chaste, if you believe that marriage is a one-sided affair, there is pain and disillusionment ahead just as surely as dawn follows night. Millions of broken hearts, ruined lives, shattered faiths testify that this is true.
Don't think you have a right to learn these things for yourself. You will regret it all your days. You will wish year in and year out, for as long as you live, that you could go back and start again. True, many fine men and women have started over and gone on to worthy lives and accomplishments. But their scars are there, deep and unhealing. Be sure of that. And the further they have gone the more deeply they have regretted the wrong thing, the selfish and unkind thing.
The whole world is yours. The whole beautiful Temple of Life. There is nothing to be feared from any source whatever except your own self. You are your only enemy, your only rival, the only one who can really hurt you. Other things and influences can only hurt you if you let them. Make up your minds now where you are going, what you are going to do, what you are going to be. Don't let the world daunt you. It will bow before the courageous spirit, the happy, confident heart. Don't let the pessimists tell you there is no chance today. There is just as much chance as there has ever been, probably more for the one who dares go ahead, dares make his own opportunities, dares to give the world the best that is in him.
YOUTH
We believe in you, Youth. We trust you. We are wishing the best of everything for you: The riches of peace and honor and pride, a clean conscience and a light heart, all the things that the years will yield if you but enter the gateway to the Temple of Life softly, worthily, knowing that you are in a holy place.
385
"I would be true, for there are those who trust me;
I would be pure, for there are those who care;
I would be strong, for there is much to suffer;
I would be brave, for there is much to dare.
"I would be friend of all, the foe, the friendless—
I would be giving and forget the gift;
I would be humble for I know my weakness—
I would look up, and laugh, and lift."
                                        (Anon.)
JUNE
By Elsie E. Barrett
You're a month so bewitching,
Filled with choice splendidness;
Where each gentle zephyr gives
A dainty caress;
Where tall castles are builded,
And young dreams are fulfilled,
Lulling cares by sweet quiet
When Spring wind has stilled.
To the year you are adding
All your touch of fine arts,
Filling grey and bare places
With sly Cupid's darts;
There's a gladness in treading,
In the seeing and sound,
Building romance and laughter
From beauty around.
Your tranquility reaches
To the heart of REAL things,
As our thoughts soar above us
On bright Spirit-wings.
Silken petals are gleaming
Over rose-bowers high,
Blending colors all pastel
'Neath mist-mellowed sky.
Lovely JUNE could you linger
With your charms ever new,
And the sweet perfumed roses
So faithful to you?
Generations
By Wilford D. Lee
Lewis Jensen stepped into his father's store, and knocking the dust off his leather jacket with his gloves, he walked to the back of the store to warm his fingers over the circulating heater. He was a handsome fellow in a dark sort of way, but his face, now begrimed with dirt, was drawn thin with a perpetual melancholy. In his deep blue eyes there was a far-away look, timid, wistful; yet his mouth was set with a firmness that expressed an unusual resolution. Once he started for the door of his father's office, but he stopped at the icebox and drank a bottle of soda water first. Then, straightening his shoulders as if with great effort, he quickly went into the office and closed the door.
Johnny Goodman, the ever-efficient clerk and semi-manager of the Jensen Merc., sat back on the bins behind the counter and strummed absently on the frayed strings of his old ukulele. His thoughts were far away, perhaps scudding with the wild, wind-swept clouds which slithered across the low grey hills to the east. His eyes were as misty as the weather, for that morning Mrs. Goodman had demanded a new coat, and deep down in his innards Johnny knew that such weather offered his wife the best possible excuse for insisting. He was almost to break into a doleful lament when Ellen May Waldrum, who clerked on the dry goods side, came over to get a package of gum. Moving her head significantly toward the office in the rear, she remarked, "If you ask me, I'd say that there's going to be a blow up between those two some of these days. They are entirely too different to get along."
"I didn't ask you," Johnny answered with an elaborate wink, "because I knew you would tell me anyway. Yes! I'll say there will be a blow up soon, but not because they are so different...."
"Oh?—Well, why?"
"Because they are so much alike."
"Alike! Why they are as different as they can be."
"No, Ellen,' he remarked sadly, "you can't see any farther than your nose...."
"Don't be silly, Johnny. Lewis is awfully handsome, but Mr. Jensen..."
"Listen, Ellen. Haven't you ever heard your Uncle Alf tell of how handsome Mart was when he was a young fellow? He says Lewis is the very image of him. You wait until fifty summers have had a crack at your face. It won't look so peach blown, either."

Ellen turned up her nose at him. "Aren't Lewis and his dad," continued Johnny wisely, "both subject to fits of depression?"

"Humph! That's calling it by an awfully dignified name, if you ask me. I call it just common ordinary grouchiness." But she came close to the counter and leaned over to whisper to Johnny. "Mother says it is the Danish blood in them. The Danish are always that way. And Mother says that the Welsh that Lewis got from his mother didn't help him any."

Johnny scowled ludicrously. "Made him worse, I'd say. Both of 'em are so sensitive, they crawl right

GENERATIONS

back into themselves if you say scat. That young school teacher says they are both too blamed intelligent."

"Blamed?"

"Well—er—you know, he didn't actually say that, but that was the general impression."

Ellen May laughed lightly. "That's your impression, not the school teacher's He'd never say that." She did a new dance step across the store and left Johnny to contemplate the evil of mixing Danish and Welsh blood.

In the office, Lewis sat with one leg slung across the littered desk, and poked absently with one finger at the obsolete typewriter. His father, heavy and taciturn, stood at the dust-smeared window pretending to gaze out into the raw fall afternoon.

"Well, I just as well tell you what I think, Dad," the boy said. "Every time I try to talk to you about myself, you either walk out on me, or else accuse me of being ungrateful. I'm not ungrateful. But I do think that a person has a right to choose his own course in life."

His father scoffed. "Well, the very course you are choosing is proof enough that some responsible person should do your thinking for you."

"That's what you think."

"Yes, that's what I think. I've worked all my life long to provide you with something better than I had when I started out, and this is the thanks I get."

"See? There you go again. I'm the ungrateful one. I tell you that I don't like farming, and I don't like business. And I don't like being accused of ungratefulness because I can't like them. I've worked these last two years without saying a word hoping that I could make myself like them, but I can't. It just isn't in me."

387

"Well, I suppose it is my own fault," the father remarked bitterly. "I shouldn't have married into your mother's family."

The boy leaped to his feet. "You would insult my mother? You would insult the woman you married?" He almost choked. But the father turned away in high derision.

"I have been able to train most of it out of your mother, but only to see the weakness come out in her son. A musician!" His tone was thick with sarcasm. "Why your uncle David taught music all his life, and if he hadn't been in the army when he died, the county would probably have had to bury him. He used to teach music for fifty cents a lesson, and then didn't even collect that! I've given him many a pair of shoes just to keep him off the ground. Music!"

"Yes, music!" The boy's eyes were filled with rage—rage and frustration. "He did things for this town that you couldn't do!" With sullen tenacity the boy stood his ground. "Why did the people all love him so? What did the people need most when they first came into this sagebrush country?"

"Why, they needed food and clothing, and homes to live in. And if it hadn't been for good solid men, what would have become of people like him?"

Vainly the boy sought to find words with which to express the deep-seated feeling that was within him. What his father said was true, so true he couldn't deny a word of it. "But—but—why live?" he spluttered at last. "Cows and pigs have food to eat, and comfort. I want something more than the animals. Every decent person does."

"Yes, I know what you are going to say. Every one wants something

388

for nothing. There are some of us who work and do things worth while, and naturally, we get paid for it. We supply people with the necessities of life. But there are parasites who come along and want to spend their lives like—like so many butterflies, flitting about and having some one else make their living for them."

"That isn't true," the young fellow cried hotly. "If you, or anyone else ever gave uncle David anything, he was worth it, ten times over. Why Mother has told me...."

"Yes, your mother has told you lots of things."

"Why almost every one of the older people in this town who play the piano was uncle David's student."

"Well, what of it?"

"And he used to put on entertainments where all the kids in school would be on the stage in a grand cantata. Why they used to love him. Mother used to call him the Pied Piper."

"Yes," the father agreed bitterly, "that was your uncle David, all right. He would play around with the women and children until all of the fall work was done, and then he would never have anything to live on during the winter."

"Dad, you are obsessed with the money-making fever. Isn't there anything in the world that is valuable besides making money?" The boy hung his head as if confessing a crime. "I—I love beautiful things, and I want to work with them; but you have forced me all my life to plug away with the ugliest things there are."

"Beautiful things!' His father glared at him in scorn. "Isn't that a fine way for a full grown man to be talking. You say that I forced you into the kind of life you are

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

living? Well, maybe that's true. I've done the best I could to save you from being a fool. Maybe it's all right to sing, but for a man to make it his life, then that life is worthless. My old dad was disappointed in me for marrying whom I did. He wanted me to take a good stout Danish girl." The agonized father drew his hand across his face as if to resolve some terrible mental conflict. "My boy," he concluded earnestly, "I've never seen a musician that wasn't a pauper, an artist that wasn't lacking in manhood, nor an actor that wasn't immoral. May my family be delivered from any of them."

The distracted man took a turn or two the length of the office. After a time he continued, "When I sent you to school, I thought that I had trained you well enough that I could trust you, but you were deceitful. Instead of working hard at your business course that I picked out for you, you sneaked off here, there, and everywhere, playing in the band and the orchestra, and singing in the glee club, and spending my money. Can you expect me to keep on supplying you with money which you have neither earned if you spend it that way? Now, if you will do as I say, I will see to it that you are taken care of, but if you don't—well—"

The young man, raised his head, and with some effort squared his shoulders. "Dad, up until now I've been just like so much mush with you. I've let you lick me every time. But now I'm certain that you are wrong and that I'm right. I've made up my mind what I'm going to do. I believe that I have a right to live the kind of life that will bring me happiness. I don't intend to bury myself in this little town and dig in the dirt all my life. That kind

GENERATIONS

of life is all right for those who like it, and there are plenty of them. The more you poke fun at musicians, the more I want to be one. You sneer at uncle David but I admire him more than anyone else. It is all right to make a living, but I can't see any use in it unless you get some happiness out of living it."

His father turned on him almost savagely. "A good man finds happiness in any useful work. It is only the parasite that wants to get out of work."

The boy's face flushed with anger. "A musician works as hard as you do. And anyway, you can't say that I've been lazy. You hire someone else to do the work that I've done for the last five years, and see if you can get as much from him for your money. Marjorie and I are moving out tomorrow. You can either sell our house or rent it; we won't need it again. You will be able to sell it for twice as much as it cost you. I'll donate my labor. Maybe that will satisfy your lust for money."

The boy swung out of the office, and stalked through the store with his head down to hide the mist in his eyes.

Mrs. Jensen hurried to the kitchen where she was preparing supper. Three large trout lay on the table all cleaned and ready to roll in the flour. Opening the oven door, she tested it with her hand, and finding it hot enough, she took a large pan of biscuits from the table and popped them into the oven. Then with a sigh, she glanced into the mirror. Quickly unfastening her hair, she fluffed the dark strands with the comb, and fashioned them about her careworn face. In the dark eyes there was an expression of deep mystery, and her face still

389

showed a remnant of melancholy beauty which more than thirty years of male dominance had sadly marred. Although her mouth was now drawn in anguish, she held back the tears. She tidied herself quickly, and then went into the dining room to fix the fire. A knock at the door, made her set the heavy scuttle down. When she opened the door, there stood in the darkness, a tall, gaunt man wearing a large Stetson hat.

"Alf!" she murmured.

"Hello, Martha," the tall fellow greeted her cordially. "Is Mart home yet?"

"No, he hasn't come home yet," she answered, stepping aside and holding the door open in an invitation for him to enter. "He should be here any minute, though."

Entering the dining room and tossing his hat on the sewing machine, the old cowman seated himself in a comfortable rocker near the fire. Alf Tanner was an old rancher of the region, in reality an uncle to many of the people of the town, but the adopted uncle of all. His face was weatherbeaten, and his mouse-colored mustache drooped about his mouth, but his eyes made up in luster and brilliance for the dullness of his exterior appearance. It was the fountain of youth which bubbled forever within him that caused men and women to turn to him instinctively in their hours of trial.

"Well Martha," he remarked as the woman busied herself setting the table, "you look as pretty as you did thirty years ago when Mart ran away with you. Seems like some people never lose their good looks," he chuckled broadly. "Now me, I've never lost any good looks, have I?

The woman, in spite of her heavy

390

heart, was forced to laugh. "No, Alf, you can be thankful that you have never had any good looks to lose."

Leaning back, the lanky old cow puncher surveyed the comfort of the dining room reminiscently. "Well, Martha, you have been mighty comfortable and happy in this old house, haven't you? Seems like only yesterday that you an' Mart bought it. Thought you was coming right to the top, then, didn't you?"

The woman went on setting the table and said nothing, but the old cowman rambled on. "I wish everybody had as much to make them happy as you have. A good home, a lot of land, a good family, an' everything. It's been a happy life, hasn't it?" He thumbed an old and much worn gold medal that hung from his watch chain as he waited a moment for her answer. When she was silent, he twisted about in his chair, and looking at her, asked pointedly, "Well, hasn't it?"

"Yes, there have been some times when we have been happy," she murmured, "but..."

"But what?"

"Oh Alf, you can never know the agony that a woman feels when her whole life has been a futile mistake."

The man smiled easily. "Now, Martha. Don't get into one of your moods again. I thought that you had just about cured yourself of them. Welsh will be Welsh, though in spite of you, eh?"

She turned quickly to him. "You heard that Lewis and Marjorie are leaving, didn't you?"

The old cowman nodded. "You want them to, don't you?"

The woman took in a breath for quick denial but she caught herself. For a moment she looked at the old cowman, surprised that he could read in her mind something that she had hardly suspected herself. When she spoke, her voice broke with emotion. "Oh Alf, I don't know what I want." She hurried out into the kitchen to get the fish into the frying pan.

It was only a few minutes until Mr. Jensen came in through the front door. He stopped abruptly at the sight of his old friend comfortably ensconced in his own easy chair. With a silent nod, he went on through the dining room and into his bedroom where he left his hat and coat. Returning, he warmed his fingers over the heater. The gloom of his spirit dampened the room like a fog.

The old cowman took up the evening paper, and turning to the financial page, studied it absently as he sniffed at the tantalizing aroma of frying fish from the kitchen.

"I see wheat's up," he remarked after a bit. "Sold yours yet?"

Mr. Jensen grunted a negation. There was silence between the two until Mrs. Jensen set the food on the table. But even the taste of golden brown trout could not dispel the gloom that enshrouded everything. When Mrs. Jensen had finished placing the food on the table, she went into her own bedroom and remained there.

"Doesn't your wife feel well?" the old cowman inquired.

The store keeper glanced up from his plate. "She doesn't like fish," he said. "She can't eat when they are on the table."

After awhile the guest spoke again. "Heard some of the boys saying that Lewis is going to school again this year. That's mighty good of you to let him off right in the middle of harvesting."

The other man stopped with a forkful of fish half way to his mouth. "Did he say that I let him off?"

"Well, no. But if he is going, I just took it for granted that you had.... Didn't you?"

"He came into the store this afternoon and announced that he was going."

"Had quite a row, I guess?"

Mr. Jensen nodded as he stripped the backbone of a fish.

"You know," the old cowman philosophized, "my old dad used to say, 'Be careful who you hate, an' be careful who you fight with. You are probably just like them.' "

The other man paused. "You mean that... That Lewis and I are alike?"

"Remarkably, I'd say. Remarkably. But yourselves... To each other you probably don't notice it. But everyone remarks about it."

"That's nonsense."

"Maybe. Maybe not. You're both subject to them Danish fits of grouchiness, ain't you?"

Mr. Jensen scowled down into his plate.

"Well, maybe his fits are Welsh melancholy. I guess that'd make yours Danish stubbornness. Well, anyway you're both remarkably alike."

"Another of your silly notions."

"Don't be too sure. There are a hundred ways you are just alike. About the only difference is that you are light and he is dark. Of course you are different in the way you—a—react to yourselves. You see, your hair curls, and you plaster it down as if you were ashamed of it. His hair curls and he encourages it. You are both too thin skinned to live in a common world. You curl up like a yellow leaf when anybody criticizes you. About the biggest difference between you is that you have cultivated different sides of your nature. He has done his best to cultivate the artistic side, an' you can't forgive him for it. But I can remember when you were a young fellow, you liked to sing too. You remember the quartet that you an' David used to be in." He paused awhile to mull over the memory. But after a bit he continued, "David—he went on with music, but you and me got off on the money-making side of life. The only man that Lewis resembles as much as he does you is his uncle David."

The old store-keeper heaved himself to his feet. "That's a lie!"

"No it isn't. I don't see why you should feel insulted about it either. The time was when you thought David was the grandest fellow alive. Didn't you?"

The other man gripped the back of his chair until his knuckles were white.

"It is sometimes the little things which turn the whole order of our lives," the old cowman went on. "Has it ever occurred to you that the things which we are unconscious of sometimes determine what we make of ourselves? You remember how everyone loved David because he was happy and carefree, even though he didn't have a dime. He had something that satisfied the starved longing of their souls. How often have you sat and listened while he played the piano? You and I could fill peoples bellies with salt pork and beans, but he had something that filled their souls with beauty. He had a heavenly gift, a talent that was most remarkable. But somehow you could never forgive him for it; you were jealous because he could make friends, an' you couldn't. And in your Danish way, you have become sour clear through. An' more than that: since you couldn't take it out on him, you married the person closest to him,

392

his own sister, an' you have been taking it out on her for thirty years."

Jensen flung aside the chair. "You can't say that to me." His sharp blue eyes flashed fire from their deep sockets.

The old cowman leaned on the back of his chair and quieted his friend with a depreciatory gesture. "Don't get riled, Mart," he begged. "I'm just trying to help you do some thinking that you have put off for thirty years. Set down over here, an' let's get to the bottom of this."

When Mr. Jensen was comfortably seated in his big chair the old cowman pulled up a chair from the table and continued, "Mart, you know that you aren't happy. Oh, you get some satisfaction out of the feeling that you are successful. But law! Success ain't worth the price you are paying for it. You've been a good man, and have done a lot to make this country what it is. Without men like you this country would still be in sagebrush. But you have shut out half of life, an' the most beautiful half at that. It seems like you have done all your thinking inside a closed wall. You've never let yourself think anything except what was strictly orthodox in politics, or religion, or in life. Whenever you read you always pick out those things that agree with your way of thinking, an' won't let yourself hear anything else. Now history shows..."

But the old storekeeper stopped him with a gesture. "History shows this," he cried with some heat, "that the men and women who are worthwhile are the ones that have tended to business, and have left the frittering things of life alone. There's Hill, and Harriman, and Gould and Rockefeller, and Edison. Men of substantial worth. Show me anyone who has done more for this country than these men."

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

"Oh, I agree with you. They have done their part. Yet—you know, I heard a fellow say once, that when we got ourselves completely supplied with the things of this world, we would wake up to the fact that we have a mind, and that the mind is capable of giving us the greatest satisfactions imaginable. It may be that some men, say David, an' your boy Lewis, have woke up to the fact already. You know, Mart, you an' me are just two old codgers, remnants of a frontier age that is passing fast. We have our own ideas about how things should go, but we don't consult others on how they would like it to go. After all, we are only half alive. We can't enjoy those things which are life to some people. Now that boy of yours: I watched him the other night when that chap was in town giving a piano recital. Those lines about his mouth were all smoothed out, an' his scowl was all gone. His face just beamed he was so filled with joy at the sound of the music. Now me, I didn't like it much. I guess I don't know enough about it. I just went because I had to buy a couple of tickets an' I didn't want to waste 'em."
The old cowman paused awhile and settled back in his chair. His eyes were alight with the thought of the joy he had seen in the boy's face. Presently he turned to the boy's father and went on. "My girl Emmy's like your boy, some, only her line's painting. She ain't one of those professional painters, you know. She just does it for fun. Well, I was out on the coast where she lives last summer, an' she drove me up the Columbia River Highway. I started cussing because the road was so crooked. Well, she shut me up in a hurry. 'Every curve,' she says 'takes one to a new vista of beauty.' She taught me more about the beauty of form, and rhythm and color on that trip that I had ever heard of before. She said that the artists
GENERATIONS
of the country would mob any commission that ever tried to straighten out that road; an' damned if I wouldn't help 'em, too, now that I see it the way she does."
The old cowman got up, and taking up his hat, rolled the brim in his hands. "It might be a long time before you see it, Mart," he concluded. "Maybe you won't ever see it. All I have to say is that this old world is dreary and bleak enough the way we find it. I don't resent anyone's ambition to make it a more pleasant place to live in. It may be that your wife's brother David was too much on the artistic side, but that wasn't his fault. He just came before his time. Now days, with the opportunities that people have in college, he would become a great musician. The love of beauty that David had lives on in your son. It's too bad that you can't see how valuable a thing it is. Well, good night." He turned abruptly and went out into the night. While the door was open the chill wind howled through the house; when it was-closed again, the silence seemed insufferably intense. ME: JENSEN sat slumped in his chair and stared at the carpet. His wife came from her room and cleared the table, but he seemed oblivious to everything. For an hour he remained thus, the storm within him drawing his brows tighter into a pathetic, resentful scowl. Presently the door opened. Lewis and his wife entered, dressed for traveling. The boy looked at his father, but walked on through the dining room without speaking. Mrs. Jensen met them at the kitchen door, her hands still wet from washing dishes. "You aren't going tonight." she exclaimed. "Yes," the boy comforted her. "We just as well go now as any 393 time. We can get down there tomorrow and get us a place to stay. Then I can start Monday. I can't afford to lose much more if I intend to catch up before the end of the quarter." He went over to his father. 'Here is the key to the house. You will find in it everything that you have given us," The old man arose without taking the key. Glaring at the young woman, he growled, "Well, I suppose we have you to thank for all this. I was afraid when Lewis married you that you would undo all that I have tried to do. Well..." The young man started, and would have answered his father angrily, but his wife placed a restraining hand on his sleeve. She smiled a little pathetically from behind her veil. "TI knew you wouldn't understand," she said simply. "You have never understood anyone, not even yourself. I am sorry that this is happening, but it is the only way that I can see for any of us to get any happiness out of life." "Happiness!" "Yes, happiness. You won't believe it, of course, but the world is moving on, and it is leaving you behind. It is not satisfied to still have nothing but those barren simple pleasures of your generation. New intelligence demands new culture, and you are refusing to admit it." The old man glared at her. "We picked you up with nothing and gave you a good home, and this is the thanks we get for it. You make our son dissatisfied with his life here, and take him off on some wild goose chase 'To find happiness'," he finished scornfully. "No," she answered quickly, "you are wrong twice. In the first place, you did not 'pick me up'. Before I came to you I had a good living of my own, and I can go back to it. I left it of my own choice, and you had nothing to do with it. In 394 the second place, I have never influenced Lewis one way or the other. I am satisfied to be the wife of a farmer if I love him, and he loves his work. I don't care what my husband does for a living if he gets joy out of it. But I do care very much if every day in the year is misery to him. Happiness out of this life when we love the things we do." "Well, don't come crying to me for money when poverty catches up to you." She laughed. "You have held that over Lewis for a long time now. I made a hundred a month before I married him. I can still do it." “And he will let you do it!" The blood leaped to the girl's face. "You are an old Puritan," she cried hotly. "You not only destroy the beauty in your own life, but you insist on destroying it in the lives of everyone else. Lewis is a gifted person, but you would smother his talent as if it were a sin. You don't deserve the kind of son you have." The young woman walked over to-where the mother sat crying. She stooped and kissed her and murmured some comforting words into her ear. © Then, pulling on their gloves, the two prepared to leave. Lewis took his mother in his arms and kissed her good-by. He looked over at his father who had turned to the window and stood glaring out into the darkness. "I’ll leave the car at Link Brother's garage, Dad. Johnny said that he would bring it out tomorrow.". The father half turned. 'Aren't you taking the car?" he asked.. "No," the, boy replied in a tone of, relief."  We won't have enough RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE money to run a car for a year or two. You'd better sell it." The two walked to the door, and without looking back went out into the gusty night. "THE grey dawn came in through the window and awoke the old storekeeper where he sat in his chair. His wife came in with some kindling and coal, and in her usual way built a fire. In her eyes there was a deep hurt when she looked upon the suffering of the man with whom she had lived for thirty years. She was the only one who could know the depths of that silent agony which could not find expression. Now that Lewis had gone, there was nothing left for the father to live for. The business, the land, the ranch... All useless now without an heir. How bleak had been his life. Business and work. He could never play. Now he could enjoy nothing. He had never learned how. His success, the great passion of his existence, had fallen about him. The life that he had looked upon as being the road to happiness had suddenly turned out to be a cheat and a lie. In it there was no vibrant pulsing love; in it there was no warm glow of satisfaction. There was nothing but figures, figures. Figures. In the greatness of his agony, he arose and did the only thing that he could do. He chafed his benumbed fingers over the glowing fire until they were warm, then he reached for his checkbook. Filling in the blank for a hundred dollars, he handed it to his wife and gruffly demanded her to send it to Lewis when she got his address. Then, putting on his hat and coat, he went out into the raw wind. Golden Anniversary of Manti Temple By J. B. Jennings IN May, fifty years ago, so the chronicler tells us, roads leading to Manti were crowded with the conveyances of those who were on their way to the dedication of the Manti Temple. They travelled in all sorts of outfits—in buckboards and buggies and prairie schooners—over roads that we would now hesitate' to venture forth upon in our shiny six cylinder models. They were coming to celebrate the completion of a task ten years in the doing—a task which had required infinite care and countless small sacrifices and a general willingness to lend a hand— the building of a temple upon a temple hill. On that spring morning fifty years ago the Temple must have stood forth, radiant, white and fair, in the bright sunlight, and the throng which crowded the grounds must have felt beauty and solemnity. Here was a shrine to their deepest conviction and a symbol of their innermost devotion, hewn out of the heart of a hill in a far-away land. The hill upon which the Temple stands could have been meant for no other purpose, and Brigham Young must have realized this, for on his first visit to the little settlement of Manti in 1850 he had said that one day a temple would stand upon the hill. Heber C. Kimball, his companion on this trip, went even further and prophesied that the temple should be built of rock taken from the hill itself. A quarter of a century passed, but men did not forget these words. On April 25, 1877, Brigham Young, his hair now white and his step slower, climbed the hill. He knelt upon the ground, and several hundred persons joined him at these services. His voice rose in prayer: "Wilt thou, O Lord, bless each one now before thee, and bless the ground, this Temple site, this hill, and the hills and valleys round about, and the waters, and the atmosphere, and the elements pertaining to this valley, that the same may be blessed and sanctified before the Lord...." He continued on, his words poetic, yet strong, like the stone that was to become a temple. After the prayer he further addressed those assembled in words befitting the leader of a people who had conquered a desert: "Now Bishops," he said, "if any person should inquire what wages are to be paid for work done on this Temple, let the answer be, 'Not one dime.' And when the Temple is completed we will work in God's holy house without inquiring what we are going to get, or who is going to pay us, but we will trust in the Lord for our reward, and He will not forget us." He also had a few words for the women. "We call upon the sisters also to render what assistance they can in this matter. They can do a great deal by way of encouraging their husbands and sons, and also by making clothing of various kinds for them, and in otherwise providing for them while they are working here."

Five days later the work began. In order to reach bedrock, on which the foundation would be laid, it was necessary to excavate to a depth of fifty feet or more at the east end of the building. Tunnels

396

were driven some twenty or thirty feet into the ground, and shorter tunnels were then made, forming a "T." In these tunnels were placed several hundred pounds of gunpowder. Before these charges were set off, notice was sent out to the surrounding towns and people came from far and near to witness the explosions. Two years were required to complete the excavation. On May 14, 1879, the cornerstones were laid. William H. Folsom was the architect in charge of the construction. John Taylor, President of the Twelve, laid the southeast cornerstone and Elder Lorenzo Snow of the Council of the Twelve offered the dedicatory prayer. We may judge of the intense interest displayed in the Temple, even at this early stage in its construction, by the fact that approximately 4000 persons witnessed these services. There now followed the actual building of the Temple. This was a colossal enterprise for the small communities comprising the Temple district to undertake, but they set about their task with great enthusiasm and determination. Constructed entirely through donation, it stands today an inspiring tribute to a faithful, thrifty, and self-sacrificing people. The women, heeding President Young's admonition at the dedication of the site, did everything in their power to further the cause. The first carpets were woven on looms in Sanpete County. Women of the various wards collected, cut, and dyed the rags and wove the carpets. At one time the Relief Society and Mutuals each contributed one hundred yards of carpeting. The sisters made cheese, quilts, clothes, towels, and many other articles to be given to the men who worked on the Temple.

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

The last stone was laid in the spring of 1888, and the completed Temple stood, a stately white symbol of Man's eternal quest for the Eternal, in quiet and solemn dignity above the shining valley. The public dedication took place on May 21 and services continued for three days attended by approximately 1700 persons each day. Although the program was not to begin until 11 a. m., the Temple grounds were crowded at an early hour. Rain had threatened the night before, but the morning was clear and radiant. The dedicatory prayer was offered by Elder Lorenzo Snow of the Council of the Twelve. The choir rendered the dedication hymn. There then followed addresses by several of the leading men of the Church and by brethren who had important parts in building the Temple. As its closing number the choir sang Mozart's beautiful "Hymn of Praise."

Glorious is Thy name, Almighty Lord,
All the angels stand round about thy throne;
Let all nations bow before Thee,
And declare Thy wondrous works.
We praise Thee, we give thanks to Thee,
We adore Thee, we glorify Thee.
Lord we adore Thee, we bless Thee.
Lord we thank Thee for Thy great glory.
Heaven is Thy throne and earth is Thy footstool,
Thou art King over all the world.
Glorious is Thy name, O Lord,
Blessing, and honor, be to God
Forever, and evermore.

Apostle John Henry Smith offered the benediction. On May 28, 1888, the Manti Temple was opened for ordinance work. Four marriages for time and eternity were performed the first day.

GOLDEN ANNIVERSARY OF MANTI TEMPLE                    397

During 1888, 55,838 ordinances were administered, and almost every year has seen a greater interest in the work of the Temple. Daniel H. Wells was the first President of the Manti Temple. He was succeeded in 1891 by Anthon H. Lund. President Lund was appointed to preside over the European Mission in 1893 and John D. T. McAllister took his place. President McAllister was released in 1906 and Lewis C. Anderson was appointed to the position. Robert D. Young is now President of the Manti Temple, having been set apart to that office on December 30, 1933.

The Golden Anniversary of the Manti Temple will be observed June 14 to 19. Elaborate preparations for a fitting commemoration of the occasion of the dedication of the Temple have been underway for some months under the general chairmanship of L. R. Anderson, former President of South Sanpete Stake. A feature of the commemorating exercises will be the daily presentation of the dramatic pageant, "The Hearts of the Children," under the direction of the author, Principal M. E. Smith of the South Sevier Stake Seminary.

THE SETTING SUN
To Professor Alfred Osmond
By Lorine Hutchinson Lee

The sun has set,
Reflecting its glory across the sky
In eloquent ecstasy,
Giving birth to a new day,
Beyond the horizon;
Another world of work and hope,
Where people strive with life to cope.

Life's sun has set,
Reflecting its glory across the mind
Of services well done,
Announcing a new day
Beyond the horizon;
Another sphere of faith and hope
Where spirits strive with truth to cope.

Hannah
By Elizabeth Worthington Shane

On the southern slope of Mount Ephraim lived righteous Elkanah, the Ephraimite. Two dwellings opened onto his spacious court; one for his wife, Peninnah, with her brood of rosy-cheeked children, one for his beloved Hannah, the fairest matron of Mount Ephraim.

It was night, and Hannah walked alone across the silent court in anguish of spirit. She kept her eyes turned away from the lighted windows of Peninnah's quarters from which came the sound of laughter, the happy shouting of children's voices. Her throat ached and her heart was heavy as she looked out across the dark valley, then raised her eyes to the cloud-streaked sky. "Oh, how long, how long can I bear it?" she asked herself; for only today Peninnah had taunted her again because she had no child. Trailing her noisy brood within easy hearing of Hannah's door, she shouted loudly: "Keep away from there, children! Don't look in. She's an evil woman, cursed by the Lord." Then the curious-eyed children edged away as if in dread of some evil thing. Among the women, too, Peninnah gossiped in her presence, invoking sharp and cruel glances that cut to the heart of her.

Elkanah, coming to her door and finding her not in, was troubled, but looking across the way, he saw a lone figure moving in the dark, and knew that it must be she. Alarmed, he hastened to overtake her.

"Hannah! Hannah, my own, why do you walk out here alone?" he asked.

"Because I cannot stand the silence of my house. I cannot stand it, Elkanah." She beat upon her breast in her anguish.

Her husband tried to comfort her. "You are wrought up again, darling. Come. Put away your grief. Is my love as nothing to you? You know that I love you more than anything in life."

"Your love is very dear to me, Elkanah, but it doesn't shield me against Peninnah's taunts."

Elkanah frowned darkly. "Ah, so it's Peninnah again. Curse the fury of a jealous woman! Can't you see, Hannah, it's only her jealousy; for how can I hide my great love for you?"

"Ah, yes," she answered, "but all Israel knows that it's true that the Lord is displeased with me, His handmaiden."

"Not so, my loyal wife, but the Lord is withholding a blessing for you that will outshine them all! Mark me well. Now, come, my beautiful one, and no more of this morbid brooding."

It was time for the yearly sacrifice in Shiloh, and Elkanah took his wives and children, together with the choicest fatlings of his herds, and went up to worship the Lord. There old Eli and his two sons ministered in the temple. The time had come for Elkanah's offering. The long table was heavy with food, for the people made much of this feast-time. Elkanah served Peninnah and her

HANNAH

children their portions; then he went to the other side of the table and served Hannah a larger portion than any. Peninnah's sharp eyes were quick to notice, and jealousy rose up in her as a flame. "So!" she thought, "He openly shows his preference!" Then a subtle thought stole into her mind. "She has his love, but I have my children to bespeak my righteousness before the people." Then turning to the women beside her, she said: "See my fine boys and girls! Aren't they beautiful children? The eldest boy is so like his father, the dark eyes, the high, broad forehead!" Then directing their glances to Hannah, she said in a loud whisper: "Cursed she is by the Lord. Cursed! Never a child!"

Bitter tears of humiliation and hurt trickled down Hannah's cheeks and fell on her hands that lay idle in her lap. Her throat felt as if it would burst, and food would have choked her. Elkanah tried vainly to comfort her. "Hannah, my dear, why do you not eat and stop weeping? Why do you grieve so? Am I not better to you than ten sons?" Man that he was, he could not understand maternal hunger for offspring.

Hannah could endure it no longer. She rose from her place at the table and broke away from him in the crowd. Presently old Eli, the priest, sitting by a post of the temple, saw her kneeling, her lips forming words that were not audible. "Oh, Lord of hosts," she prayed, "look upon the affliction of thine handmaid and remember me.... Give unto thine handmaid a man child, and I will give him unto the

399

Lord all the days of his life. I promise, Lord."

"Woman, how long wilt thou be drunken? Put away thy wine from thee. For shame!" It was the stern voice of old Eli, who misunderstood her manner.

"No, my lord," she answered, "I have not drunk wine; but out of the abundance of my grief have I called upon God."

The old priest's face softened. "Then, go in peace," he said, "and the Lord grant thee thy petition."

On the journey home Hannah's face was no longer sad. Her heart was singing a new song. She carried a secret in her breast that even Peninnah's taunts could not cut through. The next year when Elkanah and his household went up to Shiloh to worship, Hannah stayed in Ramah on Mount Ephraim, and nurtured the baby, Samuel.

"Remember," said Elkanah, "you have promised him to the Lord."

"I know, I know," she answered, "I will wait till he is weaned, and then I will take him and give him—to—the Lord."

"Very well," said her husband, "only—the Lord establish His word."

The next year Elkanah went up while Hannah tarried at home, and again the next year. Little Samuel was a goodly child, a sturdy youngster, growing lovelier in the eyes of his fond mother every day. The time had come when Hannah must bow to the unswerving decree. Well, God had been good. He had taken away her reproach from among women. He had lifted her to esteem in the eyes of her adversary. He had fed her hungry heart with the love of a hea-

400

ven-sent babe. She was ready to bequeath the most precious gift that womankind had ever offered. "But I'll only lend him to the Lord," she said to herself. "He'll always be mine—always."

On the way to Shiloh Hannah dared not think on her future, but kept her mind fixed on the vision of her little son ministering efficiently in the temple. Shiloh was already swarming with people when the caravan arrived bearing the young child, Samuel. Elkanah slew a bullock and offered, then he and Hannah took the child to the priest. Hannah did not hang back or hesitate, but spoke out bravely. "Oh, my lord, I am the woman who prayed by you here in the temple. It was for this child that I prayed, and the Lord granted me my petition. Therefore I have come to lend him to the Lord as I promised. As long as he lives he shall serve the Lord." Old Eli looked kindly upon the child, and knew that this was the Lord's hand-dealing. His two sons, Hophni and Phineas, the young priests, had sorely displeased the God of Israel with their revelry; therefore, the Lord had raised Him up a righteous servant.

Very early in the morning the company of Elkanah rose and worshipped, then set out on the long journey homeward. Hannah rode silently most of the way, deep in thought. The day was hot and the journey tiresome. When they broke camp after the evening meal, dusk had already settled over the valley of Ephraim. The rest of the party was moving on, but Hannah clutched at her husband's arms, her face pale and worried. "Elkanah, it's getting dark! Do—do you think he will be all

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

right?" Elkanah pressed her dark head to his shoulder. "Of course, my lovely one. Everything will be all right." Hannah wept till her tears wet her husband's garment. "But he's such a baby, Elkanah! Do you think that old Eli will know how to care for him?" "I'm sure old Eli will be very tender with him, darling," he answered. "But he may wake in the night and miss me. Oh, Elkanah, think of him crying his little heart out in the dark!" Elkanah pressed a kiss to the troubled forehead. "The Lord will take care of His own, my dear. You must be brave," he counseled. Hannah raised her head and tilted her chin courageously. "Of course—of course He will. He even heeded the cry of His handmaiden.. I will be brave. I will." They mounted their camels and rode on toward Mount Ephraim. To them the night was a hallowed one. Back in Ramah, the house of Hannah was strangely empty and silent, yet to Hannah's heart it was so full of the echoes of childish laughter and prattle that it would never seem completely silent again. And the stern decree of Israel seemed to ring in her ears, a balancing couplet to the gay echoes: "The Lord establish His word." "What can I do," she pondered, "to keep my baby from forgetting me? Ah, I have it!—I'll make him a beautiful coat. I'll embroider it in the colors that he likes best, and take it up to him at the feast-time in Shiloh. And—year after year—I'll make him—a little coat."

Our Father Knows
SOME MORE THOUGHTS ADDRESSED TO THE MOTHERS OF ISRAEL
By Leah D. Widtsoe

The restored Gospel of Jesus Christ teaches definitely that the possession of a mortal body is essential for man's eternal progress. Therefore the proper care of the body becomes a sacred trust to each human being whose spirit is a literal descendant of our Father in Heaven. He designs that His earth children should be possessed of strong minds and clean healthy bodies as a basis for the growth of each individual soul. In the first chapter of the first book of the Bible He definitely instructs the first man, Adam, regarding his diet. During the intervening ages, periodically, necessary instructions regarding man's physical well-being have been given. The children of Israel were not only told how to guard their health but for a time the actual food was provided in the "manna from heaven." It is but an added testimony to the truth of the restored Gospel that a new Law of Health should be given to guide men on their earth journey in these modern times. This came as a direct message from on High, to be accepted and obeyed literally, for man's good. And how we need that Guide today!

In just one phase of the subject treated by the Word of Wisdom, that of drug addiction, let a few facts wake us up to the alarming conditions all about us. Every year in the United States, well over one billion dollars is spent on the so-called "dope racket" and by "dope" is meant the more harmful drugs, opium and derivatives which deaden the nerves and demoralize the soul. That sum does not include the many billions of dollars spent for alcohol, tobacco, tea, coffee and other less harmful drugs in such general use today. These substances are all taken for their effect on the nerves and brain. In no sense may they be classed as foods for they actually tear down the body instead of building it, or renewing its powers. Dr. Henry Smith Williams, an eminent scientist and M. D. has explained how these drugs enslave the victim. They are: "the nicotine of tobacco, the caffeine and theine of coffee and tea, the alcohol of beer, wine, and distilled liquors; cocaine, a product of the coca plant; opiates derived from the poppy; hashish, from 'Cannabis indica' and allied plants; and a group of hypnotic and analgesic drugs either of natural origin, as the bromides and chloral hydrate, or of synthetic development, as aspirin, veronal, and a long list of somewhat less familiar products. Of the entire list of such drugs, it may be said that, in general terms, they fulfill a common function. They are props for the unstable nervous system. A healthy organism does not require any of them, under any circumstances." All of these drugs are in common use today and all are harmful to the nerves and brain. One is peculiarly threatening because it is a hardy weed that can be grown in anyone's back yard in almost every state of our Union. This is the deadly

402

hashish or marijuana. The drug made from this plant is as old as history and the misery caused by its human use would fill with tragedy more books than have ever been written. The peculiar danger today is that unscrupulous dealers (fiends in men's clothing!) are selling it and thereby enslaving our youth of high school and college age who should be in the full flower of their mental and bodily vigor. It is estimated that there are over 300,000 addicts in our country today, mostly young people, and the number is increasing at an alarming rate. The fiends who sell it frequent high schools, mix it with tobacco in cigarettes, call it joy smoke, or love weed, and frequently give them away at first because it is known that almost the first smoke creates an immediate lust and then later the price may soar as high as 50c for each cigarette. The unsuspecting victim at first experiences a glorious sensation, but soon develops a delirious rage during which the most unspeakable crimes may be committed and of which the addict seems to be entirely unconscious. Prolonged use causes mental deterioration and eventual insanity. Our young people should be made aware that there is one sure prevention of this hideous evil and others resulting from any kind of drug addiction: Never take your first drink and you will never want a second; never take your first smoke and you will never run the risk of getting one that may be doped with marijuana; never tamper with any of the foods or drinks known to contain drugs, even the supposed harmless ones (such as coca-cola or any caffein containing drink sold at soda fountains), for the use of the milder ones produces an appetite that calls for more and often stronger ones. This is the sequence of

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

drug addiction as may be attested by all who are familiar with its bondage. Experts agree that never since history began has the consumption of drugs been so universal as it is today. Mothers, be on your guard!

Our Heavenly Father understood these conditions with which we are surrounded today for we are told: "Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you: In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation.... " There are those amongst us who would indulge their appetites and who contend that this Word was not given as a command but merely as a suggestion or counsel which we are at liberty to heed or disregard. Certainly, that is true, man's free agency must always be operative, but could any instruction from on High be given in a more scientific or pedagogical manner? Man is so constituted that to be forbidden to do a thing is often taken as an invitation to try that very thing. In this wise Law our Father tells us that it is given "not by commandment or constraint but by revelation" "for a principle with a promise," "Showing forth the order and will of God, in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days." This law is given solely for our protection that we may have joy and freedom from pain and suffering throughout our entire lives, not in any sense to satisfy the whim of a jealous God who gives unreasonable demands that must be obeyed. However, could any command be more truly binding on us than one which comes by revelation and the word of wisdom in which we are made to understand that it shows the order and will of

OUR FATHER KNOWS

God? Indeed, this method is much more potent than any number of "Thou shalt nots"! In this regard a man of science, Dr. Williams, has said: "I must admit myself so much out of step with the times as still to be a believer in personal liberty of choice for every man, so long as his decision does not infringe the like liberty of his neighbor. My chief quarrel with the drugs that enslave is that they do enslave—that they take away freedom of choice—so that every man (or woman) who becomes an addict renounces, usually forever, the inestimable privilege of being master of himself.... The urge of the 'reformer' is not in my make-up. I belong to no societies; take part in no collective propaganda for any cause. But I have the compassion for human weakness and infirmity that is the natural endowment of one who has been more than fifty years a physician, and who comes of a long line of medical ancestry, coupled with the instinctive impulse, however fatuous, to pass on the lessons of experience to the younger generation. Not by way of dogmatic mandate, however; only by way of sympathetic admonition." Thus a wise teacher on earth suggests the method of a wise Father in Heaven.

The full possession of bodily health is promised all who obey this law: they "shall run and not be weary and shall walk and not faint." This is most desirable especially since physical well-being is often basic for mental, moral and spiritual health. These are indeed priceless treasures to be won and held by all who will obey God's law. The additional rewards promised for this obedience are precious beyond measure: they "shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures!" It is great

403

to have knowledge; it is a far greater thing to have wisdom. To possess the power to gain knowledge, increasingly, to seek out and use even hidden treasures of knowledge for one's own well-being as well as that of fellowman is truly a God-like gift! This great possession is the birthright of all who obey this temporal law, the Word of Wisdom. The final blessing is equally desirable: "And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them." Herein lies "Church security" and only so may it be obtained—by full and cheerful obedience to all the laws of God. Here our Father gives us a definite promise. We are told in a former Section of the Doctrine and Covenants: "And again, I say unto you, I give unto you a new commandment, that you may understand my will concerning you; or, in other words, I give unto you directions how you may act before me, that it may turn to you for your salvation. I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." So we all may understand clearly, these priceless blessings are ours only when we live for them. It is a great comfort to know that in our day the Lord has given us a direct message for individual health and happiness. Let the purpose of this message be well understood. In no sense can obedience thereto curtail our privileges or diminish our pleasures. In fact, the exact opposite is the case, for freedom from the bondage of drugs, and a strict adherence to the physiological truths contained therein, adds zest and joy to all the experiences of youth and age until life may become one long happy journey of self-realization and service to fellowman.

404

The Mothers of Israel must open their ears and their hearts to receive this message and make it operative in their homes, that their children may rise up and call them blessed. Our Heavenly Father knows our needs and our problems. He has spoken to each and every

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

one of us for our comfort and well-being. Shall we listen and progress, or sell our birthright for the empty baubles of fashion and momentary excitement? Well may the question be asked today: "Who's On the Lord's Side, Who?"

What Think You?
By Glenn G. Smith

Our Father in Heaven has given us the plan of salvation. In this plan are all the commandments He expects us to keep. However, we have our own free agency to do as we choose. We are not compelled to do anything contrary to our own desires. Neither are we compelled to be perfect in our lives, but through humble obedience to the laws of God we can make perfection of life our ultimate accomplishment. It seems strange that we should ever consider the laws of God lightly, when we have such wonderful examples in the Bible and the Book of Mormon of how blessed and happy people were, who walked by faith and kept the commandments. The best reasons for keeping the laws of God are that He has asked us to do so and because we want the joy that comes in well-doing. He has said that one-tenth of all we earn belongs to Him, and that we should pay it to the Church, that there might be meat in His house. By paying our tithing and by keeping all the commandments of God, we are overcoming our selfish desires and are making our lives more serviceable to those around us. When we pay our tithes and offerings honestly and sincerely, we are less inclined to find fault with our Bishop, the President of our Stake or the General Authorities of the Church. An honest tithepayer sees in his bishop and all those called to preside over him, men of God whom he can love, honor and trust. While he knows that they are subject to human mistakes, he also knows the mistakes they make are of the head and not of the heart. He has confidence in their integrity, in their devotion to duty and their willingness to serve, that they may help God bestow blessings upon the people. An honest tithepayer does not avoid meeting his leaders; he does not make excuses to them for not being a better man; he does not complain how they do their duty nor how they live. He sees in their lives the things that are worth while, and the urge swells within his own breast to be as fine as they are. So while the best reason for paying tithing is that God has commanded us to do so, the next best reason is that those who pay one-tenth of their income to the Lord have a conscience free of offense toward God and those God has called to preside over them. With a clear conscience one can enjoy friendship with fellowmen, and be of real service to them.

Conference Address
April 4, 1938

Progress
By Henry D. Moyle

The experiences of the Church in the past two years illustrate anew the necessity for cooperation, loyalty and unity in our ranks in waging war against our common enemies, unemployment, want, and despair. We must all follow our great leader's command. Social Security for all is the common problem of the members of our Church. The Priesthood quorums and the Relief Society each share the responsibility of giving to the individual the group assistance necessary. The Relief Society, true to its traditions, must do its full share in accomplishing this great purpose. The active participation in this program by every Relief Society officer and member is essential to the establishment of social and economic security in the Church. The Relief Society is the auxiliary organization to which the Priesthood must look for continued assistance in the performance of its full social duty toward its people. The work of the Relief Society results in a two-fold service: first, a service to the people developed by the initiative, long experience, and foresight of the Relief Society itself, and now constituting the Society's regular program; and second, special services rendered from time to time at the special request of the Priesthood. For both, we must rely upon the individual members of the Relief Society. The mothers in the home. Certainly, the mothers must instill the spirit of independence in their children, and in this way alone can do much toward making the family a self-sustaining unit. The mothers collectively constitute the Ward Relief Society. This ward organization, in turn, renders a service which is threefold in its nature: first, a service which is purely local, adapted by the ward group to the immediate needs of its own community; second, special assistance rendered the bishop of the ward, at his request; third, stake and general church service, as required. The first two classes of service are confined to the ward itself in which the organization exists. The latter service is rendered in cooperation with other wards under the supervision of the stake and the general Church Relief Society boards. This very general classification of the services rendered is important in outlining the appropriate place of the Relief Society in our present Church Security work. Our plan calls for the greatest possible amount and variety of service to be initiated and executed by the Relief Society member individually and the ward organization collectively. The entire resources of the stake and general Relief Society officers and boards should be utilized in stimulating this individual initiative, and in conserving and developing all our resources. This includes the proper distribution and use of our surpluses—our time as well as our commodities.

406

From its inception the regular work of the Relief Society has been performed under a general commission from the Priesthood. The present work, in relationship to the Church Security program, is performed under a special commission from the Priesthood. These two commissions in no wise conflict. This special commission to assist in the work of the security committees does not detract from, but rather adds to the authority the Relief Society has had heretofore. In short, it can be said that in order to carry out its present special commission, no past or present activity of the Relief Society in any wise need be stifled. On the contrary, the Relief Society, under the supervision of the ward bishop, the stake president, and the general authorities, should continue to take care of both regular and special assignments. With the bishop of the ward directing both the regular programs, on the one hand, and the special Church Security assignments, on the other, there can be no conflict. It should be very gratifying to the Relief Society to reflect upon the important place given it in the organization of our ward and stake security committees. After all, upon these local committees rests the responsibility for the final success of our program. The ward committee consists of the bishop or one of his counselors, designated to act for him, as its chairman, the president of the ward Relief Society, a representative of each of the Melchizedek quorums and of the adult Aaronic Priesthood group, and two ward work directors, as its members. The stake president or his counselor presides over the stake committee, with the stake president

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

of Relief Society, the president of the High Priests' quorum, the chairman of the bishop's executive committee, and two stake work directors as members. One ward and one stake work director are selected each from the Priesthood and the Relief Society. These committees determine the security policy of the ward and stake, and actually direct the work in executing these policies. Here Relief Society presidents and work directors appointed from the Relief Society are given a real opportunity for constructive planning, as well as actual execution of such plans as are agreed upon. It is not a case of taxation without representation. Duplications and conflicts are eliminated here. This committee work adds, of course, to the regularly established work of the Relief Society, but is of inestimable value to the Church Security program in carrying out its purposes. In the final analysis, these ward social security committees act upon the advice and counsel of the bishop and stake president. It is readily seen, therefore, that the regular order of the Church is followed in all that these committees undertake, and particularly in relation to the activities of the Relief Society in formulating and executing the plans for Church social security. The ward security committee, acting as a whole, determines its policy and decides to pursue a certain project. The bishop then assigns to the Relief Society the scope of its activity therein. Stake presidents of Relief Societies bear the same relationship to the stake security committee as do ward presidents to the ward committee. We emphasize the work of the ward committee for

ADDRESS

the benefit of stake presidents in supervising ward work, as well as for the benefit of all ward workers. Let us take, for example, a Relief Society ward or stake organization which is sponsoring sewing in the home as a Relief Society activity. The Relief Society finances this project with its own funds and conducts it with its own officers and teachers. The General Church Security Committee, on the other hand, has established sewing centers at advantageous places in the various wards and stakes, where sisters learn the art of sewing and other handicrafts, where unemployed sisters find remunerative group employment. Sisters who are already sewing in their own homes under the supervision and direction of the Relief Society, or who contemplate doing so, or who can appropriately do so, should be left to that work. It is the aim of all to utilize the ability and resources of our people to gain maximum results. The sewing centers established and financed by the General Committee, with the approval and consent of the Relief Society, furnish employment for sisters who are capable of instructing and educating others, and afford opportunity for those who need education and training or remunerative employment outside of the home. Thus, we see how the activities of the Relief Society, and the Church Security Committee, do not conflict, but in fact complement each other. Both are essential. The same is true of canning and other similar projects. Each individual should be encouraged to adapt herself to the work for which she is best fitted.

407
For the past year, special meetings of stake and ward social security workers have been appointed at all Priesthood quarterly conferences. To these meetings, the stake and ward Relief Society officers are always invited. Their attendance is essential to the success of our program. A member of the General Church Security Committee is present, primarily for the purpose of correlating the work of the ward and the stake with that of the Church generally, of suggesting new activities, answering such questions as may exist in the minds of ward and stake workers, and reporting to the general authorities on the work of the particular wards and stakes. Bishops of wards, presidents of stakes, and all other members of the Church Security committees are invited to be present at these meetings. It is interesting to note that one of the principle topics discussed at most of these meetings has been the participation of the Relief Society in our program, and for that reason it is not only desirable, but essential that Relief Society officers be present at these meetings.
Our work divides itself into two major sub-divisions: first, the giving of temporary relief; second, the creation of permanent employment for our people. This temporary relief is ordinarily given to the family as a unit. To do so intelligently, we are dependent upon the Relief Society to survey, estimate, and budget the needs of the family. We believe that, generally speaking, Priesthood quorums, bishops or stake presidents cannot afford to act in matters of temporary relief, without first obtaining the assistance and advice of the Relief Society. By so doing, we shall practice economy and, at the same time, secure adequate and sympathetic assistance for the family.

408

The Relief Society is also given an opportunity, through its participation in the work of these security committees, to correlate the work of all relief agencies, both in and out of the Church, and to avoid duplications, serious in their consequences. The ward committee furnishes a most excellent opportunity to accomplish all of these purposes. The bishop calls the ward committee together once a week; the stake president, the stake committee. Take an example of a problem coming before a ward committee: The High Priests' quorum has investigated and found a family of one of its members in need. This is reported at this weekly committee meeting. Through its regular calls upon the families in its community, the Relief Society generally knows something of the condition of this family already. Indeed, if the Relief Society is the first to become aware of such a situation, it should make such a report at this meeting. The proper solution of the family's difficulty is here fully discussed. Finally, the High Priests' supervisor assumes the responsibility, on behalf of the quorum, with the approval of the quorum presidency, of providing for the temporary needs of this family, as well as to seek and furnish permanent remunerative employment for the father. The Relief Society is requested by the bishop, at the instance of the High Priests' quorum, to determine the needs of the family and to render such other assistance as may be appropriate. There may be an unemployed son in the family, who is an Elder. The president of the Elders' quorum is present at this meeting of the ward security committee, and he pledges the efforts of the Elders' quorum to find employment for the son, and to as-

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

sist the High Priests and the Relief Society in stabilizing and securing the independence of this family as a group. At the next meeting of the committee, a report of the past week's accomplishments is made, and the work for the next week outlined, assignments being given to avoid unnecessary duplication or waste. It is at this weekly meeting the Relief Society receives its special assignments for the week. Projects to accomplish either of the major purposes of our relief program must be discussed and approved by this committee before actually undertaken. When this is done, the group desiring to undertake the approved project, furnishes the funds therefor, so far as possible, from its own organization. Proper financing forms a part of every project initiated. Where it is absolutely necessary to have partial financial assistance in the accomplishment of any project, appropriate application can be made therefor by this ward security committee, through the bishop, to the stake president, and in due course to the General Committee for its investigation, suggestion and assistance. The Relief Society, along with other auxiliaries, is called upon to exercise its initiative, to suggest projects, and, upon their approval, to execute them by the use of its own funds. Where necessary, a Relief Society may be assisted financially. This financial assistance to groups carrying on projects is in the nature of a loan. These loans are to aid self-liquidating projects, or to assist in establishing families upon an independent and secure basis. It is from the successful conduct of these various projects, however financed, that we acquire the commodities with which to furnish the temporary relief necessary.
ADDRESS
Already an assignment has been made by the General Committee in each stake which, if carried out as assigned, will meet the estimated food and clothing requirements of our people for the winter of 1938-39. The Relief Society not only assists in fulfilling these budget requirements: that is, accumulating commodities, but cooperates with the Church Security Committee in their distribution. Here, again, the ward "committee is all-important. From these accumulations, it sets apart in 'he storehouse designated for that purpose by the stake or region, sufficient thereof to meet its own needs, and in turn requisitions from other similar storehouses the things it has not accumulated or cannot accumulate. In determining what its own needs are, the Relief Society president and the Relief Society ward work director counsel with the bishop and with the other members of the ward committee in its weekly committee meeting. The decision of this committee controls. Nothing should be set aside or requisitioned for ward use until the ward committee as a unit has passed upon the necessity therefor. This involves unanimity of opinion and action on the part of the bishop, the Relief Society, the Priesthood quorums and the ward work directors. Likewise, similar unity must exist in the stake committee. Where the accumulations of the ward exceed its demands or estimated requirements, the surplus is contributed to the stake for distribution among the wards less fortunate, and when not required by the stake committee for that purpose, is passed on to the region and in turn to the General Committee. In determining what is required in a stake, the stake Relief Society president sits in coun- 409 cil with the stake president and with the other members of the Stake Security committee, including the stake work director selected from the Relief Society. These same ward and stake committees are responsible for the proper and economical distribution of all contributions to the Church Security Program. They call to their assistance and utilize to the fullest extent every Church agency. In so doing, these security committees define for each agency the particular part to be performed by it. This applies in full measure to the Relief Society. In other words, it should be determined in this weekly ward or stake security committee meeting, presided over by the bishop or stake president, just what part the ward or stake Relief Society shall perform in connection with the distribution of commodities. A WORD might profitably be said concerning the credit to be given the Relief Society for its participation in the Church Security Program. Like other individuals or organizations in the Church, credit should be properly given for all that is done. The Relief Society, through its own officers, accurately records its own activities. The Church Security committees have been urged to keep accurate records of all their work, and to issue appropriate receipts for all work accomplished and all contributions given. The Relief Society should receive appropriate receipts for all that it does and all that it contributes, whether it be an hour's work, a bushel of: wheat, a bottle of fruit, a quilt, or the furnishing or finding of remunerative employment for any woman. A Relief Society can carry on a project and contribute the results of the project 410 to the Church Security program through the ward bishop, just as the individual can make a voluntary contribution. Appropriate credit should be given in each case. It is suggested that if the stake or regional security committee calls for sisters to assist in canning, and these sisters are furnished by the Relief Society through the ward or stake work director, it is not necessary to apportion the number of cans filled with food to each Relief Society participating, but rather to give such organization credit for the number of sisters furnished: and the number of day's work performed. To do otherwise would require, in many instances, complicated and unnecessary calculations and bookkeeping. S WAS stated in the beginning, it is never to be lost sight of that whatever the Relief Society does in carrying out the assignments of the ward security committee, it still RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE has the responsibility of continuing with its normal activities and fulfilling the full object and purpose of its creation. It is not the purpose of the Church Security plan to interfere with any Relief Society in the administration of its own funds, or in carrying out its own purposes. It can just as readily today, as it has in the past, minister to the sick, advance child and maternal welfare, continue to carry on its Mormon handicraft, and, in short, all other activities for which it has become favorably known not only throughout the Church but throughout the world. No organization in the Church is to be commended more highly than the Relief Society, under the able direction of its leaders, for the good accomplished and for its advancement in each of the fields of its activities for which it is responsible. May we not request its helpfulness in aid of the projects the general authorities expect us to carry out? SONG OF SERVICE By Zelda Davis Howard So long as there are lonely ones, And little children sad, And sick and crippled shut-in folk, And old to be made glad, So long as some are out of work, And there are souls who stray, The great Relief Society Has much to do each day. So long as there is suffering, And hungry to be fed, And homes that are not light and warm, Homes where no prayers are said; So long as there is one of His Needs to be helped to live, For the Relief Society There's service yet to give. Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd By Dorothy Clapp Robinson CHAPTER THREE THE telephone jangled impatiently. With a sigh of dismay I wiped my hands and went to answer it. "It will be Nedra again—or Mrs. Richards," I thought. Less than an hour ago both of them had called. Nedra had been emphatic. "Salle Richards and Don Grow have gone away together and they are up to something. When I asked to go along they put me off. Probably they have gone to get married. If you ask me there is something fishy about that Grow place lately. Salle is the only person they will let in beside your husband. I'd keep my wits about me if I were you." "What has all this to do with me?" I had asked her, hoping I sounded impersonal. It did dampen her ardour. "Well,' she finished lamely, "since you are the Relief Society president and a good friend of hers I thought you would be interested." Mrs. Richards had wept. "Someone must stop her. I can't have her going away with the boy. She likes you and would listen to you." Perhaps. I had my doubts that she would listen to anyone. And she was already gone no one knew where. I told her if she found out anything to call me back. But this call was neither of them. The bell pealed again as I lifted the receiver to my ear. To my "'yes?" a small voice came over the wire. "Hello? Are you the woman that gives food to the poor people?" "Yes, I am the Relief Society president." come right away. "Well, Papa says to tell you the little kids are yelling their heads off for their supper and Papa says to "But it isn't supper time yet."
"I know it but Papa says to call you early 'cause it takes these women so long."
"Who are you and where do you live?"
"I'm Albert."
"Albert who? What is your last name and where do you live?"
"We don't live no place. We keep on the move 'cause it's easier. We're at the White Daisy now—second cabin from the end. Be sure and hurry. Goodbye."

He hung the receiver with such emphasis I shuddered as the sound of it struck my ear. I turned slowly back to my work. In the kitchen my prune conserve stared accusingly at me. It had been in the process of making for two days. Then there were two music lessons at four. I just couldn't leave now. Transients. Already in my brief term of office, such requests had grown familiar. Probably traveling from town to town on the bounty of organizations. They always made the immediate acquisition of food a life and death matter. I couldn't go! My car was in the garage for repairs. I attacked the conserve determinedly. Albert and his papa would have to wait. By morning the conserve would be finished and in the basement. But in spite of my resolve my hands were soon lagging. Suppose they really were hungry? Suppose

412

there were little children actually crying for something to eat? The words of King Benjamin came to me, "—are ye not all beggars?" I went to the telephone and tried to get one of my counselors. Mary was not at home and Mrs. Blomquist could not leave. Now what could I do? Every hour today there had been something rear its head. I could call a garage and grocery store. With their tank and stomachs full these transients would gladly roll along and leave me in peace. Hesitantly I picked up the receiver again but instead of calling a garage I called Mrs. Jenkins. Might as well have it over, I'd get no peace until I did. But Mrs. Jenkins was not available, nor could I get Mrs. Richards. Probably she was doing something about Salle. It began to look as if Albert and his papa would not get their supper after all, but in the end I gave in. "Denise," I called my six-year-old to me. "Robbie is asleep in the basement. You and Timmie go down there and play quietly until he wakes, will you?"
"Let's play Pioneer Girl."
"Very well. Mother has to go a long way to town for supplies."
"—and pioneer children are not afraid to stay 'lone. They stay right in the basement and guard their baby brother."
"And if anything should happen?"
"We send word to the fort for our father to come dashing home."
"Do you know the number?"
She repeated it. With many admonitions and instructions I left. At the store I told Tim I was called out on a case and collected a few groceries to take. I put them on a slip. "I'll have the secretary come and pay for them," I told him.
"Where are you going?" Tim wanted to know. I sat down wearily.

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

"Out to the west end."
"Then wait until the delivery truck gets back. It will be here in an hour."
"That is too long. I want to get back before Rob wakes if I can."
"You shouldn't leave them alone. It isn't safe." His tone hurt. I felt hot tears sting my eyes. To hide my feelings I asked sharply, "Why not? They often play in the basement."
"But they are alone." Acutely aware of his disapproval, made worse by my own conscience, I started down the street with my bag of groceries under my arm. It had been a real sacrifice to leave home this afternoon and Tim might have understood. I wanted to sit down on the sidewalk and cry as Denise had done when she'd dropped a little doll and broken it.

The brisk walk combined with the memory of problems succeeded in crowding my self-pity into the background of my thoughts. Gloria Holsinger had refused to be chorister. So I had to be content with a much less capable leader. Rhoda Blomquist was pleased over the refusal for she had not wanted Gloria. "I see no reason," she had declared, "for going outside the organization for help. She hasn't interest enough to belong."
"That is a good way to get her interested and think what she could do for the organization."
"Nothing that a number of others couldn't do. We have a dozen women who can lead the singing. I think you are trying to make Relief Society take on more responsibility than there is any reason for. We have never expected such a standard before and we got along very well."
"But you will have to admit she is making the work mighty inter-

DEAR TO THE HEART OF THE SHEPHERD

esting," my secretary defended. Bless her heart. Anyway our second choice was leading the singing without vision, without purpose, beyond the song of the moment. Practicing to her meant repetition, right or wrong. Then there were the visiting teachers. We still lacked enough to cover the ward. Some women objected to being just a visiting teacher. When a woman couldn't do anything else she could do the visiting teaching, had been the accepted idea. "What is wrong with that idea?" Rhoda had demanded. Any departure from the traditional was upsetting to Rhoda but in the end she agreed with us. "Perhaps that is the reason visiting teaching is not more popular in so many places. Teachers are our contact with the ward and the world. We must have the finest we can get." Gradually we were getting them, women of unquestioned spirit who could enter a home with poise and grace and leave it with peace and good will; women who could spread the vision and magnitude of the work. For Teacher Topic leader we had the most capable the ward afforded. She was teaching them ways of entering homes and concrete methods of putting over their objective. From there my thought skipped to Salle. She had been in the background of my thoughts all day. There was no reason why I should consider her my problem but the mere thought of her brought black despair. I tried to walk fast enough to forget her.

At the tourist park I easily located the family. The White Daisy was a shabby unkempt place frequented by people such as I was hunting. Undoubtedly the telephone

413

numbers of charitable organizations were furnished by the proprietor. It was, as I had expected, a typical case. The father was sitting on the ground with his back to a small bare tree that grew in the center of the scant parking. Five children sprawled or gamboled about near him. They all stopped their play and turned their attention to me. Contrary to the average case they were clean and patched and, I had to admit, looking not too well fed. As I approached, the man shambled awkwardly to his feet. He was large, at one time he had been powerful and, I guessed, a farmer. There was a hang-dog expression mixed with defiance about him that gave me hope. He had not reached the point of callousness yet.
"You sent for me?"
"Yes'm," he admitted reluctantly, then added hastily, "do you want to see the wife?"
"I'll talk with you first."
He squirmed uneasily but I was adamant. He was the head of the family and as such, responsible. Before I had asked him half a dozen questions I began to doubt if he were a Latter-day Saint. "Do you hold the Priesthood?" I asked. Again the man squirmed. "No," then he brightened with a happy thought. "My wife does." I turned to go and speak to the wife and make short shift of my business since they so obviously were not my responsibility. "She's in here," the children, with Albert in the lead, marshalled me into a small, close cabin. The husband sank back to the parking with a sigh of relief. In the room the mother lay on the bed with her face to the wall. As we entered she turned and I thought I had never seen such abject hopelessness before. A flush swept her face then receded

414

leaving it white and drawn. I began to doubt my decision.
"I am the Relief Society president."
The woman on the bed bit her lip but remained silent. Her hurt was too deep for tears. That was apparent.
"Have you some meat in that sack?" one of the boys demanded suddenly. "Papa has to have meat and we won't eat brown bread."
That brought me quickly to the business at hand. "Go outside, every one of you. I want to talk to Mother."
"We want to listen."
"Run along." As the woman on the bed said nothing I literally brushed them from the room. Then I fastened the decrepit screen. "Now you may tell me all about it." I went back to the bed. The story like the demand had a familiar ring. They had been farmers. Hard times had brought discouragement. Town had beckoned, but once there work had been scarce and the husband rapidly succumbed to the cancer of an unearned living. "But, Oh, Sister Maylord," now that the woman's reserve was broken she could not tell me enough, "I don't want to live like this, and I must not bring up my children in idleness. Mr. Peters doesn't belong to the Church, so rightly we are not your responsibility, but can't you help us to get ourselves out of this rut?" I had been thinking rapidly. The easy thing would be to send them on but here was a chance to make concrete my vision of Relief Society. Already a plan was forming in my mind but I must have time to consult the bishop. "I'll leave these groceries," I said at length. "There is enough to last you until morning. I will come again

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

then. Keep cheerful and go outside if you can. It is close in here." Her eyes begged for hope but training told me to perfect my plan first and tell it afterward. I was hurrying quickly down the street when I heard a car honk beside me. Startled I whirled about. It was Dave Holsinger, husband of Gloria. "May I?" he asked, opening the car door. "You certainly may." I stepped in and sank into the cushion with a sigh of relief. I hadn't realized how tired I was. "What are you doing in this part of town? Don't you know ladies do not rush about until their faces are red?"
"In that case I am not a lady, only a Relief Society worker."
He laughed, a merry contagious laugh that scattered my load of responsibility. "That means you have been helping someone. Why confine your efforts to the poor? I need help two ways." Sincerity lifted its voice above the banter. I thought, "he is worrying about Gloria." Aloud I asked, "What may I do for you today? How could I help a self-sufficient business man?"
"I have an office girl that is ruining my disposition."
"My advice is—get rid of her."
"Good advice, but she is the niece of a director. Then who wants to break in a new girl?" All this was just to pass time. He was quite capable of handling his help. "What about the other problem?"
"I am afraid even a Relief Society president couldn't help with that."
"Then you help me."
"How?"
"Persuade Gloria to be our chorister."

DEAR TO THE HEART OF THE SHEPHERD

"She's much too busy," he answered too promptly. "Her clubs and her Pekingese are just too, too demanding." I had felt it all along. Conditions were fast approaching a crisis with these two. Did I have any right to help them make an adjustment? Would I know how to help such people?

At home I found Tim on the basement floor playing with the children. "Tim! On a busy afternoon!"
"Some one had to be here," he answered shortly as he rose and brushed his clothes. Later as I guided little minds and fingers through the intricacies of a

415

music lesson Tim's disapproval and the condition of the Peters family struggled for dominance of my subconscious. Did Timothy think I was neglecting my family? Surely not, and he wanted me to do my relief work well. There was something about the Peters family that stayed with me. How wonderful it would be if I could plan a future for them. "Do you know where there is a small house for rent?" I asked Jeanie Holman, who was the last of my pupils. Jean was such a joy. Already she was showing unusual promise. "There is an old one near us," she answered, "but it is a shackly old trap."

(To be continued)

AN OLD LADY PRAYS
By Thyrza R. Berrett

I always used to pray
Let me go first,
Nor leave me lonely
Mourning loved ones gone.

I am no longer selfish, Lord,
Take first, please, John.

He never seems to know
Where things are kept;
He can't find socks,
Nor handkerchiefs nor ties.
I read his paper to him nights
To save his eyes.

I always hurry home
From town or club;
John wants me there when he
Comes in at close of day.
He'd be so lost and lonely, Lord,
With me away.

No one else can make
The pies he likes.
I spoil him, sure,
It's been so very long
Since there was any one to please
But me and John.

So let me stay till he
Has gone before,
Lest lonely waiting
Be too hard for him to bear.
Then please to call me quickly, Lord.
He'll need me there.

When the Desert Blooms
By Dorothy Nell Mair

Rambling miles of arid desolation become America's greatest flower garden in May. A short time later, the fruit appears which means food to the desert Indians. To the Papago Indian woman, making her home upon the great desert of the Southwest, the season of the fruit harvest is the most important one of the year. Her orchard covers the whole of the Southwestern desert, arid, parched, monotonous, usurping the states of Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, and on into Old Mexico. Her fruit trees are the formidable cactus giants with sharp spines to painfully prick the fingers of those intruding upon their dignified privacy. The harvesting of the fruit from the cactus plants about the middle of June is the beginning of the Papago Indian new year, and a bountiful harvest is reason enough for rejoicing. The fruit from the cacti provide the sweets, the jams, and even the delectable fruit drink to aid the celebration along. Growing in colonies, each type of cactus presents a community covering many miles. Driving through these patches on smooth highways, one is impressed with the idea of going through one town after another. To make the most of the fruit harvest season, the Indians take up temporary abode in these colonies, or near them. Each day the fruit is gathered, and preserved either by drying in the desert sun, or by being made into jams and jellies. A good share of the fruit juice is made into the tribal drink for festive use. Every Indian woman is kept busy during the fruit harvest preserving the family's supply as quickly as it is gathered in. But these formidable-looking desert giants are more than an orchard. When the fruit preservation season is over, and the festivities have ushered in another new year, the time has come to gather building material to repair the home, or with which to build a new one. The dead cacti provide this, and the hollowed-out trunks provide cooking pots. The cactus wood is very durable, and by dropping hot stones into the bottom of the hollowed-out trunk, it can be converted into an oven.

While there are several hundreds of different cacti growing in profusion on the Southwestern desert, there are three types that one is inclined to notice first: the Sahuaro, the Organ Pipe, and the Barrel Cactus. Perhaps it is the giant size of the Sahuaro and the Organ Pipe, and the individuality of the Barrel Cactus which keeps them vividly in mind. The Sahuaro Cactus (pronounced sa-wah-ro) is the giant of the desert, and the sage of them all. It is not full grown until it attains an age of one hundred years, and lives as long as two hundred and fifty years. It often weighs six tons or more—truly a giant. Being especially adapted to its arid environment, it can live for three years without water. During periods of drought, Indians tap the cactus to obtain the stored water within. The flowers appear in May and June and the fruit which follows is pear-shaped and delicious. There are from one to twelve lateral branches, exhibiting fantastic shapes, on each plant.

WHEN THE DESERT BLOOMS

One plant has been known to bear from three hundred to three hundred and fifty berries during the season. This fruit is preserved into jam and jelly. This desert sage is a challenge to the elements. Wind cannot uproot it; birds cannot permanently injure it. Woodpeckers drill holes in its trunk and use them for nests. Hawks, too, nest in its branches. But the injuries made by the birds are healed and sealed over with a tissue coating, preventing the precious liquid stored within from seeping out. The cactus is entirely covered with long, sharp spines which prick the fingers painfully, and thus protect it from the ravages of beasts. The dry, dead cacti provide the material with which the Indian builds his home. The long dry ribs he uses for roofing his house, and the trunks furnish him with fence posts. These posts will not rot as ordinary wooden fence posts do. The wood is light and soft enough to take a beautiful polish. Of late years, it has been extensively used for souvenirs. Related to the giant cactus (the Sahuaro) is the Organ Pipe Cactus. It branches out from the root, rather than from the main trunk, and at night looks like a set of organ pipes in silhouette. Some have claimed to hear a peculiar humming tune as the wind swept through the colony on a summer evening. It grows to a height of ten to fifteen feet, and the flowers bloom at night. They, too, are white, and the fruit is edible, being preserved into jams and jellies by the Indians and Mexicans. Like its giant relative, it is covered with the sharp spines, and very often mistaken for the Sahuaro. Perhaps the most interesting one of all is the Barrel Cactus. This one

417

has long been known as man's best desert friend, and as such, has earned for itself a variety of names. Some call it the "Compass Cactus" and the "Traveler's Friend." Invariably leaning to the southwest, it has guided many a lost traveler back to camp when arid rolling hills stood in mute indifference to his confusion. Others have called it "The Water Barrel" but the most enticing name of all is "Candy Barrel Cactus." This cactus is found near El Paso, Texas, and looks like a barrel. It reaches a height of ten feet when fully grown, is globular in shape when young, and cylindrical when old. It is covered with long spines thickly placed together, and the flowers bloom in a yellow circle at the very top. Although not so tall as the other two just mentioned, it lives for over one hundred years, and has a marvelous capacity for storing water, readily obtainable by cutting off the top. The water is not very palatable, having a saline taste, but it will save one from thirst. It is not the fruit of this cactus that is preserved for food, but the cactus itself. After being cut, the spines are peeled off, and the fleshy part sliced and soaked in water over night. Next day, it is cooked until tender in a strong sugar solution and allowed to harden and crystallize. The result is a delicious, and very rich candy, which is gaining in popularity on American markets. When the last flower has withered and died, and the last bit of fruit has been preserved, when the last festival chant has been sung, the Indian begins his trek homeward, rich from the desert yield. There in his humble mud and wood shack life settles into a monotonous routine until the Desert blooms again.

The Children's Reading
By Florence Ivins Hyde

NO. VI—BOOKS TO READ ALOUD

"Could we give but one gift to every child,
We should choose the love of books."*
—William Frederick Bigelow.

Successful guiding of children's reading is the mutual enjoyment of books by parents and children. This capacity to enjoy can be taught in no finer way than by reading aloud. Besides the benefit we get through the sheer enjoyment of the family reading together, most of us will agree, from the experience of our youth, that our standards of conduct, our love of nature, our patriotism, and indeed our philosophy of life was greatly influenced by the stories read to us by our parents. Sharing books with our children establishes a partnership that grows more and more precious as the years go by. A book may open the way to many a discussion that parents feel diffident about undertaking.

Adolescent children read the same books as adults. If the book is good for you it is probably good for your growing son or daughter. You will rarely read a book too advanced in subject matter for them. They can also enjoy many of the stories you choose for your very young child, for many of these fine things take on a deeper meaning as we grow older. The best things can be read every few years, but with a different purpose each time. Take "Alice in Wonderland" for example. If you have not opened it since your childhood, do so now and you will find yourself laughing on every page. When you first read it, it was not funny at all, unless you were unusual. But now you enjoy the nonsense and the more sense you get the more you enjoy it. Some of the old fairy tales are so profound, so profoundly sad and so rich in human experience that you wonder what it was that you enjoyed in them before. There is more meaning in the story of "The China Shepherdess" who ran away with the chimney sweep, than there is in many a full length novel. Read it again for what it contains of human nature. Secure Kenneth Grahame's story "Wind in the Willows". This new classic is one of the most charming of all stories about animals that talk, dress, and act like people. While the little tots will be spell-bound with the adventure, the older ones will see far more in it than a mole leaving home in the middle of spring housecleaning. The spirit of England is in this book, and in the chapter where Pan himself appears we are taken back to old Greece, itself. "Gulliver's Travels" which you will find on the shelves of the children's libraries, probably was not intended for children at all. It is a searching criticism of the politics of the time. Swift put his ideas into the form of wonderful journeys, carrying his ideals well. The form is one that pleases imaginative children, but this story was written by a master of

*Courtesy "Good Housekeeping Magazine."

THE CHILDREN'S READING

English style. Adults cannot read it over without becoming a little impatient with slipshod English. "Pilgrim's Progress," "Robinson Crusoe," "Ivanhoe," or other stories of this same type should be made our friends. "Don Quixote" is one of the world's masterpieces and is full of interest.

It is claimed that humorous literature has been more neglected by the majority of well read parents than almost any other type. If that is true some emphasis upon education along this line is desirable. Very often tense situations arise which might be better controlled had we developed our sense of humor in our youth. It is an age-old custom when we are sick physically to hunt a remedy. Why not do so when we are sick emotionally? There are humorous readings which could not help but cheer us under almost any circumstance. The popular humor is so often accompanied by vulgarity and boys and girls cannot always distinguish between this and wholesome humor. They often grow up to think coarseness is humorous. Clean, sparkling

419

wit is exceedingly rare and some of the best humor makes no appeal. It demands a background of training and taste to enjoy subtle wit, the most delicious of all humor. That is something we must develop in boys and girls. We cannot begin too early to cultivate this taste. You will enjoy "Plupy" by Shute, "Doctor Doolittle", or "Rootabaga Stories" equally as much as your young son. Then as your family reaches adulthood read the "Penrod" stories, or "The Young Mrs. Jones", or "Perfect Behavior." This last named volume is a parody outline of etiquette, intended to poke fun at our rules of correct form. It is dedicated with deep sympathy to the bridegroom whose wedding was ruined because the bride came down the aisle on the right instead of the left arm of her father. The variety of subjects treated and the manner in which they are treated will lift anyone out of a grouch. So when such tense occasions as weddings and political campaigns, etc. threaten to destroy the usual tranquility of the household, let us try reading aloud some good book of humor.

PRECIOUS WORD
By Mrs. Eva Willes Wangsgaard

Mother is a gentle word,
Tender as a lullaby,
Which at evening may be heard
Stilling baby's tired cry.

Mother is a guiding word,
Teaching us the way to climb
Up the heights by distance blurred,
Underneath the clouds of time.

Mother is a precious word.
Take it from all words apart.
Is there one by memory stirred
Half as sure to reach the heart?

Real Happenings
By Annie Wells Cannon

June—With every day so full of loveliness, why should not the heart be glad?

Princess Elizabeth, as she reached her twelfth birthday, had her party of young friends and a candle-bedecked birthday cake, but that is only the semblance of childhood. Her education is most rigid under private tutors, while Queen "Mother Mary," her grandmother, guides her in court etiquette and the duties of queenship, towards which her birth portends.

Lily Pons, opera star, proved herself a heroine as well as an artist when during a terrific storm on the Atlantic last spring she sang song after song to keep up the spirits of the other passengers.

Miss Maud May Babcock, head of the speech department of the University of Utah, has retired after a service of 46 years as instructor in dramatic art. She is president of the National Association of Teachers of Speech.

Madam Jean Picard, the only woman licensed balloonist, not only pilots her husband in his stratosphere flights but assists him in gathering and preparing his scientific data during the flights.

Phyllis Bentley's "Sleep In Peace;" "Above the Rainbow," an allegorical story by Anne W. Strawbridge; the fine biography of Louisa May Alcott by Katharine Anthony, and "Towers In The Mist" by Elizabeth Goudge are all outstanding for literary merit among the new books.

Matilda Gutnikova is a technician in a large plane plant in Moscow, Soviet Russia. Flying is part of her extra curricular work.

Hattie Caraway, senator from Arkansas, says the greatest dangers to our government come not from without but from sinister interests within. She is not alone in that opinion.

Susanna T. Robison, of Fillmore, Utah, was one of the beloved pioneer mothers who died last April. She was aged 91.

Dr. Erika Rickli has been entrusted by the Swiss Association of Statistics and Political Economy with the task of compiling an Encyclopedia of Economics of 600 pages for the National Exhibition of Switzerland, to be held in 1939.

Helen Hayes prefers the legitimate drama to the films. After three years in the title role in "Victoria Regina" she is still enthusiastic over the role.

Osa Johnson declares the humane work of capturing "wild life pictures so they will never be forgotten," begun by herself and husband, the late Martin Johnson, is now hers to carry on. She calls her films "Jungle Calling."

Virginia Kirkus, former editorial writer for McCall's and Pictorial Review, runs a service through which she furnishes bookshops and libraries candid analysis of books before publication. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS

Motto—Charity Never Faileth

LOUISE YATES ROBISON                         President
AMY BROWN LYMAN                             First Counselor
KATE M. BARKER                              Second Counselor
JULIA A. F. LUND                            General Secretary and Treasurer

THE GENERAL BOARD

Annie B. Knight         Nettie D. Bradford       Donna Durrant Sorensen
Emma A. Empey          Ida P. Beal              Vivian R. McConkie
Annie Wells Cannon     Marcia K. Howells        Leda T. Jensen
Lalene H. Hart         Emeline Y. Nebeker       Beatrice F. Stevens
Cora L. Bennion        Janet M. Thompson        Rae B. Barker
Amy Prothero Evans     Belle S. Spafford        Nellie O. Parker
Rosannah C. Irvine

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Belle S. Spafford                           Editor
Louise Y. Robison                           Manager
Amy Brown Lyman                             Assistant Manager

Vol. XXV                    JUNE, 1938                    No. 6

Editorials

Anti Liquor-Tobacco Campaign

Love of home and a desire for fine children has always been strong among Latter-day Saints. The ambition of every Latter-day Saint mother is that her children will grow and develop so as to enjoy a fullness of life—optimum health, high ideals, self-control, reasonable financial security, an appreciation and love of the beautiful and cultural. Anything which stands in the way of achieving this goal is not merely avoided but challenges intensive and intelligent effort in its alleviation.

The constantly increasing use of liquor and tobacco strikes at the very foundation of abundant living. Shame, illness, death, inefficiency, unspeakable sorrow, suffering and degradation are offered in exchange for momentary stimulation, exhilaration, and all too often for mere social approbation. The Hon. Morris Sheppard in an address published in the Congressional Record of January 15, 1938, after citing many facts and figures draws the following conclusion: "The amount of whiskey in the United States last year (1937) marks an all-time high in American history. This indicates that a larger volume of consumption is anticipated by the liquor trade than ever before." Tobacco consumption is increasing at an equally rapid rate. Huge financial interests are back of the traffic, vigorously pushing the sale of these injurious products. Reliable authorities estimate that in the four years of repeal since 1933 the sum of $75,000,000 has been expended for promotion of alcoholic liquors in newspaper advertising alone, not including magazines and other periodicals, radio, billboard or other forms of publicity. The seeming sanctions of literature, the theatre, song and story are far reaching in their influence. Only the most diligent and enlightened effort can hope to contend with such influences and prevent these evils from making inroads upon the

422

health, efficiency and happiness of our families. The Church, thoroughly aware of the situation and aroused to its seriousness, has launched a campaign for the purpose of education and the correction of existing conditions. A General Committee, composed of a member from the Quorum of Twelve Apostles, one from the Seven Presidents of Seventy, a representative from the Department of Education, and one from each of the Auxiliaries, has been appointed by the First Presidency to organize and plan the campaign. Under the direction of the Priesthood of the Church similar anti liquor-tobacco committees are being organized in every stake and ward. These committees keep in touch with and maintain the cooperation of all Priesthood groups, the Department of Education, the Relief Society, Sunday School, Y. M. M. I. A., Y. W. M. I. A., and Primary Association, thus securing harmony, completeness and effectiveness in the campaign. It is the ambition of the Church to reach every individual within its bounds whether they be active or in-

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

active. The time-honored missionary method—that of individual contact—is to be used as the basic method of conducting the campaign. Every Priesthood quorum is to be responsible for its own members. Where it is necessary and wise, quorum officers may ask for and receive help outside the quorum. Women, young people, children, etc., are to be contacted by auxiliary and special workers. Leaflets, folders, pamphlets, report forms, films, slides, etc., will be utilized in an effort to touch the hearts and wills and to establish right attitudes and conduct among our people with regard to the use of liquor and tobacco. The mothers of the Church are deeply concerned about the well-being of mankind, particularly the youth; they ardently desire that home and family life be unimpaired by any destructive influence. Thoroughly in sympathy with the campaign we urge the women both as an organization and as individuals to cooperate with the General, Stake and Ward committees in their efforts to alleviate this increasing evil.

Good Manners

Interesting, challenging, demanding, life today moves forward with speed and aggressiveness. Its driving force is so pronounced that individuals cannot relax and keep pace. All are constantly faced with struggle; struggle in the home, in business and in social pursuits. So engaging is the contest that one must be constantly on the alert, watching for advantage in order to survive. The spirit of present-day living is making people self-assertive, thoughtless of the rights of one another and often genuinely selfish. More or less unconscious of this most of us, if accused, would respond with a quick denial. However, conditions all about us bear testimony of its existence. The high accident rate on the highway, the lack of reverence in our churches, crowding and jostling for positions of vantage in public gatherings, handling of merchandise in shops, care of books in libraries, and the general disrespect for the rights and possessions of others, cry out for control of our selfish impulses and increased exercise of courtesy and good manners. Good manners after all is the suiting of our behavior to the greatest benefit, comfort and ease of others.

EDITORIALS

Essential in the promotion of human welfare and happiness it calls for constant attention. Human felicity is produced not so much by great pieces of good fortune as by little considerations that occur every day. Genuine courtesy comes from the heart and is based on morality, decency, and consideration. Good manners involve the art of adjusting our behavior to superiors, equals and inferiors, leaving all at ease. Transcending the habits of clique, caste, or period it makes itself felt by all classes. Too often we think of good manners in rather a restricted sense, interpreting it as a knowledge of what constitutes "good form." Time, place, and situation dictate what is correct form. There are continual revolutions in social forms according to prevailing fashion. What is "the right thing to do" today may not be so tomorrow. What is right in one situation may not be so in another. "Good form" changes with more or less frequency, and must be learned while good manners comes from within and never goes out of fashion. Ignorance of correct social form can not properly be styled ill manners. There are individuals who pride themselves upon their knowledge of "the right thing to do," yet in the exercise of this knowledge are often guilty of gross bad manners. On the other hand individuals who are

423

genuinely considerate may at times cause uneasiness and embarrassment because of lack of knowledge of social forms. The desirable thing is good manners in its broadest sense, genuine consideration and thorough knowledge of what to do under all circumstances. These two cannot be disassociated in the perfect lady or gentleman. Our Log Cabin Lady early learned that it was not enough for her to be her own sweet self, that in order to be thoroughly at ease herself and to put others at ease she must acquaint herself with all accepted social graces wherever she found herself. So must we all slacken our speed and give more attention to the improvement of our manners. Emerson it was who said, "A beautiful behavior is better than a beautiful form; it gives higher pleasure than statues or pictures; it is the finest of fine arts." Every one of us should consciously endeavor to develop perception of the best interests of one another. We should avail ourselves of every opportunity to learn what constitutes the most socially acceptable behavior. We should constantly teach and exercise good manners until they become fixed habits. There are few other things that will tend to unite people more or pay higher dividends on time and attention invested. A man's own good-breeding is his best security against other peoples' ill manners—Lord Chesterfield.

By harmony our souls are swayed;
By harmony the world was made.
                                    Granville

Preview of Lessons
For 1938-39

THEOLOGY DEPARTMENT

The past year's Theology lessons, "The Ministry of the Savior," according to all reports were not only a benefit but a joy to the women of the Relief Society. This is a matter for congratulation to all those whose fine efforts were responsible for this success.

It appears, therefore, both proper and desirable that the lessons for 1938-39 be a continuation of the New Testament including The Acts, Epistles, Travels of the Apostles, etc., with some biographical history. These lessons, like last year's, offer material for artistic enrichment and we feel assured they will be received with equal enthusiasm. They are as follows:

1. The Mediterranean World In the Days of the Apostles.
2. The Mediterranean World in the Days of the Apostles. (Contd.)
3. These Twelve Jesus Sent Forth.
4. These Twelve Jesus Sent Forth. (Contd.)
5. These Twelve Jesus Sent Forth. (Cont.)
6. The Anointing of the Spirit.
7. Peter, the Fisherman.
8. Peter, Disciple and Apostle.
9. Peter, The Head of the Church.

Recommended List of Books for Relief Society Theology Lessons

A. B. Bruce—The Training of the Twelve. Harper and Brothers have issued an edition of this book for $1.00. The edition used in the lessons was the Fourth, Revised and Improved. (1889).

H. E. Dana—New Testament World, $2.00 — Baptist Sunday School Board. 161 8th Ave., Nashville, Tenn. This edition appeared after the lessons were written.

F. J. Mueller—Christ's Twelve. Bruce Publishing Co., Milwaukee, Wis., 1931. $1.25.

A. T. Robertson—Epochs in the Life of Simon Peter. $1.75. Chas. Scribner's Sons. New York.

The above books will all prove useful. If absolutely restricted to the purchase of one book the one by Bruce should be chosen. The following books will provide valuable supplementary material:

Chas. R. Brown—These Twelve. Harper and Bros. New York. $1.00.
Robert Freeman—What About the Twelve? Doubleday, Doran and Co. Garden City, New York. $1.75.
W. Mackintosh Mackay — The Men Whom Jesus Made. Harper & Bros. New York. $1.00.

These books may be purchased through Deseret Book Co., 44 East South Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.

VISITING TEACHER DEPARTMENT

The Visiting Teachers are the direct contact between the home and the Relief Society. Their work is of inestimable value to the organization and to the women of the Church. The faithfulness, loyalty and good service of this group is deserving of the highest commendation. The General Board believe, however, that many of the wom-

LESSONS

en visited are not acquainted with the worthwhile educational program carried on by the Society, and the opportunities afforded for self-improvement and personal enjoyment through participation in Relief Society activities. It is one of the duties of the Visiting Teachers to carry this information into the homes, and to do their best to arouse such an interest in the hearts and minds of the women in the ward that they will come to the weekly meetings. Special effort is now being made to increase membership and thus have more women participate and benefit from the Relief Society program. It is therefore requested that special attention be given to acquainting the women visited with the programs of the Theology, Work and Business, Literary and Social Service Departments; that these be commented on as much as good judgment will permit, showing the attractiveness and value of the work. The stake leader at the Union meeting should acquaint the ward class leaders with the programs of all departments. The special spiritual messages to be taken into the homes for 1938-39 deal with "Jesus' Teachings As They Affect Personality." The purpose of these messages is to assist women to improve their personalities through understanding and applying the teachings of the Master along these lines. Strength of personality and character are essential if people are to be happy and successful in the world today. Many men and women find that their lives are far from satisfactory. They are filled with fears, anger, hates, suspicion, littleness and often failure which cause mental suffering and per-

425

sonality and character defects. The solution of these problems may be found in the teachings of the Master. If individuals would conduct themselves exactly along the lines taught by Jesus they would be able to make the most of their lives, and would be strong, healthy characters with healthy personalities. The problems of personality that face men and women everywhere are of such vital importance that the study of the factors which contribute to their solution is justifiable. The messages for 1938-39 are as follows:

1. Faith.
2. Fear.
3. Anger.
4. Sensitivity of the Needs of Others.
5. Ye Are the Salt of the Earth.
6. Sources of Power.
7. Cast the Beam from Thine Own Eye.
8. Obedience.
9. Healthy Mental Attitudes.

No special text books, other than the scriptures, are being suggested for this course.

LITERARY DEPARTMENT

The Literary course for 1938-39 is "The Advance of the Novel." The text to be used will be The Advance of the English Novel, by William Lyon Phelps. The ultimate objective of the course is: to assist in the establishment of good taste in the selection of novels read by our sisters, through showing the development of the novel and its present position in the field of literature and by giving guidance in what constitutes a worthy novel. The books to be used will be

426

available at the Deseret Book Store, Salt Lake City, after July 20, 1938.

List of books:
The Advance of the English Novel, William Lyon Phelps    $1.25
Robinson Crusoe, Daniel Defoe                               1.00
The Talisman, Sir Walter Scott                             1.00
Lorna Doone, Richard Doddridge Blackmore                   1.00
City of Bells, Elizabeth Goudge                            2.00

Where the Relief Societies send for the whole set, enclosing cash (and sales tax in Utah) with order, the books will be $6.00 per set. If any of the books are available in your community without buying them, the purchase price of individual books will be as listed above.

SOCIAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT

"The Psychology of Personal Adjustment" is the title of the subject matter to be treated in the Social Service lessons for 1938-39. During the past three years the lessons in this department have dealt with some very interesting problems of community life. The course this coming year will consider problems centered largely upon the individual. "When a woman knows how she is made she knows better how to act."—John Macy. The aim of this course is to help every woman who studies these lessons have a better understanding of herself. It aims to help her make up her mind to revolu-

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

tionize her daily habits if they are detrimental to herself or to those with whom she lives or comes in contact. In other words it aims to help her build a better personality; to live the more abundant life. To make these lessons effective it will require some resolution and much effort, but the result will be worth while. The Magazine is the only text book for this course. Following are the titles of each lesson:

1. Habit Formation and Revision.
2. The Problem of Growing Older.
3. Do My Emotions Hinder or Help Me?
4. Should I be Afraid.
5. Psychology of Physical Health.
6. How to Get Along With People.
7. Marital Adjustments.
8. On Being a Good Mother-in-Law.

At the end of each lesson there are references for further study. We do not recommend the purchase of these books, but hope the class leaders may find access to some of them through libraries, public or private schools. Some magazine references are cited which will be found in your community, no doubt. We bespeak for you all a most interesting and profitable year if every effort is made on the part of the teachers and members to have it so.

Notes from the Field
Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary

[THIS IS FIGURE: Black and white photograph showing a group of women, labeled as "PRESIDENTS OF CALIFORNIA STAKES"]

California Stakes

The above picture of Presidents of the California Stakes is typical of the group of women who assembled for our recent Conference. It represents all of the stakes in California, except Sacramento. Reading from left to right: Blanch Hoglund, Los Angeles; Zatelle F. Sessions, Hollywood; Sara H. Carruth, Oakland; Pearl C. Miner, Long Beach; Sadie E. Williams, Pasadena; Ethel Blomquist, San Bernardino; Esther D. Stephens, San Francisco; Ruthe B. Samson, Gridley.

Blackfoot

A very interesting report comes from the Blackfoot Stake. These enterprising Relief Society workers have wholeheartedly cooperated in putting over the project suggested by the Work and Business department. Fine results in bread making, sewing, and laundering have been achieved. This is tangible evidence of the enthusiasm with which the "Back to the Home" movement has been received. Representing the bread-making project, each of the fifteen wards in the Stake was asked to supply:

1 loaf whole wheat bread
1 loaf white bread
Some variety of quick bread
Some variety of fancy breads, as orange, date, nuts, etc.

This was judged in the same manner followed in the State Fair: First, second and third prizes were marked by blue, red, and white ribbons respectively. The judges felt

428

that practically every loaf of bread was worthy of a ribbon. In order to get a better idea of the extent of the sewing project in the home, each ward brought the following to a display:

2 articles made at home from new material
2 articles remodeled or made over.

Awards were given in a manner similar to that of the bread, and very attractive and unusual articles were exhibited. The laundering project was also demonstrated. There were two laundered articles from each ward. A blanket that had been in use and laundered for fifteen years was displayed. Many articles that had been washed and ironed beautifully helped to show fine workmanship. This activity seemed to challenge the interest of everyone. Small prizes were given as an expression of appreciation for the efforts of the women and to encourage them. It was the feeling of the Work and Business stake leaders that the objectives of the project had been very satisfactorily attained. First, factual data to verify the general statements about present-day family life was supplied; second, women were helped to understand and evaluate their own work problems. Another very splendid piece of work accomplished in the Stake was in the field of health and home nursing. In November a Health and Home Nursing Convention was sponsored. Uniform programs were held in Aberdeen and Blackfoot and the subjects "Relief Society's Attitude Toward Home Nursing," "The Attitude of the County in the Past and Available Resources at Present," "Sore Throat and the Com-

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

mon Cold," "Fever and Contagion," and "Common Ailments," were discussed during the morning session. A graduate obstetrical nurse gave a demonstration on the care of the patient in the home. Important points covered in this demonstration were: the care of bed patient; the serving tray; important things to observe and report to the doctor; care of mother and new-born baby; contagious diseases; proper sterilization of equipment; suggestions for first-aid to cuts, burns, breaks, severe lacerations; suggestions for available government bulletins and literature.

Palmyra Stake

One of the interesting reports of the recent celebration of Anniversary Day came from the Palmyra Stake. An original pageant, "The Dawn of a New Day," written by Mrs. Othelia N. Huntington, was presented on March 17 by the Palmyra Stake Relief Society, with the Stake president directing. The pageant was in three episodes including ten scenes. The first episode depicted the conditions leading up to the organization of the Relief Society, the second its growth and development, the third the various phases of the Relief Society program and the Relief Society objective 100,000 members by the centennial anniversary in 1942. The pageant required 217 participants in costume, with a group of 57 Singing Mothers furnishing the music. The nine wards of the stake participated in furnishing this delightful entertainment. The pageant was presented in the Spanish Fork High School, where the stage setting, the light-

NOTES FROM THE FIELD

ing effects and the costumes all tended to make a most delightful entertainment. The attendance

429

at the pageant was estimated to have been more than six hundred people.

[THIS IS FIGURE: Black and white photograph showing a group of women in costume, labeled as "GUNNISON STAKE SINGING MOTHERS"]

Gunnison Stake

This picture is of a group of Singing Mothers from the Gunnison Stake. They are attired in the costume requested by the general organization of Singing Mothers. The organization of this fine group was perfected some time ago and the record of their splendid achievements has been most commendable. They have furnished musical programs for Genealogical meetings, Relief Society and Ward Conferences and for each of the Quarterly Conferences of the stake. They have visited and sung at the Manti Temple and have aided in special programs in Gunnison, responding to a special mission to sing at the Sacrament meetings in the wards. The appreciation of the mothers for this opportunity to serve has been shown by their faithful attendance at rehearsals and at the meetings and by a greatly increased membership in the chorus. The chorus has also tended to increase the attendance at meetings as the music offered was a very attractive feature.

Utah Stake

Utah Stake Relief Society, in keeping with the Church Beautification Program has launched a Beautification Project. That this project will create great interest and result in improved home surroundings there can be no question. The following suggestions and rules have been given:

1. Every Relief Society woman will endeavor to beautify her surroundings by planting trees, shrubs, flowers, lawn, or a vegetable garden, according to space and needs. She will endeavor to keep away weeds.

2. Every Relief Society woman will be a member of our Beautification Project, even if she is able to plant only one flower or keep weeds from growing on or around her premises.

3. Every Relief Society wom-

430

an who has plants of any kind will give or trade her surplus to another to assist in this Beautification Project. A Ward Relief Society Exchange will also be arranged.

4. A first and second prize will be given in each ward, in the month of September, for the most beautiful gardens and surroundings. Each ward will appoint a Ward Judging Committee who will visit each contestant once a month, or at special times when a contestant thinks her garden the most beautiful. Judging will be counted according to fine work done on each premise during the entire summer. Near the close of the summer the Ward Judging Committee will choose the five best surroundings in the ward. A stake committee will choose the first and second prize winners from

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

this group. Only Relief Society members are eligible for prizes. Every member of the Relief Society should be loyal to this Beautification Project and we trust that every woman will register to belong to the project and beautify her premises whether it be slight or great. Every member entering the contest for prizes must be registered by May 1, 1938. Every ward should have at least twenty registered prize contestants. The prizes will be given by the Utah Stake Relief Society. The first prize to each ward will be $3.00; the second prize to each ward will be $2.00. Special instruction for beautification was given by the Work and Business class leaders on the second Tuesdays of March and April. Other instruction meetings will be arranged.

BURGEONING
By Beatrice Knowlton Ekman

Across the dim-veiled twilight
Where the land is lush with spring,
There floats a mating bird song
Of plaintive quavering;
And we forget the sullied snow
That all too long has lain
Beside the kitchen doorway;
We forget the frosted pane.

For in the little woodlot now
Where pussy willows swing,
The violets will blue the ground
And bees come murmuring.
In fields of dark turned furrows
White breasted gulls will rest
Or circle round the moving plow
In never tiring quest.

The orchard will be decked in bloom,
Robins will flutter from the nest.
The earth is treading at her loom
And God is manifest.

Indians and Home

We, who all our lives have lived in houses, usually in one or two places, can hardly understand the home-life of the nomad. Tents and sod huts have been so transitory in our experience that we cannot understand how a family group can come to look upon such a home with any sense of reverence.

It is quite possible that the home ties of the nomad are not so strong as our own, but that they exist there can be little doubt. Abraham and his immediate posterity moved from place to place as our Indians did, and yet their home ties were exceedingly strong. Ties are of the heart, and not of houses and dwelling places, and warm hearts can live in a tent or a sod hut as well as in a mansion.

Indians have tender hearts for their children. The Indian mother is a good mother, according to her understanding. That child of hers is precious, and she rears it in the best traditions of her race. Their traditions are not our traditions, but there is a tribal loyalty, or was, that was powerful enough to send an Indian boy or man or an Indian girl or woman to their deaths with as fine a spirit as ever was found among white peoples.

President Anthony W. Ivins used to say that men with a finer sense of honor than the Navajo have never lived. He was especially fond of the Navajo, partly perhaps because he knew them best. Many other tribes of Indians have as firm a pride as they. In fact, many people place the Hopi among the finest of men when it comes to matters of tribal pride and honor.

It is said, by those who live among these Indians, that a Navajo hogan, in a very real sense, is a place of joy to those who dwell therein, or to any tribesman who may happen along. It is said that to the family as to the casual visitor all things are free. The welcome is always of the warmest and the giving is always of the freest. White men who stood apart and gazed upon the squalor and the simplicity of the Indian home did much damage to the Indian spirit by attempting too quickly to make those homes conform to our own ideals. Visitors at an Indian home for the first time are inclined to pity, and their hearts ache for the inhabitants, because they do not understand that those homes are traditional and represent a culture into which the inmates fit as we do into our own. Measured by the heart pull, the influence of the home upon § the offspring, many an Indian home will surpass many of our own, and the best perhaps, measured by God's just eye, i j may surpass any but our best. Home is where love dwells—that kind of love that will sacrifice, that will hold a man or woman against temptations, that will make them loyal to the best traditions of the family and in the race. The nomads of these deserts really had homes and some of those homes are still with us after these many years of white interference. —Harrison R. Merrill. "Into the gray earth goeth the black seeds. Into the hogan of mud goeth the silver blackened by the hands of many. Out of the hogan cometh the silver reborn Into beauty as new as dawn on the old hills. Out of the hogan of mud and the bower of brush:. Cometh blankets warm against the wind,:. Strong against the years, Beautiful as the red mesa in the moonlight.. "May it be beautiful below me.. May it be beautiful above me. In beauty it is finished.” —CARLTON CULMSEE., Out of the gray earth cometh grass and blossoms. The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXV JULY, 1938 No. 7. The Gospel and The Lamanites By Elder Antoine R. Ivins WHO are the Lamanites? In the Book of Mormon, all those descendants of Father Lehi who followed the leadership of Laman were classed as Lamanites. The term refers to a party rather than a family; they were the unrighteous among the children of Lehi. In view of the fact that the people known in the Book of Mormon as Lamanites accomplished the destruction of the Nephites we have attached the name Lamanite to the races of Indians found upon the American continent when it was discovered, assuming that they were all descended from the victors at the great battle of the Hill Cumorah. This may or may not be true but, nevertheless, to us all autochthonous inhabitants of the Americas and of some of the South Sea Isles are known as Lamanites. The Church has always had a very great interest in our Indians because of the promises made to their fathers, of which we learn in the Book of Mormon. Oliver Cowdery led the first mission of our people to them and on that. Trip both Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams were made acquainted with the Gospel, the latter joining the missionary party. On this trip, which was authorized by revelation and made in the fall of 1830, three Indian tribes were contacted and heard the story of the Book of Mormon. They were the Catterauguas, Wyandottes and the Delawares and the missionaries were hopeful of doing something worth while among the Delawares when the Agency officials ordered them out. The Indians were very much interested. It appears that after this, little effort was made among them until after the coming of the Saints to these mountains, but they had hardly become established here in the midst of the Indians when they undertook again to carry the message to them. Perhaps it was unfortunate that the Saints found their immediate Indian neighbors to be among the least developed of the native tribes, for the results of these many years of contact have not been flattering. IN 1854 an expedition was organized and sent south to work among the Indians. It included such men as Orson Hyde, Parley P. Pratt, Jacob Hamblin, Ira Hatch—twenty-three men in all—who left Salt Lake City April 8, 1854. They arrived at John D. Lee's camp at Harmony, May 16, 1854, and found there 12 or 15 families. "On the Sunday preceding the arrival of the newcomers the Indian school at Harmony showed an at 434 attendance of ten Indian children." NOTE: The Magazine expresses appreciation to Professor Harrison R. Merrill for suggestions in preparation of this issue and for use of the following pictures: Cover, Frontispiece, Indian Woman, and Ralph Hubbard displaying war bonnet. (See the Manuscript History of St. George Stake.) On the 15th of June ten of these brethren went on south under Rufus C. Allen, with Ira Hatch as interpreter and Jacob Hamblin and William Hennefer also in the party. Indians were contacted at Toquerville, Washington and Santa Clara. At the last place eleven Indians asked for baptism and were made members of the Church. Further upstream Jacob Hamblin and Wm. Hennefer report administering to a very sick woman, at her request, after the Medicine Man had failed to help her, whereupon she was immediately healed. It is also reported that some 300 Indians were later baptized at St. George and received presents at the hands of Apostle Erastus Snow. When these gratuities were not continued some of the Indians asked to be baptized anew and to have the brethren tell the Lord they had been good Indians. This would seem like a good beginning but the advantage was apparently not followed up and little or no effort was made to carry these Indians along in their Church affiliation. Just recently, however, there has been some activity among them and at a recent meeting attended by the President of the Church and the writer in St. George an Indian holding the Priesthood of an Elder pronounced the benediction. After St. George had been well established, 'the frontier of Indian missionary work was extended and in 1878 Erastus Snow and Anthony W. Ivins visited the Navajos and Pueblos and Llewellyn Harris went among the Zunis. Harris is said to have healed about 400 Zunis whom he found suffering from smallpox. Ammon M. Tenney is reported to have assisted in baptizing 115 of the Zunis. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Work moved on further in Arizona and we now have a fine group near Mesa organized into a ward of the Maricopa stake. In 1883 Moses Thatcher and Bishop Preston led a group of missionaries into Idaho and Wyoming. We now have in the Malad Stake the Washakie ward with a fine lot of native Saints. Ig was but natural that the Church should look towards the many tribes living in Mexico, Central America and South America for it is generally believed by us that most of the events of the Book of Mormon history took place south of' the Rio Grande. In the early 1870's there came into Salt Lake City one Meliton J. Trejo, a Spaniard, led hither from the Phillipine Islands by a desire to learn more of this people of whom he had heard a little already. After investigation, he joined the Church and President Young gave him the task of translating certain parts of the Book of Mormon into Spanish. This collection of excerpts was entitled, "Trozos Selectos del Libro de Mormon," meaning "Select Passages from the Book of Mormon." With more than 2,000 of these pamphlets in their packs the following named missionaries set out for Mexico from Salt Lake City on the 15th of September, 1875—Daniel W. Jones, Heleman Pratt, James Z. Stewart, Robert H. Smith and Wiley C. Jones. At Toquerville Anthony W. Ivins joined the party and Ammon M. Tenney was added at Kanab. After many interesting experiences, they arrived at El Paso del Norte (North Pass) and on the 20th of March, 1876, Daniel W. Jones, Heleman Pratt, J. Z. Stewart, Wiley C. Jones and Anthony W. Ivins entered Mexico at Ciudad Juarez, opposite El Paso, Texas. THE GOSPEL AND Nineteen days later they obtained from Don Luis Terrazas, Governor of the State of Chihuahua, permission to hold the first public meeting ever held in Mexico by Mormon Elders. From this point it was decided to return, but before doing so names and addresses of some of the prominent men in the principal cities of Mexico were obtained from the local postmaster and packages of "Trozos Selectos" were mailed to them. One of these pamphlets came into the possession of a more or less prominent Mexican who became interested in its story. He began a correspondence with the President of the Church which led to the sending of Moses Thatcher, J. Z. Stewart and Meliton J. Trejo to Mexico City where they succeeded in opening up a successful mission. This Mission has passed through varying vicissitudes until now we have the Spanish-American Mission and the Mexican Mission as well as the more recently established Argentine Mission, all of which are functioning nicely and, of course, use the Spanish language. THE LAMANITES 435 IT would not be complete should we not mention the missions of Polynesia. As early as 1844 men were sent into the South Seas in charge of Addison Pratt, having in mind the presentation of the Gospel to the whites of those Islands. Some of these missionaries went as far as India. It soon became apparent that the whites were not the fruitful field but that their converts were going to come from the natives. As a justification for their going we ask you to look at the groups of Saints in New Zealand, Samoa, and Hawaii and others of the Island groups. It is hard to find more faithful and intelligent converts to the Church than have come from these Polynesian missions. After having read the foregoing one can visualize a wide and populous area legitimately called Lamanite Mission field. Workers have never been too numerous in these areas and in some parts legal restrictions are such that the work advances slowly, but we hope that definite progress is being made. PRODIGAL'S RETURN By Alice Lee Eddy I will arise and go unto my father
And to his father's gospel I'll return.
For in the rush of life I have missed something
That from my noble fathers I can learn.
They followed one who suffered persecution
And bore it Christ-like in the latter days.
They dared to turn their backs on ease and safety
To triumph in the humble, harder ways.
For they had peace in midst of tribulation,
They knew good will in midst of toil and strife.
Without the wealth and comforts we've acquired
They still could live the rich, abundant life.
Like them, with greed and vanity I've finished,
With mocking doubt and ridicule I'm done.
I will arise and go unto my Father
And thank Him for the blessing of His Son.

Where Did The Red Man Come From?
By Celia A. Van Cott

The scattered groups of Americans whom our forefathers first saw upon this continent reflected a vigorous and growing civilization. Most of the tribes were in a semi-nomadic stage with the vast continent providing their needs. Tribal boundaries were jealously guarded from outside encroachment and if their rights were disturbed they were quick to retaliate; therefore almost incessant warfare was carried on which sometimes wiped out an entire tribe. Each group spoke a different language and through the lack of understanding one another, they regarded all other tribes as potential and scheming enemies. Had a universal language been spoken it would have welded them together into a homogeneous group, possibly changing the early history of our nation.

Archeologists, historians, linguists, geologists and many others spend thousands of dollars annually trying to solve the intricate problem of where these dark-skinned people came from. Many controversial opinions have been formed and many books have been written regarding this important question. Franz Boas, an historian who has published many books on Indian culture and research, formulated the idea that the aborigines came from Europe across the ice flows to Greenland during the glacial period, migrating in scattered groups until they gradually overran the whole of the North American continent.

Dane and Mary Roberts Coolidge disagree and claim (although archeological proof is still lacking) that the Navajo Indians were the first red men on this continent, migrating from northern Asia and Polynesia. They believe because of like characteristics they are the descendants of Jenghis Khan, a powerful Mongolian chieftain who extended his empire from the China Sea to the banks of the Dnieper. Small fragments could have broken away from their leader they contend, coming over the ice of the Bering Sea in one large wave, or possibly over a small neck of land that has since disappeared, scattering through want or from pressure behind, into various groups in search of better hunting and fishing grounds.

Ethnologists agree to the first part, but say migration was not in one single wave but in many waves with the infiltration succeeding over a period of many hundreds of years, each wave losing itself as the people migrated deeper and deeper inland.

"On summing up the many varied ideas and theories regarding the ancestral strain of the Indians, Clark Wissler, curator of Anthropology in the American Museum of New York, definitely states that all the races descended from the same stem. They all represent one single strain or homotype, and this, he claims, is identical with the Mongolian races of Polynesia and Asia."

The United States school of Anthropologists has successfully combated all claims to an interglacial man in America, and it has also failed to find the Indian true to the characteristics and customs of the Mongolian.

WHERE DID THE RED MAN COME FROM?

We, the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, believe the Indians to be but a small fragment of a once powerful people that lived on the American continent. We believe they came from Jerusalem under the guidance and leadership of Lehi, who sought peace and deliverance from oppression for his family in a new world. We believe the Indians to be a remnant of descendants of the sons of Lehi—called Lamanites—whom

437

the Lord cursed with a dark skin because of their wickedness. We have found our solution to this interesting and world-wide problem in The Book of Mormon, a history written and preserved by these early Americans, found through revelation and translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Book of Mormon has solved for us this much debated question, "Where did the Indians come from?"

Indian Culture
By William Evans

When the term culture is used in connection with the Indian nations there are many who feel that it is conspicuous by its absence, particularly when one accepts the term in its modern application. As a matter of fact, however, when we speak of Indian culture, we are considering the characteristic attainments of this people. Indian culture should not be judged by the conditions surrounding the plains tribes, during the westward expansion of the white man, for these Indians were only a small fraction of the great American aboriginal family.

Scattered throughout the United States, then on down through Mexico, Central America and South America there are hundreds of thousands of native Americans. According to the closest estimates available, there were less than one-half million of plains Indians within the confines of present United States at the coming of the white man, and these were living under the most primitive of conditions. So we have to look further for a true estimate of Indian culture.

This larger section of native Americans had at one time attained such a high state of cultural and artistic stature as to excite the admiration of the student. When we regard the life of the American Indian, we should remember the fact that we are looking upon a people whose ancestors once lived in a high state of civilization.

Some centuries before the legions of Caesar invaded Great Britain, where they found a semi-barbarian race, a few members of whom, near the southern coast, knew something of the use of bronze and of iron which had been introduced supposedly by Greek travelers and traders as early as the fourth century, B. C., native Americans had a good working knowledge of steel and copper. They were also adept in the use of gold and silver long before Caesar conquered Britain. Britain received Christianity late in the sixth century. America, according to the Book of Mormon record, received it in the first century in all its purity and beauty from the Master himself. When Caesar was invading Britain, ancient America was looking forward to the coming of the Redeemer. When these same legions had been withdrawn, owing to the decline of the Roman empire, during the next century, the Savior had established His church in America and His followers were preaching and advancing this Gospel throughout the land.

With the extinction of the Nephites, a little more than three centuries subsequent to this period, a knowledge of the Gospel was in process of being lost to America. The Lamanites, who were the conquerors, still carried on much of the culture established by the conquered peoples, but undoubtedly a certain decline occurred. Enough remained, however, that when, some twelve centuries later, the Spaniards entered Mexico and Yucatan, and a few years later, Peru, they were amazed at the evidences of cultural and artistic development which the native Americans had attained. Indeed, many students of this ancient race

INDIAN CULTURE

are of the opinion that in many respects the native culture exceeded that of the invaders. So plentiful and beautiful were the Indian fabrications of the precious metals that the cupidity of the Conquistadores was aroused and all manner of cruelties and crimes were committed in the appropriation of this wealth. The performances credited to this period of history may well be termed the "Rape of the Americas."

The loss of a written language had occurred more than a thousand years previous to the Spanish invasion, but the Indian had developed a system of picture writing on paper of ingenious manufacture, and much was assembled in libraries in book form, or folios. These collections of pictograph records had assumed large and extensive proportions. But clerical zeal ordered the wholesale destruction of them by fire, as being the works of the devil. And thus the world is poorer in native historical lore by the loss of this mass of recording. Only a few fragments reposing in various libraries of the old world are left to us. All that remains in the Americas are the pictoglyphs and hieroglyphics which were laboriously etched on cliff walls and rocks. These are valueless because no one can read them, and if deciphered would undoubtedly be just a brief record of local events, and not of national movements and events as were the destroyed records of Mexico and Yucatan.

During the northern migration of the ancestors of the pueblo Indians of the southwest, which very probably occurred in successive waves of colonization, a certain amount of original culture was lost. The Conquistadores who foraged north from Mexico City failed to

439

find the fabled Seven Cities of Cibola and the reputed golden wealth. Instead they found communal houses of poor people eking out a scant living from the soil through feeble irrigation. They were meek, and kindly in their relations one with another, but wrathful to the point of ferocity towards those who abused them and wished to enslave them. The gold and silver of their ancestors had remained in Yucatan and Mexico under the supervision and edicts of the Emperors, later to be seized by the foreign invaders.

However, they inherited other cultural attainments of their forefathers. In the manufacture of pottery they were, and are, adept. They were ingenious in the selection of certain clays, in the fabrication of pots of various sizes and shapes, and in the burning and hardening of these utensils of artistry and utility. So much so, in fact, that many tons of perfect and unbroken specimens which have withstood the chemical action of the soil and other elements, have been excavated and recovered several hundred years after their fabrication. According to the Douglas tree-ring chronology many of these articles are seven or eight hundred years old—some of them older. The designs on many of them were so expertly glazed as to stand out, almost in their original beauty. All this fine work was done without the aid of the potters' wheel and with the implements of the stone age. As a comparison in dates it is interesting to know that some of these artifacts were being made while King Canute, (995-1035 A. D.) on another continent, was futilely commanding the waves of the ocean to retreat; also during the time when King Harold fell at the battle of Hastings.

440                    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

BASKET WEAVING

The modern Indians of the communal houses of the Southwest are expert potters too, although their work hardly compares with that of their ancestors. Commercial demands and necessity are largely responsible for that. Some articles of the work of from 50 to 75 years ago compare favorably with the ancient commodities.

In the art of weaving, these modern Indians, as did their ancestors, display efficiency and artistry. In the making of bags, sandals and moccasins the cliff-dwellers and ancient pueblans worked wonders in texture and design, using for the most part Yucca fibers and the fine inner bark of the cedar. Occasionally they used rabbits' fur, and feathers, as well as cotton,—sometimes the unstable cotton of the cottonwood tree. The cords twisted from Yucca fiber and cedar bark are counterparts of our modern cords of hemp and linen.

The modern pueblans use wool and cotton, and at one time used the ravellings of the white man's blankets. As a farmer the modern Indian, acquiring the knowledge from his forefathers, is the original irrigationist. He also taught his white brother the art—it can be called such—of mulching the soil to conserve the moisture. Long residence in arid sections of his homeland brought him realization of the fact that loosened soil around his maize conserved the underlying moisture.

The Navajos, related to the cliff-dwellers through marriage with their descendants, the modern pueblans, have learned many of the lessons handed down by their common ancestors. The Navajo living crudely and simply, has developed a culture that has fitted him to live, move and have being under

INDIAN CULTURE

conditions which would discourage and bring failure to the white man. He has learned from necessity his nature lessons generations upon generations ago and they are deep-seated in his nature. They have given him a sturdiness, a poise and a dependability upon self that is admirable and well worthy of imitation.

The Navajo has inherited very little ceramic art from his relatives, the pueblans, but has developed to a high degree, and made an art of a peculiar type of Indian weaving. The Navajo weaver has taken a practice only casually indulged in by the pueblan and made of it an industry of large proportions. The product of the Navajo loom can be safely termed "a thing of beauty and a joy forever." The usual combination of colors is artistic and beautiful. The native American has long been, by necessity, a student of nature. And nature, in its color schemes, never commits an error. Individuals who have the artistic ability to bring into being such products of loom and of clay, though we may call them savage, certainly have cultural qualities of no mean order.

In his religion the Navajo has inherited, and made ample use of the practices of his forefathers, the cliff-dwellers, and his more immediate relatives, the pueblans. His ceremonies are embellished with the Sandpainting, or Sandpicture—another beautiful work of art. He has improved the art and is now master of it.

When the Spaniards invaded Mexico and Yucatan they were astonished to find replicas of the cross, and rites that were apparently Christian in their origin. Today, the Indians have no conception of the Cross, other than that given them by white missionaries. But there is

441

evidence that a knowledge of it existed as late as the early twelfth century. They do, however, have legendary stories of the Creation that were unquestionably of Mosaic origin. They have a conception of a Creator and a council of assistants which took part in the acts of Creation, these acts approximate, to a startling degree, those recorded in the ancient Hebrew record. In their legendary lore they have record of a remarkable individual whose acts simulate very closely those of Moses. They have a record of occurrences in their lore very similar to recorded ones in the Old Testament. These cannot be enlarged upon as they represent sufficient material for a separate article.

The Indian takes the religion of his fathers very seriously. He has lost very little of it to the proselyters of the sectarian churches. He may be nominally a Catholic, a Presbyterian, a Baptist or what not, but in times of stress his ancient gods are his hope and his refuge. A curious anomaly may be seen in the villages of the pueblans in New Mexico. While the priest is inside the adobe church saying mass his Indian followers are often dancing in the pagan way and singing the pagan songs on the outside.

Future generations will, without question, see the Christianizing of the Indian. Just now he is too close to his native gods and to his ancestral rituals. The medicine man is still active and influential. When he hears the true voice of the Master he will not hesitate. He will give his heart and not just his lips. The prophecies of the Lord and of His Prophets are bound to be fulfilled. And when that time comes, "Lo, the poor Indian," will find his place in the grand and glorious work of God.

Brigham Young's Qualities of Leadership
By Elder Nephi L. Morris
(Continued from June issue)

Upon the arrival of pioneer bands in the valley of the Great Salt Lake, President Young assured his people that they had reached their Land of Promise. The day following their arrival happened to be Sunday. Religious services were held and the God of Israel was praised for the deliverance of His people and His leading them to so bounteous a land. In a sort of official manner Brigham Young proclaimed, as the law of the land, that the land was not to be bought and sold nor monopolized; that each man would be allowed ample land for his needs both as to a city home and agricultural acreage. He was to have each according to his ability to cultivate same. Neither the forests nor the water could be appropriated in excess of actual needs. These natural resources were to be preserved for the home-dweller and the tiller of the earth. Due regard was to be shown to the twenty thousand Latter-day Saints who were still camped on the banks of the Missouri River waiting for equipment and approval in making the long journey. First steps were promptly taken in exploration and subsequent colonization in all directions. A territorial government was set up and the boundaries of the proposed commonwealth were at first fixed upon a large scale. The vast area included in addition to Utah, parts of the states of Idaho, Montana, Colorado, Wyoming, Arizona, Nevada, New Mexico and California with a generous coast line along the Pacific. The size and character of the proposed state was commensurate with the intellectual grasp of the great empire builder in charge of the situation.

Legislatures were established and functioned in an orderly manner. Congress was petitioned to receive the State of Deseret into the Union. Industries of fundamental import were established, including the manufacture of sugar, woolen goods, paper, silk, leather, etc. Churches and schools were erected. The foundation of a university was splendidly laid and the present magnificent state institution is the direct outcome of that early project. The construction of railroads and telegraph lines were inaugurated at a very early day, by reason of which the Territory of Utah was brought into communication with the nation industrially and politically.

With unusual sagacity and statesmanlike wisdom, Brigham Young restrained his people from the alluring and demoralizing effects of gold and silver mining and effectively indicated the social, industrial, domestic and spiritual values of sticking close to the dependable soil. In this policy he was abundantly vindicated. These sound policies, both substantial and practical, indicate an intellectual grasp to be found only in a great empire builder which Brigham Young has long since come to be in the minds of thoughtful observers.

In the domain of pioneering, exploration and statecraft the subject of our sketch has been shown to be a person of uncommon capacity and abili-

BRIGHAM YOUNG'S QUALITIES OF LEADERSHIP                    443

ty. Very few men of this type can step over into the realm of theology and maintain so noble a stride. But here it is that Brigham Young easily glides into the higher realm of thought and philosophy without falling down to the level of illogical, commonplace and petty dogma. It is in this field that he ascends to pure sublimity. As one of many exalted teachings quite common with him I here introduce the biggest idea I have ever encountered. Take it for what you will, it stands almost alone in its magnificence of intellectual comprehension and expression. He was speaking on the eternal nature of man and matter. Here is the idea:

"Mankind are organized of element designed to endure to all eternity; it never had a beginning and never can have an end. There never was a time when that matter, of which you and I are composed, was not in existence; it cannot be annihilated.

"It is brought together, organized and capacitated to receive knowledge and intelligence, to be enthroned in glory, to be made angels, Gods—beings who will hold control over the elements, and have power by their word to command the creation and the redemption of worlds, or to extinguish suns by a breath and disorganize worlds, hurling them back into their chaotic state. This is what you and I are created for." (J. Of D. 3, 356, Dis. Of B. Y. 74.)

The impressive quality of sincerity was always conspicuously manifest in the important affairs that came before him for handling. But at no time in his eventful career did he evince a more sublime courage of his convictions than upon the occasion of his being advised that Johnston's army was on its way to Utah with the avowed purpose of subjecting the people here to military control. The dramatic event occurred at Silver Lake, the head waters of the Big Cottonwood stream. Nearly twenty-five hundred people had gathered there to celebrate the tenth anniversary of their arrival in the valley. While men and women, young and old, and little children were enjoying the relaxation which only the exalted valleys of lofty mountains can give, while bands were playing patriotic airs and choruses were singing anthems and hymns, into the festive camp rode three messengers with the startling announcement of WAR. Instantly were they all changed from care-free, joyous and happy celebrants to fear-stricken, anxious, and almost dismayed belligerents. To their great leader they confidently looked for guidance and doubted not his being equal to the crisis so suddenly thrust before them.

Military control was apparently to be imposed upon them. With a few preliminary observations, he said, "You may as well tell me that you can't make hell out of a powder house as to tell me that they intend to keep an army here and have peace." Rising to the heights of the emergency and displaying unsurpassed courage he made what I regard, as the most important statement ever made in the State of Utah. He said: "I feel that I won't bear such treatment, for we are just as free as the mountain air.... This people are free; they are not in bondage to any government on God's footstool. We have transgressed no law, neither do we intend so to do; but as for any nation coming here to destroy this people, God Almighty being my helper, IT SHALL NOT BE."

Brigham Young in this crisis did not indulge in any such delusion as to think that his handful of impov-

444

erished followers could successfully set up a military resistance to the armies of the United States. But by bold strategy did he keep that army out on the plains for about a year. During this amazing resistance he communicated with Washington and laid the facts before the President and his cabinet. Friendly intermediaries, conspicuously in this connection, are to be gratefully mentioned. The superb services of a rare and true friend, Thomas L. Kane, than whom our people never had a greater friend, brought both sides to the controversy into conference and when they understood each other the "Utah War" was over. The bold declaration of Brigham Young was not a threat of violence against the government. It was the declaration of a man whose people were about to become the hapless victims of prejudice and misinformation. Time was needed to lay the facts before the government and things must be held in abeyance till that could be done. The great leader of the Mormon people, with the full courage of the rightfulness of his convictions, successfully set up a defiant resistance. What he really had in mind to do rather than submit to such treatment as he had seen meted out to his people in Missouri and Illinois was to utterly destroy every vestige of civilization and culture existing here at the time. Not a blade of grass, nor a straw of grain or hay would be left in the field. Not a picket of a fence nor a fragment of a house or barn would be left standing. All would be destroyed by fire and they who would undertake to drive them from their homes and dispossess them of their lands, would find the place as barren as the pioneers had found it when they arrived here ten years before.

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Earnestness of purpose is the one dominant note that runs all through the intensely serious undertakings of Brigham Young's eventful life. Evidence of insincerity is always destructive of confidence. No man ever enjoyed greater loyalty and more sincere devotion from his followers than did this remarkable man. From the day he first associated with the Latter-day Saints' cause to the end of his outstanding career he was always constantly under test through which only characters of truest steel can pass unimpaired.

High-minded, enlightened men, men of character and superior intelligence went at his wishes to colonize or perform missions when and where he advised. To remote and unknown parts they went with their families and established settlements, reclaiming the desert, building up the waste places, extending the influence of the Church and introducing, everywhere, a high order of civilization. This extraordinary man exerted such power over his devoted followers that thousands of lives were definitely shaped under his guidance and friendly counsel. The exercise of such power exists only on the basis of unquestioned sincerity and earnestness of purpose. These qualities are the keys to his great character.

The great secret of his hold upon his fellows was the consciousness on their part of his sincere desire to promote in every way their welfare and happiness both for this life and the one to come. I tell just one story beautifully illustrative of the bond of sympathy which existed between him and his fellows. This incident was told me by my old, gifted friend, the late Alfred Lambourne. He was a close student of nature in all her various forms, and with the deep insight of both poet

BRIGHAM YOUNG'S QUALITIES OF LEADERSHIP                    445

and artist human nature was rich in its yield to his searching powers.

President Young never forgot his old-time friends and early-day associates. When approaching the sunset of life he habitually paid regular visits to the homes or the shops of those old comrades. On one such occasion he entered the blacksmith shop of such a fellow workman. The President was always graceful and dignified in bearing and appearance. As he approached the blacksmith with the ringing anvil between them he extended his soft, shapely, small hand. Its evident refinement reaching toward him rather dismayed or embarrassed the masculine worker of iron. As he laid the heavy hammer on the vibrant anvil his own hand fell like lead beside his leathern apron. It grew increasingly heavy like the metal it fashioned and hammer it wielded. Its weight increased as the embarrassing moments slowly passed. Another look at his own large hand, black and defaced with labor, and the smith could not lift his hand to meet the President's. At this flashing crisis the President stooped low and wiped his soft, white hand in the soot and grime of the floor and then arising again extended it. Instantly in the bonds of an undying comradeship their hands firmly met and their hearts also met, never to be separated.

Columbus had the masterful personality—the earnestness of purpose and the courage to quell the mutineers or America might have remained in obscuration even to this day. Brigham Young had similar and still greater powers to cope with a vicious ruffianism and reckless, unpurposeful attitude at Chimney Rock or this great intermountain empire might to this day be either a sparsely settled country or a nonproductive wilderness. And while he never again had serious rebellion or sedition to contend with in so formidable a manner yet, after the arrival here in 1847, he saw many periods of wavering and a disposition on the part of some to retreat and turn from their noble objective. The cricket war though providentially terminated left many of the pioneers sadly discouraged with respect to their making a go of it in this country. Disappointment led to discouragement and then followed dissatisfaction. Crop failure caused many to regard as futile any further planting of seed in this sterile soil. One said, "I'll save my seed grain to plant in California." Others were bent on returning to the more fertile soil of Ohio or Illinois. The obvious need of an inspired leader to meet these discouragements had arrived. Added to these repellent forces came the allurements of the gold fever which was raging in California in 1848 and 1849. The great qualities of earnestness of purpose, clearness of vision, grasp of intellect, readiness of resources and courage of convictions were all needed to meet this new crisis which had arisen. All such qualities combined were needed to win in this great conflict. To consolidate the ground, they had taken from the desert; to succeed now and here was imminently necessary. To have shifted ground one inch would have been disastrous, more so than at Chimney Rock. Retreat would have been self-admitted defeat. At this last great test of the enterprise there came to Brigham Young all the qualities we have found in him and the one we said at the beginning was necessary to complete the elements of his masterful character, viz) DIVINE INSPIRATION.

446

Listen now to the words of the great pioneer, empire builder and prophet as he addressed himself to the problem of 1848. Said he, "Some have asked me about going to the gold fields of California. I told them that God had appointed this place for the gathering of His Saints, and you will do better right here than you will by going to the gold mines. Some have thought they would go there and get fitted out and come back, but I told them to stop here and get fitted out. Those who stop here are faithful to God and His people will make more money and get richer than you that run after the god of this world; and I promise you in the name of the Lord that many of you will go, thinking that you will get rich and come back, will wish you had never gone away from here and will long to come back, but will not be able to do so. Some of you will come back, but your friends who remain here will have to help you, and the rest of you who are spared to return will not make as much money as your brethren do who stay here and help to build up the Church and Kingdom of God. They will prosper and be able to buy you twice over. Here is the place God has appointed for His people.

"We have been kicked out of the frying-pan into the fire; out of the fire into the middle of the floor, and here we are and here we will stay. God has shown me that this is the spot to locate His people and here is where they will prosper. He will temper the elements for the good of the Saints. He will rebuke the frost and the sterility of the soil, and the land will become fruitful. Brethren, go to now, and plant out your fruit trees. For in these elements are not only all the cereals common to this latitude, but the ap-

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

ple, peach and plum; yea and the more delicate fruits, the strawberry and raspberry, and we will raise the grape here and manufacture wine; and as the Saints gather here and get strong enough to possess the land, God will temper the climate, and we shall build a city and a temple to the Most High God in this place. We will extend our settlements to the east and west, to the north and south, and we will build towns and cities by the hundreds, and thousands of the Saints will gather in from the nations of the earth. This will become the great highway of the nation. Kings and Emperors and the noble and wise of the earth will visit here, (and they have) while the wicked and ungodly will envy us our comfortable homes and possessions. Take courage, brethren. I can stand in my door and can see where there is untold millions of the rich treasures of the earth gold and silver. But the time has not come for the Saints to dig gold. It is our duty first to develop the agricultural resources of this country, for there is no country on this earth that is more productive than this. We have the finest climate, the best water and the purest air that can be found on the earth. There is no healthier climate anywhere. As for gold and silver and the rich minerals of the earth, there is no other country that equals this, but let them alone; let others seek them, and we will cultivate the soil; for if the mines are opened first we are a thousand miles from any base of supplies, and the people would rush in here in such great numbers they would breed a famine, and gold would not do us or them any good if there were no provisions in the land. People would starve to death with barrels of gold. They would be willing to give a barrel of gold for a barrel of flour rather than starve to death. Then, brethren,

BRIGHAM YOUNG'S QUALITIES OF LEADERSHIP                    447

plow your land, and sow your wheat, plant your potatoes; let the mines alone until the time comes for you to hunt gold, though I do not think this people will ever become a mining people. It is our duty to preach the Gospel, gather Israel, pay our tithing and build temples. The worst fear that I have about this people is that they will get rich in this country, forget God and His people, wax fat and kick themselves out of the Church and go to hell. This people will stand mobbing, robbing, poverty, and all manner of persecution, and be true. But my greater fear for them is that they cannot stand wealth. And yet they have to be tried with riches for they will become the richest people on the earth."

After that all-conquering inspiration the great leader had many secondary vicissitudes to pass through, but victory for the valiant followers was as certain as though God had spoken it. Those words, as Chief Arapeen said later, went into both ears and sank deep into the heart to remain there. Those positive assurances still lie deep in the consciousness of this people even unto the third and fourth generations. What a man was Brigham Young! What a leader was he! "Where shall we find a greater example of the undiscouraged, resolute, struggling Soul of Man?" These things may in part explain why the name of Brigham Young looms with increasing bigness as the decades unfold.

(Reprint Deseret News.)

HE KISSED ME
By Rachel Barney Taft

He kissed me kindness, sweetness."
And whispered, "You are sweet as
And I loved him; his face beamed
But he was years and years my senior...
Yes, I was sixty years his junior;
And he adored all little children
And I was only five years old then...
He was Brigham Young.

From Main Street.

Pioneer Influence On The Indians
By Afton Bernice Pond

When President Brigham Young said, "This is the place I have seen long since in vision", and the glad cry echoed and re-echoed from tired lips, no sulking red shadow beclouded the general rejoicing of that day. But, somewhere in the background, watching and silent, undoubtedly were Indian scouts, for on the third day after the arrival of the Pioneers in the Great Salt Lake Valley, their camp was visited by Indians.

These visits to the Pioneer camp, for begging and trading, grew in frequency and with constantly increasing numbers, according to historians of the time, until it was necessary for the Mormons on the second Sunday in the valley to adopt a resolution at a public meeting "to trade no more with the Indians except at their own encampments", and to hold out no inducements to their visiting the Pioneer camp. Erastus Snow's Journal, entry of August 1, 1847, reports that there were a number of Indians in the Pioneer camp when this resolution was passed; and whether they learned the import of it or not, during the night they left and visits from them became less frequent. As these red-skinned people slipped quietly away, they surely did not sense that these few weary settlers, with their travel-battered wagons, were only the first links of a continuous chain of people seeking peace. Nor did they recognize the beginning of white dominance in the West, and consequent thereon, a new mode of life for the Western Indian.

The fertile valley which the Mormons accepted as their Land of Promise, and north to the Weber Valley, was claimed by the Goships, whose language and customs were related to those of the Gosiutes. In Chief Goship's prime, it is said, his followers numbered some thousands. But, the Indians had no special resistance for, nor did they understand the proper treatment of the strange diseases of the whites, so that within a short time large numbers had died. In 1848, when an epidemic of measles broke out among them, they assembled at the Warm Springs north of Salt Lake City, and sought relief by bathing in these waters. Within a few years those who survived of this once proud tribe took up their abode with neighboring tribes and bands.
PIONEER INFLUENCE ON THE INDIANS

The valleys to the west and south of the Great Salt Lake were the home lands of the Gosiute tribes of the great Shoshone family. In Skull Valley, and across the desert in Deep Creek (Ibapah) permanent camps of Gosiutes were located long before the advent of white settlers. Literally "Desert People" they had learned to know and to use the resources of their ill-favored section, to find in the plant and animal life food for every season, covering for the body, and for every ill a medicine. With white settlements spreading over the valleys and furnishing trading centers, strict necessity no longer impelled them to know the form and color, texture and taste, season and habitat of food and medicinal materials. The younger members of the tribe no longer listened willingly to grandparents, and the older men and women, who because of their longer and more varied experience and consequent greater knowledge were the natural teachers and advisers. Disease struck down the Gosiute, as well as other tribes, and the aged of the camps sorrowed, not only for the dwindling in their numbers, but also that much of what was distinctively of the original Gosiute was passing away with the oldsters of the tribe. Scouts carried the word of the Pioneer camp, in the valley of the Great Salt Lake, to the good Ute Chief, Soweitte, who resided with his tribe in what is now Utah Valley. Always friendly to the whites, it is said that he did much to contro] the war-like young braves who would have driven the whites from their valleys. HE establishment of settlements in outlying regions brought the Latter-day Saint settlers into contact with these and other Indian tribes. In line with the spirit of mutual helpfulness that Brigham Young had exhibited with all Indians, in 1856 he urged that "the millions of acres of uncultivated land be given to the Indians for use, and that they be taught the peaceful avocation of the tiller of the soil, raising grain and stock for subsistence, instead of pursuing the uncertain chances of war and game for livelihood." He said, "Surround them with a peaceful and friendly influence and a humane and benevolent policy. 449 Thus will they be redeemed from their low estate, and advanced' in the scale of civilized and intellectual existence." In the summer and fall of 1874 there began a religious awakening among the Indians of the West that resulted in several thousand baptisms into the Latter-day Saint Church, and progress was made in the acquiring of industrial habits and the tendency towards civilized methods of life. Thus it would seem that those who have in the Book of Mormon the key to the origin and history of the American Indian, or Lamanite, who believe that they were at one time and shall again be a "white and delightsome people," have contributed toward their uplift, as well as toward improvement of relations between Indians and whites generally. HOWEVER, the final chapter of the Indian story is not yet written. Through friendly 'contact, kindness, and missionary work, through examples of thrift and industry, the Pioneers exerted a powerful influence for good, but the process of civilization is slow and toilsome. The full responsibility is not discharged. That there shall be a day of blossoming for the Lamanite, there is no doubt, for in a revelation to Joseph Smith, Sidney Rigdon, Parley P. Pratt, and Leman Copley, given at Kirtland, Ohio, March 1831, Sec. 49, Verse 24, of the Doctrine and Covenants, it is recorded: "Before the great day of the Lord shall come... The Lamanites shall blossom as the rose." David and Goliath By The Late Anthony W. Ivins UNTIL the year 1869 the Grand Canyon of the Colorado was a place of mystery. It was well known to the Indians who occupied the country on the north and south rims, but no etfort was made by them to penetrate its depths. 'Lo them it was the adobe of evil spirits awaiting the opportunity to seize anyone who might venture within the shadows of its massive walls. It would draw them into the whirlpools of the Great River and bear them away to the home of departed spirits from which none return. The Colorado River was never approached by the Indians except at certain places where the country was open and the water could be reached without entering the recesses of the mysterious canyon. So far as I am aware the first Indians to cross the river were a party of Oribas who came to the settlements of southern Utah with Jacob Hamblin on his return from one of his visits to the Hopis. At this time he tried to persuade Tuba, the chief of the Oribas, with his wife to accompany him to the settlements. Tuba was not inclined to go. More than likely he feared crossing the canyon but after much persuasion he consented to make the journey. Upon arriving at Lee's Ferry on the Colorado Tuba said to Jacob, "I have worshiped the Great Spirit, the Father of us all, in the way that you believe to be right. Now I would like you to worship with me as the Hopis think is tight, before we cross the Great River." When Jacob assented Tuba took his medicine bag from under his shirt and taking from it a small portion of the sacred meal which it contained, asked Jacob to do likewise. Jacob extended his left hand, but the Indian said, "No, you must take it with your right hand." Tuba sprinkled a small portion of the meal on the ground, in the air, and on the surface of the river after which he knelt, with his face to the East, and prayed. He prayed that the Great Spirit, the Father of us all, would preserve the party while they crossed to the opposite shore. He told the Great Spirit that he and his wife had many relatives and friends at home and that if they were drowned and did not return, there would be much weeping and sorrow. He prayed for his friends, the "Mormons," that none of them might lose their lives while crossing. He prayed that the animals might be preserved because they were needed for the long journey. He prayed that the food might not be lost because there was no more to be had. And he prayed for the safety of the clothing which was needed to keep them warm. When the party was finally safely over the river, Tuba gave thanks that his prayer had been answered. "THINKING back upon the occasion of this prayer I am reminded of an incident of an earlier day. After the conquest of the Indians in New Mexico by the Spaniards who came up from the City of Mexico, an expedition was sent out to visit the Indians who lived in villages in the northeastern part of Arizona. DAVID AND GOLIATH Among other people they went to the Hopi Indians whose principal village was at Oriba. There was at that time in this village a very beautiful Indian girl, the daughter of a chief. When the commander of the detachment of Spanish troops saw the girl he claimed her as his. After the fashion of the old Spanish cavalier he challenged any man, whether he be of his own command, or an Indian, to defend her against his right. If anyone could defeat him in a duel he would relinquish his claim to the girl whom he had already seized. No one accepted the challenge. As the officer was about to start away with the Indian girl a boy stepped out from among his fellows and boldly challenged the right of the Spaniard to claim her. She was an Indian. She belonged to them and he would fight for her. Like Goliath of old the Spaniard laughed. He ridiculed the thought of fighting this stripling who appeared with no weapon but 451 the knife he carried in his hand. However, since the code of honor among his people required that he do battle, he dismounted and started toward the boy. The Indian boy stood erect until the Spaniard approached almost within sword's length, then with a quick movement he threw his knife with such precision and force that it penetrated the breast of the officer resulting in his death. The girl as promised was returned to her people and the soldiers rode quietly away. The name of this boy was Tuba. The same Tuba whose remarkable character is shown in the beautiful prayer which he uttered before crossing the Colorado with Jacob Hamblin, and the girl for whom he fought was the wife who bravely crossed with him the Great River. The story "David and Goliath" was loaned by Florence Ivins Hyde from a group of stories told to his children by the late Anthony W. Ivins. The Indian and the Salmon Season By Dorothy Nell Mair HERE the turbulent waters of the mighty Columbia River fall with a thundering roar and dash menacingly against jagged rocks creating dangerous whirlpools and boiling rapids, come the Indians to the last of the oldtime fishing places, and perhaps the only one that has been preserved since the great Northwest country became the territory of the white man. From the reservations they come and camp in crude wooden shacks and tents on the southern bank of the river near the Celilo Falls—known to them as the Boiling Waters. Beginning early in May when the salmon begin to fight their way upstream, until the last of September, the Indians fish with spears and hand-fashioned nets. To many this is the "only source of income during the entire year. The fishing place at Celilo Falls, Oregon, has been restricted by the government and preserved for the Indians. No others may infringe upon this right. In the wooden shacks, the squaws keep house during the fishing season. Children in bright calico clothes play about the doorsteps and climb upon the jutting volcanic rock. Along the twisting pathways between these shacks one may come upon an Indian bath house. This is a concave structure of massed willows and just high enough to comfortably shelter anyone sitting within. These willows are but a frame work, over which skins are thrown to shut out the air. Stones are heated and dropped into a container of water, producing steam. The nude Indian sits within the bath house on skins, and stays there until he has perspired freely for a time. Then he finishes up with a plunge into the cold river water. DURING the salmon run, Celilo Falls belongs to the Indians. Today this fishing ground has taken on a semblance of the white man's business organization. There is a boss Indian to enforce rules, and each fisherman is assigned his own fishing place. He may use his long spear or his large net woven of stout string and fastened over a wooden hoop. A long handle is attached permitting him to dip the net deeply into the foaming rapids. The wood used in making these nets is carefully chosen. One Indian told me he had traveled forty miles to find a tree that would suit his purpose. The fishing season is not one of sport. Salmon fishing is a business and means work and income for the Indians. The fishing is hazardous. The boiling waters have been known to conceal for all time some luckless brave who lost his footing. Each year the river claims its toll. Asa safety measure, wooden scaffolds are built, supporting platforms to stand upon. Each fisherman has his own. But the platforms become slippery with the spray, and a fighting salmon can give a good tussle when the footing is precarious. To lessen the hazard of slipping off into the merciless churning mass, each Indian has a rope fastened securely around his waist and anchored, not to the scaffolding, but to another rock or an iron stake driven into the ground. The rope is long enough and loose enough to give him free- THE INDIAN AND THE SALMON SEASON dom of movement. It provides a means of rescue when an accident occurs. The presence of danger adds to the thrill of the yearly battle between fish and Indian, with the boiling waters pitted against them both. GALMON are an active fish. They must have the turbulent waters in which to live and spawn. They must battle their way over rapids and jump against the mass of water to the top of the falls. There is no other way upstream. Long silver streaks, they are, leaping actively, the sun glistening on their shining slick bodies for a moment before they submerge again. Then the Indian dips his long net, and the salmon falls backward into it. Raising the net from the water, the Indian rests it on his platform for a moment. Picking up a heavy stick, resembling a policeman's club, he hits the salmon a blow on the head. That is all it needs—just one tap and another fish is recorded to ity they require to keep fit. 453 the Indian's credit and loaded into the cannery's truck. Hundreds of pounds of salmon are caught by each fisherman daily. He is paid by the pound. The average salmon weights from thirty-five to fifty pounds, and during the heavy salmon run, the Indians reap a good cash harvest. But apprehension has descended upon the Indians. The white man's great dam—the Bonneville Dam down stream—will kill their salmon, they say. The Great White Father has thought of that, too, and constructed "ladders" at either side of the dam''to permit the passage of the salmon upstream. These "ladders" built of cement, represent rapids and give the fish the a but," the Indian still shakes his head and says, "soon there will be great still waters, and the salmon cannot live in the still waters." It remains to be proved whether the Great White Father, or the Indian is right. —THE WATERFALL Terrence Sylvester Glennamaddy Swift, mystic torrent! How unceasingly You pour your mighty waters o'er yon brink Downward in laughing ecstacy— A cataclysm. In always active change of rhythmic tone Your cataracts boom forth a song Deener in melody of joy Than music's strain. What: power supreme your mist exemplifies, Oh! Mighty, rushing waterfall, As if in answer to divine command, Forever on. Nope you stop to wonder where you cap, But plunge into the chasm far below, Break in eddies 'pon the rocks Beneath the sun. There is no pageantry can be compared With nature's noble handiwork. Through countless ages your spray has dashed Into the gorge. Dash on then. Leap and foam into the vale below. The rainbow in thy mist shall live, And trout shall dance in glee, When I am gone. Oh! Mighty God of nature and of man, Thy likeness in the waterfall I see; Thy image in the rising mist behold, And worship Thee. In Pimaland By Evelyn Wooster Viner George is all that romantic people have been led to believe that an Indian should be: tall, well proportioned, with handsome face cast into stern, immobile lines which—though most people do not know it—can break into a charming smile at the approach of a friend. One delightful spring day when the generous warmth of the sun hinted at the closeness of summer and the air which pervaded Pimaland was heavy with the scent of orange blossoms, George lounged on a crude bench in the shade of his mud cottage. The squat, one-room house, framed with cottonwood logs, lathed with arrow weed, plastered with mud and topped by a thick dirt roof, presented a very picturesque appearance. It was partly surrounded by the delicate grey lace-work of bare cottonwood branches against a tender blue sky, with a background of greening fields and tangled mesquite. Beyond one viewed the flaming, satin-like red of Granite Reef Mountain, the melting blue and pink of Four Peaks and the grim fortress like Superstition with its broad, creamy ribbon near the top. George contemplated the scene with indifferent satisfaction and continued the pleasant pastime of planning what he should plant in the freshly turned furrows. His wife, Elena, busied herself under the palmleaf shade, preparing a late dinner of tortillas and beans on the outdoor stove. INTO the quiet of this placid scene 4 intruded the squeak of hastily applied brakes and a penetrating feminine voice, "Oh, my Dear! Look at that handsome Indian! Isn't he perfectly thrilling? But what a dreadful house! How can anyone live in such a hovel?" George gave the new arrivals a sidewise glance, though he already knew that they were the kind of white people that he didn't want to see. A man's voice took up the thread, "Good-looking chap, that's a fact. Hope he's not as stupid as the others we have seen." Upon poor helpless George descended two men, who doubtless considered themselves gentlemen, and three women, who probably felt certain they were Jadies. "Good afternoon, my man," condescended the foremost. "Do you live here?" George presented an excellent imitation of a statue done in bronze. "Is this your—er—ah—domicile?" persisted the inquisitor. George continued his impersonation of a man deaf, dumb and blind. "He doesn't understand a word you say, Dear. How extraordinary! So good-looking too! Let us try the woman." After a fruitless attempt to get even a glimmer of intelligence from Elena, the feminine inquisitor continued, "Strange how ignorant these creatures are! Hardly human! Well, we may as well look around. See these queer flat cakes she is cooking right on top of the stove. What can they be?" After examining the tortillas and making sundry remarks, the party repaired to the house where they IN PIMALAND examined everything with the greatest care, keeping up a running fire of comment the while, interrupted now and again by little squeals of delight over bits of pottery and basketry. At last, chattering and exclaiming, the party clambered into their waiting car and departed in a cloud of dust and glory. N Indian's an Indian," says George, who only a few years 455 ago was graduated from an excellent school, and has good command of the English language, "and he'll never be anything else, but if I were to do in that man's house what he did in mine I would be arrested." This is but a single instance. Incidents of this sort happen often. Is it any wonder that the Indian is not over-anxious to adopt the white man's manners?  THE NAVAJO By Minne J. Hardy A world of red and burnished gold, A thousand painted buttes of sand, Where cactus buds their leaves unfold And sun shines bright across the land. From desert wastes of purple sage To mountain peaks all white with snow, Since many a long forgotten age Has lived the mighty Navajo. Proud of his race, his strength, his skill, Eager to hunt in sun and rain, Awake, alert, and quick to kill All who invade his wide domain. Ready to sacrifice his life To help his tribe in weal or woe, No task too hard, no stress or strife Too great for the brave Navajo. The spring time comes with gentle rain To make his crop a better yield; The summer sun will shine again And doubly bless his wind-swept field. The autumn hunt brings bear and deer, For work will always food bestow, The winter cold he does not fear His God will keep the Navajo. He loves his home, his wild, wild land, With great arroyos deep and wide, The mountains, mesas, canyons grand Where his forefathers lived and died. From the crimson beams at break of day To evening's sunset, saffron glow, He thanks his God in his own way For blessings on the Navajo. Sego Lily (An Original Legend) By Eva Willes Wangsgaard N the land of brooding canyons, where. The flaming tongues of sunset leap and fall with the white-tipped waves on briny waters, there lived an Indian girl, Her hair was like the midnight sky with the stars sparkling through. Her eyes were like the shadows of the willows when the sun wakes little birds of light to dance through their deepness. Tall and graceful as a willow and fleet as a deer, she was given the freedom of the valley. Although she did not belong among them, these lazy Piutes loved her. They called her Leawanna, little blossom of the desert. The daughter of a Sioux chieftain, stolen from the hills of Minnesota by the warring Blackfeet, she had been brought among the Piutes by an outlaw Blackfoot. He was daring and strong, but his strength was born of magic. Although he loved Leawanna with all his savage heart she could not return his love. "No, no, Blackfeather," Leawanna said to all his pleadings. "I could not tan your buckskin. I could not bead your leggings," and she ran away. HERE came into that desert valley a young stranger. His eyes were like warm pools reflecting the mid-day sky and his hair was like corn in autumn. Leawanna loved the blue-eyed stranger and she called him Corn-InAutumn. Corn-In-Autumn's wooing filled Blackfeather's heart with anger. In a jealous rage he called on the powers of darkness and when he felt the magic in his arms he sought and found Leawanna. He wrapped her quickly in a scarf of purple shadows and shot it through and through with the arrows of blackness. Finally, he unwrapped the scarf and shook its folds. Gone was Leawanna, the desert blossom. Only a graywinged seagull lifted languid wings and lay before him like a moth when it leaves the moist bed of the cocoon's silky envelope. As the seagull gained strength, she flew away to an island in the lake. So the ill-fated Leawanna lived among the seagulls with the form and bodily habits of a seagull, but the heart and soul of a tortured maiden. As a seagull, however, she had these pleasures. She could follow Corn-In-Autumn up and down the furrows as he plowed. His small field for his meager planting. She could circle over his head and guard him as he went about his chores. ONE day she saw Corn-InAutumn and all his neighbors in great trouble. Black crickets swarmed over every field devouring every green leaf and tender shoot that had braved the thirst of the desert land to yield a crop for her lover and his people. The farmers and even their wives and children fought the crickets with sacks and sticks until they fell exhausted, but they seemed to make no headway against them. They SEGO LILY lay like a black carpet over every field. Leawanna called her seagull friends and flew with them toward the struggle. Like a great cloud the gray and white birds rose from their island home and sailed due eastward over the valley. The frightened people dropped to their knees and prayed for God to deliver them from this new enemy. When they arose they shouted in relief, for the seagulls were not destroying their crops but devouring the crickets. Between the farmers and the birds, the crickets were soon under control, but the jealous Blackfeather knew who had led them to the fields and planned to get revenge by killing JLeawanna's blue-eyed lover. Stealthily, he crept behind Corn-In-Autumn's shed until he saw his rival approaching. Then he aimed a purposeful arrow. But, they two were not alone, as Blackfeather had supposed, for just as he loosed his bow, down swooped Leawanna and stopped the arrow in its flight. Poor Corn-In-Autumn looked down in astonished sorrow to see, not a gull as he had thought, but the torn and bruised body of Leawanna. Sorrowfully he picked her up and carried her to the hillside. There he buried her in the covers that the mountain streams had woven long ago in the waters of an ancient lake. They were deep and soft and she rested there, cool in the summer heat and warm through the winter cold. But her seagull friends missed her. Even today they search the hillsides and follow the plow up and down every furrow, calling stridently to one another, "Where?"—Over and over from the field and sky, "Where?" "Where? Where?" is Leawanna? Blackfeather hung his head in shame over the miscarriage of his plans, but took comfort in the thought that now, at least, his rival could no longer see her nor receive help from her. All his knowledge of magic had not given him wisdom, for in this, too, he was mistaken.
EARLY in the spring when the sunbeams of April came galloping down the canyons on the white-maned horses from the land of liquid snowbanks, Leawanna sent up a timid finger through her coverings. It was palely green from long confinement, but it grew stronger and greener as it unfolded a tiny white cup to the sun. In the bottom of the cup were stains of purple from her bruised and bleeding heart. Soon there were many cups with their storied stains of purple. They gathered the sunlight and sent it down to Leawanna, who stored it in the fattening bulbs beneath the ground to save it for her lover as food, that he and his people could depend upon until they conquered the stubborn desert.
NOW when the seagulls cry their call of bitter longing, "Where? Where? Where?" is Leawanna? The sego lilies whisper to the canyon breezes in voices so low that the seagulls can never hear. "Tell them, Breezes. Tell the seagulls. Here, Oh, here is Leawanna. She sleeps beneath the lilies, sego lilies, little blossoms of the desert."
Women We Should Know
Mrs. Elise Furer Musser—Home Woman—Stateswoman
By Ramona W. Cannon
MRS. ELISE FURER MUSSER has been called the only woman in the United States to help frame a treaty. "How did you get that way?" asked an outspoken woman one day. To her and no doubt to others, Mrs. Musser does not fit the general preconceived notion of a "public woman." She is small, very feminine, soft-spoken, completely lacking in aggressiveness, modest. To those who see a little more deeply, Mrs. Musser's blue eyes shine with intelligence and kindliness; she is unusually efficient, but in such a quiet way that one is never painfully aware of her efficiency, and she looks wise enough to gain a point by other than aggressive means. Those who know her well are not surprised at the national and international recognition she has received. Yet Mrs. Musser will always be outstandingly a home woman. A lover of children, Mrs. Musser was ambitious to rear a large family. Unfortunately this was not to be. She has but one child, a fine son. However, instead of brooding and closing in upon herself, she widened her sympathies and affections and made humanity her family. Particularly has she been devoted to the foreign-born. In the hearts of hundreds of them in Utah she stands enshrined as godmother — often fairy godmother. Her special interest in foreigners sprang from her own experience in coming to America at the age of seventeen. Hers was better than most, as she was unusually well equipped, but at best, she says, foreigners find adjustment difficult. However intelligent or superior they may be, they are considered inferior by native Americans. There are many other handicaps to be overcome. How well Mrs. Musser overcame all difficulties may be gathered from her own story:
SHE was converted to Mormonism in the French-Swiss town of Neuchatel. Her native language was French; she learned a little English in school; her mother, acquainted with German, although imperfectly, talked to the children at home in that language and waited for them to answer her likewise. Elise felt herself rather fluent in German, and so when the German farm hands and servants, shy about writing their own tongue, asked the young girl to write their letters for them (to sweethearts and friends) she did so without hesitation. Later she earned enough money to send herself to the high school at Burgdorf, a German town, and when she found how little she really knew of German, she blushed at the thought of the epistles she had penned. She was ambitious and was graduated from the school with a grade of one and one-tenth per cent lower than that of the student at the head of the class, a native German girl.
At seventeen she came to America with her brother, where she mastered English with almost incredible speed and perfection. One detects no accent in her pronunciation and no trace of clinging foreign idioms in her expressions, an extraordinary accomplishment, rare of attainment.
Elise was soon able to work in an office. Practicing self-denial and old-country thrift, she gave herself to the cause of emigrating her mother, step-father, and six brothers and sisters. Her task accomplished, she went to Mexico City to visit friends. She was happy there and decided to remain. In six weeks she was speaking Spanish; in three months she held an office position. After two and one-half years she returned to Salt Lake and in 1911 married Burton W. Musser. She taught private pupils in French, German, and Spanish, and served often as court interpreter. In 1913-14, while her husband studied law at Columbia University, she took classes there in American history, English, and psychology. Returning to Salt Lake, she helped through the "struggle-period" with her skill at languages. She also utilized her special talent for home making.
Mrs. Musser did not have to wait until ample means came her way to have an attractive home where people loved to come. She had a magic way with money. It seemed to render her twice the ordinary service. With materials she was equally clever. The writer saw her decorate a many-windowed apartment with "just anything" she "had at hand," and felt that she deserved an M. A. Degree in Domestic Economy.
Although she was caring for her young son, frequently looking after nieces and nephews, giving lessons, and working in social service activities, yet she kept her house exquisitely. A sense of serenity, order, and comfort emanated from its walls. Also she dressed with strict economy, yet kept herself fresh, dainty, and appropriately clad. Possessed of unusual self-discipline, she carried on her many activities in spite of poor health much of the time.
Her home and her heart were always open to the foreign-born. She understood them; she knew the intrinsic value of the native qualities and training they brought with them. This understanding, together with her knowledge of America and her patriotism to her new country, gave her a most intelligent conception of Americanization problems and how to meet them with the happiest results to the foreigners. For more than twenty years she has been "general utility man" to Salt Lake's large groups of Mexicans, Italians, French, Germans, Syrians, Greeks, and Japanese. "Who could have induced all these people to go to school, except Mrs. Musser?" ask the Greeks, about their own new immigrants. The colored people also find a friend in Mrs. Musser whenever occasion requires.
MRS. MUSSER'S political career came to her unsought and began by accident. A member of the "Cleophan," she read a paper on Russia to her group. By request she gave it before the State Woman's Democratic Convention. Mrs. George Dern, the governor's wife, heard it, became acquainted with the author, and asked her to be State Chairwoman. She felt rather stunned and did not desire the position, but was persuaded to accept it. She was repeatedly reelected for seven years. In 1932 she was voted National Democratic Committeewoman, and acted as such for four years. In 1933 she was asked to run for the State Senate, although it was said openly that Utah was not yet ready for another woman senator. She would be the first in about thirty years. She believed she was only paving the way for a later victory for some one else, but to her surprise, she received more than twice as many votes as the leading male candidate.
Working constantly for social legislation, she introduced and sponsored our Child Labor Law, considered the finest of any in the country except that of Washington, D. C.
Mrs. Musser's past offices and activities are too many to mention individually. However, some are as follows: She was a member of the Board of Regents of the State Agricultural College for eight years; she was an active member of the State's first Unemployment Committee; twice she acted as president of the Neighborhood House, and twice as president of the Visiting Nurses' Association, which she helped to inaugurate. She is now a member of the Board of the State Tuberculosis Association and of the National Board of the Y. W. C. A.
In 1924 Mrs. Musser was a delegate to the National Democratic Convention in New York. Diplomatic visitors sat in boxes, among them the Minister from Bolivia, to whom Mrs. Musser was presented and with whom she chatted in Spanish. Some one else conversed in French, and Mrs. Musser explained that that was her native language and she should have remembered that South American diplomats are trained to speak in several languages. "Could you follow me in Italian?" he asked. "Try me and see," she challenged, for she is also fluent in Italian. "How about Portuguese?" he asked. "That only sounds to me like poor Spanish." He laughed heartily. This pleasant incident established friendly relations with foreign representatives and reputation for Mrs. Musser.
At the Democratic Convention in 1936, Mrs. Musser was one of fourteen women to prepare the national platform. World Peace was one of the important planks.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT decided to send a woman delegate to the Inter-American Conference in 1936. He suggested the names of five of America's leaders of women's movements, who were also socially prominent. The State Department was to make the choice. A friend wrote Mrs. Musser from Washington: "You will undoubtedly be the delegate to Buenos Aires. The State Department has examined your record and finds it one hundred per cent to its liking, and your speaking Spanish and French makes you ace-high." This was a true prognostication and Mrs. Musser accompanied America's seven men representatives, among them Secretary Hull and Sumner Welles, to Buenos Aires where she was the only woman delegate in a group of 99 men, many of them past presidents and ministers of their respective countries.
Her service during that busy and exhausting period was invaluable. She headed the committee of United States Americans who drew up a treaty regarding the exchange of students among American countries. Two other nations had prepared similar treaties, and she headed the commission which harmonized these treaties. Her knowledge of South American peoples, her astute mind, her poise and tact, her gracious charm, made her popular, and the men were pleased to have a woman delegate.
President Young of the Brazilian Mission wrote a letter to President Ballard saying that the missionaries called upon Mrs. Musser at the Conference hall and she received them most kindly, introducing them freely and speaking of her own affiliations with them. "This gracious lady," he wrote, "has done much for our cause here, giving it a new prestige and importance in the eyes of the people."
The latest civic honor conferred upon Mrs. Musser was her election to Utah's Women's Hall of Fame. Her latest national honor was to be chosen by the People's Mandate Committee to head the Flying Caravan, which visited 22 South American countries, to further the cause of peace and to urge ratification of the treaties agreed upon at the Conference.
MRS. MUSSER is again at home doing her own work in her lovely Spanish house on Yale Ave., with its spacious gardens where, among other lovely things, more than sixty varieties of iris are to be found. She shares her home and garden with high and low, teaching her troubled friends to knit or do other handwork while she unravels some of the mental and spiritual knots for them. Recently fifty Greeks and Syrians spent a wonderful evening on her lawns wandering among the trees and shrubs. She served them jamaica blossom drink, iced, red as current jelly, and tart as lemonade, but with a different and delicious flavor. She brought the dried blossoms with her from Mexico.
Those who know Mrs. Musser well do not wonder at the national and international eminence she has attained. Shakespeare says: "Oh, that estates, degrees, and offices Were not derived corruptly, and that clear honor Were purchased by the merit of the wearer." Mrs. Musser's earnestness, her unusual intelligence, her patience with details, her desire for justice and righteousness, her love for humanity, her gracious personality— these are the merits by which she purchased her "clear honor." Many Christians today dream about Christianity as something yet to be attained. Few even try to live it literally, yet among those few Mrs. Musser deserves a high place.
Hard-Riding Bill—Mormon Cowpuncher
By Ralph Hubbard
Note: During a recent visit of Ralph Hubbard to Brigham Young University where he was visiting with his friend and former associate, Karl Young, he related the following story to the student body. Mr. Hubbard, a son of Elbert Hubbard, is famous for his work with the American Indian and for his interpretation of their dances and ceremonials.
THE best missionary I ever knew was a cowpuncher from this Utah valley, who learned of a condition among certain Navajos away south of here, that was a considerable worry to all the rest of the Navajo nation. This anxiety was centered around an epidemic of a certain skin disease among little children. I know of this man only as Hard-ridin' Bill. Bill was what we call a man whose courage matched his convictions; he was not afraid of the task. He took his finest saddle horse and two pack horses laden with home-improvised emergency-hospital equipment, rode into this canyon among the diseased Indians without announcing his purpose, and asked to stay the night. He was told of the danger of contamination, but he remained. Next morning he was allowed to treat one little child less than a year old. The child was feverish and whimpering. He washed the babe with antiseptic and healing salve, did the child in sterile linens and laid him on his own blankets with no fear. The Indians were greatly astonished at his courage, saying it was not common for white people to conduct themselves this way. Before the day was out he had treated many others. During the ensuing week he was swamped with business. As time went on his supplies ran out and he returned to Provo for more materials. In a year he had successfully checked the epidemic. He continued his work longer, learning the Navajo language, their ceremonials, more of their religion, joined their hunting parties, helped in lambing seasons, helped with shearing, and established himself forever with the people of his adoption.
ONE day, after all these months and months, he was seated on the river bank facing the East. He was concentrating on passages from the New Testament. His little leather-covered black volume was worn and warped from having been carried in his hip pocket while riding hundreds of miles. As he sat reading from this "speaking leaf" with his eyes on the eastern sky he quoted passages. Diminutive Navajos watched him for a while with much alarm, thinking Bill was losing his mind. In great haste they reported to the old Navajo authorities that Bill was crazy; that he was talking to someone they could not see right in the daylight. Old men came out wrapped to their eyes in blankets, stood thoughtfully behind Bill, watching his every move and listening.
Finally the cowpuncher stood up, closed the "speaking leaf" and replaced it in his hip pocket. Turning to his old friends he smiled and spoke cordially with all of his accustomed happiness and goodwill. The reassumption of his normal powers was a tremendous relief to the old men. In pure gentility they remarked, "Bill, you have learned our language; you know our songs; you join our dances; you have fought storms with us; you have faced starvation with us; and you have done us a great service. Tomorrow night we hold our big medicine ceremony; will you not join us once more and afterwards tell us of your medicine?"
So, Bill visited with his friends, danced, sang and prayed way into the night according to the best prescribed Navajo ethics. And then, amidst a great silence, began telling them of a Medicine Man in long ago days who was nailed to a tree by His own people. These people had turned against Him; they sought to kill Him, to make Him die in agony, and then to lay away His body. But even His body did not remain undaunted—it walked again, the spirit lived—would not leave at once—did great medicine deeds, and finally when it disappeared no one knew what became of the spirit or body. To this day much of it is a mystery.
Old Indians asked Bill, "Does the spirit ever come back?" "Oh, yes." "Do some ever hear the spirit speak?" "Yes." "Does this spirit have the same medicine power?" "Very much so." "Could anyone do this?" "No." "Did He come back to earth?" "Yes." "To whom does He come?" "To those who study; to those who have faith."
THE lesson taken from this story is essentially the divine revelation and truth that we find in the simplicity of worship as seen by the great teacher of the Latter-day Saints. Bill, I know him by no other name, walked on the earth with the lowly, the down-trodden, the outcast and the grieved, learning their ways. Never once did he use the premise that they were inferior and he superior. Never once did he assume that they were savages and he the so-called civilized. After proving that he could be worthy of their levels of progress, the moment was created apparently by super-guidance, the people were ready for his story. They were equals and they climbed up together. This is a secret of powerful leadership known to the few. We find the approach thus described has more power behind it than any other work done for the American Indian. More of the story of Hard-ridin' Bill, I do not know. He remains nameless to me, but this fragment is a tradition among the Navajos.
THE TICKENAGAN*
By Olive W. Burt
Here where the waters flow silent and deep I'll gather willows for thy tickenagan. Their gift of stillness will comfort thy sleep, When thou art swinging in thy tickenagan, Swinging and swaying in thy tickenagan.
Reeds for the framework must be lithe and strong, Just as thy body must be, little chieftain. Willows for weaving are supple and long, Just as thy sinews must be, little chieftain— Supple and strong must thou be, little chieftain.
Proudly I smile as I serve a young chief, Though I'm but weaving thy small tickenagan; And I shall serve thee through joy and grief After thou leavest thy small tickenagan— But oh, how I'll treasure thy small tickenagan!
*A papoose basket woven of willows.

THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
LOUISE YATES ROBISON - President AMY BROWN LYMAN - First Counselor
KATE M. BARKER - Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND - General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD Jennie B. Knight, Emma A. Empey, Annie Wells Cannon, Lalene H. Hart, Cora L. Bennion, Amy Whipple Evans, Ida P. Beal, Nettie D. Bradford, Marcia K. Howells, Emeline Y. Nebeker, Janet M. Thompson, Belle S. Spafford, Donna Durrant Sorensen, Vivian R. McConkie, Leda T. Jengen, Beatrice F. Stevens, Rae B. Barker, Nellie O. Parker, Rosannah C. Irvine
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - Belle S. Spafford Manager - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - Amy Brown Lyman
VOL. XXV JULY, 1938 No. 7.

Editorials
Our Indians Today (Guest Editorial)
By Ralph Hubbard
ALL people who are interested in the swiftly moving problems of the day have a burning interest in the great work being done among Indians at present. We all like to have facts that we know well, repeated simply because they are good. What would some of our dear but mistaken great-grandfathers say were they to hear us talking so peacefully and safely on Indian problems, all the while thinking of them as our Red Brother? Mistaken and blundering though they were it is no time for resentment now. They were not all to blame for their deeds and attitude. Too often it was improper leadership that decided their courses. Let us forgive them and turn to the issues of the day, mending with kindness and forethought as many of the unhappy results as possible before it is too late!
Suppose we look at the Indian population as a whole for the moment, just to freshen our memories. They are of many kinds according to geographic distribution. There are those who dwell in the east and central river areas, most of whom we call "leaf-dwellers" and whose lives are characterized by use of birch and other bark in a thousand ways, canoes, wigwams, "longhouses," corn, maple sugar and a host of vegetables. Secondly, we find the Indians of the Great Plains, who followed the bison herds, living in tepees and, after the Spaniards came, owning herds of horses. Thirdly, there are the southwestern house dwellers, living in villages of adobe buildings, cultivating fields and gardens, making pottery and baskets. And near them we find the desert people, the Navajos on the one hand, who make blankets and raise crops, while near them are the Apaches and other groups of similar cultures who live more like the Plains Indians but who do make some pottery and a great many baskets. Fifthly, there are those tribes who inhabit the mountains, high plateaus, probably, people who were originally driven there because of differences with other people and who took with them bits of culture from all their neighbors. Lastly we find the coast people who seek milder climates along the northwestern shores, carving totem poles and huge canoes from single logs, living principally on fish. And amazing to relate—out of all this classification there are 350 definite tribes, each with its own language, and at least 500 dialects! Yet we have uninformed whites asking us to say something in THE Indian Language!!!
In many instances whole tribes have dwindled and deteriorated almost unbelievably as to health and social standards simply because of reservation confinement and our governmental mismanagement. With the cast-off clothing and generally misfit equipment from our charities and surplus army goods, they are bound to resemble a race of subdued tramps! The true missionary and teacher finds himself hard put at times but always manages to see through such deplorable exteriors, to the real men in whose souls still dwell primitive but highly noble sentiments. I sometimes wonder if some of our own natural and primitive sentiments have not suffered with too much civilization, don't you?
And isn't it amazing also, considering the vast burden the Indian carries in the shape of all our diseases, to learn that he is not actually a vanishing race numerically at all, but is increasing? Only a few generations back the rolls numbered 285,000 and today there are over 350,000! This means just on the North American Continent. Students are generally agreed that it was the early Spaniards who, while leaving some important advantages, actually wreaked the greatest damage on the Indian of all those coming in from Europe. Because of these misfortunes and the mistakes made by the French, British and others from north Europe in developing the American frontiers, there are yet those among us who know the Indian only as a Wild West Show product and one who burns covered wagons in movies. And alas! All Europe is responsible for mixing Indian and Negro blood. There are some few tribes in which this has happened to a considerable extent and it has, generally speaking, been of absolutely no benefit to either race, for each has lost physically and mentally by it. The same fact is true, but for different reasons, of some of the French mixtures, being largely due to the vastly mistaken purpose that prompted the French to launch their sweeping settlement projects through Canada.
The bulk of physical disintegration among Indians is undeniably due to mouth diseases, which seems to be true of most races. They have been submitted to our conditions for such a few generations relatively, that they have not developed much resistance to our troubles as yet. The reservation confinement and almost totally revolutionized diet-balance have caused them to assume new habits and customs too rapidly. Nature is after all, the best Sanitation Engineer we shall ever know, but too many obstacles will even defeat her! We ourselves have been obliged to create a whole sack-full of unnatural tricks in order to live in a sanitary way since we seem no longer able to follow the courses of the out-of-doors. We even insist on whole-wheat bread, celery, raw vegetables and fruit, let alone spinach and hominy, all as offsets against refined flour and strained cranberry sauce! One scientist has said that, "To be civilized is at best to be unnatural!" So much for argument and background; so much for history and proof. And now to the real message!
THE Indian Bureau under the Department of Interior is today making enormous changes in all policies. This does not mean that all the eleven great branches of Sioux are going to revive the blood-sacrifice of the Sun Dance, nor that the city of St. Paul is to be burned next Fourth of July. But it does mean that the drastic measures used in the 80s and '90s when all our Indians were managed by the War Department and were thus regarded as virtual prisoners of war, can now be found in the ash-can. Instead of punishing children for speaking their own languages in the dormitories of the Indian boarding schools, there are now day schools on reservations where the parents are always welcome and urgently invited, and wherein we often find Indian and white girls teaching who know the languages of those in the district very well. Instead of rekilling all the Sitting Bulls and their families for participating in the famous Ghost Dance rituals, we are now studying such ceremonies with large degrees of sympathy and fascination, discovering that they and the ancient Hopi Snake Dances are religious matters not dangerous and really none of our business withal!!! We now have published and in circulation through the American Bureau of Ethnology things like the Handbook to American Indians in two volumes, which is an encyclopedia to tribes and personal names, and also a fine book on languages alone, the Handbook to American Indian Languages. Believe it or not, all this is a far cry from our original white savagery with these people, is it not?
Old tribal customs, tribal councils and government and thus tribal discipline are being revived and encouraged to a wonderful extent. Following Dartmouth College which has been endowed for Indians 175 years, we now have scholarships offered for Indians in most of the big universities of the land. We assist them to pay their tuitions just as readily as we do white boys and girls. There are today a good many hundred graduate lawyers, doctors and teachers who are full-blooded and the number of nurses reaches thousands. Their work among their own people is monumental. Trained Indian officials are substituted for whites in the reservation offices wherever it seems the logical and natural course.
The allotment plan, while benefiting many, especially restricted areas, spelled the doom of thousands. It opened the road for whites to eat away the last of tribally-owned land. Some day not too far distant we shall see reservoirs on all tribally-owned ranges where there shall also be tribally-owned herds of cattle once more. These wonderful advances are especially marked already in the southwest.
These new adjustments—really a most profound and sane return of the OLD—are sometimes met with wonder and skepticism, so long have our motives in Indian dealings been doubtful. But generally speaking the improvements are coming quite rapidly. Anxious factions are slowly yielding to the better judgment of their more progressive brethren. One is often surprised at the number of free agencies over the United States who are furthering all this good work. Schools, colleges, Boy Scouts, Campfire Girls, Girl Scouts, are all feverishly active. Accredited courses in Indian Lore are now being offered by the best curricula. In fact we are awakening to the fact that we have been killing people whom we should have cultivated as friends up through our history. In short we have at last hit General Sheridan a crack in finding there is a good Indian besides the dead one!
In a stage whisper that can be heard all over the land, let's you and I beg Old Man Congress to remain on our side in furthering this great work. Faintly, but most certainly, the Indian once more sees reasons for living; a light is spreading through his future! What was so wrong with him in the first place that we needed to use him for a national door-mat and then later regard ourselves as fit judges to completely revamp what was left in manner totally suited to ourselves alone?
Let us listen to the Zuni priest at dawn on his house-top, his village standing on the pueblo buildings around him, while the crystalline chill of a southwestern desert morning grips every soul: "Oh Great Sun! Pour light on my people and make all right in our world today!" Gently, tall shafts of golden light reach the heights, the massive yellow disc creeps into view casting long, deeply purple shadows westward from every Yucca bush. Then lo! The desert is bathed in light. Again the resonant chant of the priest cries out: "Oh Sun! Now that thou hast come to find my people, all is right in my world today!"
SLOGAN CONTEST WINNER
INTEREST and ingenuity were displayed to a marked degree in the membership slogan contest held in connection with the launching of the Membership Drive. The response was large and gratifying and many fine slogans were submitted. The award of ten dollars went to Sister Mary A. Jackson Coulam, Thirty-first Ward, Liberty Stake, for her slogan, "Members Old, Members New, One Hundred Thousand By '42." The slogan embraces the desire of the General Board to retain and keep active all present members and to increase our present membership to one hundred thousand by the centennial. We congratulate Sister Coulam and thank all sisters who responded so promptly and well.
WRITERS' ROUND-UP
Of interest to writers will be the Third Annual Writers' Roundup which will convene at Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, July 18 and 19. The program will begin with a Poets' Breakfast, Monday morning, July 18, at 8 A. M., with Olive Woolley Burt, Poetmaster. Sessions will be held morning, afternoon, and evening, closing with a Writers' Banquet, Tuesday Evening. For program, address Harrison R. Merrill, B. Y. U., Provo, Utah.

The Law Of The Lord
By Ruth May Fox
WHEN one calls to mind the spiritual darkness under which the world labored for so many centuries and the confusion and perplexity of the nations at the present time, it is indeed a cause for rejoicing that we are living in a day when the Everlasting Gospel has been restored and with it the keys and laws for its administration.
On the eighth day of July of the present year (1938) the Latter-day Saint Church will celebrate with praise and thanksgiving the restoration of one of these laws. This event was a harbinger of peace and brotherhood. On that date one hundred years ago the Lord revealed to Joseph Smith, the latter-day prophet, that one-tenth of the increase of His children belonged to Him who created them and provided for their sustenance. The restoration of this law is another proof, if another is needed, that we are living in the last dispensation when all things shall be restored and "hidden things be made known."
It is not the purpose of this article to discuss at length the many phases and benefits of living this law. Suffice it to say, it is an eternal law, as all God's laws are, and should be obeyed voluntarily and spontaneously. It was revealed for the benefit and blessing of the Church individually and collectively. Individually it is a stepping stone to a higher law. If lived it will help us to overcome that demon selfishness which all mankind, more or less, must battle with. It is a test of loyalty to the Church we love; a test of faith and trust in our Heavenly Father who has promised many blessings, temporal and spiritual, to those who observe the law. "Prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing that there shall not be room enough to receive it." (Malachi 3:10.) And greater than all it is a test of obedience.
Collectively it is for the purpose of building temples, meetinghouses, and for missionary service and the support of those who must give all their time to the work of the Lord. —indeed, to build up Zion until it shall become the joy of the whole earth. Where is the Latter-day Saint whose heart does not thrill in having a part in so glorious a project? It gladdens our hearts to know that a substantial part of the tithing of the Church is paid by women—married and unmarried, widows and young girls who work for small salaries; by women who pay the price of the tenth egg, tenth chicken or the tenth of a gift. These are surely laying up treasures in heaven which will never rust nor diminish. The married woman whose husband pays the family tithe is deprived of a real privilege, as she does not realize the satisfaction of paying her own tithing—and paying it as soon as she gathers her increase, whatever that may be. IN a certain ward in Salt Lake City there lived a widow with several small children who, in order to support them, went out working by the day mainly doing laundry work. When she paid her tithing to the Bishop it was all in dimes. From every dollar she earned she put away the Lord's tenth. There was another, quite an old lady, in the same ward who procured a wagon such as small boys delight THE LAW OF THE LORD in, and in the evening it was not unusual, if one went to town, to meet her pulling a load of laundry which she had gathered up from rooming houses. She had provided herself with a washing machine and hired a man, who could do little else, to turn it for her. Thus, she earned her living and gladly paid her tithing, and her Bishop said that whenever there was an extra call for the temple or any legitimate purpose she always paid her share. The following story was told by our late President Joseph F. Smith: His mother, a widow, was delivering a load of potatoes to the storehouse with which to pay her tithing. A receiving clerk spoke to her in a manner that hurt her feelings, telling her that she, being a widow, had no need to pay her tithing, that there were those much stronger than she who were supported by the Church. Mrs. Smith turned quickly, calling him by name, and saying, "You ought to be ashamed of yourself, would you deny me a blessing? If 471 expect the Lord to withhold His blessing from me. I pay my tithing not only because it is a law of God, but because I expect a blessing by doing so. By keeping this and other laws I expect to prosper and be able to provide for my family." In commenting on this and the law of tithing in general, in one of his sermons in the Tabernacle, President Smith said, "Will you then deny the widow because she has only a mite to bestow; because -the tenth which she proposes to give in obedience to the commandment of God is but a penny? Are you going to deprive her of the privilege of having her name enrolled in the book of the law of the Lord; of having her genealogy acknowledged and recorded in the archives of the Church?" Surely not; the Lord has designed otherwise. In His love of justice, the widow's mite, if it be one-tenth, will receive as great an acknowledgement as the millionaire's thousands. "Trust in the Lord and do good, and verily thou shalt be fed." (Psalms 37:3.) I did not pay my tithing I should QUESTION: WHEN out in company, if alcoholic liquor is served (beer, wine, whiskey, or cocktails), is it impolite to refuse and how should one refuse? ANSWER: NO, it is not impolite to refuse anything one does not care for. If  Spinach is offered and refused because one does not care for it, it is not urged upon one, nor is one subjected to "razzing" remarks if one continues to refuse. If seated at a table and the drink has not been served, just turn down your glass or glasses as you would a coffee cup if you do not care for coffee. If already served, just refrain from using. If the drinks are passed, simply say, "No thank you." And a good hostess will see to it that you have a delicious fruit drink or a glass of water. Remember that you are not breaking any rule of etiquette by refusing, but a hostess who insists does not know the meaning of the word etiquette. Children's Reading By Florence Ivins Hyde NO. VII—BIBLE STORIES "Could we give one gift to every child, We should choose the love of books." —William Fredrick Bigelow. ASIDE from its religious value, A when we look at the Bible we see it as a collection of stories, poetry, drama, history, and wisdom. No other book equals it and no other book has had such a definite influence upon the world of letters. It has "moved nations and wrought miracles in the souls of men," and is still the "best seller." It is generally held to be true that nowhere in literature do we find such gems as in the Bible. It has even been said that it is "doubted whether any statesman or any writer has risen to real eminence without the Bible in him." From it have developed all of our laws, both secular and moral. In this day when "wise-cracking" and extreme realism occupies such a large place in what are supposed to be literary productions, we could well return to the Book of Books for the revelations of what is true and essential and for such enrichment as no other book can give. Almost every type of story interesting to children may be found within its pages. But care should be taken to give only those suited to the age of the child. For example, the story of Ruth and Boaz is beautiful for late adolescence, but would be wasted upon a child of five or six who has had nothing in his experience to help him to understand the truth of the story. For this age we would  Choose the stories of the baby Moses, the childhood of Samuel, of David, of Isaac, Samson, and Joseph. And perhaps above all others stands the birth and boyhood of Jesus. //Courtesy Good Housekeeping Magazine. As children grow into the period, spoken of for convenience as the heroic period, they are ready to enjoy such adventure stories as the travels of the people of Abraham, the fine story of Joshua, and even the story of the Queen of Sheba. With this preparation, by the time boys and girls reach adolescence they should have an appreciation for almost any type of literature contained in the Bible. They should be ready to read it with a critical attitude— not a destructively critical attitude— but with the attitude which we assume toward any fine type of writing. We teach love of good literature by analyzing it, by pointing out its superior attributes. HE question of the wisdom of retelling the stories always arises in presenting the Bible to children. We sometimes feel that retelling simplifies the story and in doing so often substitute common-place English for the simple but dignified phrases of the Bible. It would be difficult to improve upon the language of the story of Daniel when he cried, "O King, live forever! My God hath sent his angels and hath shut the lions' mouths, that they have not hurt me." From a literary standpoint alone, the pure English of the King James' version cannot be improved upon. In the story of the death of Sisera (which of course. Should never be given to young children, but would CHILDREN'S READING "thrill" a twelve-year-old) a retold version reads: "What is that on the ground at her feet? A long, sharp pointed tent pin lies there and near it a heavy hammer. She can handle these more easily than a sword," etc. Then Joel slays Sisera with the tent pin. The Bible narrative says: "Then Joel, Hebei's wife, took a nail of the tent and a hammer in her hand and went softly into him," etc. There are published several modern translations of the Bible. Every person must make his own choice by comparing the versions for literary merit. A modern translation of the parable of the lost sheep reads, "Congratulate me, for I have found my lost sheep." King James' version reads, "Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost." A modern translation of the nine-teenth Psalm: "The heavens are telling the glory of God, And the sky shows forth the work of his hands." King James' version: "The heavens declare the glory of God, And the firmament sheweth his handiwork." Isn't this last translation more rhythmical and more beautiful? ON E of the fundamental aims in story-telling is to develop an appreciation of beautiful English, and becoming familiar with the King James' Bible will have much to do with a child's feeling for words in adult life. Bible stories have always been important in instilling religious feeling, in moulding ideals and in helping us to understand the laws of God. G. Stanley Hall has said that the "most important factor in religious educa- 473 tion is to learn that the laws of God are not evadable and suspendable. It is a great service to a child to teach him while young, as we can with Bible stories, that if he violates the laws of God he must pay the penalty. That is one great mission of the Bible. Adolescents do not like to be preached to. Moralizing about laying a strong foundation for the future becomes tiresome to them, but the story of the house built upon the rock will remain with them as long as life lasts. Much of the wisdom of the Bible is found in Proverbs. Many would bear memorizing, e. G.: "My son, hear the instruction of thy father, And forsake not the law of thy mother; For they shall be a chaplet of grace unto thy head, And chains about thy neck." And: "Wine is a mocker, Strong drink a brawler; And whosoever liveth thereby is not wise." Or: "For wisdom is better than rubies: And all the things that may be desired are not compared unto her." There is a touch of humor in: "Never repeat what is told thee, And thou shalt fare never the worse." RELIGIOUS fiction should go along with Bible reading. There is a copyrighted legend to supplement the story of the birth of Christ, which tells how the touch of the Christ-child made a wee camel so that he would never be cross and vicious like other camels. This and many others are only stories until 474 RELIEF SOCIET experience helps us to see the truth upon which they are founded. It is to be hoped that every boy and girl before they reach adolescence will become acquainted with "Pilgrims Progress" and Lew Wallace's "Ben Hur." "Pilgrims Progress" is never too old-fashioned to read and every person young and old should feel the spirit of reverence that Lew Wallace puts into his story of the birth of Christ. Parents have learned that little children never doubt. Religion is an emotional thing. The time to develop religious feeling is in childhood. How well that is done will depend almost wholly upon mothers. It may be that familiarity with the truths of the Bible stories in childhood will act as a bulwark of strength at a time when our children are searching for an explanation of the problems which life presents later on. Y MAGAZINE Suggested Books A First Bible—illustrated by Helen Sewell. Oxford University Press, $2.50. Beautifully illustrated. Large print. A good size to handle. David—illustrated in modern style by Elizabeth Orton Jones. Macmillan Co., $1.75. This is an unusually attractive book for little children. Large illustrations with two or three lines of scripture on each page. Parables of Jesus—S. Parkes Cadman. David McKay Company, $1.50. Valuable for mothers or teachers. The Graphic Bible—Lewis Brown.: $1.75. Macmillan Company. A very fine book which tells the Bible story briefly—gives maps which leave the reader with a much more intelligent feeling about Bible history. Every teacher should know Lewis Brown's Graphic Bible. THE DESERET IS A-BLOOM By Lydia Hall The desert is a-bloom again, The skies are all aglow, And on each shining, wasteland hill The sego lilies blow. The cactus flaunts its loveliness Unto the arid sod, And fragrant, slim, white Yuccas raise An altar unto God. The meadow lark in rapture pours A rain of melody, And sagebrush purples o'er each vale Of wind-swept mystery. The golden West isc alling me With springtime's sweet perfume; A paradise on earth it is— The desert is a-bloom. Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd By Dorothy. Clapp Robinson CHAPTER FOUR THE only thing we found amiss was Mrs. Richards worrying over Salle," reported one of the visiting teachers. "She went somewhere with Don Grow about two weeks ago and came home engaged. He gave her a lovely diamond. I don't know why Mrs. Richards should worry so. He has a good job and his mother certainly has money." "How did you find the Peters family?" "The best. He has fixed up that old place until you wouldn't know it. He is working at the ward shop —but of course you know that. It is queer that such a family would move into our ward for no reason on earth." After the teachers had all given their reports and gone back to help' with the sewing I found my thoughts going back to one sentence, the one about Salle. I tried to tell myself that she wasn't my responsibility but I knew better. Any one of my flock who was being warped from lack of work was my responsibility. There was something so lovable and so prideful about her, and her mother had asked me to help. WE had a big day's sewing. There was a quilt for a family in need and some mending for a sick member. In the art department they were making Christmas presents. But about four o'clock I slipped away. I had suddenly resolved that mere wishing never saved any girl. If there was going to be anything done about Salle it was high time to begin. Downtown I faced Dave Holsinger across his office desk. "Well, well, if it isn't the president of the Old Ladies' Organization. How much today?" He made a great show of jingling some coins in his pocket. "All you'll give. Seriously, I want help, not money." "Good. What may I do?" I met his suspicious eye blandly. "You told me some time ago you were having trouble with an office girl. What did you do about her?" "She solved the problem by getting married." "Have you replaced her?" The man looked at me shrewdly. "Not exactly, but I have some one in mind who will be free in another week or two. I hope you aren't going to ask me to take an inexperienced girl." "That is just what I was going to ask." "Can't do it, Dona. Sorry." "Let me tell you about her. It is Salle Richards. About four years ago her father died and left them practically penniless. She was on the highest honor roll all through high school. Her grades in business training were above average." "Then why isn't she working?" "Salle's personality is against her. No, no, don't decide until I explain." I triéd to make him see how capable and really fine she was under her wall of defiance. I ended by saying, "I believe good work that supports her pride would kill her martyr complex and put her on equal footing with other girls. Meeting people every day as she would here would 476 cure her fear of social situations." The lines of habitual good nature faded from the man's face. He drummed on his desk. "All I ask is that you give her a chance." Again the man hesitated. Against our policy." I did not answer for I did not want to use too much pressure. But in my heart I felt he just had to hire her. Salle must have her chance before it was too late. "All right." He brought his fist down on his desk. "All right. I will try her. Send her up." Now I could laugh with relief. "Oh, no. You do not get away that easily. She must never know I had anything to do with it. That would be the Relief Society helping her and would defeat the very purpose of giving her work. She must be hired in the regular way." "T have let myself into something. You are mighty particular about how you receive a favor. Would you object to Tim telling her we need a girl? Being in the store he would hear such things, and he sees her often enough." Now that it was settled I felt an inclination to weep. It was almost too good to be true. "Some day you will be thankful you have done this. We are none of us through life yet and may need help ourselves some day." Afterward I remembered the sort of baffled look that came over his face when I said that. That he was not happy in his home was evident. How could he be with Gloria so ingrossed in trivial things and he in his business and each trying to find recompense for the other's Jack of interest.. "What they need is a child to unite them," and immediately upon saying it I thought, "some day I might be able to help them." "It is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ON the way home I stopped to talk with Tim. He promised to see that Salle heard about the opening but his answer was short and preoccupied. Was there something bothering him or was it my imagination? Tim certainly was not himself. We seldom went places together any more. "You go and I will stay with the children," was his ever ready excuse. He was tired anyway and it would save hiring some one to be with them. Then he was so indifferent about his ward teaching and other things. “If I make a living I must stay with my business. Now, please let me do it in my own way." After that there was nothing I could do but watch and pray. I tried to look at the problem impersonally. Was I to blame? Where was I failing? Was I giving so much time to Relief Society that I was neglecting my own? I had heard women discuss the breach that inevitably widens between man and woman as they grow older and their interests change. It was held to be inevitable but I could not have that happen to us. I must not lose the companionship of my Timothy. WHEN I reached home I called Gloria Holsinger and the voice that came back over the wire was as one that had never known care. "Before long I am going to need a lovely sport dress, and shoes. How about a raid on your wardrobe?" "Has Tim ceased providing for you or are you going out for a handsomer man?" "Neither, just now. They are to be ready in case of emergency." "Come and see what I have." Then a week later in answer to the telephone's ring Denise said, "It's for you, Mother, ard she sounds "cited." It was Mrs. Richards. She hardly DEAR TO THE HEART OF THE SHEPHERD waited for my "yes" before she exclaimed, "That you Sister Maylord? I wanted to talk to you about Salle. She has a chance to get the best job down town. Just what she has been waiting for, but she won't take it now that she has a chance. I wish you would talk to her. She would listen to you." My hopes sank. How like Salle to upset the apple cart just when we had it nicey loaded. I lost patience. "Why does she refuse to take it?" "She says she hasn't any clothes to wear in such a place. It is a real nice place, Sister Maylord, and good pay, but all she has is her blue silk that has been washed a time or two. It is lovely and clean but doesn't suit her. Could you come over?" "No." I had anticipated this and was relieved that it was nothing worse. "To beg her to go would be humiliating to both of us. Salle is old enough to do her own deciding, but if she wants to come over I might help her solve the clothes problem." ig was perhaps two hours later when I opened my front door to admit a defiant, expectant Salle. With irritating nonchalance she twisted a blazon ring that circled her left third finger.: "Mother told me," she began without preamble, and there was none of the friendliness of her last visit in her voice, "that you might help me." Her tone nettled me. In her determination to protect her own pride she disregarded the feelings of others. I answered her in the same tone. "Tt depends on how badly you want help. I think it the height of silliness, if silliness has any height, to refuse to take work because of the lack of a dress. In a week you could buy one." 477 The girl's words turned icy. "And in a week have myself classed." Why, the poor child was nearly to cry in spite of her tone. I softened. "You put the full responsibility on clothes, Salle. They are important but not nearly as important as the girl." "But I could never be myself in this old dress. I'd be awkward and self-conscious and afraid to talk to anyone." "I think I understand. Suppose you come with me." I led the half-reluctant girl into my bedroom where I opened a closet and took from it a blue and tan knit dress. I held it up before her slightly-veiled eagerness. "This has never been worn in this town and only twice elsewhere. Try it on." She made no move to touch it. "I couldn't accept a gift like that from anyone." "Who said I was giving it to you? I am trying to sell it for someone who cannot wear it." "I shan't have any money until my first pay day." "Try it on." The girl touched the dress for the first time. She held it up against her and looked in the mirror. "It is beautiful," she whispered, "simply beautiful—but with these shoes." That reminded me. Into the closet I went again and brought out a pair of blue and tan suede shoes. I held my breath for getting them had been a real feat; Gloria's had been too small by far. At sight of them Salle breathed swiftly. "Try them on." Hastily then, trembling with eagerness, she slipped out of the old blue dress. Kicking aside her shoes she put her feet into the new ones. They were a perfect fit. I breathed naturally once more for in her eager- 478 ness Salle had failed to note the remarkable fact. The dress was a trifle wide but could be blocked to her size. I pinned up a seam to show | her how it would look. "There—it will fit perfectly." "Tt needs to be shortened an inch." "Then no one will guess it wasn't bought for you." GALLE looked again in the mirror and what she saw there brought quickly checked tears to her eyes. It was a different girl than she had ever faced before. Not the dress and shoes alone but the knowledge of possessing them had brought light and power to her face. It was a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pleasing girl, a striking girl, a girl vibrant with life and ability who smiled so confidently from the glass. I ached with the joy that swept through me. "You beautiful creature," I cried impulsively. "Make that terrible pride your ally and go conquer the world." Turning Salle gave me a swift kiss; then changing clothes she ran out toward work and a future. "Mother," Denise called, "Daddy telephoned while you were in there and said he would not be home to dinner." (To be continued) THE SEGO LILY By Alice R. Rich Sweet native lily of the Western plains To us you are a sacred flower. Your smile Gave promise that the wastelands afterwhile, Held harvest hope for earnest toil and pains Of Pioneers who trekked uncharted ways, To finda home. Your dainty flower cup Of creamy petals, outward curved, looks up To drink night's'dews and warmth of sunny days. Your dainty markings, soft as velvet down, Blend into yellow gold from richest brown, In depths of loveliness. Your slender stem And dainty leaves crown you a flower gem. Bloom on, Sego Lily! Emblem true Of purity, fair Utah honors you. En aS Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon JULY—Sweet blessed peace does summer bring When flowers bloom and thrushes sing. MESS MARGARET BONDFIELD, first woman cabinet member in Great Britain, who visited Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins last spring, was received by Mrs. Roosevelt at the White House. Even an English Peeress might easily be thrilled into forgetfulness of her mission with a glimpse into the magnificent blue room with its enameled wainscoting and walls hung with blue silk brocatelle; window draperies of the same, embroidered with gold, above which are poised golden American eagles; the white marble mantle dating from 1792, on which rests the clock decorated with a figure of Minerva said to have been given to George Washington by Lafayette.
MRS. HARRIMAN, U. S. Minister to Norway, is trying to interest American women in a cooperative homecraft project of glove knitting for the market, as carried on in Norway.
DOROTHY THOMPSON, newspaper woman, was last May awarded a gold medal for distinguished service to humanity by the National Institute of Social Sciences.
MARY SIMKHOVITCH'S "Neighborhood — My Story of Greenwich House," is essentially an autobiography, not unlike Jane Addams' "Twenty Years in Hull House" and of equal interest to welfare workers.
MRS. PROCHNIK, socialite wife of the Ex-Austrian Envoy, has quickly adjusted her social status and opened a smart lingerie shop in Washington. She is noted as one of the most chic of Capitol women and an expert designer.
MARGARET SHARP'S "The Flowering Thorn," "A Child In Her Arms" by Louise R. Peattie, "The Moon Is Making" by Storm Jameson, are all fascinating and worth while books of the late spring.
MARIE KRAMER of New York says the success in hotel management is just a question of good housekeeping. She lately purchased a 28 story building for the purpose of running a friendly hotel.
ELIZABETH LION, French aviatrix, in her flight from France to Persia last May broke the long distance women's record established by the late Amelia Earhart. Miss Lion flew 2,670 miles without a stop.
JANE CANNON STEWART of Utah, wife of Dr. Julian Stewart, ethnologist of the Smithsonian Institute, will assist her husband in research work among the Indian tribes in South America.
MRS. HENRY ALVAH HALL recently laid the cornerstone of the new Hall of Government which she has given to George Washington University as a tribute to her son.
BERTITA HARDING'S new novel "Farewell Toinette" is a charming romance about the ill-fated Hapsburg Princess who became Queen of France.
Notes to Theology Department
IN the scriptural project on the New Testament the women of Relief Society have attained a degree of familiarity with the writings of the New Testament. In the first two lessons on "The Ministry of the Ancient Apostles," the material is largely concerned with the background of the Mediterranean world at the time these writings were produced. "Until we understand the New Testament writings as products of their time we do not understand them at all. They belong to the history of the early church and it is there we must look for them if we would see them alive."—Getting Acquainted with the New Testament, by Eakin.
These first lessons should enable the women to orient themselves in the ancient thought world which formed the background of New Testament history and literature. In the back of many good-sized Bibles are maps of Palestine and the Roman Empire at the time of the ancient apostles. If the class leader desires a map large enough for the class room, the following are obtainable at the Deseret Book Co., Salt Lake City:
1. New Testament Palestine with the journeys of Jesus clearly shown.
2. The Roman Empire showing Paul's journeys, with each marked clearly so that it can be easily followed.
Each map is 22x28 inches in size and the price is 75c each.
Visiting Teacher Department
The discourse by Alma recorded in Alma 32, 33, 34 may be profitably read in connection with the first Visiting Teacher Message on faith.
The Field
Literary Department—The Value of the Novel
IT is fortunate that in the last few decades the taboo against novel reading has been removed. We are learning to appreciate good fiction. In the novel new vistas may be opened to our minds—new insight into the lives and thoughts of others. Through the novel we learn much that history does not reveal of the customs of people whom we may never have the privilege of meeting. To one who would become well informed and socially aware, but whose opportunities for travel and varied associations are limited, reading good fiction offers an excellent substitute. There are many intelligent people who are unlearned but no intelligent person wants to remain so. Novels record the events of human life, and whatever deals with humanity should be of interest to mankind. By the magic touch of an inspired pen one may be carried on the most delightful flights of fancy. As time is an important factor, one must use wisdom in one's choice of reading material. There are plenty of good books to choose from, but remember that only the best is good enough! Aside from the educational and cultural advantages of good reading, there is the pleasure one obtains from an acquaintance with romantic fiction. The characters often become very enjoyable friends. We can laugh at their foibles without giving offense. We can rejoice in their happiness and mourn with them in their sorrows without becoming emotionally disturbed. Their very silence is soothing. When we need their company they are at hand. They take no offense when they are put aside for more desirable companionship. Altogether, the benefits to be gained from reading good novels can scarcely be estimated. In these days one does not need a college education to be well read, well bred, and well educated.
Social Service Department
EVERYBODY likes to do good. Much stress is placed upon the members of the Relief Society regarding doing good to others, to their neighbors, in solving community problems, and in other ways. Much has been accomplished by this organization. We are confident that you will continue doing all the good you can everywhere. This year the Social Service lessons will call our attention to some personal problems. It is desired that every member give heed to these lessons and earnestly endeavor to improve herself. We all have habits that need revision. Let us conscientiously take some undesirable habit and overcome it by substituting one that is sure to effect an improvement in our own personality.
Work and Business Department
WHERE the stakes desire to carry on "The Selection and Preparation of Food for Proper Nutrition" it is suggested that they will receive help from the May Magazine as to instructions and divisions of responsibility. It is also suggested that each Work and Business stake leader contact her own state board of health and the agricultural colleges for additional material on these subjects. Libraries, current magazines and newspapers will also be profitable sources of information.
The General Board in no way is sponsoring any particular firm or brand of food. The Consumer's Guide, a bi-monthly Government bulletin, will be mailed free of charge by addressing: Editor, Consumer's Guide, U. S. Dept. Of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.
Much splendid information on most of the topics can be found in Consumers' Problems Manual, 15c. Address, Justin C. Stewart, 123 State Capitol, Salt Lake City, Utah.
The following are suggestive sources of information on the nine monthly topics for discussion:
The Balanced Diet (Vitamins, minerals, calories, etc.)
1. The Weston-Levine Vitamin Chart. 10c. Roe E. Remington, 280 Calhoun St., Charleston, So. Carolina.
2. Food Value Chart & Vitamin Chart. Vitex Laboratories Inc. 1st and Essex Sts., Harrison, N. J.
3. Calories, Vitamins and Minerals, by Mary P. Huddleson. 20c. Salt Lake Tribune. S. L. City, Ut.
4. Diets to Fit the Family Income. 5c. Supt. Of Documents, Wash, D. C.
5. The Vitamin Primer. 5c. The Ladies Home Journal, Reference Dept., Phil., Pa.
6. Vitamin Content of Foods. 15c. Supt. Of Documents, Wash., D. C.
7. Vitamins in Common Foods. Kansas State College, Manhattan, Kansas.
Dairy Products
1. Dairy Products. 2½c. Household Finance Co., 919 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois.
2. Food Guide Bulletin, Nutrition Bulletin No. 24, Milk Bulletin No 1. Utah State Board of Health, Bureau of Maternal and Child Welfare, 130 State Capitol, S. L. C., Utah.
3. 150 New Ways to Serve Ice Cream. National Dairy Products Co. 120 Broadway, N. Y. C., N. Y.
4. The Romance of Cheese. Kraft-Phenix Cheese Corp., 400 Rush St., Chicago, Illinois.
5. Milk for the Family. 5c. Supt. Of Documents, Wash., D. C.
Cereals and Grain Products
1. Kelloggs, Battle Creek, Mich.. Blackboard Lessons on Food.
2. Wheat Flour Institute, 309 West Jackson Blvd., Chicago, Illinois.. The Wheat Grain Tells You Its Story.
3. National Biscuit Company, 459 West 14th Street, N. Y. City, N. Y.. Homemade Bread, Cake and Pastry. 10c. Supt. Of Documents, Wash., D. C.
Fats and Sugars
1. Foods, Fats and Oils. 2½c. Household Finance Co., 919 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.
2. Honey and Some of its Uses. 5c. Supt. Of Documents, Wash., D. C.
Meats Series No.:
1. Cooking Beef According to the Cut...... 17L
2. Lamb As You Like It............28L
3. Pork in Preferred Ways........45L
4. Cooking Cured Pork............81L
5. Meat Dishes at Low Cost...... 216MP
Bureau of Home Economics, U. S. Dept. Of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.
1. How to Buy Meats for Home Consumption. General Electric Company, Nela Park, Cleveland, Ohio.
2. Buying and Using the Less Expensive Cuts of Beef. 3c. Woman's Home Companion, Home Service Center, 250 Park Ave. N. Y., N. Y.
3. Meat. 2½c. Household Finance Corporation, 919 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.
4. Heinz Book of Meat Cookery. 10c. H. J. Heinz Co., Pittsburgh, Pa.
5. How to Can Meat, Game and Poultry. Ball Bros. Co., Muncie, Ind.
6. Star Beef Chart. Armour & Co., Chicago, Illinois.
7. Meat Selection and Cookery Guide. 3c. Ten Lessons on Meat. 10c. Nat'l Livestock & Meat Board, 407 So. Dearborn St. Chicago, Ill.
Eggs
1. Eggs at Any Meal. 5c. Supt. Of Documents, Wash., D. C.
2. Poultry, Eggs and Fish. 2½c. Household Finance Co., 919 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.
3. How to Buy Eggs. The Modern Homemaker, McCalls, Dayton, Ohio.
Vegetables
1. Permanent Fruit and Vegetable Gardens, No. 1242.
2. A Fruit and Vegetable Buying Guide for Consumers by R. G. Hill, 5c, No. 167.
3. Conserving Food Value, Flavor and Attractiveness in Cooking Vegetables, 5c, No. 265.
4. Home Storage of Vegetables, 5c, No. 679.
Supt. of Documents, Washington, D. C.
1. Fruits and Vegetables. 2½c. Household Finance Co., 919 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois.
2. More About Canned Foods for the Home Economist. American Can Company, 230 Park Ave., N. Y., N. Y.
3. How To Can Fruits and Vegetables. Ball Bros. Co., Muncie, Ind.
4. 227 Tested Recipes for Canned Foods. National Canners Assoc., Wash., D. C.
Fruits
1. Facts About Pineapple and Pineapple Juice. Hawaiian Pineapple Co., 215 Market Street, San Francisco, Calif.
2. United Fruit Co., Home Economics Dept., Pier 3 North River, N. Y., N. Y. Bananas.
3. Peach Recipe Book. Calif. Peach Canning Ind., 64 Pine Street, San Francisco, Calif.
Serving Food Attractively
1. Appetizers and Such, No. 436. 5c. Better Homes and Gardens, Meredith Pub. Co., Des Moines, Iowa.
2. Appetizing Appetizers. 3c. Ladies Home Journal, Philadelphia, Pa. Reference Library.
Notes from the Field
By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
North Sevier
THE included picture is from the North Sevier Stake. This is an expression of the great interest which was manifest by this progressive stake in the Literary course during the past year. "Star of the West" made a great appeal and the lesson enrichment suggested in the Magazine proved to be very helpful. The women dressed in costume as shown in the picture and sang Indian songs. The increased attendance at Relief Society meetings indicates the great interest in the Relief Society courses. Increased attendance is but one of the many fine things accomplished by these courses.
Boise Stake
THE above picture is of Sister Vera Plant, a resident of Ontario Ward, Oregon, in the Boise Stake. The message she gives, the example she lives, is of special significance to Relief Society women everywhere. Looking at this photograph, one would not judge that Sister Plant has been confined to a wheel chair for seventeen years, a victim of the dread infantile paralysis. During all this time she has never been idle. A talented artist, expert in handcraft, she is always busy and has done most of her own housework. Coming from a family of distinguished Americans she has the fine trait of zeal to serve others. She is very active in Relief Society work and has had charge of the quilt making, completing eleven quilts in one year.
New Zealand Mission
A MOST interesting account of the work in the New Zealand Mission comes from Sister Elva Cowley who pays a fine tribute to the Saints in this mission and the beautiful country in which they live. The accompanying picture is of the Relief Society sisters attending the Hui Tau (Conference) which Sister Cowley describes in detail.
"The Relief Society convened at 8:30 A. M. Sunday morning, with 167 women representing the different branch organizations throughout the island. The secretary said it was the largest attendance at a Hui Tau in the history of the mission.
"The program was well organized and carried out in a systematic manner with the Mission Relief Society President, Sister Pare Takana, presiding, and Sister Ani L. Kamau conducting. Although many of the Maori women speak and understand English, they use their native tongue to express themselves in speech, which necessitated one of the sisters interpreting for me. I enjoyed every minute whether I got every word or not for they are fluent speakers, never hesitating for a word nor using a note."
Very interesting and helpful talks were given on child guidance, evils of smoking, spiritual and physical cleanliness, as well as general instructions on the conduct of Relief Society work. A splendid art exhibit was held in connection with the Conference and a pageant "Cornelia" was beautifully presented.
It has been a rare opportunity for the Saints to have a visit from Elder George Albert Smith and Brother Rufus K. Hardy who have toured the mission. With the fine cooperation from the resident sisters and Sister Cowley's trained and enthusiastic leadership the work of Relief Society will reach its high objectives.
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
Lesson 1
THE MEDITERRANEAN WORLD IN THE DAYS OF THE APOSTLES
Helpful References
H. E. Dana, The New Testament World, pp. 126-162. (Second Ed., Pioneer Publishing Co., Fort Worth, Texas. 1928.) Dana's book will be found the best single practical reference for this and the following lesson. This book is now out of print. Some second-hand copies may possibly be obtained at Blessing Book Stores, Inc., Chicago, Ill.
B. W. Robinson, The Life of Paul, pp. 5-24. (University of Chicago Press, Chicago, Ill. 1918.) Note the list of supplementary readings on p. 24. If you have access to a library some of the books mentioned will probably be available.
J. P. Smyth, The Story of St. Paul's Life and Letters, pp. 8-14. (James Pott & Co., New York. 1921.)
T. G. Tucker, Life in the Roman World of Nero and St. Paul, pp. 16-29, 238-259. (The Macmillan Co., New York. 1911.) A very readable work by a great classical scholar. Valuable to those persons who wish an intimate view of Roman life in the days of the apostles. Consult good library.
The World into Which the Apostles Came.—The apostles of Christ came into a world already old. Many civilizations had risen, flourished, decayed and fallen around the Mediterranean Sea long before they appeared on the scene. The great nations of Egypt, Babylonia, Assyria and Persia had played their parts on the world's stage and had departed. The influence of Greece was still wonderfully felt in the days of the apostles, but her glory had departed as a nation. Rome was now the great world power. All of the civilized peoples of northern Africa, western Asia and southern Europe were under the political sway of the Romans.
Travel by Land in the Roman Empire—The Roman Empire has been variously estimated as containing from fifty to seventy-five millions of peoples of many nationalities, speaking many different tongues and possessing varied customs. These people were of differing degrees of culture and advancement. It is a remarkable commentary on the Romans that they were bringing the world to a state of peace and order. They built wonderful roads, fostered commerce and travel, made intercourse safe and easy between most parts of the empire, often protected the Christian missionaries from the fury of mobs. The traveler would find milestones in the shape of short pillars near the highway on which he traveled. Guidebooks and charts were common. They gave all information necessary such as distances, stopping-places, inns, and even told about the sights most worth seeing while on the journey. Professional guides were available in most places of special interest such as Egypt, Syria and Greece. Travelers rode on asses, mules and horses or took their ease in two or four-wheeled vehicles, depending on their circumstances. According to Professor Tucker "the rich man, traveling, as he necessarily would, with a train of servants and with full appliances for his comfort, would journey in a coach, painted and gilded, cushioned and curtained, drawn by a team showily caparisoned with rich harness and coloured cloths." It was not unusual for people to travel seventy to one hundred miles a day. Special couriers often traveled one hundred and fifty miles in one day.
Travel By Sea—The amount of travel by sea was remarkable. Vessels were often of a good size, ranging from 500 tons up to 1100 or more. In dimensions they were often 200 feet long and 50 broad. Paul the Apostle speaks of his ship carrying 276 passengers (Acts 27: 37) and Josephus mentions a ship on which he traveled that carried 600 persons. Certain war vessels could carry as high as a thousand soldiers. Freight of from 250 to 1,500 tons was carried by vessels plying the seas. Regular sailing lines were established. The ancient apostles would have no trouble making their way about the Mediterranean world by water. Shipwrecks were not uncommon, as they always were in the days of sailing vessels. But the relative ease of travel was a great advantage in spreading the Gospel.
An Intimate View of Roman Life.—The Roman world of that day had its morning newspapers, its trade unions, its loan sharks, its war-profiteers, its Socialistic agitators, its complaint about the decay of the middle classes and the falling birthrate, its crowded cities and depopulated countryside, its fully organized credit and banking systems. It has been pointed out that practically every comfortable villa of the first century A. D. had a hot-air heating system. It is a well-known fact that their vices were nearly the same as in our own age. They were gambling, luxury, and a mad rush for wealth, together with appalling sexual immorality and a degrading idleness among the very rich and the very poor. They had their professional athletes and actors who earned fabulous sums, they had their comic artists and cartoonists, they had their horse-races and betting on horses, they had public libraries in every moderately large town (the donor's names were duly recorded), and their book, art and curio-collectors. Universities were in existence in certain key cities that attracted students from all parts of the Roman world. There were itinerant lecturers aplenty and even "honorary" degrees were awarded. The dictation of letters was nearly as common in the first century as today and at least three different systems of shorthand were in vogue.
Social Revolution in the First Century.—The first century was one of social revolution. The Roman nobles had lost their wealth and prestige and the grumbling of the "common people" was bringing about a social upheaval. Scarcely two generations after Christ's death hundreds of thousands of unemployed burst into Rome and surrounded the imperial palace howling for bread.
Roman Princes and Freedmen.—Roman princes and senators were forbidden by law to increase their fortunes by commerce. Honest toil was despised by them. The noble class were often obliged by reason of extravagant tastes and the cost of holding public office to promise freedom to their slaves in return for carrying on financial plans more energetically. Many of these freedmen became wealthy captains of industry. Their gorgeous banquets and excessive orgies in which they displayed their vulgarity and ignorance won them the ill-will of the cultured poor and the titled nobility.
Poverty Widespread in the Roman World.—Most of the freedmen with whom the early Christians worked were not wealthy. The proportion of poor to rich was much higher in the days of the apostles than it is today. Poverty was more widespread than now, and it has been pointed out that for the first time in history the poor man had become dangerous.
Corporations and Monopolies.—Corporations and monopolies had such control of foodstuffs that some fifty years before Christ nearly 300,000 persons had to be fed by the State in order to survive. Politicians courted the favor of citizens by promising gifts of foodstuffs and free shows.
Religious Tolerance of the Romans.—With all their failings the Romans were tolerant for the most part in matters of religion. They recognized the value of religion and were wise enough not to interfere with it in the countries they conquered, provided their own civil requirements were observed.
Roman Rule in the Provinces.—The Romans were quite generally wise and generous in their administration of conquered states. They did not interfere with laws and customs already established so far as these were compatible with the rule of Rome. Some provinces were governed by vassal kings, who were subject to Rome and paid a certain tribute. The Herods of the New Testament are good examples of this custom. Generally a Roman governor was appointed directly from Rome by either the Senate or the Emperor. These governors were charged with keeping the province in subjection to Rome, collecting taxes, and administering justice wherever a matter concerned Roman law. Local courts tried violators of local laws. A defendant might appeal directly to Rome if he was a Roman citizen. It was under this provision that Paul appealed to Caesar.
Greece the Roman Schoolmaster.—In the days of the apostles Greece had long been a province of Rome. But the Romans recognized that the Greeks were their intellectual and artistic superiors. The result was that the Greeks became the schoolmasters to Rome. "The entire first century world went to school to Hellas—and the world has not yet quit going to school to Hellas." It is no exaggeration to say, "Greece captive led enthralled her captor." The Greeks contributed mightily not only to Rome but to our own western culture as well. What would philosophy, art, literature and science have been without the clear-thinking Greeks?
Greek Language and Literature in the Roman World—When Alexander the Great went forth to conquer, the Greek language was planted in most of the countries he subdued. It became the chief medium of expression in the eastern Mediterranean basin. Rich in vocabulary and capable of expressing accurately subtle distinctions in thought it became a popular tongue. When the Romans conquered Greece they carried the Greek language back with them to the West. It became the chief literary medium and was a commonly spoken tongue even in imperial Rome. When the apostles and other Christian missionaries carried the Gospel to the West they could make themselves understood almost anywhere they chose to go because of their knowledge of Greek. The spread of this richly expressive language would seem almost providential. Greek was one of the chief languages in Palestine and it appears almost certain that Christ and most of his apostles knew something about it even though their ordinary means of expression was Aramaic. At any rate the Gospel of John takes it for granted that the knowledge of Greek was common in Galilee. Pilate, Felix, and Festus, the representatives of the Roman government, seem to have used it, for the Palestinian inscriptions referring to the Roman Emperors, when of a non-military nature, were written mostly in Greek. Josephus tells us that it was only in the army that the Latin language ruled supreme.
The Greeks had a wonderful literary tradition. The beauty of Greek literature has had, and still has, great influence upon the literature of even our own day. It should not surprise us, therefore, to find that Greek literature was supreme in the Roman world. Cultivated minds were familiar with Homer's Iliad and Odyssey as a matter of course, and the poems of such men as Theognis, Pindar, Bacchylides, Alcaeus, Sappho and Simonides, as well as the historical prose productions of Thucydides, Herodotus and Xenophon were widely read; Greek works on rhetoric and oratory would also be well known. Among good thinkers the works of Plato, Aristotle, Anaximander, Pythagoras and other Greek philosophers would be much sought after and studied. We cannot help but feel that the ancient apostles would make themselves somewhat acquainted with the literature and thought of their day. Certainly the apostle Paul could hold the attention of cultured Athenians so long as he did not offend by speaking on the doctrine of the resurrection. There is some evidence from the New Testament that Paul was familiar with certain Greek writers. (Acts 17:28; 1 Cor. 15:33; Tit. 1:12.)
From what we have already pointed out it will be seen how important it is to know something of the world in which the apostles moved if we are to understand their work and ministry.
Questions and Problems (Deal only with as many as time will permit.)
1. In what ways was the Roman government an aid to the spread of the Gospel in the days of the apostles?
2. Compare methods of travel in the age of the apostles with those in vogue among our pioneer forefathers.
3. Compare Roman life with that in our own age.
4. Can you make some interesting comparisons between the social revolution of the First Century and that in our country in the past few years?
5. Name as many elements in our civilization as you can for which we are indebted to the Greeks.
6. What problems would confront the ancient apostles due to the widespread poverty?
Pronouncing Vocabulary Theognis—thé og' nis Pindar—pin'dar Bacchylides—ba kil' i déz Alcaeus—al sé' us Sappho—saf' ? Simonides—si mon' i déz Herodotus—hé rod' o tus Xenophon—zen' o phon Plato—pla' to Aristotle—ar' is tot' l Anaximander—an ak' si man' der Pythagoras—pi thag' o ras Thucydides—thu sid' i déz
Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME
No. I—Faith
"Jesus answered and said unto them, Verily I say unto you, if ye have faith, and doubt not, ye shall not only do this which is done to the fig tree, but, also if ye shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea; it shall be done."—Matt. 21:21.
MENTAL health, powerful character and desirable personality are sought by every individual. Faith creates a healthy emotional attitude and is a source of true greatness in attaining these. One must have faith in his own ability, faith in the value of his task, faith in his fellowmen and faith in a supreme power. The perfect personality has these faiths.
Faith as Jesus taught it can be applied to the production of healthy personalities. He taught an intelligent faith in self which is aware of danger and adjusts to it, but without fear. He taught a faith in fellowman which does not close its eyes to faults but recognizes the highest potentialities. He taught a faith in God—the Eternal Father.
Peter desired to do the things the Master did. During the time that he had faith in the Master and was confident, he possessed the power to do the things which the Master did, even to overcoming the law of gravity and walking on the water. When doubt entered his mind, faith departed and with it that power which ever accompanies faith was lost, and Peter sank. While we have confidence in self and faith in the Master we have power to rise above the sea of earthly troubles; our characters are strong, our personalities healthy.
Each person has within himself the possibility of developing this power of faith. It is a plant of slow growth. The seed must be planted consciously and nurtured carefully if we are to expect the tree to attain maturity and bear fruit.
1. Give illustrations of faith in self as taught by Jesus.
2. Give illustrations of how faith in God has increased power.
3. Explain the relationship of faith to personality.
Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs as planned by your ward.
Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
Lesson 1 THE BEGINNINGS OF THE ENGLISH NOVEL
DEFINITIONS OF A NOVEL (Gathered by Prof. J. M. Jensen)
"A novel is an interpretation of human life by means of fictitious narrative in prose." — Ernest A. Baker, English writer.
"The novel is a picture of real life and manners, and of the times of which it is written. It gives a familiar relation of such things as pass every day before our eyes, such as may happen to our friend or to ourselves; and the perfection of it is to represent every scene in so easy and natural a manner and to make it appear so probable as to deceive into a persuasion (at least while we are reading) that all is real, until we are affected by the joys or distresses of the persons in the story as if they were our own."—Clara Reeve, early English novelist.
"A novel is a record of emotion." —Francis Hovey Stoddard, Professor at New York University.
"The novel may be thought of as a prose fiction, regularly over forty thousand words long, so planned that characters, dialogue, and setting will fuse with all the skill the author can muster in the telling."—Grant C. Knight, University of Kentucky.
During this and the lessons which are to follow, a study will be made of the beginning and advance of the novel. Nearly everybody reads more or less and in our day among the choicest of our reading materials are the novels which have poured and which are still pouring from our printing presses. If that is the case, it is well that we should learn what we can about the beginning and the development of this form of creative writing. Perhaps it would be well to speak further of definitions, even though they are always difficult and we can never say exactly what we mean.
What is a novel, then? We shall make no attempt to draw fine distinctions, but will suggest distinguishing features of this favorite form of literature. In the first place, a novel is a long story dealing usually with situations, characters, and complications. Novels vary in length, but we usually think of them, as was indicated in one of Professor Jensen's definitions, as being forty or fifty thousand up to several hundred thousand words in length. If stories are shorter than forty thousand, they are usually referred to as short novels or novelettes.
For the reason that all long stories are not novels it may be well to limit our definition still further. Two broad classes into which we may divide longer works of fiction are romances and novels. We must not forget, however, that the line between these two forms is so indistinct and so indefinite that often it fades away entirely and we find one good critic calling a story a novel at the same time that another equally good is calling it a romance. The extremes in both fields, however, are rather easily recognized. As I remember, it was Fred Lewis Pattee who gave voice to this statement which may be helpful: The romancer sits down to write what he has to tell; the novelist, to write what he thinks or has to say.
William Lyon Phelps, in our text, says upon this subject: "It is somewhat unfortunate, in discussing the history of English prose fiction, that we cannot make a sharp distinction between the words 'romance' and 'novel.' We ought to mean by 'romance' a story where the chief interest lies, not in the characters, but in the events; as, for example, Quentin Durward. By the word 'novel' we should denote a story where the principal stress falls, not in the succession of incidents, but on the development of the characters; an excellent illustration would be The Mill On The Floss."
Professor Phelps, however, goes on to point out the difficulty in making such a distinction as he suggests by stating that many a man has fused the two forms so well that it would be improper to label his product as either. "Henry Esmond," Professor Phelps states, "if a secret ballot could be taken, might possibly be voted the greatest work of fiction in the English language..." and yet he intimates that Henry Esmond is hardly a romance and hardly a novel either.
The reader will remember, then, that the term "novel" is a rather loose one designating long prose fiction in which the emphasis is on the character development and the interrelations of the characters rather than on the incidents. If one would sit down and write the story of his own life or that of his father or mother as it unfolded, emphasizing those things which directed character growth, he probably would have a novel when he finished. If he should sit down and write the same story emphasizing what the characters did rather than what they were, he would most likely have a romance. It must not be forgotten that the distinction, in any case, is difficult and in some cases impossible.
There are things of which we can be certain, however. If one is to lay claim to artistic culture and is to enjoy his priceless literary heritage, one must know something of the world's great literature and especially of his own. Americans, of course, are rightful heirs to the English tradition in literature.
The English novel, as we think of it today, had its beginning back in the beginning of the eighteenth century. It was really a tale of adventure, but because of the author's method it might well be called a novel as it is called by no less a person than Professor Phelps and by many other critics. "The first English novel is still one of the most popular—Robinson Crusoe, by Daniel Defoe, published in 1719," says Phelps.
This long story of the fortunes of a rather incorrigible young man who ran away from home and went to sea, is the forerunner of many other stories which followed a little later. To Samuel Richardson, another Englishman and contemporary of Defoe, goes the distinction of having written the first analytical or psychological novel. Richardson wrote as his first book a long novel called Pamela, a tale written entirely in the form of letters. This first book of his was followed by volume two of the same story and by other well-known novels such as Clarissa Harlowe and Sir Charles Grandison.
Henry Fielding, Tobias George Smollett, and Laurence Sterne were three other Englishmen living about the same time as Defoe and Richardson, who set the English novel well on its way in three great books known to all casual students of English literature: Tom Jones, Roderick Random, and Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy.
"Prose fiction dates well before the eighteenth century," says Abel Chevalley in his book The Modern English Novel, "but the English novel goes back no further than that century. Before Defoe, all writing comprised under this name seems to have been imported from abroad. It was not until after Defoe, when Richardson and Fielding had published their books, that England, having patented her goods—if one may so express it—began to export and to conquer; and in her turn distributed over the world the new literary type that she had developed."
Daniel Defoe was born in London, the son of a butcher, in 1661. His father's name was Foe, but Daniel added the prefix De to give the name a little better sound. He is said to have been one of England's most prolific writers, being given credit for being England's first journalist in the modern sense and the author of the interview and the special editorial. In 1702 Defoe published an article which caused him to be placed in the pillory and later in Newgate prison where he associated with criminals and adventurers who had been in all parts of the world. It is thought that from them he gathered much of the material which he later placed in his novels which he wrote with great rapidity even though he was more than forty-five years of age when he began upon them. He died in 1731, "a real or fancied fugitive from the public."
The English novel with Defoe, got started upon its glorious trail toward the stars. According to Professor Phelps, if Defoe had never written his masterpiece, Robinson Crusoe, he would still be the first novelist among English people. Pamela, by Richardson, is often referred to as the first novel, but as has been inferred, it was so named by those who make a sharp division between romance and the realistic novel. In this course, we are not doing that; we are following more or less the easy trail marked out by Professor Phelps.
Suggestions
1. Read chapters I and II, "The Advance of the English Novel," by William Lyon Phelps. Read also, if it should happen to be available, Development of the English Novel, by W. L. Cross, (Macmillan), or any other such book that may be at hand.
2. Give some definitions of a novel. It may be that you can think of a better one than any given here.
3. Comment upon the first sentence found in chapter two of the Advance of the English Novel: "The men of Queen Anne brought prose fiction from heaven or hell to earth, and gave us the novel." The men of Queen Anne were Defoe, Richardson, Smollett, etc.
4. Perhaps class members could be assigned the pleasant task of presenting briefly the lives of two of our first novelists: (1) Defoe. (2) Richardson. Sketches could be found in any library and in some school texts and encyclopedias.
Social Service
Lesson 1
HABIT FORMATION AND REVISION
I. The Lesson in a Nutshell. A large part of each day's activities consists of habitual acts which have been repeated in a certain way so often that they "carry themselves along" with very little conscious direction. Habit is a great principle of economy: it saves conscious effort for those tasks which require deliberation. Habits are of many kinds: (1) social habits, (2) intellectual habits, (3) emotional habits, (4) nervous habits, (5) physiological habits, and (6) motor habits or skills. Habits grow out of incentives or needs. To build a new habit or to break an old one is possible only by revising our incentives and needs, then by analysis of our efforts in the new direction, and finally by enlightened practice. The lesson is concluded with a practical guide for the formation of new habits and breaking old ones.
II. The Role of Habit in Everyday Life. In order to appreciate what a large part of our daily lives is carried on by our habits, let us review a single day's routine. Most of us arise at a fairly fixed time in the morning—some of us immediately upon awakening, others after "thinking it over" for some time. After morning prayer at the bed side, we attend to certain tasks in connection with our toilet and preparation for the day's work. While we do this we often think over our plans for the day, without having to remind ourselves of which shoe to put on first or which arm to put first through our coat. At breakfast, we eat customary food without much discrimination so long as the food is of customary quality. Many times if we are asked at noon what we ate for breakfast, we cannot say. If we consciously try to attend to many of the details of this routine, we are amazed at the consistency with which they have been going on without any conscious direction. In our social lives, habit is equally prominent. We speak kindly or gruffly in the home in quite a consistent manner. We greet one person we pass on the street in one manner, another one quite differently. (Recall how embarrassed we feel when we accidentally mistake an approaching person and address him as though he were someone else.) All of our church duties are made easier by forming habits as safeguards against backsliding. The momentum of the habit of attending meetings "carries us over" a listlessness or preoccupation with something else, which would otherwise often frustrate our good intentions. Indeed, faith itself is sustained to some extent by habit, because faith in order to live must issue in good deeds, and the habits involved in doing good deeds help to "carry faith through" periods of doubt and discouragement. The value of habit as the great flywheel of conduct, which carries to our goals in spite of interference, was expressed by William James under his second maxim for habit formation: "Never suffer an exception to occur till the new habit is securely rooted in your life. Each lapse is like the letting fall of a ball of string which one is carefully winding up; a single slip undoes more than a great many turns will wind again. Continuity of training is the great means of making the nervous system act infallibly right." (James, 1890, Vol. I, p. 123.) Life is too crowded to permit doing everything consciously; hence we economize conscious effort by forming habits. Habits well established free our minds to attend to adjustments that are unfamiliar. William James once said, "We must make automatic and habitual, as early as possible, as many useful actions as we can, and guard against growing into ways that are likely to be disadvantageous to us, as we should guard against the plague." (James, 1890, p. 122.) Habits may, of course, be either an aid or an impediment to progress. Bad habits defeat good intentions toward reform and discourage persistent effort in the direction of a better way of doing things. Habits that are not generally considered bad also prevent progress, such as the habit of letting someone else do our thinking and deciding, the habit of holding childish beliefs and old wives' tales without reconstructing them in terms of adult intelligence and experience. Many adults have the habit of avoiding difficult situations and opportunities to take leadership, and thereby deny themselves the growth which comes only through grappling with problems and striving to reach a level of adjustment a little higher than their habitual past.
III. Types of Habits. For study purposes, habits may be classified into the following groups (after Wheeler, 1929, pp. 70-72):
1. Social habits are customs, folkways, morals, and all of the individual items called social selves (or special attitudes and expressions we have toward one person as distinguished from those toward another). Customs and folkways are habitual ways of thinking and doing followed alike by all of a group of people and handed down from generation to generation some times. These are the forces that often keep people united and peaceable. Were it not for deep-rooted social habits, revolutions, invasions, religious reformations, and all manner of social upheaval would be much more common.
2. Intellectual Habits. These habits include the scientific attitude of weighing evidence carefully before deciding, and suspending judgment when sufficient evidence is not at hand. A few desirable intellectual habits are: regular reading on current events, consistent use of the dictionary and encyclopedia to fill in recognized gaps in one's knowledge, avoidance of arguments through ability to see both sides of an issue, and habitual looking for things deserving appreciative appraisal, especially personal qualities in others. Superstitions, such as believing in the ill-fate of Friday the thirteenth and black cats crossing one's path, are examples of poor intellectual habits.
3. Emotional Habits. Grouchiness or cheerfulness, a sense of humor, suspicion, fault-finding, and self-consciousness would come under this heading. Most fears are emotional habits, often acquired in childhood. All of the attitudes involved in love and hate are habits of an emotional character. Many marriages are kept intact by sheer habit, as are other kinds of partnerships. Death would lose much of its sting if we did not form emotional habits toward one another.
4. Nervous Habits. A person may be afflicted with various little uncontrollable acts usually called nervous habits. Examples of these are twitches of the eyelids or facial muscles, grimacing, frequent clearing of the throat while talking, saying "er a" or "ahem" before making a statement, thumb-sucking in children, nose picking in public, and putting the hands to the face. Often these habits are not even known to their possessor and can easily be removed with a little conscious effort. Some, however, reflect nervous strain and are removed only by removing the mental conflict causing the strain.
5. Physiological Habits. These habits have as their basis bodily rhythm in the exchange of energy (chemical balance), and comprise such habits as drug addiction, use of tobacco and liquor, idiosyncrasies for certain foods and objection to others, sleeping habits, and exercise. Physiological habits may be greatly modified by what one does. The rhythm of a rigid routine in handling an infant, regular hours of eating, sleeping, playing, and attending to elimination, is excellent training for the young body, and it illustrates how physiological habits are acquired.
6. Motor Habits. Motor habits are those involved in manual skills such as playing the violin, playing skillful baseball, and those ordinary activities such as walking, dressing, and finding our way about in the house and locating articles in common use.
IV. Habits Grow Out of Incentives or Needs. An essential condition for the formation of all of our habits is an incentive or a personal need for forming the habit. Often the incentives are vague, in which case the habit will usually not be precisely formed. We cease in most cases to improve our habits as soon as we have reached a practical limit, or as soon as the need underlying the habit has been reasonably well satisfied. A story is told of a group of factory workers in Germany who had been employed at a specified price for each unit of work. The workers exerted what was apparently their greatest effort in order to put out the greatest number of units to gain the highest wages. After a number of years, a study was made to determine the effects of certain added incentives such as praise, bonuses, and rest periods. Much to the surprise of workers and managers, the output increased markedly over what was thought to be the "physiological limit" of the workers. They surprised even themselves by their hidden powers. Experiments have shown that the average adult reads only about fifty or seventy-five per cent as efficiently as he is capable of reading. Short daily test periods in which the person is urged to read faster without sacrificing comprehension will increase the rate of reading as much as one hundred per cent in some cases after only a few weeks. The same general result has been shown for legibility of hand writing. Most of our habits and skills, whether they be those pertaining to getting along with each other or skill in typewriting, are far from as well developed as they might be, and the reason is that there is not sufficient incentive to further develop them. But the young lady who sets her heart on winning a promising young man can wonderfully improve her personality by dressing more carefully, speaking more charmingly, and cultivating her knowledge of those subjects the young man considers important. The young man, to win the object of his love, may measurably increase his skill at his work in order to be in a better economical position for marriage, and his personality and character may improve to suit the requirements of the young lady. Some of the incentives commonly leading to formation of the various kinds of habits are as follows: want of food, want of physical and mental comfort, want of a mate, want of approbation or approval of others, and want of a sense of power. For us, other important wants or desires are: to be serviceable, to attain spiritual progress and the rewards of reunion in the hereafter. We form habits of devotion to our church because we need the assurance of heavenly as well as earthly rewards. We build moral and religious habits because we want to progress in an eternal enterprise with God. The more deeply we feel these needs and the deeper our faith is, the more energetically we shape our habits according to the ideals of the Master. Disorderly and weak habits in a person reflect weak incentives, a lack of strong desire to progress along the eternal path. Absence of orderly habits and their underlying incentives characterizes the person of weak will. Will power is largely made up of our habits of meeting new situations, and grows out of our habits of meeting new situations. It is based on our habits of command over self. We build will power by what we do, we weaken it by failure to do what we should do. He who has a definite and compelling aim in life easily forms habits that contribute to that aim. Fortunately, as we build habits toward a goal, the task becomes easier because we are building up will power as we go along, whenever we are successful in making any progress. Woodworth has said that a motive "is an activity in progress." This means that it is easier to keep effort in some direction going than it is to get it started after it stops. Conduct acquires momentum just as a ball does. He who is zealously busy living the good life finds it easy to form a new habit or drop an old one, but he who is half-hearted and vague in his intentions finds the greatest difficulty in changing.
V. How to Form a New Habit. In the interests of simplicity and brevity, the following three steps are suggested. (For further study, see James' rules for habit formation, 1890, pp. 123-127.)
1. Get a clear conception of the goal of the habit you wish to form and the reasons you think it is important.
2. Analyze the results of your efforts to determine exactly what methods lead most directly to the goal. Identify false moves in order to eliminate them, and clearly define to yourself the right ones so that they will not be overlooked and dropped. This kind of analysis is especially important in forming social habits, habits where the reasons for success or failure are often difficult to detect.
3. Repeat the proper acts as often as possible once they have become clearly recognized. This means practice. The more vividly the goal is reached through right acts, the less repetition is necessary—i. e., the more intense the satisfaction of success, the less repetition is necessary.
VI. How to Break an Old Habit.
1. Revamp the incentives underlying the old habit in such a way that they will lead toward the new habit. For example, a delinquent boy admitted he stole and broke windows "just to show the kids he could do it." An appeal was made that he try to become the best worker in the shop class or top man on the basketball team "just to show them he could." Sometimes the old incentives are all wrong and the person must undergo a complete change of heart. "A good man out of the good treasure of the heart bringeth forth good things: and an evil man out of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things." (Matt. 12:35.) Many criminals who are forced to abide by the law for years in prison, persist in their old ways because they are not genuinely converted to a better life. Practice without conversion is of no avail.
2. Utilize as many parts of the old habit into the new one as possible. It is easier to remake an old habit than to suppress it. Whenever the habit is such that some parts can be utilized in the new habit, you have that much ground gained.
3. If the old habit cannot be conveniently remade, crowd it out by forming new habits that adequately substitute for the old. Under certain circumstances, a habit is best broken by not paying attention to it, but by preparing oneself to do something else when the old situation arises. The surest way to break an old habit is to transform the old needs or desires so that we no longer want exactly the result the old habit brought. After this is done, we are still confronted with the difficulty of breaking with an old way of doing when it makes us feel odd, as when wearing a new pair of shoes. Pressure from other people tends to keep one in his old ways. Particularly true is this in the home when one of the members wishes to mend his ways. The conspicuousness of his acting any way except in his old habitual way often discourages the attempts at being more considerate or helpful. When one has committed himself to a way of life, whether it pertains to small or great matters, he identifies his ego with his acts to the extent that to change involves too much of an admission of defects. Bad influences of a lad's friends make it impossible in many cases for him to execute good intentions. Many a criminal would reform if the "gang" would let him.
VII. How Shall I Decide Which Habits to Acquire?
1. Choose habits you are certain are important enough to warrant the effort and patience to "see it through." Attempts to form worthless habits which are so unserviceable that they are likely not to become a part of one's character, weakens one's will to form those habits that are important. Our vanity is sometimes flattered by acquiring some useless bit of skill when we might have acquired just as well a socially useful habit.
2. Make sure you are going to be able to acquire the habit before you start. If you feel you will not succeed, either strengthen the incentive some way or choose an easier habit. James talks about a "famous place that is proverbially paved with good intentions" and most of our New Year's resolutions come to naught because we have "formed the evil habit" of setting up goals we are unable to reach, usually for want of incentives.
3. Choose concrete habits such as promptness in attending church services, rather than abstract virtues such as "general goodness." Righteousness is made up of many specific good acts and habits, and the more concretely these are conceived, the more possibility is there of acquiring them. Eternal progress means daily improving our habits and increasing our knowledge. It consists of specific habits which increase our ability to serve in God's great work of human betterment. Eternal progress thus becomes a daily task, and the rewards of improving one's habits come today through the joy of being useful, as well as in the reward of being useful in the hereafter. We may learn to speak kindly of our neighbors, to respond promptly to calls to service, to follow each principle of the Church consistently, to spend a few minutes each day in improving our minds, to revamp many of our health habits as needed, and to adhere to a carefully planned routine in our home duties.
Problems for Discussion
1. Discuss the following quotation in the light of this lesson: "Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey, whether of sin unto death or of obedience unto righteousness."
2. Think of a few social habits. Such as "cutting in" on another person while he is speaking, which reduces your efficiency in getting along with people. Study each one to see why you do it and what you can do to overcome it.
3. Illustrate the role of habit in our religious lives.
4. Show how incentives are related to habit formation.
5. Discuss the proposition that "practice makes perfect, provided the practice is correct." Give an example of how many years of experience does not always make one an expert. Why?
6. Select a habit you would earnestly like to acquire and write out a plan by which you propose to acquire the habit.
7. Pick out a skill such as reading and systematically practice for a few minutes daily, keep records of your progress, and attempt to improve as much as possible before the next meeting.
References for Further Study
1. Blatz, W. E., & Bott, H. Parents and the Preschool Child, pp. 27-46. New York: Wm. Morrow, 1929.
2. Dorsey, G. A. Why We Behave Like Human Beings, pp. 356-359, 393-396. New York: Harper & Brothers, 1925.
3. James, Wm. Principles of Psychology, Vol. I, pp. 104-127. New York: Henry Holt, 1890.
4. Overstreet, H. A. Influencing Human Behavior, pp. 159-168. New York: W. W. Norton, 1925.
5. Starch, D., et al. Controlling Human Behavior, pp. 70-116. New York: Macmillan, 1936.
6. Wheeler, R. H. The Science of Psychology, pp. 170 ff. New York: Crowell, 1929.
7. Woodworth, R. S. Psychology, pp. 245-258, 299-319. New York: Henry Holt, 1934.
Literature for Missions
TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH
INTRODUCTION
IN the following lessons, each one dealing with a different personality, we give a brief outline of the life activities of seven outstanding women—outstanding in the sense that they are typical women of the Church—distinguished for their Christian virtue which they continually and consistently applied in solving the difficult and perplexing problems of their lives. These lessons will prove interesting not because they deal with romance and titled or renowned ladies, nationally or internationally known, but with women in the ordinary walks of life who nobly met and successfully solved problems and difficulties similar at least to those that most women know more or less about. But to know about difficulties is one thing; to know how to solve them is quite another thing. Hence we always get courage, strength and inspiration in learning how others in our walks of life, or similar ones, succeeded in solving their difficult and perplexing problems. Herein lies the value of these lessons. Women who lived in or near our own times and on the same planes of life as we move indicate to us in no uncertain tones how we too may make our lives happy and successful. Thus they teach us the most precious lessons found in life.
Every successful life must be properly motivated. And the seven women, whose lives are herein sketched, were all successful. In what ways they were successful and in what ways motivated will be discovered by a careful study of these sketches.
Typical Women of the Church
Lesson 1
ANNA THERESE MEITH MAESER—A CHOICE SAXON SPIRIT
THE story of this lesson has its beginning in the old and famous city of Dresden, Germany. It was here that Anna Therese Meith was born May 4, 1830, more than one hundred years ago. Does blood tell? What influence do heredity and environment have on our lives? Does like beget like, even in the human family? Let us see.
Anna's father, Emmanuel Meith, was director of the Budich Institute, an outstanding Lutheran college in Neustadt, Dresden. His position indicates that he was a man of talents and ability. Her mother, Henrietta Meith, was also a woman of ability as a home maker, who came of a long line of well educated and talented people. Anna Meith, therefore, was reared in an environment of culture and refinement and associated with the elite of Germany. She was a diligent student, immaculate in person, witty and vivacious, as became her station.
Karl G. Maeser, a young professor, who had been taken from a high school position and made vice-director to Herr Meith, was fortunate in winning the esteem and love of the admirable Anna Meith. They were married June 11, 1854. The wedding was one of considerable importance. The Lutheran Church in Dresden was a bower of flowers. The dainty bride in her fluffy white lace was lovely, and the bridegroom in a pale blue satin waistcoat was distinguished.
For one year this couple continued in the agreeable life of college people. Then a change came. They heard and accepted the doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and on October 19, 1855, Anna joined the Church, following a divine manifestation to Brother Maeser on October 14. The story of how her husband came to join the Church is charmingly told by his son, Reinhard Maeser, in a biography of Karl G. Maeser, published by the Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, in 1928.
The miracle here referred to occurred when, after his baptism, Karl was walking home with President Franklin D. Richards of the European Mission and Elder William Budge. President Richards could speak no German and Karl no English. So Elder Budge was acting as interpreter as they walked along. "Suddenly I stopped Elder Budge from interpreting the President's remarks to me as I understood them perfectly. I replied to him in German and again the interpretation was not necessary, as I was also understood by the President. Thus we kept on conversing until we arrived at the point of separation, when the manifestation as suddenly ceased as it had come," so Karl later wrote. This he testified was in answer to prayer, a proof that God was pleased with what he had done.
Anna Maeser's adjustments to life began when she was baptized at midnight in the river Elbe. Following this ordinance, secrecy attended every movement until she with her husband, small son and other relatives left for America, via London. Arriving in London, the Church authorities prevailed upon Brother Maeser to remain in England for a few months and do missionary work among the Germans living there. The others of the party continued their journey to America. Both Anna and Karl appreciated this opportunity for service but found loneliness in the separation from their intimate associates in Germany.
This little family of four —Anna, Karl, a small son, and Anna's sister Camilla (then twelve years old), endured many humiliations in a strange land where they did not even know the language. The proud professor was often expected to perform menial tasks such as blackening his shoes and carrying his hand bags, which in his former position he would never have thought of doing. Anna resented her husband doing these humiliating things, but her loyalty to him and his fealty to the Priesthood soon made tasks, which had once seemed so mortifying, become of no consequence to either of them.
After spending one year in England, they sailed for America. It was a happy anticipation for Anna. She would join her sister in Zion. There were now two children, one born in England. The seven weeks' journey on the water was wearisome and full of anxiety, for the little babe was taken violently ill. In spite of all their faith and constant nursing, he died the day they landed, July 4, 1857. This was their first sacrifice in the new world.
Because their money was gone they halted on their way to Salt Lake City in Philadelphia where they made their first American home, occupying an upstairs room in a tenement house. But an industrial depression was on so employment was scarce. Again the Maesers had their faith keenly tested, for Karl was called on a mission to the South. Bewilderment almost overcame them, but the testimony of the Gospel surged through Karl with the spirit, "I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord." He thought of his lonely wife—a bereaved mother with a small son and a child sister to care for in a strange land. He realized their poverty, but he trusted in God, and God did not forsake them. Karl soon moved his family to Virginia, where, aside from his missionary work, he found part-time employment as a tutor in many prominent families, among which was that of John Tyler, ex-President of the United States. Karl's regular income and Anna's frugality in time made it possible to gather means for the journey to Salt Lake City. So after three years of planning and scheming they returned to Philadelphia. From there they began their journey to Utah in June, 1860.
One's imagination can make many interesting pictures of the Maesers on the plains,—Karl driving an ox-team, Anna serving dinner by a campfire, dainty little Camilla shrugging her shoulders in disgust when they told her to pick up buffalo chips (droppings of the buffalo, a species of wild ox, plentiful in those days on the plains east of the Rocky Mountains). They arrived in Salt Lake City September 1, 1860.
For a time they lived with the Schoenfeldt's where they used a covered wagon box as a bedroom. The little family again faced extreme poverty. The two little children, one born in Philadelphia, hungrily cried themselves to sleep night after night. However, Karl's determination and Anna's practical ambition soon cleared the way for a home. A house was being built, one room partly finished, when another sacrifice was laid upon the altar of their faith. Karl was called on a mission to Germany and Switzerland in May, 1867. It was a great honor for Karl, but at what a price to the little woman who must stay behind. At the time Karl was without means, save for fifty cents, which he gave to his wife. This she carefully wrapped in court-plaster and put away. Then she courageously faced the task of providing for her family. For a livelihood she took in sewing, and oftentimes she went out scrubbing and cleaning. Work to her was not irksome, but to her proud spirit the humiliation of being a servant was very trying. Then too, she would compare her children's lack of opportunity with her own beautiful childhood. In her lonely hours she would dream of Germany—the gardens, the operas and her own girlhood home. How she longed to see them again!
In July, 1870, Karl returned. All the hardships were forgotten in the joy of reuniting. Many days before, the home-coming preparations had been going on. The house had been finished. Carpets were on the floors, curtains at the windows and a real dinner prepared. Anna met Karl at the train and laughingly presented to him the same fifty cents he had given her three years before.
After Karl's return life became brighter. Many kind friends came into their home. Karl was a social leader; ward and house parties were incomplete without the Maesers. Karl now taught school for several years in the Twentieth Ward, Salt Lake City. Due to his strong and winning personality, his excellent character, his skill as a teacher, etc., his school grew more and more in size and favor. So when President Young felt that a system of Church schools should be begun he called Karl G. Maeser and said, "Brother Maeser, I have another mission for you." This announcement nearly took Karl's breath away. He had already thrice answered the call for foreign missionary service. But the President continued, "We have been considering the establishment of a Church school and are looking around for a man to take charge of it. You are the man. We want you to go to Provo (45 miles south of Salt Lake City) to organize and conduct an Academy as a Church school. And remember," the President continued, "you ought not to teach even the alphabet or the multiplication tables without the Spirit of God." This was in the spring of 1876. And on April 24 Karl began teaching in Provo. The school he founded was named the Brigham Young Academy, changed about twenty-five years later to the Brigham Young University. This school was the "mother" of many other academies and has always been the leading L. D. S. Church school. Karl G. Maeser's Church-wide fame began with the opening of the Brigham Young Academy.
The training and experiences of himself and wife Anna in Saxony, and all that they had gained since joining the Church until now, made them the very people needed to found the new school. Brother Maeser was soon recognized as the leading educator in the Church, a position he maintained until his death, February 15, 1901.
On moving to Provo in 1876 Anna Maeser devoted herself as a good housewife assiduously to making a new home for her family. Reared in a refined and cultured Saxon home, she had between that time and going to Provo passed through depths of poverty, trials and tribulations, but had never faltered in her loyalty either to her husband or Church. Her faith in God never wavered nor did her testimony of the divinity of the Church ever become weak. Nor did she ever lose the spirit of generosity and hospitality. While her love of home and family were always paramount in her mind, she did not confine that interest to her own immediate family, but to all who might come beneath her roof, whether they be relatives, friends or beggars. And so the last twenty years of her life were peacefully and happily spent as she continued her work in making a pleasant home, in rearing her children and in supporting her noble husband in his many and varied public duties. She was the mother of eight children, and those who grew up were all devoted to the Church. Sister Maeser passed away April 2, 1896, in Salt Lake City, while visiting her sister, Camilla Cobb. It was on Thursday, fast day, when the news reached Provo. A close friend and neighbor who was at the fast meeting said, "I never knew Sister Maeser until today. She was so unassuming, but the testimonies borne of her goodness and kindness and her charitable acts reveal a nature not often found."
TO MY MOTHER
The memory of my mother does not serve In any public place. 'Tis always near the fireside I see her well-loved face.
'Tis time has made the daguerreotype More beautiful by far Than any painted picture Of any living Star.
Through Life's understanding In the school of sorrow taught I read the glorious mission Her loyal heart has wrought
In the lives of all who knew her And came within her care, And it seems to me in heaven There are angels, none more fair.
Items for Consideration
1. Describe the manners and social customs in Saxony among high-grade school teachers during the childhood days of Anna Meith.
2. How do you explain that she could break away from her refined, cultured home in Saxony to associate herself with a people who were yet in the very crude stages of pioneer life, whose modes of living were as different from hers as darkness from light?
3. Remembering that this change was also one from comfort to extreme poverty, what qualities do you think Anna Maeser had?
4. Why do you think most women in the Church have these qualities even though most of them may not be so severely tried?
5. What do you think were the most trying experiences in Anna Maeser's life?
6. Of what benefit were her trials to her?
7. Why do you think Anna Maeser was a noble woman?
8. Why do you think her life was successful?
9. What lessons may we learn from her life?

"If the world is to be saved it must be saved by the passionate idealism of youth. It cannot be saved, however, if it is depleted physically, mentally and morally by drink."—Clifford W. Towlson.
This Year's High School Graduates—WHERE WILL THEY FIND WORK?
Give them the advantage of sharp tools and trained hands. The coupon below will bring full information about opportunities here for intensive training. Summer classes begin June 6 and 13
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Salt Lake City 70 North Main
Please send me information about the L. D. S. Business College.
Address ________________________
A Word to the Bride
We are prepared, now, more than ever before, to supply you with the smartest and most modern wedding stationery. New styles, new types, new methods of treatment are constantly being developed to bring smartness and style to this feature of your great adventure. And prices are most reasonable. Call or write today.
The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City The leading printers in the West for Eighty Years
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
"The greatest gift any man can leave his children is their Mother's time."
A BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE POLICY can provide her enough sure income each month so she can give them her time and care. Remember, young children require years of food, clothing, shelter and education.
Let the BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY show you how to protect your children. Depend on a reliable company which has been serving the West since 1905, with assets of over thirteen million dollars, to provide for you and yours. Our agent will gladly call upon you, or, get in touch with the home office, now!
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
HOME OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT
The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Vol. XXV AUGUST, 1938 No. 8
Wholesome Education
The campus of the University of Utah is a community of youth, where social contacts are no small part of training for useful citizenship. Choose from hundreds of courses in ten well organized schools.
Note these dates: (Fall Quarter)
Sept. 21, Freshmen Placement Test
Sept. 22, Engineers Entrance Examination
Sept. 22-23, Registration of Freshmen
Sept. 24, Registration of Lower Division Sophomores
Sept. 26, Registration All Others
Sept. 27, Regular Class Work Begins
WRITE FOR CATALOG: Address The President
UNIVERSITY OF UTAH
SALT LAKE CITY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Save the Decline!
No sooner do we get a price decline than we get busy and the price reduction is put into effect. There are many food prices that are dropping—You consumers, get the benefit.
Service System
"A Surety of Purity"
LITERARY READING COURSE
For Relief Societies
CITY OF BELLS, by Elizabeth Goudge........$2.00
THE TALISMAN, by Sir Walter Scott......... 1.00
LORNA DOONE, by R. D. Blackmore.............. 1.00
ADVANCE OF THE ENGLISH NOVEL, by William Lyons Phelps 1.25
ROBINSON CRUSOE, by Daniel Defoe... 1.00
6.25
For Relief Societies ordering the entire course at one time, it is $6.00 postpaid plus State Sales Tax in the State of Utah.
DESERET BOOK COMPANY
44 East South Temple Street
Salt Lake City, Utah
Specially Selected
RELIEF SOCIETY MUSIC
Send for Copies on Approval
O Bread of Life
In The Time of Roses
O Mom of Beauty
The Lord's Prayer
Annie Laurie
By The Bend of The River
Sanctus
Dedication
Hail Thou Star Resplendent
and many others
We carry the largest stock of Sheet Music and Musicians' supplies in the Intermountain West
Send us your mail orders
Daynes Music Co.
47 So. Main St.—Salt Lake City, Utah
GIFTS for every occasion expressing pioneer excellence with artistic charm.
Mormon Handicraft
BUREAU OF INFORMATION
Temple Square,
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
VOL. XXV AUGUST, 1938 No. 8
CONTENTS
This Day.....................................Gertrude Perry Stanton 503
Frontispiece——Fish Lake, Utah......................................... 504
National Conference of Social Work....................................... 505
Life's Mystery.....................................Olive C. Wehr 508
An Evening With the Bible.......................Sidney B. Sperry 509
The Red Seas of Life.........................Caroline Eyring Miner 513
Anna Stoddart Barlow...........................Myrtle Willes Bailey 514
The Supreme Gift.............................Della Adams Leitner 516
Luxury.........................................Carla Wolfe 517
Carlsbad Caverns..............................Ivy Williams Stone 521
Rose H. Widtsoe—Doctor of Philosophy.................Ramona W. Cannon 524
She Makes An Art of Friendship.............................E. C. C. 528
The Desert Shall Blossom...................Lorine Hutchinson Lee 529
Modern Pioneers..............................Vaunee T. Larsen 530
Camouflage..................................Alice Morrey Bailey 534
The Children's Reading......................Florence Ivins Hyde 535
Upward Lilt................................Claire Stewart Boyer 537
Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd...........Dorothy Clapp Robinson 538
Desire.....................................Evelyn Wooster Viner 541
Happenings.................................Annie Wells Cannon 542
Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest.................................. 543
Red-Winged Blackbirds............................Lydia Hall 543
Magazine Notes.................................................. 544
Reverence.....................................Mabel Jones 545
Out of the Best Books...........................Kate Wilde 546
The Gift of Wisdom............................George Gardner 548
Notes From the Field..........................Julia A. F. Lund 549
Editorials:
Appreciation of the Beautiful................................... 554
Unselfish Giving................................................... 554
Lesson Department..................................................... 556
Gwineth Gwin..............................Elizabeth Cannon Porter 571
When I Pray...................................Fae Decker Dix 572
A Prayer From the Plains.........................Patricia Bryson 573
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Telephone Wasatch 980
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return,
"Everything to Furnish the Home"
THE GREATEST VARIETY AND LARGEST STOCK OF
Living Room, Dining Room and Bedroom Furniture
in the Intermountain Territory
400 Suites to Choose From
GRANITE FURNITURE CO.
Out of the High Rent District
The home of
THE ROUND OAK RANGE, AMERICAN BEAUTY WASHERS
KELVINATOR, FRIGIDAIRE AND STEWART WARNER REFRIGERATORS
Quality and Service Come First—We Deliver Everywhere
MURRAY SUGAR HOUSE PROVO
TRY FISHER'S DELICIOUS CERA-LAC BREAD
Made of a special new blend of wheat, rye, buckwheat, bran and other cereals. It's a natural food with a healthful, laxative effect.
Another quality product of
AMERICAN LADY BAKING COMPANY
The Big Home-Owned Bakery
Don't Be Deceived!
Our charges are according to your desires
Lindquist Sons Carlquist Co.
FUNERAL DIRECTORS
2128 So. State Salt Lake Phone Hy. 1572
Lindquist & Sons
Ogden
2620 Wash. Blvd. Phone 520
UNDERWEAR
Newest Improved Patterns for both Men and Women—we have served you now for 38 years—can be purchased as usual at
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE
42 South Main Street
1938
Samples and Prices sent FREE on Request
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
We Invite You!
If you are not a customer of one of these banks, we invite you to become one. If you are, we invite you to make use of all the services they provide, including Checking Accounts, Savings Accounts, Trusts, Mortgage Loans, Safe Deposits.
May We Serve You?
FIRST SECURITY BANK OF UTAH
FIRST NATIONAL BANK
Bingham, Magna, Park City, Richmond
FIRST SECURITY BANK OF IDAHO
FIRST SECURITY TRUST CO.
Emmett, Gooding, Hailey, Idaho Falls, Jerome, Montpelier, Mountain Home,
FIRST SECURITY BANK
MEMBERS OF FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
Let cheap electricity do the annoying tasks in your home... Sweep, cook, refrigerate food, provide good light, Etc.
Reddy Kilowatt, the cheapest servant you can possibly hire, makes living a pleasure.
UTAH POWER & LIGHT Co.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
National Association
Branches at Ogden, Logan, Provo,
Branches at Boise, Pocatello, Blackfoot,
Nampa, Payette, Preston, Shoshone
of Salt Lake City
Branches at Sugarhouse and Tooele
Salt Lake City
Rock Springs, Wyo.
THIS DAY
By Gertrude Perry Stanton
When Dawn rolls back the curtains from the skies,
And rested mortals greet the morning light,
Daily new opportunities arise
To prove our loyalty before the night.
Perhaps the gods of metal and of stone
May not demand obeisance in this day;
But there are other idols, clamoring
For our attention all along Life's way.
Men bow to worship wealth or worldly fame,
Enthrone the gods of selfishness and pride;
Yet God has given man a wondrous gift—
A sovereign will, his leading to decide.
This day 'tis ours again to make the choice
Of what we shall on each fresh page record;
May we choose well, as Joshua did of old—
"For me and my house, we will serve the Lord."
FISH LAKE, UTAH
The Relief Society Magazine
VOL. XXV AUGUST, 1938 No. 8
National Conference of Social Work
Seattle, Washington—June 26-July 2, 1938
SOCIAL workers in the United States are found in every type of tax-supported and voluntary activity which has to do with the welfare of human beings who for one reason or another (physical or mental illness, unemployment, death, desertion, instability, foreignness) suffer from interruption in the conduct of their own lives and activities in the social structure, and who are thus led to seek personal assistance and supplementary resources.
"Social workers are employed by private social agencies and by governmental departments under federal, state, county and city auspices; by citizens' committees; civic organizations and religious denominations; by schools, hospitals, courts and industrial bodies. They work in rural districts and in cities of every size.
"The types of activity in which social workers engage may be classified roughly under the headings social case work, social group work, community organization, and social research."
Social case workers endeavor to assist individuals or families who wish some type of aid because their problems of living, temporarily or permanently, are beyond their capacity to solve without help. Individuals usually need opportunities for group association and recreation as part of their normal social life. Group workers undertake to meet this need by establishing and conducting recreation centers, clubs of various kinds and leisure-time activities for boys and girls, men and women. Social programs must be planned in relation to community needs so that these needs may be adequately met, i. e. Public health programs, community chests. This is the process of community organization. Research workers study social conditions and the experience of social agencies to determine the adequacy of existing services and the more obscure causes lying back of social problems.
With the rapid development of social work under both private and public auspices, the importance of improving the quality of service is being increasingly recognized.
WITH this end in view the National Conference of Social Work convened in Seattle, Washington, June 26, for its 65th annual meeting. Simultaneously, fifty other national organizations devoted to specialized fields of social service convened as associate groups of the National Conference of Social Work. The conference continued for one week. More than 350 sessions were held and more than 400 speakers appeared on the blended programs. The conference, declared to be one of the largest ever held on the Pacific Coast, drew over 3,000 delegates from all parts of the United States and Canada. America's major economic and social problems were attacked: unemployment relief, social security, and general human welfare in all its phases, providing a sweeping survey of current problems. The group included professionally trained as well as volunteer workers—men and women of good will trying to learn how best to lift human life to its highest level through the promotion, improvement and interpretation of welfare services.
It was Lincoln who said in his immortal Gettysburg address, "That this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom". So this great body of intelligent Christians are striving to give the nation a new birth of freedom—freedom from poverty, illness, loneliness, frustration, and the innumerable handicaps which prevent men and women everywhere from living the abundant life. Meeting together, they bring to one another a breadth of vision, enlightened understanding of the great social movement, the newest in technique and practice as well as more clearly defined goals. The ideal "that man can adjust to his advantage if enough men wish it so" permeated the conference. The theory that the "care of all is the concern of all" exuded from every department. "To the extent that a single individual is sick the community is sick, to the extent that a single individual is delinquent, the community is delinquent, to the extent that a single individual is impoverished, the community is impoverished, to the extent that a single individual is underprivileged, the community is underprivileged," was an outstanding doctrine of the group. Social welfare must mean much more than relief as the word is commonly understood. Relief must not be divorced from service and service extends itself beyond the providing of food, clothing
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
and shelter to a devotion to the complete range of human needs—physical, mental and emotional. Social Welfare must be interpreted as concern for complete rehabilitation in all the casualties of life. "Relief never built a nation and security will never keep one."
THE conference swung into action with an opening address prepared by Dr. Solomon Lowenstein of New York, president of the organization, in which he warned the United States that unless it develops methods equally efficient to those of the totalitarian states, it will find itself surpassed by those nations in both employment and the standard of living. The final test of American democracy he said must be a higher standard of living and industrial life and security for the citizenry.
The churches held a place of dignity and status in the conference program. Much is being accomplished by the Catholics and Jewish groups while the Protestant group is fast coming to the fore. The Rev. Worth M. Tippy of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America, New York City, said that the revival which churches have been praying for is literally happening and challenged church leaders to see it. The churches have been preaching, content with the word; Christ in action is the desirable thing. The church must be a functioning agency in human betterment and adjustment. Social work is moving forward and the church must go with it, must be in line with the knowledge and experience of social leaders. The church is the ideal social agency. Experience shows that people are going to come to churches when the stresses of life are pronounced and the church must meet them with as competent leadership as any social agency plus its great spiritual resource. Skill
NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF SOCIAL WORK
equal to that of the agency coupled with the spiritual strength of the church is the ideal and is not impossible of attainment.
That the Nation is child welfare conscious was evidenced in the many departments held for this particular phase of welfare work. Miss Mary Irene Atkinson, of the Federal Children's Bureau, U. S. Dept of Labor, assured those present that an understanding service to children is in the process of growing. "Every child," she said, "should be made to feel that he is a blessing in the sight of the Lord." The aim of those engaged in this work is to develop a children's program such that "the potential capacities of all children shall not be cramped by either penury or privilege."
Case needs of the aged were given due consideration. Reaching beyond the need of financial security the aged have many needs not least of which is a sense of "renewal with the current of life." To release and develop latent potentialities for intelligent participation in life is most important. Happiness lies in the fullest participation in life according to one's abilities, physical and mental, and the aged are entitled to full happiness.
Social treatment of the adult offender was presented in discussion groups under the able leadership of Edgar M. Gerlach, the supervisor of social service for the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Considered in these discussion groups were the alcoholic, the mentally deficient offender, the drug addict, the prostitute, and the psychopathic offender. Psychiatrists and psychologists advanced the thesis that "no criminal, or anyone else for that matter, does the things he does entirely of his own conscious volition, but that mental and physical functioning entirely out of the individual's awareness and control, always have something to do with all of living as it expresses itself by behavior, whether this behavior be good or bad."
Discussants agreed that criminality has its bases in medical and social conditions as well as in legal definitions and that the individual approach is necessary for the rehabilitation of an offender. The roots of crime are probably in the foundations of our social order and probably only a radical change toward a more just social order will bring about any large measure of cure.
Aubrey Williams, deputy administrator of the Works Progress Administration, in a stimulating paper dealt with the right of every employable citizen to a job. "From the point of view of social justice and sound economic efficiency," said Williams, "the proper way to deal with the unemployed is to provide everyone with socially useful work, at his regular occupation or as near as possible to it, and at his regular rate of pay." The right to work, the right to a job for the people, must be recognized. Mr. Williams commended the American people for their stability. He said, "During the last nine months we have been able to go through a severe business depression without any serious disturbances, without panic. This is something in which all can take pride."
MANY nationally known figures appeared on the Conference programs, among them Miss Margaret Bondfield, former minister of labor of Great Britain; Sanford Bates, executive secretary of the Boy's Club of America, New York City, and former director of the federal bureau of prisons; David D. Adie, commissioner of New York state department of social welfare; Miss Elsa Castendyck, director, delinquency division of the U. S. Children's Bureau; Richard A. Chappell, acting supervisor, bureau of prisons, U. S. Department of Justice; C. C. Carstens, executive director, Child Welfare League of America, New York; Miss Helen Hall, head worker of the famous Henry Street Settlement, New York; John Slawson, director, Jewish Board of Guardians, New York; Grace Abbott, Professor of Public Welfare Administration, University of Chicago, and many others equally eminent.
The conference gave striking evidence that many of the Nation's most intelligent men and women, animated by a spirit of Christian service, are giving their time and ability to a better understanding of human needs and the most enlightened methods of adequately meeting them. Rapid progress is being made in a constantly growing field of vital importance. Private agencies as well as public should give increased attention to
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
provisions for opportunity for greater understanding and advancement in this important work. Those whose responsibility it is to work in the field of social welfare should acquire competence, developed through careful preparation and self-development on the job. Mr. Adie in one of the concluding addresses of the conference urged upon social workers vision, high standards and intelligent service. Because a person is in trouble, he said, because difficulties too great for him to bear alone have slipped upon him like a thief in the night, social agencies cannot send to his assistance anything but the very best in training, understanding, judgment, and humility. The social worker must set his standards high. "He who builds below the stars builds too low."
A nation of happy, well adjusted citizens was the goal of the Master when he said, "I am come that ye might have life and have it more abundantly."
—
LIFE'S MYSTERY
By Olive C. Wehr
You never would suppose
The thorny old desert cactus
Could bloom like the rose;
Nor that the slimy, creeping snail
Could build a pearl house,
So beautifully frail;
Nor that pain and grief
Could bring understanding
To give another relief.
How strange life's mystery
That out of pain or ugliness
Should come most beauty!
An Evening With the Bible
By Sidney B. Sperry
"LET'S start a Bible study group, Mary, and meet every other Sunday evening after church. I think most of the young people in our crowd would be thrilled with the idea. Each of the group could take turns at entertaining in his home and, besides, just think how much we could learn while having a good time."
"Say, Beth, that's an idea. The refreshments could be the usual ice cream and cake or fruit drink—so very little trouble. We could invite the Bishopric and their wives to join us. In fact, I think they will welcome the idea, because it ought to keep us out of mischief—at least part of the time."
"But who can we get to lead the discussions?" said Beth, "That's my worst concern."
"Why not plan our first meeting," suggested Mary, "and invite young Professor Mack from the University to give us an informal talk on the Bible. He would be glad to answer questions for us, too. Such an arrangement would create interest and give us plenty of time to select a live and peppy leader."
"You're just too bright for words, Darling. Let's go!"

"DO I understand you to say, Dr. Mack," said the Bishop, very much interested, "that even women have made translations of the Bible? I was always under the impression that men kept that field pretty much to themselves."
"It may doubtless be a surprise to many of you," answered Professor Mack, "to know that several women have tried their hand at Bible translation. One of the most recent translations of the New Testament in modern speech was that made by Mrs. Helen Barrett Montgomery of Rochester, N. Y. It was originally published in two volumes at Philadelphia, Pa., in 1924, to celebrate the first hundred years of service of the American Baptist Publication Society. The translation is also available in a cheaper and more convenient one volume edition. Mrs. Montgomery introduces each book of the New Testament with information of value. There are chapter headings and topics also for each subdivision, in prominent type, at the head of the paragraph. Some of the themes of these paragraph headings are interesting. Consider: 'Paul's Swan Song'; 'Orchestrate Your Virtues'; 'A "Close-up" of Sin', etc. The book is very modern in make-up with direct discourse in quotation marks, chapter and verse numbers in the margin, quotations from the Old Testament in italics and Scripture references are in the footnotes."
"I should much like to get a New Testament answering that description," said Bob Russell, "but is the translation well done?"
"Yes, it is really quite well done. Some of the renderings are very striking, and altogether the translation runs along with smoothness and grace. It is a credit to Mrs. Montgomery. Other women have also worked on the New Testament. Mrs. Mary Higgs (nee Kingsland) was one of the two original sponsors of the Twentieth Century New Testament, the publication of which was begun in 1898, and the final revision appeared in New York and London in 1904. Mrs. Higgs was one of the translators. The work was done with decided ability, though it has some obvious drawbacks. Then we must not forget two famous sisters, Mrs. Agnes Smith Lewis and Mrs. Gibson, of Cambridge, England, who discovered in 1892, an ancient manuscript of the four Syriac Gospels in a convent on Mt. Sinai. Their find created great interest in scholarly circles. In 1894 Mrs. Lewis published a translation of the newly found Syriac Manuscript, and in 1896 she published a new edition with a retranslation of certain parts. The two sisters were Greek scholars and among their many accomplishments, if I remember correctly, they could speak modern Greek. Mrs. Lewis was honored by many universities on the Continent and in England. I suppose it would be fair to say that Mrs. Lewis was the greatest woman Bible scholar of all times."
"All the women you have mentioned thus far," said Mary Harmon, "have worked on the New Testament. Have any ever translated the whole Bible?"
"So far as I am aware, the only woman who ever translated the whole Bible into any language was Julia E. Smith of Glastonbury, Connecticut. She published her version in English at Hartford, Connecticut, in 1876, and at her own expense. The translation consumed seven years. During that time she translated the Hebrew twice, the Greek twice and the Latin once. In her version she arranged the Old Testament books in the ancient Hebrew order. That was good, but unfortunately her translation was too slavishly literal. Greek and Hebrew idioms were carried over into English with bad effect. In the preface to her translation she says: (here the professor consulted a note) 'It may be thought by the public in general that I have great confidence in myself, in not conferring with the learned in so great a work, but as there is but one
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
book in the Hebrew tongue, and I have defined it word for word, I do not see how anybody can know more about it than I do'."
"That lady thought she knew her stuff, Doctor," interjected Bill Summs, to the amusement of all.
"Yes, indeed," continued Professor Mack, "but that isn't all, she became prominent politically and a champion of the Woman's Suffrage party. To cap it all she married in her eighty-seventh year to a young man one year her junior, and lived happily ever after. But she does not complete the list of women who have translated the Bible or part of it. I might briefly mention three others. An English lady by the name of Elizabeth Smith taught herself Hebrew, Greek, Latin, Arabic, French, Italian, Spanish and German; she then rendered the book of Job into English before she was twenty-six years of age. That was no mean accomplishment. She died in 1806, at the age of thirty, and her translation, with notes, was published at Bath, England, in 1810 by Rev. T. Randolph. Another English woman, Helen Spurrell, the wife of a Church of England minister, learned Hebrew by her own efforts after she was fifty years of age. She then proceeded to translate the Old Testament into English. Whenever she thought it was possible to improve on the Hebrew text, she did not hesitate to adopt readings from the Samaritan Pentateuch or the Septuagint (the Greek Old Testament). Her style of translation doesn't vary much from that of the Authorized Version. Textual and explanatory notes are found at the bottom of the page in her version which was printed in 1885. This edition of the Bible now sells at a rather high figure. The last woman translator I shall mention is Ethel Cutler who was one of the translators of Dr. Charles Foster
AN EVENING WITH THE BIBLE
Kent's Shorter Bible which appeared in New York between the years 1918-1921."
"Well, I declare," observed the Bishop, "what you have said about the women translators of the Bible is certainly interesting, but," he added with a twinkle in his eye, "we'll never hear the last of it from our wives if you tell us anything more about them."
"Oh, you men think that women can't do anything intellectual. You're just jealous, that's all," the Bishop's wife retorted amid the laughter of everyone in the room.
"AND now, Dr. Mack," said George Lewis, "I wonder if you would mind telling us something about mistranslations in the Bible. That's a subject I'm very much interested in, but have never heard competently discussed. We've quoted the Eighth Article of Faith all our lives without really knowing the meaning of it."
"Yes, I shall be only too glad to discuss it," said the Doctor. "The fact is that few people of our Church really understand all the implications of the Prophet Joseph Smith's 'We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly.' There are many passages in the Bible that are correctly translated from our present Hebrew and Greek texts that we do not believe. Let me make my point clear by referring to a revelation given in the year 1833 when Joseph Smith asked the Lord whether or not he should translate the Apocrypha. The answer was: 'Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you concerning the Apocrypha—There are many things contained therein that are true, and it is mostly translated correctly; there are many things contained therein that are not true, which are interpolations by the hands of men.' The revelation makes clear that some things in the Apocrypha are not true though it is 'mostly translated correctly.' The same principle holds true of the Bible. Nor need we suppose that Joseph Smith was not aware of this fact. Between the years 1830 and 1833 the Prophet, at the Lord's command, made a revision of the Bible (Authorized Version) by the spirit of revelation. In many parts of it he made profound changes. Sometime, examine a few chapters of his revision such as Genesis 1:50; Isaiah 29; Matthew 4 etc. Many of the changes made go far beyond anything we understand at this day by a 'correct' translation. What, then, did Joseph mean when he said, 'We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly.' Let him give his own answer: 'I believe the Bible as it read when it came from the pen of the original writers. Ignorant translators, careless transcribers, or designing and corrupt priests have committed many errors. As it read, Genesis 6:6, "'It repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth';" also, Numbers 23:19, "'God is not a man, that he should lie; neither the Son of Man, that he should repent';" which I do not believe. But it ought to read, "'It repented Noah that God made man.'" This I believe, and then the other quotation stands fair.' You see, the Prophet's use of 'translation' in the Eighth Article of Faith is much broader than one may at first suppose. His position may be summed up this way: We believe the Bible to be the word of God if (1) we have the text as it left the hands of the original writers and (2) that original text is correctly translated in the common sense of the term."
"That does seem sensible," observed Beth Stewart, "for many times I have thought that Bible translators have rendered correctly enough certain passages that all of us recognize as being contradictory. When contradictions occur it does not necessarily mean that the translators are at fault. They simply do the best they can with the text they have inherited."
"Well said, Miss Beth. What you have concluded is true. In order to correct many errors in the Bible we need a much better text than we have. Let me show you how a great American scholar, Dr. E. J. Goodspeed, recognizes that fact and attempts to rectify a passage in the New Testament that he believes is faulty. The type of change he makes in the text is called by scholars conjectural emendation. The reference in question is I Peter 3:19. Professor Goodspeed, following the suggestion of Dr. Rendel Harris, inserts the name Enoch in this verse because he thinks it was omitted by a 'scribe's blunder in dropping some repeated letters.' He then renders the verse as follows: 'In it Enoch went and preached even to those spirits that were in prison.' Every translator is an interpreter and apparently Dr. Goodspeed's theology prevented him from accepting the view that Christ, following his crucifixion, went to the spirits in prison and preached. According to Latter-day Saint theology Dr. Goodspeed has mistranslated the verse in question, but if we were to accept his reconstruction of the original Greek, then it would follow that his translation of the verse is correct."
"It would appear then from what you say, that some modern translations would not be wholly acceptable to Latter-day Saints," said Reed Jones.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Yes, that is true. Now let me introduce another verse of special interest to our people. It is Malachi 3:10, last clause, which the Authorized Version translates: That there shall not be room enough to receive it. I hardly like to call this rendition a mistranslation, but it certainly gives many people a wrong impression of the meaning intended by Malachi. It literally means 'until there is no more need,' i. e., of rain. Let me translate the whole verse for you. 'Bring ye the whole tithe to the storehouse, that there may be provision in my house, and prove me now herewith, saith Jehovah of hosts, if I do not open you the floodgates (or windows, see same word in Genesis 7:11) of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, until there is no more need.' In other words, the Lord will see to it that His people will lack none of the precious element so necessary in the production of good crops if the people will obey His commandments. That this is the interpretation of the verse is apparent from what follows in verse 11. And now,—but I see our hostess approaching with refreshments. Figuratively, I must fold up my tent and silently steal away."

"AND do you know, Mary, what I did," said Beth, after the guests had left her home, "I got Dr. Mack to promise me he would come to our next meeting and continue his discussion."
"Well, I hope he will be the permanent leader for our Bible class somehow, don't you?" answered Beth.
The Red Seas of Life
By Caroline Eyring Miner
I LOVE the Red Sea story of Exodus: "And they said unto Moses, Because there were no graves in Egypt, hast thou taken us away to die in the wilderness? Wherefore hast thou dealt thus with us to carry us forth out of Egypt?
"And Moses said unto the people, Fear ye not, stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will show to you today; for the Egyptians whom ye have seen today, ye shall see them again no more for ever.
"The Lord shall fight for you, and ye shall hold your peace. And the Lord said unto Moses, Wherefore criest thou unto me? Speak unto the children of Israel, that they go forward; But lift thou up thy rod, and stretch out thine hand over the sea, and divide it; and the children of Israel shall go on dry ground through the midst of the sea....
"And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and the Lord caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all that night, and made the sea dry land, and the waters were divided.
"And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon the dry ground; and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand, and on their left."
THERE is solace and comfort in this biblical incident. How often we are pushed from behind by our enemies and confronted before by an impassible sea. These are the occasions when we cannot go back nor around but must go through. And how can we go through except with unfaltering faith and trust in the God of Heaven that He will somehow cause the waters of our Red Sea to divide as He did in the days of Moses. Sometimes we are pushed into the waters of our Red Sea almost to the drowning depth before our faith and trust in God part the treacherous waters and let us walk into the midst of the sea in safety.
I am thinking now of the Red Sea one mother faced recently. Her dearly beloved son had been killed in an accident, he who was the hope, the pride, the motivating center of her life. There was no calling him back; there was no use for the precautions she might have taken; there was no substitute for her loss. In a word, pushed from behind by reality she could not go around this Red Sea of tragedy; she could not go back and avoid it; she could only trust in God to give her faith and strength to live through and beyond her loss, to part the waters and let her walk on dry ground.
Confronted by the Red Sea with the armed Egyptians close upon their heels, God said unto Moses, "Speak unto the children of Israel that they go forward." They were pushing toward a goal, the land of Canaan and there was no way but forward and through. In our struggles we are pushing toward exaltation in the life eternal and in certain crises for us there is no way but forward and through. There are many situations in our lives that must be faced and somehow lived through: there are the births of our babies, the deaths of our loved ones, the meeting of financial disasters, injury to our children. These Red Sea occasions are the test of our trust and faith in God. If we have sufficient trust and faith in Him we shall walk through on dry ground. Anna Stoddart Barlow By Myrtle Willes Bailey LIFE has its sunbursts. There are moments that are sweet and days that are divine..." —Gordon. These must have been the thoughts of the petite Ada Stoddart as she gazed into the large, blue eyes of her baby Anna, for Anna it seems came into the world smiling. And has gone about lending her smile of bursting sunshine "for others to live upon." Anna Stoddart Barlow was born in American Fork, Utah, the last child of a family of four boys and eight girls. When she was one year old her parents moved to Lehi where she lived for thirty years. She received her education in the schools at Lehi and did special secretarial work. She is the daughter of Robert and Ada Lucy Steel Stoddart, both pioneers. Her father came to Utah with the first Handcart Company and her mother came by ox-team in 1862. They were English converts. Mr. Stoddart died when the children were young, leaving Mrs. Stoddart to rear her family alone. She was a woman of courage and determination and was proud of her family. From her teachings we recognize her favorite proverbs: "Prepare thy work without, and make it fit for thyself in the field, and afterwards build thy house." And second: "My child, if thine heart be wise my heart shall rejoice, even mine." Anna, who has always had a desire to please her mother, can be assured that her mother's heart has rejoiced. Sister Anna spreads sunshine not only through her smile but by song. When she was very young she took leading parts in operettas appearing as a dainty fairy unafraid. Later she sang with the Areo Glee Club of Lehi. Anna has worked in church organizations since she was a very young girl. Always she called to her aid those silent partners dependability, enthusiasm, honesty, kindness, loyalty, and sincerity; people recognized these at once. She worked first as Sunday School teacher and later in the Primary. She has served as Ward Y. W. M. I. A. Secretary, Alpine Stake Board Y. W. M. I. A. Secretary, and second counselor in Alpine Stake Y. W. M. I. A. In 1923 Anna was married to Ellis E. Barlow, now a member of the Central Park Ward Bishopric, who is ever anxious to assist her in the home and in her church duties. As sister Louise T. Barkdull has said, "He helps her spread the welcome mat at the door and leads you in to find no clutter, no pretense, but hospitality in abundance and comfort in an immaculate home." Here you are brought to see, "Where love is there God is also." A short time after they were married they moved into Central Park Ward of Salt Lake City. Here Anna worked in gradual succession first as counselor in the Primary, then Work and Business leader, second counselor, first counselor, and finally president of the Relief Society. She left this work to become assistant secretary, secretary, first counselor and then president of the Grant Stake Relief Society. Later she became chairman of the Salt Lake Regional Relief Society Committee of the Church Welfare Program. Her latest calling is to work on the General Board of the Relief Society. Here we have a literal example of ANNA STODDART BARLOW 515 ANNA STODDART BARLOW 516 the "sunshine of her smile," As the first warm rays of springtime fall impartially on all growing things that are in a position to receive them, so Sister Anna's smile is radiated on those about her. And as the signs of growth appear first in the grass and later in the shrubs and trees so Anna's influence has spread from lowly beginnings to the taller branches in that great field of endeavor, the Relief Society. Like the sunshine she has that gift of imbuing others with strength and of helping others to grow, and the organizations she works in grow as a natural consequence. Her sunniness has a certain evident power which acts as a driving force to others. In that lies her ability in leadership. Anna pays high tribute to the influence of her brothers and sisters RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE upon her life. The usual bonds which unite sisters have been exceptionally pronounced. Always keeping close contact with one another, ambitious for each other's good, these sisters have constantly aided and encouraged Anna and rejoiced in every opportunity and achievement which has been hers. Anna's fitness for Relief Society work was early evident. Never was there a time when she did not evince interest in the very young, the old, and the afflicted. She has often been seen on the walks of her home town leading a friend's child by the hand. But more impressive still has been her interest in old people. No effort in their behalf has been too great. Anna's work of the past is a guarantee of her future. THE SUPREME GIFT By Della Adams Leitner We may come to God the Father Yearning for a gift to bring, __ Feeling humbled by our weakness, Think we lack in everything; But He takes the gift we offer, Takes our longing, faith and prayer, Blesses these with His abundance Till we find that we can share. With this sharing comes a vision Of the gladness it inspires, Consecration to His service Is the gift that He desires. Luxury By Carla Wolfe puffy and pink from the scrubbing pail, but still as delicate and fine as on the day when Richard had kissed the little diamond into place, laughingly comparing his own rough ones, and whispered, "Prettiest hands in the whole world. I want to do all the work for both of us, Sweetheart, and keep your little hands soft for kissin'." She had protested, shyly, "I don't want luxury, I just want—you." But looking back today, she figured she had had more than her share of luxuries, even though they'd been through some bitter times together. Richard was gone now, with his faithful gnarled hands. And it was Richard's small grandson, Dickiebird, who had scribbled all over the tiled kitchen linoleum with some fiendish wax crayon, thus making the scrubbing such an exhausting ordeal today. Richard's only son, lovable big Rich, had paid for the expensive linoleum and the crayons, cheerfully unaware that they were to cause his adored mother this stabbing pain in her back. Gratefully, Gram reached her own room and sank to the couch by the window. It was a pretty room, this guest room which Rich and Ellen HER slender old hands were had given her when she came to live' with them. It was spacious and cool and sunny, with plenty of places to put her treasured photographs and assorted keepsakes. Best of all, it was her own, a quiet little haven for resting and dreaming and remembering, away from the hustle and confusion that always surrounded Ellen and the babies. Gram looked at the clock on her dresser, with the little-girl smile she used when she asked a special favor, as if she now were really beseeching the friendly little timepiece to be generous with the minutes it would grant her here alone. Half-past one. Dickie-bird would nap for a good hour longer, and Mariellen until her feeding time at three. Pies were already baked for dinner, and salad jelling in the molds. Steak and cauliflower wouldn't take long to cook. She'd have time to write that long letter to Zilla later in the afternoon, unless the baby was cross, or Ellen arrived home from the club too late to press her dress for the concert tonight. Gram snuggled into her zephyr afghan and closed her eyes, thinking: "Dear Zilla, you must try to forgive me again for not coming to see you, and not writing for such a long time. I know how lonely you are in that big house with nobody but that housekeeper of yours...." (No, better not write that—) "You'll just have to put me down as a poor excuse for a friend, Zilla dear," her darting brain scribbled on, "for I haven't an earthly excuse. Ellen and Rich have every electrical device under heaven to do the work forthem..." (How I'd love to junk them. Gadgets for lazybones, and messy to keep clean!) Gram's imaginary letter had given pause again. "I have this beautiful big room of my own, with a perfect view of the mountains...." (only I'm never in it except when I'm too dog tired to keep my eyes open!) ".. And I do wish you would get over your nonsense and come to visit me. Ellen had no idea of snubbing you, I'm sure. She's just a bit odd in her ways, like the rest of this new gen- 518 eration. It couldn't be that we're the odd ones, could it, now?" MARIELLEN'S little scratchy wail roused Gram to swift wakefulness. How long had she been asleep? It was after three-fifteen! A quarter hour past feeding schedule. And where, oh where, was Dickie-bird? Like a little flurried bird herself, she rinsed her face, smoothed her wavy white hair, snatched a fresh apron and scuttled down the hall. What would Ellen say if she were to come in now? The breaking in to her luxurious afternoon naps had been hardest of all to get used to, since Ellen had let the maid go. But it would have been folly to keep Janie, with two able-bodied women in the house— and such an easy house to keep clean. Why, within a month of the day Gram had moved in she herself was accomplishing twice as much work as Janie (who drew handsome wages every week) and in half the time. Still, Gram had rather expected that Ellen would stay home more and assume a larger share of the duties, especially the babies. Gram adored naughty little Dickie-bird, and she could have kissed Mariellen breathless a hundred times a day, if such a grandmotherly luxury had not been forbidden. But sometimes their devious schedules, their noisy tantrums, their little mountains of untidy clothing and toys, were too much to cope with as blithely as she might have done in younger days. Still, she should be thankful for this lovely home with them, and for the effusive affection and gratitude they often lavished upon 'her. She was thankful! "I am happy," she would insist to herself whenever her sharp little nose got to feeling out of joint. "Much better, as Rich says, to be with my own family, than a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE companion' for Zilla—which is just a genteel way of saying 'hiring out'. “But Mother!" Rich had protested, horrified, when she had faced the decision between the two. Her little income had been swept almost entirely away, on one of those stupid economic chute-the-chutes the country was taking, and Zilla had begged her girlhood chum to come and live with her. The idea had looked quite rosy until Rich's objections had left it pale. "You must not even consider such a thing. You're my own and only mother and you belong in my home, and that's all there is to say about it. Working for a living at your age...." "But, Son, it isn't as if Zilla were paying me,' Gram had protested a bit meekly. "I still have a little money." "That's just it—a very little. Enough to buy your own pretty lace hankies, and that's about all. Of course you haven't considered that getting your board and room is exactly the same as accepting pay from your friend. No, my darling Mother, the very idea is preposterous. Besides, what position would that put me in, in our friends' eyes? Or Ellen? Or the kids? Now listen to me, once and for all. You're moving to our house—to your house from now on-—at once. And you're going to spend the rest of your long life in blessed luxury!" Well, here she was, Gram reflected, as she lugged the wailing Mariellen from her crib, giving Ellen's jade satin chaise lounge— symbol of blessed luxury—a little kick with the toe of her slender slipper, in passing. ELLEN was late getting home from club. She skipped in, her color high from driving in the wind, LUXURY her big blue eyes bright with pleasant thoughts. "Oh, Rich!" she answered her husband's hug with a snuggle against his chest. "I was just afraid you'd beat me home, and be starved to death, poor darling! But Rich! The best news! Just guess who.... Oh, hello, Gram dear. Hope I didn't keep you waiting dinner. I'll be right in. I'll tell you about it later, Rich." She tried to pull away but he held on to her wrist, looking at her. "You're looking powerful sweet this evening," he murmured, loverlike, looking down. Then he began to hum a popular tune, "Stay as sweet as you are...." Gram went back to the kitchen. There was something in the air at dinner, no getting around it. Rich failed to render his usual hearty tribute to the steak, broiled to perfection. And Ellen fiddled with the delectable mold of salad as if it had been so much left-over cole slaw. To break a long silence, which Gram abhorred at table, she ventured, "I pressed your green crepe, Ellen, when I saw it was getting late. Is that the one you planned to wear?" "Oh, yes. Thanks, Gram darling. You're too good to me." But the expression was almost perfunctory. "Too good to all of us," Rich chimed in—but his tone was not all there, either. The lemon cream pie—a masterpiece if there ever was one—was eaten without comment. The next day went badly, from the very start. Rich overslept, gulped his breakfast standing up, and left for the office in a black mood. Dickie-bird developed a sudden distaste for his half-eaten cereal, and when Gram refused to give him jam on his toast, he howled so furiously that it woke the baby, and that woke Ellen, and then the daily clatter was on. 519 Ellen did not dash off today to the golf links or the beauty shop, but puttered about the house absently, almost uneasily. She had plenty of opportunity to unburden her mind, but it was not until late afternoon that she sought Gram in the kitchen and spoke up: "Gram darling, I hope you won't mind a little favor I'm going to ask of you. It's just... It's just..." Ellen, the self-assured, was stammering for words, her lovely little face stained with color. "Of course, Ellen. What?" "Well, you see... Margie Ingals is in town. She was my very dearest, closest friend at college. We were like sisters. And she's left— well, she and her husband are not— they have separated for a while, you see. And she has no family, no place to go. So I really thought I ought to...." "Invite her to stay here, of course!" Dear Gram was such a help! "Oh, I knew you'd be an angel and say just that!' Relief flooded Ellen's worries away. She ran across the kitchen and enveloped Gram in an impulsive squeeze. "You see, nobody's using Janie's room now," she went on cheerfully, though a trifle hurriedly, "and it's really an awfully nice room with its own bath, and all. And you spend such a little bit of time in your room anyway. You're absolutely sure you won't mind letting Margie have the guest room?" Gram's brown eyes did not change their expression, though they felt as if they were widening to cart wheels; and she remained her customary five feet two and a half, though she felt as if her body, like her spirit, had mounted loftily to tower over Ellen. "No, indeed, Ellen, I don't mind," she smiled graciously. "She's It's just 520 welcome to that room for as long as she wants it!' Her slender feet carried her out of the room at a firm, swift pace. ELLEN and Rich found Gram in a rapt orgy of packing. What grand times she and Zilla would have, reminiscing over some of these old souvenirs: this first memory book of their school days together, the marriage book, and Rich's baby book. Later volumes were more incomplete. Why, she'd had no time since she'd lived here to paste in a single entry—and little inclination! Ellen had broken the news in advance, and Rich was armed with his familiar, blustering, affectionate weapons of protest. He was hurt and nonplussed when the best of them left the little old lady adamant. "But Mother dear," he cried in abject desperation. ''To think of you —YOU, of all people—in the position of a servant—a menial!" "Menial!'' snapped Gram, carefully stowing away a knitting bag and yarn. She would have time to finish that carriage robe for Mariellen, now. "I'll have a lovely fat housekeeper to spare me the menial work, and bring my breakfast to bed for me too if I want it—which I hope to heaven I never will!" "But Mom,"—as a little boy he had never wheedled more irresistibly. "We love you too much to let you go. Why—TI don't know what any of us will do without you. We won't know how to get along at all." "That's more like it," Gram agreed amiably. "I don't either. Still, your new guest will be here to help you out." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I was two months later that Dickie-bird's letter arrived. It was printed in his sprawling kindergarten capitals, and Gram knew that Rich must have told him how to spell all the words, and knew also how Rich must have winced at the ordeal. "Dear Gram, please come back. My trike is broke and Mamma can't make cookies. Margie is mean to my dogs. I got spanked awful. Thank you for the choo choo train. Please hurry home." "That's what you get for having grandchildren!' Zilla chuckled as the two old friends reread the letter together in the morning room. "I suppose you're going to turn soft and hurry back to them?" "Do I look like a lunatic?" little Gram replied amiably. "Til go back occasionally, bearing choo choo trains and dolls, and fool myself into thinking their shouts of welcome are for me alone. But I won't stay long enough to cease to be company again, don't worry." After a little pause she went on, "Besides, what would you do without me yourself? You need me here, to give that housekeeper of yours something to do besides get fat. At our age, Zilla, it does not hurt one mite to have folks waiting on us now and again." With luxurious satisfaction, she reached for the latest memory book, to paste in Dickie-bird's letter, on the page headed by the inscription: "Humorous Happenings." "If we are going to found the prosperity of the country—its commercial prosperity, its industrial prosperity—upon an impregnable basis we must cleanse the foundations of the rot of alcohol." —David Lloyd George. Carlsbad Caverns By Ivy Williams Stone NE summer evening, thirtyO five years ago, a young cowboy reined in his pony on the semi-desert of southeastern New Mexico. All around him stretched wastes of cacti, mesquite and chaparral, scattered over the limestone bluffs and ledges. In the silence of the sunset the boy kept his eyes riveted upon a strange phenomenon. Farther over the valley a dark column was moving upward from a cliff. It looked more like smoke than any other thing he could liken it to. It moved, fluttered, radiated in the evening breeze. Every summer evening, this unnamed column ascended into the sky for three hours. Old timers said that in the early morning it came back out of the sky and descended into the ground again. Jim White's imagination was fired; his love of adventure was awakened. He determined to learn what that weird spectacle was. Thus, from the decision and courage of a cowboy, Carlsbad Caverns, the "eighth wonder of the world", was discovered. Developing the caves proved to be a difficult task. After several nights and mornings of vigil, Jim White learned for a certainty that the thin column was composed of bats. Going out to hunt and forage throughout the night, returning to the cave at dawn, to hang by their claws from the roofs as they slept. Mother bats, young bats, old bats, big bats, little bats. Millions of bats! This statement is not figurative—it is literal. For three hours every summer evening the bats stream forth from the cave. They consume over eleven tons of insects each night. Before the caves were government controlled, guano was taken from them in large quantities and sold commercially. The bats hibernate in the caves through the winter months, or fly south. Squeamish or over-sensitive visitors need have no fear of contacting them, however, for that portion of the caves occupied by the bats has never been exploited, and is still intact. Not a single bat was in evidence the day of our visit. AS a whole, the world is slow to accept as truth anything which seems improbable. When a miner of California returned from a_ bear hunt with tales of enormous trees, his companions scouted his story. When Jim Bridger recounted stories of steaming caves and boiling pits, people did not at once accept the existence of Yellowstone Park. When Mr. Limbert wrote an illustrated account of the Craters of the Moon in Idaho, he had difficulty in finding an editor who believed his tale. And so it was with Jim White and his Carlsbad Caverns. With the aid of a Mexican boy, Mr. White descended into that unchartered cave, marking his trail with string and lamp black. He took hazards and risks of which the casual visitor has no knowledge. Finally, the National Geographic Society became interested. Mr. White's ropes gave place to a bucket and windlass. When it became a National Monument the windlass was replaced by a flight of hundreds of stairs. Thirty years after its discovery, it was established as a regular National Park, now provided with beautifully graded and banked approaches, seven miles of paths, with the second largest elevator in the United States at the disposal 522 of those who find the return climb too strenuous. It costs one dollar fifty cents for each adult who visits the cave, but all children under sixteen years are admitted free. Last spring the governor of New Mexico went through the cave with twenty-eight hundred children, and only one admittance fee was paid. The popularity of this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE are caves at a nine hundred foot level, and still others at a depth of twelve hundred feet. The full extent and possibilities of the caves are uncalculated. For the present, visitors are not permitted lower than the first level, but here there are vast reaches and depths. Vaulted ceilings rise over three hundred feet. The "Big Room" measures four CARLSBAD CAVERNS new playground is attested by the fact that nine hundred thousand people have visited it. The caves are skillfully lighted with hidden electric lamps, cunningly placed to bring out the full beauty of each distinctive point. Draperies of thin onyx delight the eye with myriads of shades, when illuminated from behind. The caverns have been developed to a depth of seven hundred fifty feet, but it is known there thousand feet in length, six hundred in width, and the visitor cranes his neck to glimpse the ceiling three hundred fifty feet above! Weird shapes and formations are on every side: the King's Throne and the Queen's Room; the "Rock of Ages," with its estimated age of fifty million years, is just a baby brother to the Giant Dome, fully sixty million years old. Stalagmites often meet stalactites and join in fantastic formations. CARLSBAD Through the uplifting and folding movements of prehistoric ages, through the slow processes of erosion on limestone, salt and gypsum the caves have been slowly formed. Spirals and twisted helicites, fantastic shapes like totem poles, hippopotami, bears, statues, lily pools, stage draperies and curtains, all can be seen by the visitor. THE caves are open every day of the year. Each guest signs an entrance slip bearing his name and place of residence. As the trip starts, the guests are exhorted to refrain from mutilations of any sort, to forbear writing upon the formations. It is a code of honor, and the nine hundred thousand who have already visited there, have left the caves as they found them, that they may be passed on in their virginal beauty to the thousands yet to come. About half way down the paths, a man in civilian clothes asked if we wished to be served with luncheon. It being only eleven o'clock, many people felt no urge of hunger. But by the time that long file reached the dining room, the enticing odors of food were irresistible. For the nominal sum of sixty cents, each guest was served with two sandwiches, potato chips, pickles, cake, fruit and hot drinks, served individually, cafeteria style, in waxed paper. On the day of my visit, there were CAVERNS 523 five hundred sixty-one people in the party. Rangers explained any questions we desired to ask. On the return trip, we gathered together under the shadow of "Rock of Ages" to rest, using the path walls as seats. The park superintendent then gave a lecture on the caves, comparing their age to that of the sequoia trees of California, and the pyramids of Egypt and Mexico. The caves are older than any other known object upon or within our earth. As a fitting climax, the superintendent asked for a half minute of silence and complete darkness, with no striking of matches or clicking of flashlights. For thirty seconds that group of over five hundred people sat in absolute darkness, making no sound. Then, far off down the vista we had just traveled a faint light glowed and distant voices sang "Rock of Ages." Gradually the light increased until the Giant Dome stood forth fully illuminated, supreme in all its dignity, majesty and beauty. God and Heaven seemed so very close. I almost resented the end of the song and the return of the lights. The eyes of many people around me were glistening, and they were unashamed of the emotion. The trip took seven hours. Twenty-one states were represented among the visitors. Five hundred sixty people from twenty states, and the writer of this article the only one from Utah! "A mind and spirit that can recognize and welcome the highest when it comes is one of the supreme gifts of man. It is indeed true that, next to genius, what is most like it is the power to know and admire it. Next to being creatively great one's self is the capacity to recognize greatness when one sees it, and make room."—Harry Emerson Fosdick. Women We Should Know Rose Homer Widtsoe—Doctor or PHILOSOPHY (University of Utah—Home Economics Department Head) By Ramona W. Cannon OSE HOMER of Oxford, R Idaho, was graduated from the Utah Agricultural College in 1900. That year she began teaching and in 1902 established the department of Home Economics in the B. Y. College in Logan, where she remained for four years. She then married Osborne J. P. Widtsoe, head of the department of English in the L. D. S. High School. In the beautiful, simple temple ceremony the couple exchanged vows of affection and fidelity for time and for all eternity, little realizing how soon time would end, eternity begin for one of them. While it endured, theirs was an exceptionally happy marriage. Both were lovers of home, children, arid religion, and were fond of books, flowers, and especially of each other. They built a charming house on Wall Street with book shelves reaching to the ceiling. These were soon filled with volumes indicating the varied tastes and interests of the pair of bibliophiles. After Brother Widtsoe's death, his wife, remembering how he had always liked to have his books in use, gave his professional library of 1500 volumes to the University of Utah with the request that books be added each year. Sixty dollars worth of books have been added annually until now the Osborne Widtsoe library is a very choice acquisition of the State Institution. Despite this gift, the shelves that reach the ceiling on Wall Street are still filled with volumes collected, read and loved by the married pair. They shed throughout the house a lingering essence of the personality of Brother Widtsoe, who was—yes, is—an integral part of this home. Before many years, two small daughters, Karen and Rosetta added to the joy of their parents. In 1910 Mrs. Widtsoe became matron of girls and lecturer at the L. D. S. High School. For two years her constructive, wholesome influence was felt by those with whom she worked. As an illustration of her good sense, she urged the girls not to wear their soiled and worn-out party dresses to school. Osborne Widtsoe became principal of the L. D. S. High School, and later head of the English department at the University of Utah. His wife for some years remained at home devoting her capable attention to their little girls. N 1917 when America was conserving such foods as wheat, sugar and butter to send to the boys "over there', Mrs. Widtsoe was asked to become City Food Administrator. She was the only woman in the United States to hold that position. Permits from her office had to be issued for all sugar purchased in Salt Lake. As part of her work Mrs. Widtsoe gave lectures on nutrition, especially on the use of substitutes for white flour, on family income, budgeting, and other home problems. She demonstrated her lectures on cooking, and organized centers where other women demonstrated to the public. She worked in cooperation with the Civic Center Board, who, when Mrs. Widtsoe's duties were completed, wrote individually, all WOMEN WE SHOULD KNOW twenty of them, to President Peterson of the Agricultural College, asking that she be retained in her work as an Extension Division instructor of that institution. Consent was gladly given. Mrs. Widtsoe called a meeting of eightynine volunteer workers, unselfish, well-equipped women, thoroughly prepared for the task in hand. At her request the Mayor of Salt Lake Sl stores, sold in this project for the cost of the material, twenty cents. The government at Washington circulated the report of this project to welfare workers in many other states. IN 1920 came Brother Widtsoe's illness and death. The shock and grief of this experience did serious damage to Sister Widtsoe's nervous ROSE HOMER WIDTSOE advanced money to buy a quantity of mill-ends for underwear. The women cut out and usually sewed the garments, in many cases trimming them with crocheted lace. The Salt Lake Knitting Store cooperated with the women by sewing up the union suits on a power machine. The Relief Societies and Church Aid Committees distributed purchase tickets for these articles to those in need, for the depression was on, and the "flu" epidemic, and there were many in distress. A Rubens shirt for babies costing from $1.25 to $1.50 in the system and general health. She struggled heroically to overcome the weakness, but without much success. Her one great consolation at this time was the knowledge of the truth of the everlasting covenant between them, the feeling that her mate was still interested in her welfare, that he loved and waited for her. That summer the New York Charity Organization in cooperation with Teachers College, Columbia, gave a course in advanced welfare work to forty-six outstanding women in the United States. Rose Widtsoe's 526 friends had suggested her name as a candidate, without her knowledge, and she was invited to attend. Fighting ill health, she did the best she could, and found the work stimulating and helpful. Returning, she was asked to organize a class of ninety widows, for whom the county was caring, whose husbands had died in the "flu" epidemic. This was a supremely difficult task for her with her own bereavement so fresh. She taught them budgeting. The women accounted for the expenditure of each bi-weekly check, before the next was available. Sister Widtsoe checked these reports and found that they were not buying milk and fresh vegetables in sufficient quantities. Laboring, she converted them to the need of these foods. Mrs. Widtsoe was also keeping records of the budgets of 205 families who received assistance. These were in three distinct income groups. Upon these studies she later based her thesis for her M. A. Degree. IN spite of Mrs. Widtsoe's efforts her health did not improve, and she felt obligated to resign her position. Despair was her portion. One day President Thomas of the University of Utah asked her why she did not go away to study. " "Do you suppose I could be sure of a position when I returned?' she asked wearily. "One can never be sure," he replied. "I know of nothing definite, but it has been my observation that the person who is prepared is the one who gets the position." Mrs. Widtsoe was still very weak. She could not sleep. She could not remember. She could not concentrate. Her house had been in the clear, but unfortunately two weeks before her husband's death, they had been obliged to mortgage it for three thousand dollars. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Nevertheless this widow with two daughters to support borrowed two thousand dollars on a block of stock she possessed, and went to Berkeley, taking her daughters with her. After a most difficult year she received her M. A. Degree in 1922, in Economics. She felt the need of a closer relation between this subject and home economics, since women spend eighty-five per cent of the money which goes over the counter. She did some pioneering along this line. When her professor felt that the proper research work could not be done for her proposed thesis on "Standards of Living in America," she explained the work she had done with the different groups in Utah, and was given an opportunity to help pioneer a "standard of living" experiment in Berkeley. Upon her combined research work in both states, she based her valuable thesis. Mrs. Widtsoe now looked forward to coming home and teaching. But Dr. Thomas asked her if she could not remain another year. She was appalled at the advice. She did not know how to obtain funds. Her spirit was crying out for help. Consumed with perplexity she sat alone in her room one morning and said aloud in desperation, "What shall I do?" Suddenly her being was electrified. She distinctly felt the spirit of her husband enter the room, approach her, remain beside her. In some way it imparted to her that she must remain. Then she was conscious that it left the room. Sister Widtsoe felt uplifted and happy. She spoke to the Dean about the annual Thompson scholarship of six hundred dollars for a Utah student. To her surprise, she received this grant. Her health was better, and she did a heavy year's work toward her Ph. D. Degree. In the spring she was offered the position of head of the department of Home WOMEN WE SHOULD KNOW Economics in the Brigham Young University, in the Agricultural College at Logan, and in the University of Utah, which position had only just become vacant. Her work in the University of Utah has been outstanding. No college credit used to be given for any work in the University in domestic science. This course counted only toward a Normal certificate. Now one may take an M. A. Degree in home economics. Courses are now given in child development, and a W. P. A. Nursery school functions in connection with the department. In the nutrition department chemical analysis of foods is made, and also each student experiments with animals. When girls see white rats losing their hair and becoming lifeless and ugly when robbed of certain vitamins and see them brighten up when the vitamins are added, they will never forget the picture, and surely they will not be careless about the feeding of their children in the future, says Mrs. Widtsoe, who is always a very popular teacher. Registered in her department this summer are more than 800 students. The quarterly departmental registration has increased from 250 to 1307 during her regime. IN 1931 Mrs. Widtsoe received her Ph. D. Degree from Berkeley. Her thesis was "The Economic Justification for Pure Food Laws, Federal, State, and Municipal." She did a great deal of work in the Boalt Law School, to get this material. Also, to see the practical application of these laws, she climbed rope ladders into incoming steamships, to examine foods carried; she went to railCL 527 road terminals, wholesale houses, and abattoirs, working for many months with the food inspector. In 1932, Mrs. Widtsoe was appointed Home Economics Consultant for the W. P. A. After three years of carrying her heavy double burden, she was obliged to resign, because it was too much for her. She feels, however, that the W. P. A. Work she did was the most useful of her life. She organized 482 classes in nutrition, every county in the state being represented. She wrote and sent out lessons. She organized thirty-three food conservation centers where food raised at home or on government projects could be canned with machinery and cans furnished by the government. In twenty-seven counties school lunches were provided, the first year to children on relief, the second to all children, and as this became too great a burden, to any child at a cost of two or three cents for a hot dish to supplement the dry bread, usually brought from home. Thirty thousand children who were literally starving were thus rescued. Two years of Mrs. Widtsoe's W. P. A. Work was done without any financial compensation. With all her fine intelligence, Dr. Widtsoe has been first and foremost an excellent wife and mother. No honors she has received gives her the joy she finds in the memory of her beloved husband, and in the living presence of her two daughters with their husbands and her three lovely grandchildren. Her ambitions were all directed to helping her daughters, who have received every possible advantage, and have been worthy of any sacrifices which Mrs. Widtsoe has joyfully made for them.
She Makes an Art of Friendship
By E. C. C.
IF Shirley's friends were to be asked why they love her, one might say, "Because she looks like a Madonna—her big dark eyes so full of mystery, and wisdom, and understanding;" another, "Because she converses so interestingly of new books and magazines that I, though I am really no busier than she, never find time to read;" a third, "Because of her keen sense of humor and her witty way of saying commonplace things." Someone else would be sure to mention her hospitality, her ability to make a festive occasion of a glass of lemonade and a cheese sandwich, or her sympathy which makes one wish to share with her the minutest disappointment or happiness. And so on and on they would go through all the characteristics that make up the ideal friend.
I used to wonder at her great number and variety of friends. The rest of our little group have a normal number of congenial companions who are about the same age, and have had somewhat similar experiences, and have similar tastes. But her circle is so much wider, so much more varied. Little boys come to show her their pigeons and kites; little girls bring their doll families and play on her lawn; high school students come for her advice on lessons and jobs, and budding loves; young married couples bring their family troubles to her and love to have her with them at their parties; lone old men and women adore her and regard a visit from her as a memorable occasion.
At last I discovered her secret. She makes an art of friendship. To her it is not an ordinary plant to be allowed to grow if it will without any care. It is a precious one to be guarded and nourished until it brings forth its beautiful flowers. We all have sudden impulses to do nice little things for those about us: tell Edith how well she sang last night, John how handsome he looks in his new overcoat; or to write a letter to Mrs. Lane whose daughter was killed in an accident, or spend an hour reading to blind Uncle Jerry. But with most of us these impulses are still-born. Not so with Shirley. One day her impulse matures into a little afternoon social for a group of her tired fellow-teachers where she reads a favorite poem or a humorous essay as her guests relax on her couch. Another day, she takes an old couple for a ride or sends a new game to a sick child. Every day it is something which adds a bit of interest, or fun, or beauty to the world. She is always alert, looking for opportunities to add a little comfort or happiness to someone else's life, and what she gives adds radiance to her own.
She knows the psychology of surprises. She serves old dishes in new ways; she puts gay dresses on her letters and little notes, and finds new words for everyday thoughts and events. When her daughter comes home to visit, she is sure to find a new handkerchief or pin or bottle of perfume in her dresser drawer; when she returns to her work, she is sure to carry back, tucked away some place in her traveling bag, something to make her laugh, or think, or feel—a cartoon or joke, or a few lines of lovely poetry.
Shirley loves poetry and has memorized hundreds of choice lines.
SHE MAKES AN ART OF FRIENDSHIP
These bits of rare description, gems of philosophy, snatches of lyric rhythm, together with her sense of humor and her own original picturesque speech make her a captivating conversationalist. She always has a quotation to make a sunset, a moonrise, a bonfire more significant; an apt figure of speech or an amusing reminiscence to make an odd person or an unusual situation more interesting.
Most of us take for granted the little group of friends our circumstances and tastes naturally bring to us. Shirley is constantly widening her friendship circle. Though her own mother is dead, on every Mother's Day she does something nice for someone else's mother—sends a potted plant, some bulbs, a note of greeting and appreciation for the courage, or patience, or loyalty of this "somebody-else's mother." On the birthday of a childhood pal, who died many years ago, she always writes to the girl's mother. When a great sorrow or joy comes to an acquaintance, she drops in or writes her sympathy or congratulations. Recently twenty young persons who had been in her first grade class twelve years ago received a telegram on the night of their graduation that added to the pride of that occasion. One day she read of a fire which destroyed a farmer's home in the night while the family was away. Immediately she bundled blankets, clothing, and food into her car and drove out to the stricken family.
She has suffered troubles and misfortunes that would crush most people. She has faced many of life's cruelest sorrows. But her spirit is indomitable. She has found the fountain of "perpetual commonsense and looking on the best side of things." She knows that a time will come when she cannot get about to do many of the kindly acts that bring her such pleasure now. But she doesn't brood because of that overhanging fate. Doubtless she realizes, as her friends do, that when that time comes, no less than now, she will go on weaving her beautiful tapestry of friendship, sending out from its central figure, which is her own lovely personality, threads of silver and gold to bind innumerable other personalities into her design.
THE DESERT SHALL BLOSSOM
By Lorine Hutchinson Lee
As the desert thirsts for water,
So thirsts the world of men
For streams of understanding,
That peace may bloom again.
As oases on the desert
Are friendships to mankind,
Springs of inspiration,
Refreshment to the mind.
Modern Pioneers
By Vaunee T. Larsen
"GOODBYE! Goodbye everyone!" Sue and Jack Taylor gave one last call to the group of friends on the station platform all frantically waving and blowing kisses as the train sped away.
"Oh, Jack, we're leaving Utah for a long time, perhaps."
"Sue, you aren't really disappointed in the way things have worked out for us?" incredulously queried Jack.
"Why, Darling, I couldn't know that Uncle John, whom I have never seen, was going to die and bequeath to me, his only kin, his most precious possession, a musty little book store in—now what's the name of the town?"
"Jack, you know it's Virginia, Illinois." Then, puckering her face, "I wonder what it will be like."
They were silent for awhile. Jack was inwardly pinching himself for the good fortune that had come to them. Surely a book shop would provide a more lucrative income than his old job as clerk in the hardware store. He hadn't liked the hardware business, though he had thought himself lucky three years ago when he'd landed the job. His thoughts then had been all for Sue—Sue Collins, and the prettiest girl ever to graduate from old Fairfield High—now his wife for almost a year, and more beautiful than ever.
"Well, in a way it will be hard for her," Jack's thoughts ran on, "she loves Fairfield and all her friends."
Sue's thoughts were far from idle speculation on the passing scenery. She was remembering Grandma Hubbard's last words to her. "Sue, you're going to a strange place. You'll live among strangers—you whom I've reared from babyhood. Remember there's good in everyone. If you ever feel slights or hurts from the actions of others, hide it. Be sweet and loving yourself. Pray to our Father that He may strengthen you, and may God bless you, Dear."
The tears came to Sue's eyes now as she thought of Grandma—the only mother she'd ever known. The farewell parties the past week while she and Jack had made ready to leave had been such fun, too. They had played games and laughed and really hadn't thought of leave taking. As she thought of it all now it seemed as if the whole town knew how deeply her roots were with them and wanted her to know there would always be a place for her. Yes, maybe in another two weeks she and Jack would be going to entertainments in Virginia. Oh, it was a grand world after all.
"Jack, there is a branch Sunday School at Virginia, isn't there? It will be fun to start right in helping all we can."
"Why no, Darling. I thought you heard Bishop Wells say we'd have to do something to get one started."
At her look of dismay he hastily continued, "The people ought to be pretty nice there. Of course as far as I can learn, Uncle John was a staunch church-goer and we can probably work in his church and maybe get a chance to explain ours."
Sue's face brightened. "Of course, we'll get along grand. I'm glad Virginia is a small place. I'd be lonesome in a big city."
"Here now! Remember, you've always got me—the most adoring husband in the world."
"And I believe every single bit of your blarney, Mr. Taylor," Sue replied. Then they laughed—that delicious laugh of youth that destroys
MODERN PIONEERS
all fears.
During the rest of their journey Sue and Jack kept up a constant chatter concerning their new business and new home. They were interested in all the new things they saw along the way. Sue kept a diary so she could write long and interesting letters to Grandma and the girls.
It was that cozy time of evening, 5:30, when the giant train stopped at Virginia and two excited young people alighted on their "promised land." The old station master with spectacles on the end of his nose, and cap pushed far back on his white hair, was their welcoming committee.
"Now, do you be the Mr. Taylor whose baggage is stored over there? It come the other day and we've been a speculatin' on who you might be. My name's Adams—Tim Adams."
This speech was evidently a question and Jack, only too glad of an opportunity to explain, proudly introduced Sue and related the story of the book store.
"Well, young feller, you and your wife have got a nice business all laid out for you. Wish you luck. Where did you say you come from?"
Jack had not said, but he quickly answered, "Utah—and a lovely place, too, Mr. Adams."
"Hm, I've always wanted to meet someone from Utah. I've heard a lot about the 'Mormons.' I suppose there's a lot of them there."
Apparently Mr. Adams' curiosity was not to be lightly disregarded. "Yes, there are," Jack answered. "Now, you have two right here. We're 'Mormons'."
"You are!" Mr. Adams exclaimed, evidently shaken out of his normal acceptance of life. As he turned away Sue and Jack heard him mutter, "They're a nice appearin' young couple, too." Then abruptly turning to them,
MODERN PIONEERS
"Well, I wish you lots of success, but if I were you I'd keep still about my religion. This town's pretty religious-minded itself. It goes way back, and people are liable to turn agin you. Now, young feller, don't get cross with me. I like you and I won't say a thing agin you. Just warnin' you for your own good."
"How," he thought, "old John Smithersby happened to leave his book store to a 'Mormon' is more than I can see."
SUE and Jack stayed that night at the town hotel, the gathering place for local gossip. The next morning over many of Virginia's breakfast tables conversation centered on young Jack and Sue Taylor—dressed, not too smartly, some said, but evidently full of fun and no doubt would go "in the best circles." And "going in the best circles" was important in Virginia's social life.
Tim Adams' advice had only momentarily disheartened Sue and Jack. Now they were busy getting settled in their "dear little doll house" so Sue wrote to Grandma. With this easily accomplished Sue decided to help Jack in the store.
The store was all Jack could think about. He fell in love with the tiny office in front and the rows of new books, eight rows, to be exact, and back of them ten rows of old books. He soon discovered that it had been Uncle John's custom to accept an old book as part payment on a new one. There were magazines in the place, too. It was spic and span and tidily kept. However, Sue with her womanly intuition and love of home recognized at once how badly it needed a homely touch. She found an old sofa and some old chairs in the store room. Soon her deft hands had transformed a bare little corner of the store into an attractive reading nook, with a table of magazines and books, good reading lights, a pretty potted plant and the comfortable old sofa and chairs masquerading as new in their gay chintz covers.
Jack was pleased with Sue's interest. Each morning they would lovingly dust and polish the books and shelves. They did their work well, and it was not uncommon to hear one or the other say, "Here's a book we just must read—look at the title." Then hastily assuming once more their businesslike airs they would continue with their work.
The book store business seemed to be just what Jack had always wanted. As for Sue, seeing Jack so happy and busy pouring over his book catalogs made her happy and contented too. She didn't need to remember Grandma's words, she naturally loved everybody and everything. Jack and Sue had a way of making people feel happy in their store. They let them browse around and when a customer wanted something, they were ready. The tired country women soon found the reading nook a handy place to wait for their husbands on shopping days. Rather self-consciously they would pick up a book or magazine, these women who never seemed to get a chance to read anything but daily papers, and not always those.
ONE afternoon when the reading nook was filled with tired women and several children, the door opened with a flourish, the little bell above tinkling furiously as if it had been commissioned to inform the whole store that it was honored with the presence of Mrs. Arthur B. Bentley. She waited just inside the front door like a stately queen for the homage of her subjects. Jack hurriedly approached her and his disarming smile, boyish face, curly brown hair charmed and softened her as an April wind playing over March hills.
"May I help you, Mrs.—"
"Bentley. Mrs. Arthur B. Bentley. My husband has the bank here. No doubt you'll be doing business with him. Mr. Taylor, I came to call on you and Mrs. Taylor."
Sue immediately came forward. Jack was proud to introduce her. She looked so sweet in her bright flowered smock and every bit as much a lady as Mrs. Bentley herself.
"Won't you sit down, Mrs. Bentley?" and Sue motioned toward the reading nook where only a chair or two were vacant.
Mrs. Bentley started to accept the invitation and then, evidently seeing the occupants of the nook, declined rather ungraciously. It was a little embarrassing for Sue. She had never before known anything of class consciousness. In Fairfield it was what a man or woman was inside that mattered. She quickly turned aside any unkind thoughts of Mrs. Bentley. Perhaps she really didn't have time to sit down.
Mrs. Bentley continued, "What I really came in for is to invite you to our church services on Sunday. You must know your Uncle John was a staunch pillar of the church and we're expecting the same of you."
Jack spoke for them both and Sue's eyes were shining bits of blue. "Thank you, Mrs. Bentley. We're anxious to get into church work. You see we aren't members of Uncle's church. We belong to the Latter-day Saint Church. However, since there are no 'Mormons' here we'll do all you'll let us do in your church activities."
Mrs. Bentley's attitude became rigid. Slowly she answered, "Really? You're really 'Mormons?' Why I
MODERN PIONEERS
can't believe it. I'm afraid Mr. And Mrs. Taylor, you've mistaken my motive for calling. Perhaps we'll see one another again sometime." The tone of her last sentence indicated she did not expect to encounter them again. Slowly she took a majestic departure.
Jack's eyes were blazing and Sue was crestfallen. "Now we know what Tim Adams meant," she whispered to Jack. The women in the reading nook were watching them. They had witnessed the whole humiliating affair. "Buck up," Jack whispered. Sue wondered what these women would do. Until now she had never realized that there were such displays of intolerance as had just been dealt her and Jack. Grandma had told her to open her heart to all. Well she would try.
Mollie Harper's motherly nature responded to the hurt she sensed. Quickly she spoke, "Now, Mrs. Taylor, don't feel bad about what Mrs. Bentley just said. Why I've never known anyone as helpful as you, and you're just as nice to me and the rest of us as you are to the society people. People here aren't all like Mrs. Bentley, but she sort of rules the roost in this town." Sue felt the friendliness. Mollie continued, "Say, would you and Mr. Taylor come out to our house for dinner, Sunday? Of course it probably isn't what you're used to but we are very comfortable."
Her children clamored at once, "Oh, do come, please, come." Sue answered Mollie gaily, "All right, we'd love to."
AND so it was that Sue and Jack Taylor became not a part of the "best" circle of this little town, but the beloved friends of the Harpers and other families like them; families where thrift and economy and
hard work were naturally accepted and where a person's inside mattered so much more than the outside. And Sue and Jack gave of their best to their new friends.
Sue wrote regularly to Grandma and once in a while to the girls. She did not mention the incident with Mrs. Bentley nor the fact that the "best people" thought them queer. She really loved her new friends and spoke glowingly and sincerely of them.
One afternoon Sue was at the shop when the postman came bringing her new issue of the Relief Society Magazine. She settled herself comfortably in the nook to read it. There were no customers in the store so Jack said, "Read it to me, too, will you, Sweet, while I sit here at your feet?" And so it was Mollie Harper found them almost an hour later.
"What interests you two so much?" she inquired before they could rise. Sue showed her the magazine.
"Well, how interesting," Mollie said as she thumbed through the pages. "Here's some lessons back here. What are they, Sue?"
Sue explained the four divisions of work in the Relief Society. "Oh, Mollie, I've missed it so here. I'd give almost anything to be back with it again."
"Well," Mollie said bluntly, "why can't we start it here? I know all of us country women need something like that."
"Really, Mollie, you mean that? I know we could have some interesting and helpful meetings," said Sue enthusiastically.
SUE was tireless in her efforts to make proper arrangements, and finally the first meeting was held in Sue's "dear little doll house." The women, Mollie's friends, responded in a way surprising even to Sue who recognized their worth. They all volunteered to take part in the meetings. They agreed with Sue that it would do them all good to prepare and give topics before the group. Sue loaned her books so that all had a chance to prepare. At first some of the women were very timid, not having had any experience in a group where each one was called on to express herself. But with Sue there things went smoothly. Their meetings ran along week after week bringing new interest into the lives of these women and so to their families. At first the men had been frankly skeptical but now all wholeheartedly approved of the practical handwork for the home their wives were doing and the thrifty new ideas they were demonstrating. The husbands liked the idea of their wives belonging to so cultural and helpful a group. Tears filled Mollie's eyes when she told Sue what her husband had said, "Why Mollie, lately you look ten years younger—just like the Mollie I married." And Mollie declared, "It's all because of you and Jack, Sue."
The town reporter had ignored their meetings at first. However, when they became the talk of all the country women he decided they
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
were important enough for the paper. Thereafter occasional accounts of the meetings began to appear in the paper. Some scoffed at what was being done, but not Mrs. Arthur B. Bentley. She was a sensible person when it came to an unselfish piece of work. She read the accounts of the meetings and recognized Sue's genius behind it all. She never had forgotten Jack's manliness, nor Sue's charming manner, and so, being in a position where she could condemn and forgive at will, she chose to "forgive."
ONE bright morning the following spring and almost a year since Sue and Jack had arrived in Virginia, Mrs. Bentley opened their door for a second time. Jack, eager to please, as usual, stepped forward, a smiling inquiry on his face, and Sue, working with him in the store, unconsciously put a protecting hand on his arm.
"Mr. And Mrs. Taylor I do hope you'll overlook the delay in this invitation, but as you know, I've been very busy this last winter. Would you please honor us by coming to dinner Saturday evening at 6:30?"
Sue and Jack were delighted. They didn't realize they were the only ones who had ever really scored against Mrs. Bentley.
CAMOUFLAGE
By Alice Morrey Bailey
Gay little dress of flame—crisp—
Dancing and flirting
Who, looking at you, could guess
You hide a heart—hurting?
The Children's Reading
By Florence Ivins Hyde
NO. VII—ETHICAL STORIES.
"Could we give one gift to every child
We should choose the love of books."
—William Frederick Bigelow.
ONE of the most important functions of story telling is to develop ideals. To Latter-day Saints, to whom character development means so much, perhaps it is the most important function. We spend our time and our energy to develop in our children the capacity to distinguish right from wrong and to make them strong enough to choose to do the Right. Nothing, unless it be pictures, is so important in influencing character in very young children as the stories they hear. The ideals of these early stories become their ideals and if they are not what they should be it takes long and arduous struggle to change them. Plato, the great teacher once said, "In order to teach a child truth, it is necessary to teach him fiction." The greatest teachers of the world, even Christ himself, have used stories to arouse the desire for good conduct. The reason for this is that fiction affects the emotions as no other type of literature does. Through it we feel what the characters feel, know what they think as well as how they act. If a desirable emotion is made much of, a child comes to glorify that emotion. If base emotions are justified he comes to justify them. For this reason bad fiction, and we have plenty of it, can do irreparable harm.
*Courtesy Good Housekeeping Magazine
WE give ethical stories to inspire the desire to do some good deed or to develop some desirable quality. Each time that desire is created it becomes that much more a part of the child's character. Rhymes appeal to tiny tots even more than stories. To make them want to be polite we hold up a positive ideal such as this:
"Peterkin Paul was so very polite
That he said to the stones on the street,
Excuse me, I pray, for stepping on you,
But there's no other place for my feet."
Or this from Robert Louis Stevenson:
"A child should always say what's true
And speak when he is spoken to,
And behave mannerly at table,
At least, so far as he is able."
Or this from Alice Carey:
"There are no fairy folk who ride above this world at night,
To give you rings or other things to pay for doing right.
But if you'll do to others what you'd have them do to you,
You'll be as blest as if the best of fairy tales were true."
To really affect the emotions a story must be well told. It takes literary art to write good moral stories just as it does to write other types. The exquisitely told story of "The Last Lesson" by Alphonse Daudet would touch the heart of every person, young or old. The facts of a story must touch the heart of the child and quicken his emotions, to be of value. When he feels this emotional response he tends to emulate the act depicted in the story. If we wish to make him feel contempt for hypocrisy or for dishonesty we must use a method which will call forth a contempt response. Nothing in literature offers so much material for ethical teaching as the Bible, but we should hunt for other stories which may appear in our general reading. "The Village Blacksmith" could inspire a boy to be a solid character. This like any other good ethical story tells the truth. There are moral stories which do not. Watch for them.
WHEN children are very young we have control over their reading. It is when they begin to grow up that we suddenly discover that they like many things we prefer them not to read. They even smile at some of the things we think are necessary to give them the cultural background we are so anxious to have them receive. They are bound to get hold of some poor books but if better things are at hand to go along with them we will observe that by degrees they will begin to develop a discriminating taste. This is the time to include in reading besides fiction, history and biography. The most important function of any form of moral instruction is to reveal the nature of right and wrong. History and Biography do that very thing. They teach us of great men and great deeds as well as of bad men and bad deeds. From them we learn that we reap as we sow. Tell more of the emotions of people. Our imagination helps us to put ourselves in the place of the characters and helps us to understand human life, which is basic in the formation of character. Biography is the moral element in history. A book which stands supreme among biographies is Mark
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Twain's "Joan of Arc." Every adult should feel its inspiration. Mark Twain says of the Maid of Orleans, "Her character is ideally perfect. It occupies the loftiest place possible to human attainment, a loftier one than has been reached by any other mere mortal."
IN all this attempt to influence the development of character through stories we must remember that the effort is largely wasted unless the truth of the story is applied to specific problems, which is the difficult thing to do. In reading such stories as the "Good Samaritan" the principle involved should be applied to present-day needs. It is useless to teach a child that he must be helpful unless we show him the specific things which constitute helpfulness—as helping the blind across the street, offering help to the car broken down on the road, etc. In teaching courtesy we must point out the fact that he must stand in the presence of ladies, offer his seat in a crowded place to those older than himself, etc. After a story on neatness a child should be shown that neatness consists in washing the face and hands clean, combing the hair, hanging his towel and wash cloth in place, etc. The story provides the ideal but we have no character development until the act has been performed. This is the last step in moral teaching—to supply the opportunity to act in the right way. And his act must be voluntary. Activity has no moral value until he does right voluntarily. The purpose of ethical stories, then, is to develop character. The place for them is the home, the church and the school, but the home has much the advantage over the other two agencies. Some families have a fine family relationship but
THE CHILDREN'S READING
the children lack character. Character has to do with our sense of right and wrong, with our obligations to society, with the motives which control our lives. We are strong or weak according to our ability to live up to the principles that have been established as right in conduct.
Mary S. Becker sums up the qualities of a good book in these words: "A good book is one that enriches your life by developing your mind, widening your experience or enlarging your sympathies. If it does none of these let it alone."
Recommended Books
For grown-up boys and girls:
Robert Louis Stevenson by Balfour.
George Washington by Scudder.
Abraham Lincoln by Butterworth.
Any biography of Frances E. Willard.
Autobiography of Lincoln Steffens.
For In-Between Age:
Boys and Girls Who Became Famous by Sarah K. Bolton.
Captains of Industry by James Parton.
Story of My Life by Helen Keller.
Up From Slavery by Booker T. Washington.
*Invincible Louisa by Cornelia Meigs.
Good collections of ethical stories are rare.
For Very Young Children:
Stories For the Bedtime Hour by Margaret W. Eggleston.
Ethics For Children by Ella Lyman Cabot.
Neither of these collections is entirely satisfactory. If you have access to a library, however, there are a few fine stories in Ethics For Children. I am of the opinion that some very fine stories could be written from the early missionary experiences of our grandfathers; no stories could better illustrate the virtues of faith, courage, and loyalty.
*Very good.
UPWARD LILT
By Claire Stewart Boyer
It is the upward lilt of song
That carries wearied hearts along;
To feel the rising curve of day
Is turning tasks to play.
It is the upward lilt of heart—
Ah, could you catch it at the start
Of everything you try to do,
Life would be lyrical for you!
Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd
By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
CHAPTER FIVE
BEFORE our visiting teachers were sent out we had a meeting with them. The Teacher Topic leader worked hard to get them all there. "If we cannot have a good beginning," she said to me, "what condition will the teaching be in before spring?" She had asked that all bring pencils and notebooks but provided herself with extras for those who would forget. She had the lesson carefully outlined and put it on the blackboard where all could see. She gave the lesson from the outline and all the teachers copied it, together with some illustrative material she had brought. Then when the lesson was finished she opened her own notebook and on the inside of the front cover was pasted a picture of an old-time sailing vessel. She held it up where all could see.
"In the days when this vessel was used," she said, "there were no turbines or motors as we know them today. Vessels sailed under power of the wind. That inspired the poet to say this," she read from beneath the picture:
"One ship sails east, and one sails west
By the self same wind that blows.
For it is the set of the sail
And not the gale,
That determines the way it goes."
"It is up to each of you to select your own port—that place for which you are headed. When the season's work is over we shall see how many of us have reached our destination. Remember, you are setting the sail and the journey can end disastrously or you can weather every storm and sail triumphantly ahead. You are the one to determine that."
She gave each of them a mimeographed copy of the vessel and the poem. "When I feel discouraged," she ended, "I shall refer to this. That is why I pasted it in the front of my book."
Later she said to me, "If that won't keep them working I shall have to find some other device to keep them going ahead. For problems such as this there is a solution. I shall make it my job to find it."
AS We sang the opening song for our first literary lesson I made a swift but accurate survey of the room. The attendance was average or a little better. Even Bessie Dye and her friend Ruth were here and they were not talking as usual. I was thankful they were present. I had given a great deal of thought and prayer to this group. They were the hardest of all to interest but I felt sure they had something to give us if once they became interested, and certainly the organization could help them. Our meetings are so organized that they offer something to each individual that makes for growth. I noticed there was a flushed, slightly eager look on Bessie's face that was new, and in her hand she clutched a paper as if fearful of losing it. It was soon apparent why. After previewing briefly the year's work and asking questions for a few minutes on biography the leader asked Mrs. Dye to tell a part of the lesson in her own words. Bessie went before the room tremblingly. She began slowly with her eyes on the paper but she had something to tell and soon she was telling it earnestly, understandingly. I could feel the interest of the audience rise to meet her. She was limited to ten minutes. Then another member took up the story where she left off and finished it. Afterward Mrs. Stimmel took the floor and for the remainder of the time lead a discussion and read excerpts, enough to interest the women in wishing to read it for themselves. She asked questions of two or three whose answers showed they had had the questions ahead of time. No matter, they had risen and expressed a thought. They had found the lesson did touch their lives. This woman they were studying had problems identical with some of theirs. How she solved her difficulties pointed a way to other solutions.
This lesson did not have the polish of some I had heard Mrs. Stimmel give but it reached a greater number of women. I congratulated her afterward and asked how she had interested Mrs. Dye.
"I went to her home," came the quiet answer, "and talked it over with her until I had her interest aroused. She did the rest herself and has already asked for the next book."
So the success of our literary lessons was assured. Mrs. Stimmel had accepted our challenge and there was no doubt as to the outcome.
"SISTER MAYLORD," I turned to face the chorister. "I want to tell you how much I enjoyed the lesson today and wish I could be here to hear all of them, but we are moving."
"Moving?" My first reaction was a sense of regret, then relief. Things have a way of adjusting themselves.
"Yes, out of town. My husband has been transferred and we are moving this week."
Afterward I consulted my counselors. Immediately Rhoda Blomquist cried, "Now Mrs. Holsinger will have to accept." A deep warm glow of satisfaction stole over me. Rhoda had said that, and she had been so spontaneous and sincere about it.
"Can you go with me to ask her?" She couldn't, but she offered to sponsor a party for the retiring chorister.
Before leaving the building I called Bishop. He was willing as he had been before. But when I reached the Holsinger home Gloria was not there. I waited until my dinner was over and the children asleep, then went again.
"You are persistent, aren't you, Dona? Why? What is there about your organization that fills you with such enthusiasm? I am going to propose your name for membership in the Progress Club. We need someone like you."
I chose my words carefully. "From all nations of the world our people have been gathered. I imagine they were the open-minded ones, willing to forsake the traditional for the progressive. That in itself would be conducive to enlightenment. Then they were given a plan that rightly administered would leaven the standards of all womankind."
"You might say that of any club."
"We might, but would it work out the same? Our organization is knit together by something more intangible than rules and forms. I call it spirit. Clubs do not have that and they are more or less limiting in membership. That is, they are usually confined to certain social groups."
"We do that for our own protection."
"And thereby limit your growth and understanding. Our membership is open to every woman of moral integrity. To know women from all stations in life is to know and understand social and economic problems. I am not against clubs. They serve a definite purpose, but speaking largely, our own organization should come first to our women."
After a great deal more along the same line she asked. "But why pick me for a chorister?"
"We haven't anyone in our organization just like you. You have said that as a group we lack poise. You can help to give us that. You know and love music. You have a personality that can lead. Under you I can visualize the women entering a new field by a familiar gateway. I see them learning appreciation, finding its place in their lives, connecting the history of music with our lessons, singing with understanding and appreciation."
Gloria had been comfortable in her big chair, eyes partly closed, a slightly amused expression on her delicate features. As I finished she sat up suddenly, eagerness breaking over her face in a flood of light.
"I have always wanted to do that. I would love it." Then her voice dropped to a conversational tone. "I'll test your plan, Dona Maylord. I'll see if your organization holds for me all that you promise. When do I begin?" "Right now. Here is my magazine and the instructions from the stake board. It includes a list of suggested songs. You may plan your music accordingly." ON my way home I had to pass the Grow house. I was walking rapidly looking at something across the street when I collided with someone and someone's arms pinned me tight. I struggled violently, then a little laugh reassured me. I twisted my head. By the flare of the street RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE light I could see Tim's laughing face. "Tim, what are you doing here this time of night?" "I might ask the same."; "But I thought you were working." "I have been and now I am going to work some more, but I will see you home first." What fun to be taken home again under the protection of his strong arm. I wanted those few blocks to last and last. At our own steps he stooped and placed a swift hard kiss on my lips. "There you are, my dear. Run along to bed. Don't wait for me for there is no telling when I shall be back." Then he was gone and: I was left staring stupidly at his retreating figure. What work was he going to do this time of night? No matter. He loved me and that left no room for doubt. Salle Richards was waiting in the living room. After I had paid and dismissed Mrs. Jenkins she said, "I came to pay you some on the dress and shoes." "Can you spare it so soon?" "I have had a pay check." She wore the dress and shoes and I scrutinized her relentlessly. If there was a flaw in her appearance I failed to find it. Her hair was sleek and shining, the result of planned care. Her make-up was moderate but becoming. Already the fretful, restless look had left her face. "You like your work?' "Do I? I love it. And Mr. Holsinger likes me. I can tell." "How could he help it? I knew you would make good. I could see it shining from your eyes." At that her eyes misted. "Thanks to you I took the position. There is something else I came here to tell you," she looked down at the ring on her finger. "I am going to be DEAR TO THE HEART OF THE SHEPHERD 54 married but am going on with my work." "When are you getting married?" She hesitated. Then, 'He has set his mind on two weeks from today. He is being ugly about my work but I am not giving it up for anyone." "Why are you marrying him?" Salle faced me in sudden anger, "Why does any girl marry any boy? To have a home. To be protected and provided for." I wanted to smile at her inconsistency. "But love, Salle?" I could still feel Tim's kiss on my lips and my heart ached for this stubborn girl. "He loves me and that is why he will finally consent to my working. He will do anything to keep me and I could go to town on that. Imagine my marrying someone who thinks he is conferring a favor on me?" I sighed. There was nothing else to do. "I have joined Mutual. I am going to their Hallowe'en dance." "With Don?" "I don't think he would be interested.", "And still you will marry him." She rose abruptly. "I must go now." As I reached to open the door for her the bell rang. It was Kent Evans. Fate? This time I would not interfere. After greeting us he asked, "Is Tim here?" "No. He is working." "Gee. I thought if I waited until now he would surely be here. We can't seem to get together on this teaching business." Salle pushed past him onto the step. "Thanks, Mrs. Maylord. And goodnight." Kent turned with ill-concealed haste. ""No sense in my waiting. If you don't mind I will walk down the street with you." As they passed under the street light I could see them. He held her arm in both his hands and she was looking up into his face laughing. ' There was something about them that clutched at my heart. "Dear Lord," I breathed, let her make a mistake." (To be continued) "don't DESIRE By Evelyn Wooster Viner If I could but portray in words or paint The look of weather-beaten cottage quaint; The mystery of a silvered, moon-drenched world; The wonder of a lily, fresh unfurled; The majesty of mountains lifting high Against the changing glory of the sky; Or light or shadow on the mountain slope; So that some weary soul would lift to hope— How worth while life would be! Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon AUGUST—Now nears the end of all our plays For just a breath of autumn haze Throws shadows through the golden maize. ELEANOR ROOSEVELT'S pet project—''Greenbelt" in Maryland—is now in full swing and apparently thriving. About seven hundred families, among them a number of Utahns, have taken advantage of the low rent and quiet community life, and now occupy the attractive rows of white houses with their blue shutters and small gardens. The experiment was meant to be a benefit to the small salaried man and seems to be a success. ELIZABETH, Queen of England, and all the royal family are in mourning because of the death of the Queen's mother, Nina Cavendish-Bentinck, Countess of Strathmore. MAY AGNES SHANLEY, detective on the New York police force, arrested a pickpocket in a down town store and walked him to the police station, where she discovered her man had been hunted for by the police for ten years in connection with a $20,000 jewelry robbery. Alice MARBLE, Helen Jacobs, Helen Wills Moody, three California: young women walked off with the honors in the Wimbledon tennis tournament this summer. ENA HARKER THOMAS, wife of Senator Thomas of Utah, is chairman for the Red Cross Unit of the Senate Ladies. The report of her work is said to show the highest accomplishment since World War days. Washington papers give her high praise. MARY NORTON, New Jersey representative in Congress, was perhaps the most gratified of any one over the passage of the "Wage and Hours' Bill. No one worked harder for it. ORMA SHEARER has been selected to play Scarlett O'Hara in the cinema "Gone With The Wind." The public is looking forward to a greater sensation than that made by the book some months ago provided she is equal to the part. CATHARINE TOHAKWITA, an Indian girl, who worked among the tribes in the United States and Canada in relief and conversion about two centuries ago is to receive beatification. She was known as "Lily of. The Mohawks." DOROTHY TIDWELL, twelve-year-old farm girl, proved herself a heroine beyond measure for praise or decoration when she dived into the swollen Mississippi and saved her four younger sisters from a submerged car. HARRIET MONROE since the publication of her autobiography titled "A Poet's Life," has been classed by the critics "The High Priestess of American Poetry." Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest the Eliza R. Snow Relief Society Memorial Poem Contest annually. Three prizes will be awarded—a first prize of $15, a second prize of $10, and a third prize of $5. The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, and to pay for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates. The contest opens each year upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Relief Society Magazine, and closes October 15. Rules of the Contest 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done it should be legibly written. 4. The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. Only one side of the paper should be used. 6. Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used. 7. Statement should accompany the poem submitted that it is her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 8. Members of the General Board and persons connected with the Relief Society office force are not eligible to enter this contest. 9. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 10. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers. 11. The poems must be submitted not later than October 15. 12. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. RED-WINGED BLACKBIRDS By Lydia Hall One morning when the tallest peak Had caught the sun's first ray I heard the red-winged blackbirds sing Where cat-tails nod and sway. But when they ceased their caroling And flew into the dawn On wings set for the south, I knew That summer, too, was gone. Magazine Drive NCE again the stakes and wards are making preparation for the Magazine Drive which in most places will be held from September 15 to October 15. Last season achievements were most gratifying. We reached the highest circulation in our history and the Magazine went into homes which had never before known it. This accomplishment was the result of tireless effort, both in planning the drive, directing the work and in making the actual sales contacts. We greatly appreciate the splendid service of those responsible for this success. The benefits derived from the work of those connected with the Magazine Drive can scarcely be measured. Theirs is a service to the General Board, the stake and local officers, class leaders, Relief Society members, and is also a missionary service in thousands of homes. HIS year we trust that plans will be just as carefully made as heretofore; that the representatives will be equally versatile and diligent and that the same measure of success will be attendant. We urge that Executive Officers be ready to assist in every way possible. Often they can secure subscriptions where agents are unsuccessful in doing so, and their active support is a source of encouragement to agents whose work is intensified during the Drive. The goal of the Drive should be a subscription list equal to the number of Relief Society members in the organization — active, inactive, and honorary. We suggest that the agents secure the exact enrollment figure as of January 1, 1938 from the Secretary. This figure should be the same as that sent to the General Office in the annual report. "THE new grouping for awards should be an added stimulus. Wards will be divided into three groups—A, B, C. Group A will include all wards with a total enrollment of 100 or more. Group B will include all wards with a total enrollment of 50 to 99, inclusive. Group C will include all wards with a total enrollment up to 49. To the four ward agents in each group obtaining the highest percentage, provided they have a minimum of 25 subscriptions, a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine will be presented at the Relief Society General Conference held in April. This grouping gives all wards an opportunity for position among those receiving the highest percentages. THE new report forms, which have already been mailed to the stakes, should simplify the record keeping and assist in the accuracy of reporting percentages. We urge again that all stake representatives see that reports reach our office not later than November 10, 1938, otherwise wards cannot be listed on the honor roll. In the past this has caused great disappointment. WE trust the following suggestions will be carried out by our agents:
1. Know the Magazine. Be converted to its worth and the importance of the service you are rendering to both the purchaser and the organization.
2. Aim to contact every home in the ward.
3. Talk intelligently on what the Magazine contains.
4. Study the art of selling.
MAGAZINE DRIVE
5. Keep records accurately.
6. Send in subscriptions legibly written and containing the necessary information: name, address, when subscription begins, amount of money sent.
It is very important that agents should be accurate in stating the month each subscriber wishes to commence. This will help us to avoid mailing two copies of the same issue to a subscriber. It will also tend to alleviate much work and expense in making the changes later. This list with the money should be sent directly by the Ward Agents to the Magazine office in Salt Lake City. Each Agent should carefully read the pamphlet "Instructions to Magazine Agents". The Magazine office will be pleased to assist in any way possible to make the 1938 Drive the greatest in the history of our organization.
REVERENCE
By Mabel Jones
Dear Lord, at morning's dawn I pray,
Help me to walk like Thee, today.
Give me of Thine own courage true,
Strength and poise the whole day through.
Let my own selfish thought and plan
Take wing in love of my fellowman.
Lord, teach me patience, this I need,
Gladness to do each irksome deed.
Help me to trust always in Thee,
I would look upward reverently.
Lord, from Thy holiness I pray,
Give me humility today.
Truly sincere, Lord, I would be
With myself, my fellowman, and Thee.
Give me the confidence when days are drear,
To say Thy words, "Be of good cheer."
Lord, I would crown each day with love,
Pure and holy as Thine above.
Though despair or joy be mine today,
Help me to walk like Thee, I pray.
Note: The study of the character of Jesus in Relief Society during the past year inspired the thoughts expressed in this poem.
Out of the Best Books
By Kate Wilde
"Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith."
—Doctrine and Covenants 88:118.
THE CLASS LEADER AT HOME
THE wise class leader who has an entire month in which to prepare her lessons, will make good use of each day in this period. She will not be content with a frenzied attempt at preparation just before class time. She will realize that the part of her lesson which takes the greatest effort and which is the most important is her preparation. Largely upon the exertion which she puts forth at home depends her success in the class period.
That she might have "the spirit of wisdom and revelation" prayer should precede and accompany all her efforts in lesson preparation. Through humble, sincere prayer she places herself in a position to receive that divine inspiration and aid without which any effort will be inadequate.
Reading the material and suggestions given in the Magazine will assure her teaching the lesson planned by the General Board; it will give her the Latter-day Saint viewpoint, and will help her to harmonize her lesson with the lessons which are to be given that day in other Relief Societies throughout the Church. Now she is ready to read the text. Here she will take notes of the important things she wishes to include, and the quotations she desires to use. She will check carefully to make sure everything she has included is in tune with the attitudes indicated in the Magazine. She will then study and take notes on all of the suggested references, also other relevant material to which she may have access.
If all of this has been done at least a week before lesson time, she will have time to assimilate much of this material. If she never has tried this method of preparation, she will be surprised at the number and variety of pertinent thoughts which come to her. In conversation with her family and friends, many helpful ideas may be gained. From her husband she may get the viewpoint of one holding the Priesthood with the added enlightenment which this brings. These thoughts and ideas she will jot down for future use.
She now has the background material fairly well in hand, and is ready to begin the definite planning of her lesson. The class leader realizes that she does not teach just to present the lesson material. She hopes to teach certain truths by means of this material. So the first step in planning her lesson will be to select an objective to definitely determine just what she wishes to teach through the various facts presented. Then with her objective constantly in mind, she organizes her lesson material, selecting the incidents and illustrations from her notes which will develop the objective. She may find it necessary to do additional research on certain items and to eliminate others. She will not be alarmed if she has taken notes on material which she does not include. She wants to be certain, however, that she has included all of the material that is necessary in carrying the objective home to each sister, and that this can be presented in the allotted time.
OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS
Now that her material is all prepared and organized, just how will she use it in the lesson period? Whether it will be by the lecture method, by questions, discussions, or a combination of methods will be determined at home. Whatever method is employed, the use of several good thought-provoking questions will help hold the attention and interest of the class. The final step in preparation should be familiarizing herself with the material to the extent that reference to an outline is all that is necessary for developing the lesson. Exceptions to this statement include reading short excerpts that would lose materially by being told. The preparation which the teacher gives her lesson cannot be seen by her class, but it is sensed by them. The wise class leader is the thoroughly prepared one, who so employs her time at home that she goes to Relief Society able to do more than just give her lesson; she really teaches her class.
THE TEACHER IN THE CLASS ROOM
THE day of the lesson has arrived. The class leader has studied the material in the Magazine, the text, and the references given. She has formulated her objective, and organized her material with this constantly in mind. She has become so familiar with the material that reference to an outline is ordinarily all that is necessary. This means she does not need to have a number of notes, papers or books to shuffle about. Before leaving home she again seeks divine assistance, that the truths she has studied might be used most effectively, and that her words and actions might be pleasing in the sight of the Father, and instructive to the class members. She faces her class knowing that many present have had educational advantages at least equal to her own; therefore, she thinks of the members as equals, never as inferiors.
The wise class leader has prepared in various ways for contributions from the class. Special reports, summaries, stories, readings, and telling of personal experiences to add interest to the lesson, have been assigned in advance. Last month's lesson is briefly recalled in order to correlate the subject matter. The class leader is aware that the objective selected is never stated at the beginning of the lesson, but permeates the entire lesson.
In presenting the lesson, the lecture method is much better than reading the material, although whenever practicable, discussions should be used. Varying the method frequently will avoid monotony. The interesting teacher often challenges attention by an unusual approach to the subject matter. Through questions and discussions she keeps the members of the class mentally alert. She realizes that most of the sisters have access to the Magazine. She encourages them to prepare their lessons at home by refraining from reading them the material given, but assumes their knowledge by asking questions about it. The poorly prepared teacher who must read one paragraph before formulating a question, then read another to see if the answer is given correctly, may discourage preparation and attendance as well. Many class members not only read their lessons, but study them by looking up the meaning and pronunciation of unfamiliar words or phrases, and reading the references. If the teacher who has a class of this type wants the members to come and enjoy her lesson, she cannot use slipshod methods.
When the teaching has been effective, the truth expressed in the objective has reached the various members of the class. Through questions near the close of the period, the teacher can often help class members to see the application of the truths taught in their own lives. The class leader should always bear in mind that it is not the subject matter but the individuals of the class whom she teaches. When her teaching becomes so effective
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
that her objectives are being attained, in that the knowledge, habits or attitudes of these individuals are changing for the better, she may know she is using the course of study for the benefit of those she teaches. Then she may sense a satisfaction similar to that which came to the faithful servant when he heard his master say, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant."
The Gift of Wisdom
By George Gardner
"A CHILD and a man," says Dr. Long, "were one day walking on the seashore when the child found a little shell and held it to his ear. Suddenly he heard sounds—strange, low, melodious sounds—as if the shell were remembering and repeating to itself the murmurs of its ocean home. The child's face filled with wonder as he listened. Here in the little shell, apparently, was a voice from another world, and he listened with delight to its mystery and music. Then came the man, explaining that the child heard nothing strange, that the pearly curves of the shell caught a multitude of sounds too faint for human ears, * * * It was not a new world, but only the unnoticed harmony of the old that had aroused the child's wonder."
The shell, the radio, the microscope and the telescope have brought to man's attention a world richer and more beautiful and more interesting than he had dreamed possible. There are sounds and sights and truths to gladden the hearts of those who believe in the scripture, "Seek and ye shall find." The commonplace appears extraordinary to such men. They are very rare and very important in the long march of progress to a better world. There are beauties and richness of life for them and for all those who do not "live by bread alone." In the fields and the streams and the forests and the homes and the hills there are multiform sights and sounds for the noble band of listeners and seekers.
But these beauties and truths are oblivious to most of us. The dishes, the stoves, the brooms, the plows and the hoes make only grain and flour and bread to the common man, but for others they make life itself. There is beauty in the fields and music in the woods and the homes and these give a special flavor and a special fragrance for those who know how to live.
"Life," said the great Socrates, "is a gift of nature, but beautiful living is a gift of wisdom."
The riches of the scripture, of poetry and music and art are for those who have wisdom; they live beautifully. Their lives are the reflection of truth and beauty, abundant in the world and always about us, but unseen and unheard except by rare, sensitive and precious human souls. The child who puts his ear to the shell, the sensitive soul who sees that which is extraordinary in the commonplace has learned this truth: "Life is a gift of nature, but beautiful living is a gift of wisdom."
Notes from the Field
By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
TWIN FALLS FIRST WARD
Twin Falls Stake
THE above is a picture of the group which celebrated Daughters' Day in the Twin Falls First Ward. There were eighty-five mothers and daughters present in the group. Throughout the stake the day was appropriately celebrated. An impressive pageant, "The Courage of Mormon Women," was the feature program which included four episodes: The Convert, Crossing the Plains, The Colonizers, and Modern Courage. During the pageant musical numbers were given. These included: The Morning Breaks, Though Deepening Trials, Let The Mountains Shout For Joy, and the entire group sang Come, Come Ye Saints and Carry On. A very fine address on the spirit of Relief Society work was included. The oldest mother, the youngest mother, and the mother having most daughters present were honored. At the conclusion of the delightful program refreshments were served.
Franklin Stake
ON Saturday afternoon, May 21, a very delightful entertainment was held for the closing session of the Franklin Stake Relief Society. There was a wealth of beautiful spring flowers in the chapel and the spirit of the occasion was greatly enhanced by the presence of President Louise Y. Robison and Counselor Kate M. Barker. A special feature was the launching of the Membership Drive. An arch made of yellow and blue flowers symbolizing the project, was very attractive. Stake and ward coordinators were introduced to the assembly in a unique way which caused them to sense the importance of their calling. The Relief Society colors were most artistically used. This stake is proud of its one-hundred Singing Mothers who, in uniform, furnished the music for the Relief Society Stake Convention. There has been some very splendid work done in the field of health and in laying plans for preparing school children for the coming year. Clinics have been held in which all
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the wards have had an opportunity to participate and great stress has been placed upon the health of children. This stake has a record of merit in the Magazine Drive. Eight out of the ten wards received honors. Through cooperation much has been accomplished in the Work and Business department. Extension work of the State University has been a great asset, particularly in its homemaking activities. The fine activities of the past year were fittingly recognized during the program and at the conclusion refreshments were served to approximately three hundred.
Idaho Falls Stake
THE picture below is from the Third Ward in the Idaho Falls Stake. It represents the women of the Singing Mothers group in this
THIRD WARD, IDAHO FALLS STAKE
ward. They are costumed in the styles of the "gay nineties". This picture was taken at the annual Daughters' Day celebration which was held on April 19. The lesson for the day was the second one on the Romance of an Old Playhouse. Everyone on the program was in costume. The lesson was splendidly given. The literary course has proven to be one of the most popular in the Relief Society.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
This enterprising ward is young in point of age, having been divided two years ago, but it has now more than reached the original membership through recruiting other sisters. Not only in the literary work but in the visiting teaching, in the Magazine, and in all other activities of Relief Society, the same spirit of enthusiasm prevails.
BOUND MAGAZINES, WELLSVILLE WARD
Hyrum Stake
THE above picture is taken of twenty-one volumes of the Relief Society Magazine. These books were collected and bound by the officers and members under the direction of the President of the Wellsville Ward and presented to the organization. These form a most valuable collection, and are an indication of what the ingenuity and thrift of the sisters of the organization can accomplish.
Tintic Stake
A VERY interesting report of the year's activities in Relief Society comes from the Tintic Stake. A delightful entertainment was given by the Relief Society Stake Board to all the wards of the stake on the 17th of March. A program of appropriate and beautiful pageantry, music, and readings was given. A tribute to the oldest active Relief Society worker in each ward was composed and read by the stake Literary leader. Refreshments were served from an attractive table, decorated in blue and gold, centered with a large three-tier birthday cake. Blue and gold favors were an attractive feature of the occasion. More than 135 guests participated. During the year the annual visits of the Relief Society presidency and stake board were held. The representatives met with the officers and teachers in order to have an intimate discussion of problems and to give special attention to the ward workers in their duties. A poem contest was sponsored by the stake. Every ward responded and some very excellent poems were submitted. Awards were made to those composing the best. A social and financial achievement of the stake was the Harvest Festival. A very clever program was arranged and each ward participated. A Mis-Fit Dance with novelty numbers featuring the Spot Dance, Virginia Reel, and other old-time favorites followed. Each ward had refreshments to sell and shared in the profits of the entertainment. One ward in the stake has the enviable record of achieving 100% visiting teaching. In the beginning of the year the visiting teachers of the ward were divided into two groups headed by captains. The side having the most successful teaching was to be entertained by the losers. In December each side had visited 100 per cent, so the ward officers gave a party honoring both. The following beautiful tribute is paid to Sister Margaret Brohm by the secretary: "The joy of achievement and the happiness which comes from efforts crowned with success was tempered by the passing of a beloved Board member, Sister Margaret Brohm. Sister Brohm had been on the Tintic stake board for fifteen years. Her labors as a social service worker had made her beloved by all who knew her. She also served as stake librarian. Her devotion to truth, her tenacity in holding to Latter-day Saint ideals, her love and wisdom have been and will continue to be an inspiration to us who were privileged to be associated with her."
ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION, MANTI CENTER WARD
South Sanpete Stake
FROM the Manti Center Ward of the South Sanpete Stake comes the above picture. It represents the presidency and social committee having in charge the celebration of the 96th anniversary of the organization of Relief Society. The occasion was made memorable by the very fine preparation made and the enthusiasm with which the accomplishments of Relief Society were presented. A program appropriate to the occasion was given. This was followed by a delightful luncheon served to more than 112 guests.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
The following is the winning poem in the Poetry Contest conducted by the Tintic Stake Relief Society:
SACAGAWEA
By Melba Allen, Goshen Ward
Farflung from out the thrilling past,
Emblazoned bright in deeds that last,
Are echoes of the great of old
Whose hearts beat steadfast, high and bold.
And lo! From out that echoing throng
Comes a sweet story told in song,
A saga, of a maid sincere
Whom we should honor and revere.
Sacagawea, far from home
A captive maid had lived alone
Within a strange and distant land
Far from her father's loyal band.
And oft when trees in green were dressed,
When churning waters were at rest
She walked along the forest glade
And longed for home, this Indian maid.
To Charbonneau she soon was wed.
She found him harsh and cruel, instead
Of loving, kind. T'was then she knew
He scorned her skin of copperhue.
In spite of trials and deep despair
Her dauntless spirit kept her there
A heroine in embryo
Who on a mission soon would go.
And then one morning clear and bright
A straggling company came in sight.
Adventurers bold, a motley crew,
They came into this land so new.
New to the whitemen, yet so old
To wandering tribes and chieftains bold.
They journeyed westward to the sea,
They hired a guide. T'was none but She.
Her papoose, small and newly born
She strapped upon her sturdy form.
Sure of her task as though 'twere done
She led them toward the setting sun.
As through the wilderness they'd roam
Her native instinct led them home
Unto her people's hunting ground
Where aid and food they quickly found.
No mortal pen can ever tell
The trials, the sorrows that befell
That noble band. And She, so brave,
Their faith and food, their lives did save.
Her light of courage ere shall cast
From out the portals of the past
A beacon to all womanhood
To build a life of worth and good.

Sacagawea, brave and true,
Help us to be a guide like you!
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
LOUISE Y. ROBISON - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - President
AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - First Counselor
KATE M. BARKER - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Second Counselor
JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Jennie B. Knight Donna Durrant Sorensen Nettie D. Bradford
Emma A. Empey Vivian R. McConkie Marcia K. Howells
Ida P. Beal Leda T. Jengen Emeline Y. Nebeker
Annie Wells Cannon Beatrice F. Stevens Janet M. Thompson
Lalene H. Hart Rae B. Barker Belle S. Spafford
Cora L. Bennion Nellie O. Parker
Amy Whipple Evans Anna S. Barlow
Rosannah C. Irvine
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Manager - Louise Y. Robison
Editor, Assistant Manager Belle S. Spafford
Amy Brown Lyman
VOL. XXV AUGUST, 1938 No. 8
Editorials
Appreciation of the Beautiful
IN the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.... And God saw that it was good.
One of our inheritances from our Heavenly Father is this love of creation and experiencing joy in seeing that the things created is good and beautiful. One of mankind's most exalted moods is that mood in which he views a product of his own creative genius with approval and has the thrilling consciousness that it never would have been were it not for him. When any work draws out of one the best of which he is capable there is spiritual growth. When one makes a conscious effort to develop so that his best is the expression of truth and beauty, there is the greatest of spiritual growth.
How desperately the world needs the exalted ideal of work! How fortunate is the country with a well-developed folk art! How fortunate is the home with an heirloom, the value of which is increased by time because of the character of the work which is the expression of the truth and beauty of the soul of the artist. The spirituality which he developed with his work will enrich our lives as we grow in appreciation of the truth and beauty expressed. Destroying such a piece of work is sacrilege. It is destroying art, and behind any work of art is the soul of the artist.
A love and an appreciation of such beauty will add spiritual tone to any home. Every home should have some handmade article into which has entered the elements of beauty, proportion, harmony, good true workmanship, which will lead surely if unconsciously to an appreciation of the finest wherever found. If we have not, let us begin now to build for the future.
—Kate M. Barker.
Unselfish Giving
"LET no man seek his own but every man another's wealth." (I Cor. 10:24.)
The Master has truly said that it is more blessed to give than to receive but in giving as in all other activities wisdom is needful. The mother desiring all good for her child is willing to give of her strength, even of her life. But should she always carry the child to shield it from misstep, denying
EDITORIALS
it the opportunity to do, the child would never walk. The teacher who in her anxiety to push the pupil forward does the thinking for it, denies to it the right to grow. The social worker eager to assist people in distress unwisely giving of material assistance and service may actually retard the family's ability to overcome its difficulties and become self-sustaining.
Man's destiny is to become a creator and he is happiest when creating. Denied the opportunity to give of himself he stagnates. The satisfactions of giving are such that once enjoyed unwise giving may result. The psychologist tells us that the mastery satisfaction is fundamental in the psychology of man. Many people give to gratify the mastery impulse. Who does not upon occasion like to do the big thing—the generous thing—to be in reality "the Lady Bountiful?" Someone has said giving makes the sublime appeal to the "I am big" which lies deep-rooted within all mankind. At times we give, particularly of our means, to be relieved of further social responsibility.
There still remain many, however, whose endless giving is prompted purely by the spirit of the Master—the sincere love of fellow man. But no matter what the deep-seated and underlying motive for giving; be that giving material wealth or service, it builds strength and power—strength to overcome selfishness, to share, to love our neighbor as ourself—and is a source of genuine joy.
Sometimes, in our own selfish unselfishness we give to excess, standing in the way of others enjoying the same satisfactions and development which we so highly prize. Forceful personalities unintentionally but frequently monopolize the giving opportunities within the social group, submerging less aggressive members. When continued over long periods of time this may result in the individuals so denied having a feeling of inadequacy which affects personality even as lack of physical exercise affects muscular development.
We often give because we appreciate the fact that we are better able to do so than another, losing sight of the fact that the effect of doing is of greater value in personality than the thing done. There is no surer way to make a friend than to let a person do something for you. Abraham Lincoln recognized this truth and often employed it in winning erstwhile enemies. At one time he was bitterly opposed in Congress by a certain gentleman. So intense was the man's feelings against Lincoln that he refused to speak to him save when political necessity demanded. Lincoln learned that the gentleman owned a very valuable set of books. Approaching him one day he asked for the loan of one volume. Returning it a few days later he so sincerely expressed his appreciation that the gentleman offered another volume and still another. The result was that Lincoln won for himself a loyal supporter and a fast friend.
The Savior stands the pattern in giving as in all else. He invariably gave guidance and opportunity that joy and development might come to others. He had no need of the widow's mite but recognized the need of the widow to make the gift. "He that provides opportunity for another increases the fruits of his own righteousness."
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
LESSON 2
THE MEDITERRANEAN WORLD IN THE DAYS OF THE APOSTLES—(Cont'd.)
HELPFUL REFERENCES
H. E. Dana, The New Testament World, pages 126-162.
B. W. Robinson, The Life of Paul, pages 5-24.
J. P. Smyth, The Story of St. Paul's Life and Letters, pages 8-14.
T. G. Tucker, Life in the Roman World of Nero and St. Paul, pages 260-337, 361-415.
Education in the Roman World.—We are far too prone to assume that education and scholarship are products of our own age and were not known to any extent in the days of the Apostles. But such assumption is not warranted. Scholarly researches and intellectual achievements were on a very high plane and compare very favorably in many respects with our own age. Even before the advent of Christianity the scientific achievements of the Greeks were remarkable. Sedgwick and Tyler have made the following statement: "In science the Greeks had to build from the foundations. Other peoples had extensive knowledge and highly developed arts. Only among the Greeks existed the true scientific method with its characteristics of free inquiry, rational interpretation, verification or rectification by systematic and repeated observation, and controlled deduction from accepted principles."
Mathematics and mathematical astronomy were the favorite Greek sciences. Next in order came medicine and anatomy, followed by geography, botany and the natural sciences in general. Chemistry was not considered as a science apart, but rather as a necessary stock-in-trade of manufacturers. Luke, the Greek physician, companion of Paul and the writer of the Gospel by his name, and the "Acts," was doubtless well schooled in the sciences and medical lore of his day. Tucker (p. 244) points out that the knowledge and skill of surgeons and physicians of that day were by no means contemptible, and their surgical implements and pharmacopoeia were surprisingly modern. The writer saw surgical implements that were used among the Romans of 79 A. D. While traveling in Italy. To say we were surprised would put it mildly. (See illustration in Tucker, p. 245.)
Physicians and surgeons didn't have the high social standing among the Romans that they have in our society. They, together with attorneys, artists, schoolmasters and clerks belonged to the "common" people, along with bakers, butchers, carpenters and the like. Luke was therefore a "commoner."
Among the Romans literature and oratory were considered the most important subjects from the cultural point of view. The Roman world produced a vast literature. Books were written in great numbers and scribes were specially trained for the task. Greek Universities were established in Rhodes, Tarsus, Alexandria, Marseilles, and Antioch. Alexandria was famous for its great library and museum.
Education was probably not nearly so widespread as today. There were no laws compelling children to go to school; their education depended upon the means and the attitude of the parents. Most of the teachers were men, but women teachers and scholars were by no means unknown.
We cannot pass on to another topic without saying something about philosophy. The unsatisfactory state of most religions in the days of the Apostles caused many persons with superior minds to turn to philosophy for comfort and solace. The impact of Christianity and contemporary philosophy had some interesting results. There can be no doubt but that the current philosophies of the Graeco-Roman world had their share of influence in corrupting the primitive simplicity and purity of the Christian teachings. The pagan influence on the so-called Christianity of post-apostolic days is still reflected in the religious sects and denominations of our western world.
It is necessary for Latter-day Saints who would understand the problems of the ancient Twelve to be conversant with the history of the philosophy of that day. Space forbids us from considering any of the philosophies with the exception of the two most common—Stoicism and Epicureanism. Professor Tucker says that the Stoics were the Pharisees, the Epicureans the Sadducees of pagan philosophy.
Stoicism came to be the characteristic Roman creed. At the time of the Apostles the prevailing philosophy was indeed Stoic in theory but Epicurean in practice. The school of Stoic philosophy was founded by one Zeno of Phoenician descent, who was born in 336 B. C. The school received its name from the place of meeting, the Painted Stoa, a colonnade on the north side of the Athenian market place. Although first taught in Athens the early devotees of Stoicism were generally Greeks who lived outside of Greece proper, in other words Hellenistic Greeks. The practical Stoic belief was of such a nature as to appeal to the grave Roman character and temperament. The stronghold of Stoicism finally came to be Rome. For several centuries the Stoic philosophy became the religion, at least in theory, of nearly all noble and educated Romans. It was expounded and taught by such great writers and thinkers as Cornutus, Lucan, Seneca, Epictetus, and Marcus Aurelius.
The main doctrines of Stoicism have been set down as follows: "Virtue, to the wise man, is the highest good. Fixed laws govern the Universe and these laws express the world-soul, of which the human soul is a part. Goodness is to be found in the true knowledge of nature, and this knowledge is to be won by reason. Wisdom consists in living in accord with nature. The wise man is self-sufficient. Self-control, therefore, is of paramount importance. Serenity of mind is essential, whether in pleasure or pain."
The Stoics denied the seeking of pleasure. If pleasure came it was merely an accompaniment of virtuous conduct.
Epicurus (342-270 B. C.) founded the philosophy named after him. He was of Athenian parentage. In brief, Epicurean philosophy may be explained in the following words: "The universe consists of atoms and void; the atoms are without limit as to number, indestructible and indivisible, and are in perpetual motion in the void.... There are numerous worlds in the universe. The gods exist, it is true, in a realm of their own, but they do not concern themselves with humanity, nor do they rule the world. Consequently man should free his soul of all religious fear and superstition, and likewise of the terror of death. The soul, itself corporeal, perishes with the body, for death ends all. Sensation is alone to be trusted, for it is only through the senses that reality and the truth may be ascertained. Happiness is the chief end of life, and pleasure consists of pleasant sensations. But by this Epicurus did not mean sensuality.... 'Happiness, said Epicurus, 'was to be achieved through freedom from disturbance, by the living of a simple life, and by choosing those pleasures which bring real and permanent contentment to mind and body. Wisdom enables us to make the proper choice.'"
It will be perceived that Epicurean philosophy provided little stimulus or drive to righteous living. Few of its followers could live up to its principles with any zest. The result was that many became lazy, vicious, and made light of vice. It is no surprise therefore that Epicureanism became known as "The philosophy of the pig-sty" even though it did not mean this to its founder.
As we have already indicated Roman philosophy in the days of the Apostles was Stoic in theory but Epicurean in practice. No wonder the ancient Apostles had a tremendous problem in carrying the Gospel to their contemporaries! There were many charlatans and dabblers in philosophy who were despised by the professional Stoic and Epicurean teachers of Athens. For a time Paul could hold the attention of the latter, but when he taught them the doctrine of the resurrection they looked upon him as another of the itinerant quacks who were common to that age. He found in his age what we have found in ours, that it is difficult to teach the Gospel to professionals.
The Family in the Graeco-Roman World—As in most "advanced" civilizations families in the Graeco-Roman world were not very large. The old Hebrew views that "children are an heritage of the Lord" and "happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them," did not prevail over a large territory. The state became so concerned, in fact startled, during the reign of the first emperor Augustus, over the sharp decline in the birth-rate that it penalized persons who remained unmarried or childless and granted special concessions to parents of three or more children. The situation was similar to that which exists in certain European countries at the present time. But the Romans seem to have disregarded the law and it became a more or less dead statute.
While the right of a father to put his children to death was no longer recognized in the age we are describing, it was still legally possible to do away with children that were deformed. Seneca, as quoted by Tucker, says, "We drown our monstrosities." It should not be supposed, however, that the putting away of children was practiced to any considerable degree. We cannot believe that Romans, unlike other people, were without love and affection for their wives and children. In fact the records are numerous that show touching love and affection in many of their families. They remind us of the Biblical citation to the effect that "the iniquity of the Amorites was not yet full."
As contrasted to the position of women among the Jews, however, the women of the Graeco-Roman world were in a relatively low position. The papyri make it plain that divorce was exceedingly frequent. Professor Tucker writes, "Nothing like it has been seen until modern America." Divorce was a matter easily tended to because only a formal notice from either of the contracting parties to the other was needed to dissolve the union. The children of such people were the LESSON DEPARTMENT Religion in the Graeco-Roman World.—The old religions of Greece and Rome had almost completely lost their hold on all classes of people; in fact from the days of Alexander the Great there had been an infiltration of Oriental religions and cults into the West. The so-called mystery religions from Syria and Egypt became dominant in most parts of the civilized world. These religions gave greater satisfaction to the cravings of people for a warm­er and more sympathetic faith. They were emotional in their appeal and catered to the old love of men for secret initiation and mysterious rit­ual. J. A. Findlay points out that the most significant characteristic, common to all of them, is found in the fact that they centered upon the idea of a god or hero who died and rose again, thus ministering to the hope of immortality. None of these cults, he adds, had any connection with anything which we should call morality-only with ceremonial purifications-and indeed a great many of them were bound up with vicious sexual practices of the most demoralizing type. In addition to these popular religions there existed the imperial cult or worship of the Roman emperor. The people of the East found no especial difficulty in deifying each individual 559 Emperor. The Roman rulers were not slow in taking advantage of this peculiar Psychology. We can easily understand why the early Christians had great difficulties at times with the Romans, Their refusal to worship the Emperor might be construed as treason. In our first two lessons we have noted just a few high lights in the world of the ancient Apostles. A more detailed and extended study of that world will gteatly increase your appreciation of the work accomplished by Christ's special witnesses. Questions and Problems (Deal Only With As Many As Time Permits) 1. Compare and contrast education in the R assign this problem to some sister with special 2. Why would the Romans be much concerned about a falling birthrate? Discuss the problems in­volved with especial reference to conditions now existing in the world. What do you think the attitude of the ancient Apostles was toward the practice of having small families? 3. Compare the divorce problem in the Graeco-Roman world with that of the United States? What are the religious implications of divorce? 4. In the light of religious beliefs in the Roman Empire would the ancient Apostles be likely to have made few or many converts? — 560 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Visiting Teacher Department MESSAGES TO THE HOME NO. 2.—FEAR Jesus said, "Fear not. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light."—Matthew 11:29-30. COURAGE and self-reliance are integral qualities of strong personality. Fear is an enemy to these qualities. Children are born with but very few fears, but in their early years, parents teach them many. Who can estimate how much these fears hamper the joyousness of life. Fear complexes express themselves in many ways. E. M. Ligon, teacher and psychologist, says that fear is the most disintegrating of all the enemies of personality. Worry, anxiety, terror, inferiority complexes, pessimism, greed and the like are all varieties of this one great evil. We lay awake nights dreading possible calamities of the morrow. We do and say cowardly things prompted by it. We are selfish and thoughtless of others in times of danger. Our minds become confused and frantic when it masters us. It undermines our personalities, makes us afraid to stand up for what we believe to be right, and afraid to dedicate our lives to the purpose which challenges our best selves. In time of illness fear is one of the most destructive factors. Wars are caused because of fear. Young people do not marry because they fear the responsibility of family life. The Master taught us that we should avoid fears which stand in the way of our perfect development. Did He not say, "Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith?" and, "Fear not little flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom." Jesus, however, also taught that we should have healthful fears. For example, He taught that we should fear sin and him who is able to destroy us; that we should fear ignorance and hypocrisy; that His mercy is with them who fear Him and are obedient to His commandments. Intelligent observation may protect us from a multitude of senseless fears. To overcome a senseless, destructive fear, it is necessary to bring the thing which we fear into the light, if possible discover the original cause of the fear, examine it in relation to our present state of feeling, and substitute healthful emotional and physical reaction. The individual who sees the situation clearly, who intelligently controls emotion, and substitutes action for worry overcomes many of his fears and develops desirable character and personality. Problems For Discussion 1. Give illustrations from the life of the Master where by example He taught us to fear not; by precept. 2. How may we overcome worry! What is its effect upon personality? 3. What did Jesus teach about anxiety? (See Matthew 6:27.) Explain this in the light of personality. 4. Name some healthful fears and suggest the type of protective action which they prompt. References: Luke 12:1-32. Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs as planned by your ward, LESSON DEPARTMENT 561 Literature THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL Lesson 2 RoBINSON CRUSOE T may seem a bit strange to some people that Robinson Crusoe should be selected as one of the novels for discussion during this course. If any defense is necessary, perhaps it ig enough to say that most critics regard it as the first of the real English novels and a predecessor of a long line of other novels which were influenced by it. Robinson Crusoe, in a sense, is what the critics are pleased to call a picaresque, OF rogue story. This form of earlier in Spain and had found its way into England. However, inson Crusoe differs so much from such stories in form and treatment that even to mention the picaresque story may not be wise, Crusoe is portrayed truly as a young rogue in the beginning, his experiences changed his life and the author did his best to present a realistic picture of a developing man. As has previously been intimated, Defoe may have had some of his material first hand from men he met in Newgate prison where he was incarcerated. It may be well, then, to glance at the book in a friendly, critical manner and see just how well Defoe did succeed in producing 4 great story. Professor Phelps in his book The Advance of the English Novel, says: "Professor Raleigh, in his admirable little book, The English Novel, --- which combines the terse condensation of a manual with the easy and luminous style of good armchair talk calls attention to the three modes of novel composition. The author may tell his story as an invisible and omnipresent mind-reader, he may put the whole thing in the speech of the leading character, or he may depend exclusively on the epistolary correspondence. One might add that many authors employ all three in one; the story is told by the novelists, with the introduction of much conversation, varied by occasional letters." In Robinson Crusoe, Defoe has employed the first method using the one is trying to impress the truth of the tale upon the mind of the reader." Robinson Crusoe begins: "I was born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a good family," and imthe reader ceases to remember that this is a tale of a fictiCrusoe immediately hecomes as real as George Washington, who was born in 1732, or as any other character in history who has left us his diary. To further impress the reader with the truth of the narration, the author gives details about the family which establish them, also, as real and genuine people. The verisimilitude with which Defoe invests his story is one of its chief charms and one of the reasons why the old book has sold by the thousands, in complete and abbreviated form, for more than two hundred years. Professor Wilbur Cross has paragraph about the book that is 'luminating. Says Cross: "The aim lThe Advance of the English Novel, Phelps, p- 44- 8Development of the Wilbur L. Cross, D- 28. English Novel, 562 of Defoe.. Venture." Fred Lewis Pattee, a well-known American critic, as has been said, once wrote that we are interested in a romancer and a novelist for two different reasons. We are interested in what a romancer has to tell, but in a novelist for what he has to say. Defoe combined these two interests admirably in Robinson Crusoe as can easily be pointed out. He takes his hero through many adventures, but in so doing he injects a considerable amount of philosophy which raises the story out of the mere adventure class. Passages like the following are common in the book. Youthful Robinson, after having been warned by the old seaman against going to sea, soliloquizes thus: "As to going home, shame opposed the best motions that offered to my thoughts, and it immediately occurred to me how I should be laughed at among the neighbors and should be ashamed to see, not my father and mother only, but even everybody else; from whence I have often observed how incongruous and irrational the common temper of mankind is, especially of youth, to that reason which ought to guide them in such cases, viz., that they are not ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action for they ought justly to be esteemed fools, but are ashamed of the returning, which can only make them esteemed wise men.". Is humanized adA less astute story teller than Defoe might easily have written his novel without that rather long series of adventures which precedes the actual story of Crusoe's being cast away upon an island. Defoe had the genius to see that a prolonged introduction would add to the truth-feeling of the story, a feeling that he must induce in order for his tale to be accepted as anything but a mere RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE fantastic narrative. Each of young Crusoe's adventures adds a bit to the reader's belief in the existence of the man and to his interest in the man's final outcome. After the ship has run aground and the castaway is actually upon the "Island of Despair", Defoe does not let down a single instant. He still records with the most careful detail the little things that make for reality. It was a masterly stroke, in a sense, for the author to pause in his narration to have Crusoe strike a balance between the good and the evil. Says Robinson, "I drew up the state of my affairs in writing." He then proceeded to list the things which caused him to despair and those which gave him hope. And, like a good Christian, he finally found such kindness manifest toward him that he was reconciled to his fate. He ended his credit entry thus: "But God wonderfully sent the ship in near enough the shore, that I have got out so many necessary things as will either supply my wants or enable me to supply myself even as long as I live." One who has not read the story might wonder how a novelist could deal with one man on a lonely island not even inhabited by wild beasts and keep up the reader's interest. But because he can relate details with ease and interest, this situation presents no real problem to Defoe. He makes the finding of a bag which had once contained corn, and the planting of it, an adventure. The discovery of some green blades where he had emptied the bag became a miracle. Says Robinson, "At last it occurred to my thoughts that I had shaken the bag of chicken's meat out in that place; and the wonder began to cease; and I must confess my religious thankfulness to God's providence began to abate too, upon the LESSON DEPARTMENT discovering that all this was nothing but what was common; though I ought to have been as thankful for so strange and unforseen providence, as if it had been miraculous; for it was really the work of Providence as to me, that should order or appoint that ten or twelve grains of corn should remain unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed all the rest, as if it had been dropped from heaven; as also that I should throw it out in that particular place where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas, if I had thrown it anywhere else at that time it had been burnt up and destroyed." The importance of this grain and his care of it, Robinson indicates by saying: "But it was not till the fourth year that I would allow myself the least grain of this corn to eat, and even then but sparingly.." He then tells us how important that restraint was to him on account of difficulty he had in growing his corn. This detail of the finding and the growing of the corn is but one of many incidents which Defoe surrounds with an interest and a charm that makes the reading of such commonplace matters a real adventure. As Cross so well said, Defoe"... Brings the story home to the Englishman of the middle-class, for whom he primarily writes, by telling them that their condition in life is most conducive to happiness, and by giving expression to their peculiar tenets; their trust in dreams, their recognition of Providence in the fortuitous concurrence of events, and their dogmas of conviction of sin, of repentence, and conversion." Robinson Crusoe's sickness is well treated by Defoe who uses it as a means of bringing about his roguish hero's complete change of life. The sickness results in prayer and the prayer in his coming to rely upon 563 God as the all-wise being who can be aware of a lone man on an island as well as of a man anywhere else in the world. This conversion is followed by the fortuitous finding of a Bible in one of the chests which he had brought from the ship. Defoe, with great care, follows his hero from day to day and from year to year, never seeming to tire of his work of making the story seem to be genuine and true. Robinson finds many things on the island, learns to perform many tasks, works assiduously at various jobs from attempting to make barrels to the burning of pottery, but never is the reader allowed to forget that he is alone, on a strange small island, without hope of rescue. After the castaway has built his two homes, fashioned a boat he could not launch, and has established himself as "lord of all he surveys", one day he finds the print of a man's foot in the sand. That is an important event and divides the book rather equally in two parts. It might be well to use it as the dividing place between the two lessons which are to be devoted to this remarkable story.
Questions and Problems
1. Read The Advance of the English Novel, chapter 3.
2. Though, of course, Robinson Crusoe's island is mythical, the general location of it is not. It might be well to have a map in class showing about where it was supposed to be located.
3. What is a picaresque story? This might be made an assignment for someone in the class to speak upon.
4. What handicrafts did Robinson Crusoe attempt while on his island? Did Defoe make them seem plausible? If so, in what way?
5. Name the adventures which preceded the shipwreck. Why were they introduced.
6. It would be interesting to read Swiss Family Robinson and Tarzan of the Apes in connection with Robinson Crusoe.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Social Service
LESSON 2
The Problem of Growing Older
I. Popular Opinion Is in Error Concerning the Learning Ability of Adults.
The theme of this lesson is that we need not stop learning because we are grown up. Because change is often difficult for grown ups, it is easy to fall into the error of believing that our ways, beliefs, and attitudes are so well fixed by age thirty that to attempt to change is a worthless expenditure of energy. Modern children run home from school with many new skills and facts that are sometimes amazing to their parents. Change seems to come so easily to children that, in comparison, parents imagine they cannot learn nearly so readily themselves.
However, modern science has shown that adults can learn as well as children, and with some kinds of material they can learn faster and retain better than children do. If adults do not learn, it is mainly a question of lack of motivation and habit. However, popular belief holds so strongly to the opinion that adults cannot learn new subject matter, habits, and outlooks on life that we too rarely find adults who are still engaged in improving their minds in any systematic way.
Adults can learn many things more easily than children do because they better appreciate the value of what they learn. We are able to grow educationally to the end of life, so far as mental ability is concerned. This is the true spirit of Latter-day Saint teachings: eternal learning is necessary for eternal progress. We are all so young, and should be so teachable, in terms of eternity and the great plan of salvation. "Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth"—the meek are the teachable.
II. There Is Very Little Change in Brightness Between Ages 20 and 60.
Modern science has shown that between ages 30 and 50, ability to make quick reactions does not decrease very much, but by age 70, the decrease in speed of mental reactions is quite marked. Facts of this kind suggest that people past 50 years should use continually greater caution in driving automobiles or crossing streets, for example. The differences between young and old people in ability on tests that involve judgment are not so great as in tests of simple speed reactions as just discussed. The judgment of people at age 60 is as good as that of people 20. Judgment, on the average, does not decline much until after age 70, and then only very gradually. On intelligence tests, there is very little loss of ability between ages 20 and 55, and not a sharp decline until much later.
However, in all these tests of speed, judgment, and intelligence, the differences between various individuals at the same ages are greater than the differences between people of different ages, speaking of averages. Some people are still quicker and more alert at age 80 than others at 60.
III. Ability to Learn Declines But Little Through the Years.
Professor Thorndike of Columbia University has made perhaps the most thorough study of adult learning. He and his co-workers tested a large number of adults with a variety of learning problems. Their results
LESSON DEPARTMENT
show that ability to learn, which is not always the same as intelligence, increases rapidly from about age 5 to age 20. There is almost no decline in learning ability between 20 and 30, and only a slight decline up to age 50. In the learning of things that adults commonly have learned, there was much less decline with age than in learning of material more commonly learned by children and young people. There may be a great difference in the motivation of a child who is learning to spell, for example, compared with an adult attempting the same task. An adult is often embarrassed when attempting school tasks. On the other hand, as Thorndike points out, adults may have more serious intent to learn because they have clearer purposes and better judgment as to the value of knowledge.
Several studies have shown that around age 50, people feel less sure of their ability to learn new things; they approach learning of new tasks with greater uncertainty. There is some evidence that "keeping one's hand in" in learning activities seems to be an aid to learning. In other words, practice in attacking learning tasks seems to assist in preserving the teachability of youth. Our mental "muscles" may grow "stiff" through disuse, just as do our physical muscles.
IV. Changes of Interests With Age.
Perhaps the outlooks and attitudes of people change more with age than do mental abilities. Professor E. K. Strong of Stanford University has devised an excellent test to measure the basic interests or attitudes of people at different ages. His test consists of 420 items such as: "Do you like socialists?" "Do you dislike regular hours of work?" "Do you prefer to work in one place to changing places?"
Professor Strong concludes that, "Items suggesting physical skill and daring, as 'walking along the edge of a precipice' or 'being an aviator', show the greatest changes of all. Older men do not like such activities as do young men." (Strong, E. K., Change of Interests With Age, p. 21.)
The next greatest change is in items suggesting change or interference with established habits and customs. In Thorndike's words, "Adults are proverbially less ready to adopt new ways, even to try new ways, than adolescents."
Older men do not show such strong interest in amusements as do young men and they have a stronger preference for amusements of a solitary kind rather than those involving others. The interests of older men are also more intellectual.
One of the most marked changes in likes and dislikes is a stronger preference in older men for people with desirable traits and stronger dislikes for people with undesirable traits. One of the best signs of maturity of interests found by Strong is the increase of interest in the welfare of others, interest in current affairs, and finally more interest in religious or spiritual concerns.
As in the case of age differences in mental ability, there is more difference on the average between the interests of two people than the average differences found from age to age. In other words, age alone does not mature everyone's interests, and not everyone as he gets older resists new ideas and changes in his established attitudes.
V. Highest Type of Latter-day Saints Are Eternally Learning.
The teachings of Joseph Smith one hundred years ago are closely in accord with the findings of modern science on learning possibilities of adults. The Prophet was of a studious turn of mind, plastic and ready to adjust to new knowledge and circumstances. Through inspiration, he made the following statement: "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." (D. & C. 130:18,19.)
One of the functions of the Kirtland Temple was to serve as a place of learning. In the dedicatory prayer given to Joseph Smith by revelation, he said, "And do thou grant, Holy Father, that all those who shall worship in this house may be taught words of wisdom out of the best books, and that they may seek learning even by study, and also by faith, as thou hast said." (D. & C. 109:14.)
The great emphasis placed upon education by the Church suggests that learning is not only for the young. The courses of study outlined by the Relief Society assume we are never through learning; they are calculated to keep our minds plastic and ever receptive to new knowledge, for thus do we move along the path of eternal progress.
VI. A Few Hints on How to Face the Problem of Growing Older.
1. Keep mentally plastic through continually practicing the learning of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
new things and through acquiring new interests which will enliven your less active years. 2. Constantly change your habits to satisfy your changing bodily needs. Consult your doctor. 3. Be willing to delegate to young people those tasks which require radically new adjustments and great expenditure of energy. 4. Keep active at those things which you like but which do not call for strenuous adjustments. 5. Keep contact with young people whenever possible; learn not to be sensitive to their lack of understanding of the problems of older people. 6. Fight the habit of thinking that everything is all over for you. Think rather of old age as the happy interlude between two great acts in eternity.
Problems for Discussion:
1. Show how the findings of modern psychology on the relationship between learning and age fit into Latter-day Saint doctrines.
2. Why do people in middle age often cease to learn new things? How can they be aroused to continue their growth in skills, knowledge, and new attitudes?
3. Why do you think people become more interested in social and spiritual welfare as they become older (i. e. Through middle life)?
4. Think of an aged person you know who has preserved her adolescent alertness and teachability. How would you account for this achievement on her part?
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Literature for Missions
Typical Women of the Church
LESSON 2
JEANNETTE DANSIE CRANE
A Successful Mother, Reared in England
By Lily Crane Haycock
I SUPPOSE there are nearly as many definitions for success as there are people, but to my mind mother has achieved the greatest success that can come to mortal woman. Mother has reared to maturity nine boys and girls, all of whom are observers of the Word of Wisdom and the law of Tithing; they all try to keep the Sabbath day holy; every one has been through the Temple; four of her five sons have filled missions, and all are actively engaged in the Church at the present time, except her oldest son, who passed away during the influenza epidemic in 1918. What more could a Latter-day Saint mother wish for, save it be her beloved companion to share her joy and satisfaction, he having passed away thirty-six years ago.
In the little village of Barking in Essex, England, my mother, Jeannette Dansie Crane, was born on October 11, 1858. She is not a convert, her parents having joined the Church before her birth. Nevertheless she endured the trials and persecutions of the Saints in those early days. Her father, James Dansie, was a gentleman's gardener and was able to provide a very comfortable living for his family until the fact that he was a "Mormon" was learned, when he would be dismissed. Then he would be compelled to move to another district to obtain work. Each time they moved my mother would have to quit her school and begin again in a new one. Finally her mother, who was a very refined and cultured lady, decided to take her out of school entirely and teach her herself. So mother never went to school after she was nine years old. Unschooled, yes, but not uneducated. Her mother heard her lessons regularly every day for the next several years. She was also required to read through once each year the Bible, the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants. These books were divided in such a way as to take just one year to complete them, by reading a certain number of chapters each day. Nor could she just skip over them and say she had read them; she must read them aloud to her mother. No doubt this task was irksome many times but she has since thanked her mother for the knowledge she has of these books.
Like all the Saints in foreign countries, they longed to come to Utah, so saved and worked to that end until they were able to come. They reached Salt Lake City in July, 1874, and went directly to her Uncle Robert Dansie's home in Herriman, about twenty-five miles southwest of Salt Lake City. There she has lived ever since.
That first winter they spent in a little log cabin with an earth roof and every time it rained outside it poured through the ceiling. What a difference from the comfortable homes they had lived in in England! But she and her mother made the best of it. Her father obtained a farm on shares as soon as possible and they moved onto that farm. After her mother passed away she married young Henry Crane. He bought a home and a farm and they settled down. She has lived in that same house ever since. There all her children were born; there two passed away, one in infancy and one in manhood; and there she parted with her beloved husband.
When the ninth baby was three days old my father received a letter from "Box B," calling him on a mission to Great Britain. They could not see where the money was to come from, but never thinking of refusing, Father sent word he would be ready on the specified date. After that it seemed like everyone he met wanted to give him money, so when the day arrived for his departure he had ample funds to take him to his field of labor, but none to go on with. Mother worked and kept him there for two years, sending him a dollar or two at a time, never more than five, and kept her family besides. Father returned but was only home a year when he was stricken with pneumonia and died. This time he left Mother with her tenth child only ten weeks old, no insurance, and she even had to borrow money to pay for his burial. I often wonder how she had the courage to go on. What would have become of us if, after that blow, she had given up and said, "What's the use?" But she didn't give up.
Mother has been a teacher all her life, working in every organization of the Church. She taught in Sunday School, the Adult class in Mutual, the Theology class and was visiting teacher in Relief Society, was principal of Religion Class, counselor in the Primary Association and gave the lessons in Genealogy and in the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers. It made no difference which organization I attended, my own mother was
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
my teacher. I can truthfully say, "All that I am I owe to my wonderful mother." I'm positive all my brothers and sisters can say the same. Mother's many students have repeatedly told how she has helped them to do right.
When mother was seventy-five years old we gave her a party, inviting all who had ever been in her classes. This included practically everyone in the ward as well as many scattered throughout this intermountain region. The house was full of friends from 10 a. m. until 10 p. m., many coming long distances. Every nook of the house was filled with flowers, while the table was laden with presents and cards with beautiful sentiments for their teacher. In addition there were letters from several states containing sentiments such as, "You have been a light in my life. Your teaching and counsel have helped me try to live a life that you would not be ashamed of." From another Relief Society worker: "You are very dear to me and of all the teachers I have ever had, you are the one I think of most. I hope I may always conduct my life in a way that will be worthy of your friendship." From a Bishop: "At this time let me thank you and express my appreciation for the part you have played in helping me to form ideals that will be of lasting benefit to me." From a Bishop's counselor: "Accept my appreciation for service rendered in building my milestones in early life as my Sunday School teacher." There were many more but these are sufficient to show how boys and girls loved her as a teacher.
Mother has also been a worker. When our father was called on his mission he was a school trustee, postmaster, and kept a small store. Mother took over all his positions and carried on in his stead. After his
LESSON DEPARTMENT
death she continued to do public work along with her home and church duties. She was clerk of the school board for many years. But as time marched forward, school districts were consolidated, leaving no place for local trustees; rural delivery was instituted, doing away with the small post office; and finally the men of the town started a larger and more up-to-date store. So her chances of making a comfortable living were one by one taken away from her. Still she didn't give up, but turned to something else. So she took boarders, picked fruit and even did laundry work, but never did she accept charity. We were not blessed with many luxuries, but always had plenty to eat and were dressed neatly so we were not ashamed to go out with our friends. She has always paid an honest tithing, contributed to the Relief Society and paid fast offering, but you couldn't insult her more than to offer her anything that even resembled charity. Even today if the Bishop gives her a dollar for Christmas or Old Folks' day she will turn around and give it back for tithing. She still earns her own living by crocheting and making quilts. She has never gone in debt or had a mortgage on either her home or farm.
Mother has always been a great reader. She developed a habit of reading aloud that was one of the greatest means of keeping her family together and on the right path. Nor did she always read religious books. We liked to hear biographies and interesting stories, and our young friends came and listened with us. Mother was considered the best reader in the town and no program was complete without one of her choice readings.
Mother was always jolly and cheerful so young people enjoyed her company and many times she was the only married person invited to their parties. She often entertained the crowd by step-dancing vying with the fiddler to see who could keep going the longer. She will never be old in spirit but sometimes now her ambition outdoes her strength.
Mother's greatest virtue is her loyalty to the Church and its leaders. She has always taught us by example to try to live up to the teachings of the Church, not only as contained in the scriptures but as given by our leaders of today. When they admonish or instruct it is law and gospel with her. Never will she listen to a word of criticism of any one of them. She is a strict observer of the Sabbath day and has taught us all to try our best to keep it holy. No work was ever done in our home on Sunday except prepare the meals, and they were prepared as much as possible the day before. Never was work on the farm so important that it couldn't wait over Sunday. I think I am safe in saying not one of her children has ever attended a picture show or other place of amusement on Sunday. They all own their own homes, have a comfortable living, are respected in the community and every one is active in the Church.
We have often been asked why we were so obedient to our mother. I can't tell exactly but I know that it has never entered my head to disobey her. It isn't because we were afraid of her; I think it is because she trusted us. She always showed us the right path and then expected us to follow it, and we just could not let her down.
Mother has twenty-eight grandchildren and four great-grandchildren and her influence goes on to them. Everyone of them loves and respects her and wouldn't think of doing anything to hurt Grandma's feelings. All her children have held responsible positions in the Church, such as: assistant Superintendent of the Sunday School, chairman of the Genealogical Committee, president of the Relief Society, Stake Board Member, and nearly every one has at one time been president of a Mutual Improvement Association. Her only son who hasn't filled a mission has been ward clerk for almost twenty years, fulfilling a mission at home.
A sad chapter in mother's life came at the close of the World War. We were all rejoicing over the safe return of one of our brothers from the army when the influenza struck our home. All the household, except one sister, were ill at once. While mother was critically ill, our older brother passed away. He had never married, so once again the head of the house was taken away. Mother had a long hard fight but she finally recovered and went back to her many duties.
Mother always said she wanted to live to see all her children married in the temple and her sons fulfill missions. With this accomplished she now enjoys herself. Her greatest pastime is reading. She enjoys movies and automobiles and her one ambition now is to take a ride in an airplane.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Topics to be considered:
1. State why you think Jeannette Dansie was born "of goodly parents."
2. What qualities does it appear that she inherited from her parents?
3. Does Jeannette's life demonstrate that "you cannot keep a good man down"? Explain your answer.
4. What circumstances in her life demonstrate the truth of these lines: "Fear on guilt attends, and deeds of darkness; the virtuous breast ne'er knows it."
5. What evidence is there that Jeannette D. Crane is a genuine Latter-day Saint?
6. Why do you think she was a very successful mother?
7. Where and when did she learn the art of how to be an excellent mother?
8. What must a woman do if she is a good mother?
9. Thomas Hughes wrote: "Blessed are they who have the gift of making friends for it is one of God's best gifts." How did Jeannette D. Crane make friends?
10. Sidney Smith wrote, "To love and be loved is the greatest happiness of existence." What do you think made Sister Crane happy?
11. She has always lived in humble circumstances. Nevertheless, there are many evidences that she is a noble woman. Point out some of these evidences.
"Youth is a dangerous age, as far as tobacco is concerned. If one can reach the age of twenty-five without smoking, the tobacco trust will have difficulty in getting him. We shall have better health, more happiness, longer life and more comforts when we cease wasting our money for tobacco."—Alexander Anderson, President Youth Education Association.
Gwineth Gwin
By Elizabeth Cannon Porter
LILY was very tired after the baby was born, but she was very grateful for the little hospital and the good care she had received there. It all seemed like a miracle, that had been wrought by women gleaning wheat.
"I do not think that we had better buy the seed wheat," her husband had said the preceding fall when he found out there was to be a child. "We'll have to have you taken care of and we will need the money. Can't have you dying like Sarah Lyon, without medical attention," he added. The woman and her twin infants had all died on a lone ranch. There were other stories of long distances, bad roads, inclement weather, and doctors who could not reach the patients in time.
"Get the winter wheat anyway, Rob, I couldn't bear to have it not planted now. We will manage somehow. Besides, we've got to have the grain to feed the hungry animals." She had glanced out at the great expanse of rich brown loam that had lain fallow all summer. Her young husband had plowed it in the spring and the ground was hungry for the wheat.
ROB had gone to market with his precious bags of alfalfa seed, the first crop of importance from their desert ranch. A few days later he had returned, not only with his wagon loaded with seed wheat, but he brought her a bolt of white outing flannel and best of all, heartening news. "You know, the price of wheat during the war went sky high, five dollars a hundred. Well, everybody sold out because of the good prices. That is, all except the Relief Society. The government bought their wheat, thousands of bushels, the wheat that the good sisters had stored for years 'against time of need.' Some think that it was purchased for our soldiers in France, but it has been whispered that it was needed for seed to replant the earth. Well, anyway, the Relief Society is using the interest on the money for maternity purposes—to buy medicines and supplies. In Verde they have started a little hospital. Rich Mrs. Crane gave them the use of her brick house, the one that she moved out of when she went modernistic. Dr. Bates, bless his soul, contributes his services. There is a cook and a head nurse, and several young girls taking training. The people have contributed various things to furnish it and the cellar is full of bottled fruit and vegetables. I have made arrangements for you to go there, Lily. I am going to haul them a load of potatoes. Whew, you don't know how it relieves my mind."
"Oh, Rob, how wonderful," exclaimed Lily.
SO he harrowed in the grain, and the winter came and covered it with a snow-white blanket. In the evening the light from the window of the little farmhouse shone clearly over the landscape. Within was industry and happiness. Lily sewed many small garments and Rob repaired his harness—drove copper rivets in it in the warmth of the kitchen. When the snow melted the wheat field emerged a great green carpet under the spring sun. Later in the season Rob had driven Lily to Verde and placed her in the little hospital.
"Well, you ought to work, I'll say you've earned it," exclaimed Rob after a while when they told him that they were both alive.
"Maybe I thought what I brought you." He suggested into the cream, healthy baby on Lily's breast. "Well, look at what I brought you." She reached for a sheaf of golden wheat.
"Oh Rob, how lovely," said Lily. "Yes, and Clear's your pretty baby," he said, looking at the plump little face.
"Do you think we should name her Gwineth?" suggested Lily.
"That's a pretty name—like Gwineth?"
"How about Gwin—that's shorter."
"Oh, let me see if I can say that. Gwin." She cuddled the baby to her bosom. "That's the most beautiful bouquet in the world."
WHEN I PRAY
By Fae Decker Dix
When I pray, the world grows sweet and clear,
Each blessed thought of love draws near.
I find that peace of mind does not depend
On some kind of flower, or faithful friend,
But on a heart so filled with grace,
It meets life's problems face to face.
A PRAYER FROM THE PLAINS
By Patricia Bryson
Long shadows creep across the rolling plains,
Far distant hills reach up to hide the sun;
Now fades the glow of crimson from the sky;
The night falls fast when prairie days are done.
There is no sound to break the silence here.
Hushed now the wind which through the day has blown,
As though it, too, flees this forsaken place.
I fear the night! Dear God, I'm so alone!
Once strong brown hands were here to share these tasks,
To tend the flocks, to plow, to reap and sow.
I knew no loneliness when he was near.
Why did you take him, God? I loved him so.
And he loved me, I know, and loved these fields;
The rich brown earth, and every vine and tree
He planted here. And best of all he loved
This small white house of dreams he built for me.
I could not leave the home built by those hands
So strong—and tender too; for every part
Is filled with dreams and blessed with joys we knew;
And in its cornerstone I've placed my heart.
The days bring endless chores; I do not mind.
But then night falls, and far as eye can see,
There is no house, save this; no one to call
Should I need help. There's none to comfort me.
I want no lofty buildings, for my soul
Would cry for sun and air and windswept lea.
I must remain, for all I love is here,
And strength and courage, God, I ask of Thee.
I do not long for busy, crowded streets.
I seek no hurrying throngs, no laughter gay.
To see one lighted window is my wish;
One friendly sign to cheer my lonely way.
I lift my eyes toward Thy throne, and see!
The dark, deep velvet curtain of the night
Is drawn aside. I have my heart's desire.
A star is shining there—God's candle light.
And now a million lamp-lit windows gleam;
Each one repeats the message heaven sent.
No more am I afraid, no more alone.
I know my God is near, and I'm content.
One Month to Go—
Before registration days offer an opportunity to those who wish to prepare themselves for greater service.
1600 COURSES IN 35 DEPARTMENTS
Sound Training Leading to Success in More Than a Hundred Vocations.
Registration Dates—September 23, 24, 25, 1938
BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY
For a catalogue address
BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY
PROVO "The Friendly School" UTAH
The World's Finest stokers. Now, more than ever before, the cheapest quality stoker available. Leading dealers everywhere handle Recent price reductions made possible by volume production, and carload distribution, make Fairbanks-Morse stokers.
GUARANTEED BY Good Housekeeping
ROYAL COAL COMPANY
DISTRIBUTORS
N. ODELL GARFF, General Sales Manager
817-822 Newhouse Building
FAIRBANKS-MORSE & CO.
Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Increase Your Chances for Profitable Employment!
You can do it by enrolling at the L. D. S. Business College
The Courses
Stenotypy
Gregg Shorthand
Penmanship
Business English
Typewriting
Commercial Law
Machine Calculation
Salesmanship
Walton Accounting
—and many other subjects
Information will be gladly furnished on request
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
70 North Main Street
Wasatch 1812
Salt Lake City, Utah
Preserve Your Magazines
by having them permanently bound
"THERE is a vast amount of valuable reference material in your Relief Society Magazine. You can preserve this material permanently and in attractive book form by having your volumes bound.
SPECIAL RATE FOR QUANTITIES
The Deseret News Press
Pioneer Printers, Binders, Rulers
29 Richards St.
Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
"L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS"
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
HOME OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT
The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Vol. XXV SEPTEMBER, 1938 No. 9
WHEN YOUR CAR GOES UP YOUR COSTS COME DOWN
Up there on the grease rack, dollars can be chopped off your operating costs. It takes Specialized Lubrication to give your car sure protection against excessive wear. Drive it for Specialized Lubrication at regular intervals.
MOTOR OIL STATIONS EVERYWHERE IN UTAH AND IDAHO
GASOLINE
PREPARE FOR WINTER... NOW
GAS FURNACE
10%... Now is the time to get what you have long wanted—a modern automatic gas furnace—at a special pre-season 10% discount! Pay only a small deposit... Nothing more till November. Enjoy summer weather in your home all winter. Let us show you how economically you can have the unequaled advantages of gas heat—the only fully automatic heat for
SUPPLY COMPANY
Serving 21 Utah Communities
36 So. State, Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Install a New; SAVE Price!
Do you tire of O. P. S. Stores' talking and bragging of their thrifty price—well, we just can't help being proud of our low prices. On quality foods. It's an obsession with us. We are as proud of our foods and prices as a fond parent of his children—we just have to talk about them. Thanks for your patience and patronage.
O. P. S. "System" STORES
"A Surety of Purity"
WRITE FOR CATALOGS AND This Year—Give BOOKS
In making your plans for Christmas or other special occasions, remember this—"There is a peculiar dignity attached to the gift of a book that is in no way affected by its price."
Our Stock of books is the largest and best in the Intermountain region—Standard works, classics, Church publications, fiction and non-fiction. We also have a complete stock of Greeting cards for every occasion. Also Radios, Cameras, Portable Type-
a new organ?
DESERET BOOK
Famous ESTEY ORGANS
Organs sold exclusively by
44 East South Temple
DAYNES MUSIC CO.
Re-elect
W. H. ANDERSON
Commissioner of Health and Charity
A public official who is a servant of the people, who has proven himself capable, honest, efficient and trustworthy. A home owner—has a wife and five children—a World War veteran who served twelve months overseas in the front lines. An active L. D. S. Worker.
I earnestly solicit your aid for re-election to the 4 year term.
(Paid Political Adv.)
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
writers, Fountain Pens, Pencils, Note Books, and a Thousand and One Gifts.
COMPANY
Salt Lake City, Utah.
Church services are better with good music. Have you considered getting a manual or electrically operated seed?
47 South Main St.—Salt Lake City, Utah
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
VOL. XXV SEPTEMBER, 1938 No. 9
CONTENTS
Wilt.....................................Alice Morrey Bailey 575
Frontispiece.................................................Mexican Damsel 576
World Parliament of Women..............................Amy Brown Lyman 577
"Whose Damsel is This?"..............................Harrison R. Merrill 581
Ruth.........................................Claire Stewart Boyer 583
Old Shawls from India—Cashmere...........................Lutie H. Fryer 584
Rebels.............................................Alice Lee Eddy 589
Kindliness.......................................Adeline R. Ensign 594
Pioneer Sacrifice...................................Ellen R. Bryner 595
Nutrition and Health................................Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe 596
Bare Trees....................................Beatrice Knowlton Ekman 600
The Gourd Hobby....................................Dorothy Nell Mair 601
Aunt Heartha.......................................Minnie I. Hodapp 603
Relief Society Magazine...............................Edna J. Gardiner 607
The Children's Reading.............................Florence Ivins Hyde 608
Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd..................Dorothy Clapp Robinson 610
Women We Should Know...............................Ramona W. Cannon 613
Happenings.......................................Annie Wells Cannon 618
Notes from the Field................................Julia A. F. Lund 619
Theology Reference Books.............................................. 623
Editorials:
Living Standards.................................................... 624
New Stakes Organized................................................ 625
Amy Brown Lyman.................................................... 626
Harrison R. Merrill................................................. 626
Early-Day Minutes................................................... 627
Music Department.......................................Wade N. Stephens 628
Lesson Department................................................... 629
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Telephone Wasatch 980
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return, "Everything to Furnish the Home" THE GREATEST VARIETY AND LARGEST STOCK OF Living Room, Dining Room and Bedroom Furniture in the Intermountain Territory 400 Suites to Choose From GRANITE FURNITURE CO. Out of the High Rent District The home of THE ROUND OAK RANGE, AMERICAN BEAUTY WASHERS KELVINATOR, FRIGIDAIRE AND STEWART WARNER REFRIGERATORS Quality and Service Come First—We Deliver Everywhere MURRAY SUGAR HOUSE PROVO PEERLESS LAUNDRY COMPLETE LAUNDRY SERVICE SNOW WHITE CLOTHES Dont Ba Docaved ff Our charges are according to your desires Lindquist Sons Carlquist Co. FUNERAL DIRECTORS 2128 So. State Salt Lake Phone Hy. 1572 Lindquist & Sons Ogden 2620 Wash. Blvd. Phone 520 Fitted For The Position For COUNTY RECORDER on the Democratic Ticket Support JENNIE HARRINGTON Appreciates the importance of the office.  Acquainted with its workings and duties. Always considerate of the people. Consistent in her support of the party. Indorsed by the party for Recorder in 1926. Vote in Your District September 13th (Paid Political Advertisement) When Buying Mention Relief Society Magasine 1184 East 21st South Hyland 2182 Service Efficiency Economy Courtesy BULBS SEEDS FOR FALL PLANTING | Our stock includes the choicest varieties of Tulips, Daffodils, Crocus, Hyacinths, Peonies, Phlox, Lilies, etc. Lawn and Field Seeds For Fall Planting Ask for Free Catalog Giving Full Details Be R. S. President of Liberty Stake and widow of Prof. Anthony C. Lund, former leader of Tabernacle Choir, is the Democratic Candidate for County Recorder. Porter-Walton Co. Salt Lake City, Utah "A Utah Woman for a Utah Job" (Paid Political Adv.) ROYAL JIS "Utah's Purest Coal". Users everywhere know that Royal— Starts quicker Burns cleaner Furnishes more heat per dollar. | Try Royal and realize the difference. Ask Your Dealer ROYAL COAL COMPANY "Work for Willey" W. W. WILLEY Democratic Candidate for COUNTY COMMISSIONER FOR TWO YEAR TERM Primary Election. Sept. 13 "Willey Will Work" (Paid Political Adv.) When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine x 817-822 Newhouse Building Mrs. Cornelia S. Lund Salt Lake City, Utah VIGIL By Alice Morrey Bailey Phantom feet came to my door Then ceased—and others came _ Treading to my weary heart Then stopped, began again. Not you—but my desire for you When I expected you. When I expected you, I heard Your whistle—eerie, sweet; I heard you in each noise abroad Each footfall in the street. Not really you, but my wish for you When I expected you. The shadows wrought for me your form— It passed. My avid gaze Went farther, keeping watch For others in the haze. One stopped—not yours—my heart stopped too When I expected you. The world a vigil kept with me, All things in silence thick As was my heart—and suddenly You came—noiseless and quick. No shadow moved, but here you were When I expected you. Courtesy Harrison R. Merrill MEXICAN DAMSEL The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXV SEPTEMBER, 1938 No. 9 World Parliament of Women By Amy Brown Lyman HE Golden Jubilee Conference. Of the International Council of Women was held in Edinburgh, Scotland, July 11-22, 1938. Scotland was chosen for the meeting place in honor of Lady Aberdeen, that noble Scotswoman who has served the Council as president thirty-six years out of the fifty years of its existence. Fifty years ago, March 1888, the International Council was organized in Washington, D. C., having been initiated by a group of farseeing American women led by Susan B. Anthony and May Wright Sewell. The first president was Frances E. Willard who was succeeded in 1893 by Lady Aberdeen. May Wright Sewell served as president from 1899 to 1904, and Mme. Chaponniere-Chaix from 1920 to 1922. Two years ago, in 1936, Baroness Boel was elected president pees the resignation of Lady Abereen. F. DINBURGH is one of the beauty spots of Europe, and a city of great historic interest. Robert Louis Stevenson, one of her noted sons, did not exaggerate her beauty when he wrote so enthusiastically of her from far away Samoa, where he passed his last days. The gorgeous old castle located on the heights above green rolling hills is a most imposing sight by day and is a dream of loveliness when floodlighted at night. It was from her bedroom window in the castle that the ill-fated Mary, Queen of Scots, lowered her few-days-old infant son, afterward James VI of Scotland and James I of England, in a basket, 200 feet below to her brother to be taken to Sterling Castle to be baptized into the Catholic Church—all unbeknown to the Scotch Protestants. A one mile road —the king's highway—leads from the castle down the valley to Holyrood House, the old royal palace, which is still used as such. The Scottish National War Memorial located near the castle is considered the finest war memorial in the world today. The Scots are genial, friendly and warm hearted. They are most courteous to strangers and did everything within their power for the comfort and convenience of their guests. HERE were in attendance at the conference 900 delegates from thirty-one countries. The United States delegation consisted of ten voting delegates including Sisters Amy Brown Lyman and Zina C. Brown of Salt Lake City, who were residing in London at the time, and ten alternates including Sister Evelyn Wood, also of Salt Lake City, now residing in Frankfurt, who did not find it convenient to attend. Sisters Lyman and Brown also represented 578 two church organizations, Relief Society and Y. W. M. I. A. For the first time since the Austrian women joined the Council many years ago, they were not represented, their Council having been dissolved when Austria was annexed to Germany. The German Council has also been dissolved. The great hall where the meetings were held was decorated with the flags of all the nations represented, and with palms and other potted plants. The meetings consisted of committee meetings, several sessions each for the sixteen committees; business sessions for the council proper, where committee reports were given and resolutions considered and adopted, to be carried back to local communities for action; general sessions for the public including a testimonial for Lady Aberdeen. There were luncheon and dinner meetings, semisocial in character, and purely social functions. At the formal opening session the president, Baroness Pol Boel, began her address with these words: "Women must be ready to defend what they have already achieved, consolidate their gains, and plan for new victories. She called attention to the fact that for fifty years the women of many nations had been united in efforts to promote the welfare of mankind, of the family, and of individuals, under the International Council, and that while in the East in recent years the women's movement has been increasing in strength, women in some of the western countries appear to be losing ground—in some countries they have very definitely lost ground." THE subject which received most attention throughout the convention was peace. With the war clouds hanging over Europe this subject RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was uppermost in the minds of all delegates. There was probably not a single session where it did not come up in one connection or another. At the opening meeting there was a plea for peace in the various speeches. The president urged that women everywhere rally round all international organizations working in this interest. She felt that the principle of arbitration, for which the Council has always stood, is becoming more and more firmly established although, "the form it should take and the method of its application is not yet clearly defined and is still open to discussion." At the last session there was expressed, in no uncertain terms, whole-hearted opposition to all war, and horror at modern methods of warfare of 'turning the heavens into hell. There seemed to be a firm belief and faith that through proper international collaboration there could be a peaceful solution to the problems and difficulties of the present hour. Realizing that wars are often due to economic causes, the women were urged to promote economic education, and to make an effort to obtain economic justice between nations. They were urged also not to lose their vision and courage but to exert their individual and collective influence in behalf of forces which make for peace, justice, and harmony among nations. A resolution to this -effect was unanimously adopted. Dame Elizabeth Cadbury, a veteran in the Council, and for a quarter of a century chairman of the committee on peace and arbitration, in seconding the resolution said that in the past we have kept religion out of our meetings but today we certainly need God and should not hesitate to speak of Him. There are surely some points on which we can all agree. All good WORLD PARLIAMENT OF WOMEN thoughts and all good aspirations must come from the divinity which we worship in different names and different ways. She desired, she said, to send out a trumpet call to those who have faith that there is a God to whom we can appeal, and to say, "Let us appeal to Him and pray for His help and blessing." She felt that it is only in the spiritual word that we can hope once again to bring peace and good will to the world. Among other subjects of vital importance which were discussed in detail in the committees and considered in condensed form in the main meetings were health and nutrition which took second place only to peace, child welfare, housing, education, equal moral standards, broadcasting, cinema. THE testimonial meeting to Lady Aberdeen which was one of the features of the convention was both touching and thrilling. At her advanced age, clothed in white, she received gracefully and appreciatively the plaudits of her fellow-workers whose footsteps she had guided so satisfactorly for thirty-six years. Tributes were paid to her by her fellow-officers, some of them of many years standing, by representatives of all of the national councils and by fraternal delegates. Because of her long and notable presidency, the speakers paid tribute to the council through her. It was brought out that while honoring Lady Aberdeen they were also honoring the memory of those noble women who originated the council fifty years ago. As they came to the platform they showered her with gifts, until the large table was heaped high with them. There were embroidered table linens from Poland, Czechoslovakia, and Latvia; statuary from Italy; lovely glass pieces, scarfs, 579 books and a red poncho or serape made by the Indians of Argentina. Dame Ogilvie Gordon, First VicePresident of the Council, announced the raising of the Jubilee Fund to be known as the Lady Aberdeen Fund, and to be used for the work of the Council. The fund, amounting to 3,000 Pounds or $15,000, was received by Lady Aberdeen in behalf of the Council. THE social features of the conference included excursions, unique entertainments, receptions, and private parties. The most important were the civic reception by the Lord Provost, the royal garden party and the farewell banquet. The weather was ideal for the official garden party, given on the broad lawns at Holyrood Palace by "gracious permission of His Majesty the King, to meet Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent." The guests, 2,000 in number, were received by the Secretary of State of Scotland on behalf of the Government and later they were formed in their various national groups to await the appearance of the beautiful and charming Duchess of Kent, who had come from London for the occasion. The Duchess wore a gown of heavy mauve georgette and a crinoline straw hat of the same color trimmed with three ostrich feathers in varying shades curled over the tilted brim. She was attended by a body guard of the High Constables of the Palace in blue uniforms and tall, black cockaded hats. As she moved across the spacious lawn the leader of each delegation was presented to her. Delicious refreshments were served to the guests from gaily colored, attractive marquees, after which they had the privilege of inspecting the historic rooms of the palace under the direction of official guides. 580 On the green sloping hillside back of the palace were grouped hundreds of people who had a full view of everything within the grounds and who formed an attractive picture which was in full view of the palace guests. The whole scene was most colorful and interesting. One of the outstanding values of an international conference, probably one of the most valuable aspects, lies in the contacts that one makes with women of other lands, women of other and different experiences, but with whom after all is shared a fundamental common purpose. T the election of officers Baroness Boel was again elected president. Dame Maria Ogilvie Gordon who for years has been the first vice president and who has been either a convener or officer in the council for thirty-four years was elected an honorary vice president. Mrs. Betzy Kjelsberg, another veteran, was made an honorary vice president. American women reelected were Lena Madesin Phillips, eighth vice president; Helen Havenor, vice convener of the Cinema committee; Dr. Louise Ball, viceconvener of Press. Members of our Latter-day Saint groups will be pleased to know more of Baroness Boel. She is first of all a devoted mother and grandmother— mother of four children and grandmother of ten. She is a woman of rare native ability and outstanding attainments. She is large in stature, being six feet tall, powerful of intellect and tender and understanding of heart. She speaks all three of the official languages of the Council —English, French and German. She RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is president of the National Council of Women of Belgium, and wife of the vice president of the Belgian Parliament. During the war she performed a very distinct though dangerous service to her country. In 1915 it came to her knowledge that a great wrong was being done the people of her country through the stoppage of all means of communication between those who remained in Belgium and those who were scattered behind the German lines. Naturally this was not her personal affair and she had her children to think of. She risked not only her freedom, but her life when she set out to organize a secret post by which she might send letters of her people out through the enemy lines, and receive others back safely. She made herself responsible for the scheme, directing it entirely alone, and daring alone the consequences. Something like 200,000 letters passed successfully, and then the plot was discovered. She was seized and tried, as trials went in the war. She was committed to a German prison, and to the hard labor of an ordinary criminal, which was the regular treatment of a political prisoner. In the cell next to hers was a murderess, by whose side she did hard labor. She finally pleaded her own case so eloquently that she was released. It is no wonder the Baroness feels as she does about war, which she declares is the most horrible thing on earth to those who pass through it. Not horrible only because men and women and children are torn apart and murdered, but horrible because it destroys, utterly and hopelessly, all that is most sacred to man. "Whose Damsel Is This? By Harrison R. Merrill AND behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem, and said unto the reapers, 'The Lord be with you.' " "And they answered him, ‘The Lord Bless thee.' " "Then said Boaz to the servant who was set over the reapers, 'Whose damsel is this?' " In the land of Mexico one may see many Ruths. They may not be gleaning in the fields, but they are almost sure to be doing something. The women of the Land of Manana are an industrious and ever active lot. They may be carrying water, washing in the streams, harvesting in the fields, or peddling laces or baskets, but they are certain to be busy. Many a time while passing through the rural waysides of Mexico, I thought of Wordsworth and Burns, Whittier and Riley. There were "Solitary Reapers" and "Highland Marys," and "Maud Mullers" in many places. Many of the women of Mexico, indeed all that I saw in the back country, are unaffected by modernity. They are as simple and natural as a flower or a tree. Were self-conscious about their appearance, they conceal it as well as did Maud Muller when the Judge stopped to quaff that historic cup of water that led to all of those sighings about what might have been. I never see the famous painting, "The Song of the Lark," without thinking of Wordsworth's charming little ode to rustic beauty which he named the "Solitary Reaper." "Behold her single in the field, Yon solitary highland lass! Reaping and singing by herself; Stop here, or gently pass! If they ever. Alone she cuts and binds the grain, And sings a melancholy strain; O listen! For the Vale profound Is overflowing with the sound. "A voice so thrilling ne'er was heard In spring-time from the Cuckoo-bird, Breaking the silence of the seas Among the fartherest Hebrides..... "Whate'er the theme, the Maiden sang As if her song would have no ending; I saw her singing at her work, And o'er the sickle bending;— I listened, motionless and still And, as I mounted up the hill The music in my heart I bore, Long after it was heard no more." HAD almost Wordsworth's exact experience upon my recent visit to Cuernavaca, the beautiful rainyweather capital of the republic of Mexico. We were on our way out of the city to see the waterfalls of San Antone when we passed a tiny cemetery near a stream. We stopped and I was out looking for a view to photograph when I heard voices. I looked around and there I saw a scene that has been repeated millions of times in the old, old history of old, old Mexico. A group of women. Were merrily chatting in Spanish or Indian as they bent over their washing. They were not sc distant but that I was able to distinguish their features as they laughed and talked. To me, one of the women had an open, friendly face that was decidedly attractive. By motions I asked if I might take a photograph. 'They nodded their assent and resumed their work in perfect self-possession not even bothering to step out of the stream of water. I was sorry I could not speak their language and they mine, for certainly I felt that we could have visited most pleasantly. 582 While we were talking in a sort of sign language, another girl—a young bride, I presume,—came down to the same stream and proceeded to wash her breakfast dishes. In the meantime our chauffeur, guide, and interpreter came up, having stopped his car, and spoke to the women. I told him to ask them if they would mind if I should take another close-up picture of them. "Not at all,' he answered after speaking to them in Spanish. "Take as many as you like, but they do say they would like to see the pictures when they are finished." WASH day seems to be a most pleasant occasion for Mexican women, despite the hard work. They make of it a social occasion. Having lived long years in a more or less tribal or communal state, often they have a public laundry where all may go to do their clothes as they lean over their stone washboards. On the day we were in Taxco, I was taken by two small boy-guides up a narrow, winding, cobble-paved street to the church of Guadalupe. On our way we passed Taxco's community laundry. There, too, I paused to take a photograph without a protest. The women paid me not the slightest attention, but went about their rubbing and their visiting as if I did not exist. The Taxco public laundry is a perfect dream. There were the green, lacy trees only partially veiling the lovely sky. Below was the pool reflecting trees and sky and the red of the tiled roof as well as the color in the costumes of the women. Taxco is proud of its laundry and sells post-card photographs of it by the thousands. These public laundries are found in all parts of the republic. In the outskirts of Mexico City, on our first day's excursion, we came upon RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a large one at which fifty or a hundred or more women could wash at once. All are much alike—there is the pool of water surrounded by the stone tubs and washboards. These washboards are in pairs enabling the women to face each other as they work. Often no doubt mother and daughter occupy these boards and get through the family washing twice as fast as one could do. Upon our journey out of Mexico, we were able often to look out of the car windows and see washer-women busy laundering clothes in rain-puddles, while Emanual and Esperanza enjoyed themselves wading in them. Mexicans seem to enjoy water and are often found bathing or washing something. They seem to mind the downpours which they call rains not at all. With a wide hat and poncho they can be perfectly comfortable— they never look too happy—in any kind of weather. Running streams are often used as dish-pans. Mexican furniture in the poorer homes is limited, indeed. The stove is often a mere table covered with clay upon which the charcoxl glows. Few utensils of any kind are found in such homes. Except for a bit of pottery and the simplest kinds of tableware, the dining room is bare. Few Mexican houses or Jacals (pronounced Ha-cals) have any chimneys. What little smoke there is is all allowed to escape around the eaves and through the cracks. As I have said before, there is many a Ruth in the fields of Mexico. Since good water is scarce in many of the villages, she is often discovered carrying water on her shoulder as her sister on the hills of Palestine used to do. She carries herself as well as her utensils, gracefully, especially when she is young. Some of the older women are like beasts of burden under their heavy "WHOSE DAMSEL IS THIS" loads on shoulders or heads, but they do not seem to mind. They are a pleasant, friendly pecple and smile under their loads as if they were ncthing. Near the beautiful falls of San Antone we found a Jacal in which there were pots of various kinds for sale. One of the attendants was a young lady with a serious expression, but with friendly though inquisitive eyes. I told her, through the interpreter, that I could not take a pot home with me because the distance was so great, but that I would give her the price of a small one, if she would take one on her shoulder and pose for a photograph. She consented. I wish the colors could be reproduced on this page, for then would be revealed more vividly her simple grace. Her dress was a bright yellow, the piece of pottery a sort of old rose, and the flowers near by were rare. "Whose damsel is this' who washes by the streams and carries her burdens bravely on the hills of Old Mexico? Wouldn't we like to know! Ever since Columbus came and found these girls here and told the 583 world about them, men have been asking the question asked by Boaz. Of course, we Latter-day Saints answer unhesitatingly who she may be, but even we are eagerly looking forward to the day when there will be discovered a key to the ages-old history. Upon my return from Old Mexico in 1935, I often said that I saw few beautiful or interesting women in Mexico; upon my return a few weeks ago, I was compelled to say that I saw many. I, along with scores of artists through the years, have attempted to picture Ruth as she must have looked to that young field-owner, Boaz, upon his return from Bethlehem. She must have been striking in her simple charm to cause him to take such note of her. As beautiful as she may have been, there are damsels as lovely in Old Mexico, but from the point of view of history, they are an orphan people, A ruthless culture swept over their own, uprooting it and blotting it out until today it is more natural to ask about a Mexican-Indian woman, more than of any other in the world, "Whose damsel is this?" RUTH By Claire Stewart Boyer Hers was a way of quiet beauty As'she gathered in Scattered, golden wheat heads For Naomi's bin, Knowing that a humble duty Would unfold a plan Written in eternal ink On the heart of man. In her quiet way of beauty Women, since, have trod, Working... Loving... Dreaming Leaving else to God. Old Shawls From India—Cashmere By Lutie H. Fryer Assistant Professor—Home Economics Department—U. Of U. THE custom of wearing shawls is ages old and extends around the globe, from Asia to Europe, from Europe to America. The word "shawl" is derived from the Hindoo and Persian word "shal". Large and small shawls of delicate lace or heavy silk, of fine wool weave or cotton print have been worn about the head, hung from the shoulders, or draped around the body like a garment. Traveling the cycle of fashion, the shawl has intermittently appeared and reappeared in some countries as a favorite article of woman's dress, while elsewhere it has always been regarded as an indispensable part of the costume. Sixty years ago beautiful shawls were worn by all women of fashion in Europe and America.; Out of the Orient came the shawls of India, Persia and Turkey. From India came the finest, and of these the shawl from the Vale of Kashmir was ever the most beautiful. Poets have referred to this place as the home of the rose, the tulip, the lotus and the nightingale. Are famous all over the world for their knowledge of coloring and their mastery of design. There it was centuries ago that Kashmir (Anglicized Cashmere) shawls were made. Today they are almost priceless because shawl weaving as an important industry has all but died out in that land. HE marvelously fine curly wool called pashm or pashmina, from which the best shawls were made, is an undercoat of peIts people > culiar delicacy that grows on the goats of Tibet to protect them from the cold and damp climate. In the spring the long hair was sheared and the pashmina removed by the aid of a rude comb, the shearing being done from the head towards the tail, and the combing in the reverse direction. It required the wool from several goats to produce sufficient yarn for one shawl, because the full grown animal yielded only about half a pound. The pashmina was packed into small bales of about thirty pounds and fastened to the backs of long-legged sheep which picked their dangerous way down over the winding, snowy passes of the Himalayas into the valley of Kashmir. The precious bundles of shawl-wool were cleaned with rice powder or a warm solution of potash, bleached, carded, and then spun into yarn on the common churka or crude spinning-wheel by Indian women who often worked from dawn to midnight, sometimes by moonlight when her poverty denied her the use of even a cheap oil-lamp. Occasionally, groups of women and girls could be seen spinning and singing together far into the night. At one time there were 100,000 of these spinners in Kashmir. The fine wool was generally spun into lengths of seven hundred yards, later was doubled and twisted by a reeler, and cut into lengths of about 3¼ yards, the usual length of a shawl warp. The spinners sold the yarn to a puimangu, or a yarn merchant who, in turn, sold it at a small profit to the weaver. Yarn was
OLD SHAWLS FROM INDIA—CASHMERE
not exported as there was a heavy revenue on finished shawls, which was practically controlled by the Maharaja, who derived an excessive income from the shawl industry. The weaver took the yarn and his pattern to another person, who separated it into piles according to the colors indicated by the pattern. The design had been drawn in black and white and the colors merely indicated as a guide to the weaver and dyer. The weaver then took the yarn to the dyer or dyers, as each family specialized generally in one color. Dyeing in the Orient has been for ages an hereditary occupation, the
secret recipes for the various colors being jealously guarded from one generation to the next. These dyers of shawl-wool used pure vegetable dyes which accounts for the glowing depth and richness of colors found in old shawls from India. Indigo, cochineal, carthamus, logwood and saffron were used to produce reds, purples, blues, greens, yellow, orange and rose. The wool of the Tibet goat, being finer and whiter than that of the sheep, took on more brilliant hues, and the waters of the Jhelum River was an important factor in the pureness of the dyes and the softness of the wool.
A Cashmere Shawl of the Kussabas Type (square shawl) and the Kassee-Roomal (loom woven).
The weaver was not ready even now to begin his task, as the various steps in the process of shawl making were highly specialized. He must now carry the skeins of dyed yarn to the nakatu, who cut it into required lengths and wound it into balls. The number of warp lengths varied from 2000 to 3000 according to the fineness or coarseness of the yarn and the texture of the shawl to be woven. A warp-dresser next prepared the yarn with rice water to give it a slight stiffness which facilitated the weaving. After the warper had prepared the loom, the pattern-maker and the yarn-apportioner were called in and with the aid of the black and white design, worked out and dictated to a third person, who wrote down the distribution of the various colors and the number of yarns required for each motif. The notes which described the design for the complete shawl were given to the weaver, who at last began the important task of weaving.
SEATED before his loom, with the wrong side of the shawl toward him, the weaver worked silently while the reader called off the pattern. Two weavers were required in the making of a wide shawl, one throwing the shuttle halfway across, the other completing the throw. The weave was either plain or twill. Very narrow borders were woven with the body of the shawl; wider ones were generally woven separately on a small loom and afterward joined to the center with remarkable skill. These borders varied in width from a few inches to a foot or more, and the more borders a shawl had, the greater its value. The design motifs were generally worked out with an unusual kind
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of weave, in which a filling yarn did not run clear across as is the case in most woven fabrics, but ran back and forth across a single motif, interlocking at each turn with the differently colored yarn of the adjacent motif or of the background. This peculiar lock stitch gave a firmness which required no binder and which produced fine seam-like ridges which have led some people to believe that all the motifs were woven separately, and put together with minute seams. These seams are to be found where the borders are joined, where the center or field is pierced, or where certain motifs, left blank during the weaving, have been cut out and replaced by pattern pieces of other colors.
After weeks of labor when the master piece was finally finished, the weaver turned the shawl over to the cleaner, who cut off all loose ends and passed it on to the mender. The custom office now levied a twenty-six percent ad valorem duty and stamped and registered the shawl. Through a broker the manufacturer disposed of his goods to a merchant, a transaction which generally took place towards the end of the day, when the evening glow would best bring out the beauty of coloring. The merchant cleansed the shawls in clear water, put them upon a stretcher for two days, and then packed them. The shawls were folded and laid alternately with sheets of glazed paper, pressed for several days, sewn first into a cloth cover, next into one of birch bark, into a third of waxed cloth, and lastly into one of rawhide. They were well protected against the longest possible journey.
The price of a Kashmir varied according to size and to the intricacy of the design, ranging from 40 rupees
OLD SHAWLS FROM INDIA—CASHMERE
($20.00) to 10,000 rupees ($5,000). Two of the best grade, occupying a dozen persons for about a year, brought approximately 30,000 rupees ($15,000).
IN the time of the Sultan Akbar, who conquered Kashmir in 1586, there were about 1,000 establishments for the weaving of shawls, employing most of the 40,000 looms throughout the valley. The industry held its own until the famine of 1820 drove many of the weavers southward into the Punjab, marking the beginning of a steady decline, contributed to by recurrent famine, adulteration of wool and dyes by the native manufacturers, the rise of shawl making in Europe, the abolition of forced labor, the increase of agriculture, and the introduction of other more remunerative occupations. The industry that once was the crowning glory of Kashmir has gradually degenerated into a rather commonplace needlework, done with floss silk or cotton which the tourist innocently brings home as beautiful examples of Indian embroidery.
THE characteristic design motif of the Kashmir shawls was the well known figure which has been variously called cone, cypress, pine, riverloop, Persian flame, palm leaf, mango and pear. Several explanations of the origin and meaning of this design have been given. It is a conventionalized form of a religious symbol. It originated in Chaldea, from whence it spread into India and Persia, appearing also in the arts of Arabia and Egypt. In Chaldea the date palm was a first necessity of existence, hence used as a symbol of fertility of nature in supplying food. It was known as "Tree of Life" and is connected with ancient worship. Two ornaments were derived from it: (1) The pine or cone, which was the male or pollen-bearing inflorescence of the date palm; when
The well-known Cashmere Motif
CASHMERE SCARF
associated with the flower, it becomes a symbol of the Creator. The pine and the flower are in reality the ornaments used in the Tabernacle in the wilderness (Exodus XXV-31) and in Solomon's Temple (I Kings, VI-8). (2). The foliage of the date palm gave rise to what is called "honeysuckle ornament" so well known in Greek art.
It is easy to understand how the pine as a form of decoration came to be so generally used in Indian art. The Hindoo is a religious man and a mystic. Religion in form colors all his life and hence affects his art. In Indian art, symmetry and alternation play an important part in the arrangement of pattern, with a somewhat conventional or formal treatment of the flora forms, as compared with the more frank interpretation in Persian art.
The Mongul Emperors wore on their turbans a jeweled ornament known as the "Jigha", shaped like a cone, on the top of which was an aigret of feathers. A weaver of Kashmir used the form of the Jigha with a floral enrichment on a scarf for the emperor Baber with such a pleasing effect that the Jigha became a fashionable design in all shawls and scarfs and other articles of personal use. As the delineation of human or animal forms was in general prohibited by religion, the designs were mostly conventional or realistic flowers.
NEXT in value and beauty to the shawls of India are the Persian, Turkish and Bokara. Though similar in general coloring, design and weave, the wool from which they are made was not so fine nor the weave so close.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
According to the size and shape, the Indian shawls are divided into two general classes: the dosballas, or "long shawls", and kussabas, or "square shawls". In addition, there were kamewar, or shawl cloth woven in stripes or small all-over patterns sold by the yard, and ulwan, or plain white shawl cloth. The kussaba is divided into two classes: the kassee roomal, or loom-woven in the manner already described, and the umlee roomal, or needle embroidered shawl. The long shawls were more in favor in the Orient but the square ones in Europe.
Cashmere shawls add untold beauty of interesting design and color to a home when used properly. They make beautiful wall hangings, as works of art. A long shawl is best hung, slightly folded, over a pole, so as to show a little over two-thirds. A square shawl may be hung in a like manner. If the wall space is large enough to permit a small shawl to be used as a wall hanging, brass rings should be sewn across one end and hung on a rod. Shawls are far too valuable to be used as couch covers.
Experience shows that many persons who own genuine Oriental shawls have all too little knowledge and appreciation of their real value as art treasures. Many have suffered from sacrilegious scissors. These great masterpieces of art are genuine antiques. Bring them out into the light and use occasionally to give pleasure to all who see them, but never cut one up to be made into evening wraps, dresses or bags as too often has been the case. No one would be guilty of cutting up an oil painting and yet a beautiful Oriental shawl ranks in value with an oil painting.
Rebels
By Alice Lee Eddy
"SO this is Paris!" Jane Martin said to herself bitterly as she gazed at the desolate sunbaked landscape. Little heat waves shimmered in the sun and a fine gray dust sifted over the tops of her trim new oxfords. "No wonder the pay is good; it's worse than I thought it would be!" She followed the stage driver disconsolately into the bus station which was also the Post Office, general store, and hotel.
A plump, rosy-cheeked woman hurried forward to meet her. "You must be the new teacher," she said. "I'm Mrs. Snow." She led Jane upstairs to a large sunny room, chatting happily all the way. "The teacher always stays with me; it's about the only place she can stay, but the girls have all seemed happy here. This is always the teacher's room; it has a desk and book shelves. The girls like it because it has the biggest closet and is always sunny and warm in winter."
Jane noticed that it was immaculately clean, that the bed seemed to be a good one, that the old-fashioned rocking chair looked particularly comfortable, and that the ruffled window curtains and braided rugs were well selected and cheery.
"It's a lovely room," she said sincerely, "but I'm afraid it will be more than I can afford."
Mrs. Snow nodded understandingly as she quoted a price well within Jane's budget. "The girls always want to save as much as they can," she said. "With some it is trousseaus and with others it is school debts." She looked hopefully at Jane and Jane was surprised to hear herself confiding, "School debts, and I must send some to my mother each month." She didn't add that she was a recent and unwilling recruit to the army of school teachers because an injury to her hand had ended a promising musical career.
At her genial landlady's suggestion, Jane remained downstairs that first evening and met the various people who came into the store. She found them pleasant and ready to meet her more than half way. Mrs. Snow whispered hurried explanations and descriptions of the people presented. "President of the School Board," she hissed, as a tall dark man, distinguished looking in spite of rough boots and a straw hat, came up and was presented as John Talbot.
As he turned to leave, John Talbot came face to face with a man who bore him a remarkable resemblance. The second man was heavier and obviously older but he had the same dark handsomeness. The two exchanged no word as they stalked past each other, but John Talbot's face evinced a dark scowl. The newcomer gave no sign that he saw the look or the man. He moved on to his Post Office box as though no one was near.
Later, Mrs. Snow, anxious to inform Jane on all matters of interest, recalled the little drama: "That was Henry Talbot, John's oldest brother. He's at outs with all the Talbots and everybody else. Wealthiest man around here. He sits alone out there in his big house just waiting for chances to outdo the other Talbot boys. If one of them gets a fine registered animal, Henry gets two. If one of them buys a new piece of machinery Henry gets a bigger one. When John got elected to the school board Henry did too. Folks thought it would be quite exciting to get them together on the board that way, but Henry fooled 'em as usual, and never goes to the meetings."
"How foolish," exclaimed Jane. "Whatever makes this Henry Talbot so disagreeable?"
"It's a long story," continued Mrs. Snow, "and the most enduring topic of gossip in the countryside—or was some years ago. Everybody just takes Henry's orneriness for granted now. I remember when I was a good chunk of a girl Henry was a handsome young man, a fine young fellow, but high spirited and fast riding. He decided things were too slow for him around here so started out to see the world. Any evidence of the wanderlust infuriated Henry's father; he was determined Henry should stay right here. Well, they had an awful row about it and finally came to settling it with their fists. My, how the countryside buzzed with gossip of that fight. For all Henry was such a husky lad his Dad gave him a terrible thrashing. That settled all question of any of the Talbots ever going to the city, and I guess it's just as well. They've all prospered here, Henry most of all, for all his meanness."
"I don't think he has a mean face," defended Jane, "it's hard and strong, but not mean."
"Hard and strong, fiddlesticks," snorted Mrs. Snow, "it's stubbornness and temper."
JANE forgot Henry Talbot and the family feud in the busy days which followed, days of activity adjusting herself to her new work, getting acquainted with her pupils, establishing her daily routine. She had expected to hate teaching and the little outpost of civilization, but surprisingly enough, she didn't. The
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
people were friendly; the cheerful mothering of "Ma" Snow was a joy; her school was well equipped and the pupils eager and alert. None of the problems she had anticipated confronted her—but there was Jimmy.
Jimmy, son of John Talbot, was taking the eighth grade for the third time. Refusing to study, he naturally disturbed the morale of the school. He mystified Jane. She felt sure he was not a dolt, neither was he the typical bad boy. There was an occasional flash that promised alertness. Jane tried everything she could think of to interest him. She organized sports and contests, encouraged originality in creative effort, introduced simple woodwork and related manual arts. The rest of the school were delighted—Jimmy remained uninterested.
"There's something there," she insisted to herself, "if I could only find the key."
ONE day most unexpectedly she found it. She had stayed at the school house later than usual and as she walked home in the stillness of the late afternoon sunshine she heard faint music. It was hardly audible, but on impulse she left the road and climbed the dusty bank to the meeting house. Yes, someone was playing the organ—probably the organist practising next Sunday's hymns. The front door was locked so Jane went around to the back one and let herself in. The music had a plaintive beauty. Jane felt strangely moved and thrilled as she rounded the high-backed organ. A gasp of surprise warned the player of her presence.
"Why, Jimmy," she said, "I didn't know you could play!"
The boy made a stuttering sound as if trying to answer. If Jane's position had not penned him in behind the organ he would have darted away. As it was he was at bay, terrified, yet with a half-defiant look in his eyes.
"I'll tell you a secret, Jimmy, if you won't tell anyone," Jane hurried on. "I hoped to be a musician myself," she held out her scarred hand, "but I injured the ligaments and nerves in my fingers and will never be able to finger a violin again."
"Then you won't tell?" Jimmy was eagerly intent upon only one thing.
"Not a word to anybody. It will be our secret."
Jimmy breathed easier. "The kids would laugh at me," he said, but Jane knew that was not the real reason for concealment.
"Play some more," said Jane. She sat down on the organ bench with him, but Jimmy was still shy so she started talking about the keyboard and musical staff. Jimmy listened intently. Before she realized, she was giving a music lesson—she who had sworn in bitterness never to talk of music again. Jimmy played "by ear"; he had had no instruction. Thirstily he drank in Jane's explanations. With a start she realized that it was almost dark.
"We must go, but I'll help you again some time."
"When? Tomorrow, Miss Martin?" He seemed so eager.
"Yes, tomorrow, if you have your lessons," she agreed.
JIMMY'S conduct at school next day was above reproach. His lessons were prepared and some back work as well. Jane was delighted. After school she found him waiting for her at the organ and she gave him his second lesson—much more than a lesson, in fact. "We can't go so fast," she kept telling herself, but Jimmy seemed to assimilate everything instantly. Apparently he could go just as fast as she could teach him. Much he seemed to know. He had a sort of instinctive awareness that needed only suggestion to bring it out into conscious understanding.
At the end of a week Jane sent for her own music books and violin.
It seemed strange that such talent had received no recognition. Her promise of secrecy prevented a definite mention of it, but she attempted to sound out his father. She suggested a little music work as a possible new interest for her pupils. The trustee snorted, "If the pupils have time for frills you aren't working them hard enough—fundamentals, that's what we want."
"I thought perhaps some of them might have talent," she offered weakly, and was amazed at the savageness of the reply.
"If you catch some that think so, send 'em to me and I'll beat it out of them!"
"Why is your father so opposed to music?" she asked Jimmy later.
"It's a taint in our blood," said Jimmy in an awed voice.
"A taint?"
"Yes, you see my great grandfather was a fiddler and a wanderer, and he wasn't much good. We seldom mention him but all our bad traits are blamed on to him, the bad temper and all."
"There's no connection between musical talent and bad temper."
"Uncle Henry was wild when he was young. They think he inherited the wanderlust from Great Grandfather. If they knew I like music—!" Jimmy lacked words to measure the depth of that evil!
"Musical talent is nothing to be ashamed of, Jimmy. It's a wonderful gift."
Jimmy smiled ruefully. "Dad doesn't think so."
IN spite of their knowledge of John Talbot's attitude, the lessons went on and Jane's wonder grew daily. When the violin arrived Jimmy's face shone with eagerness. "Oh, gee!" he breathed with a sort of worshipful ecstasy as he held the instrument tenderly. "There was supposed to be a violin among Great Grandfather's junk. I used to dream of finding it, but of course it's destroyed. They say Uncle Henry smashed all of his stuff to tiny bits once when he was mad at Grandfather. How Uncle Henry would razz Pa if he knew I was studying music!"
"But Jimmy, it isn't right to deceive them."
"Well, what else can I do?"
What else indeed! And the matter stood there. Jimmy spent as much time as possible with the precious violin. Delighted that he was doing well in his studies the family asked no questions regarding his long hours at school. By the end of the winter Jane felt she had little more to offer him. He played her pieces better than she ever had, and improvised melodies that amazed her. Reverently Jane knew that she was feeding not the spark of talent but the glowing flame of genius.
When she learned that a great master was to visit a nearby city where she had to attend a school exhibit she took Jimmy with her. A meeting was arranged with the master. Jane never forgot that interview—the rugged, sharp-faced master; the boy, a rural young princeling facing him without timidity. He played the most difficult piece Jane had taught him and then started on a group of his own compositions. The master listened, then stopped him with the abrupt question, "Do you want to be a farmer?"
"Oh, no, sir," breathed Jimmy, "I want to play!"
"Then come to my studio in the spring," said the master, and Jimmy answered, "Yes, sir." It was settled as simply as that.
Out on the street Jane gasped, "Jimmy, do you realize he's the greatest teacher in America, in the world perhaps!" And later, "Jimmy, his studio is in New York! How will you get there?"
"That's my problem," said Jimmy.
A problem it was! John Talbot was enraged when he learned what Jane had done. He declared the place of the Talbots was right there and never would he tolerate a "cheap fiddling loafer" in his family. As a last desperate resort Jane and Jimmy went to Uncle Henry.
"If we can soft pedal the musician part," said Jane, "maybe some memory of his own revolt will make him sympathetic with your desire to leave home."
Uncle Henry, however, proved very disagreeable, especially when he learned that Jimmy's real desire was to be a musician.
"But he's a genius," pleaded Jane.
"If he's really a genius he won't need my help. He'll succeed in spite of all of us," said Uncle Henry.
Jane and Jimmy did not give up. "There's still the Stepper," said Jimmy, "I'll sell him."
The spring horse auction in Woodruff found Jane and Jimmy among the throng, but nobody bought the Stepper. "Uncle Henry is here," whispered Jimmy. "He's frightened off any buyers." It seemed true, for the long afternoon dragged by and no offers came for the Stepper. Just before sundown, however, some automobile tourists reached town and the Stepper was sold for the fabulous sum of $150.
"But it's not too much for the Stepper," Jimmy assured Jane. "Seems like selling a brother, but I couldn't take him with me to New York."
THE next day Jimmy left home. His father was furious and openly declared it would cost Jane her position. After two weeks of anxious waiting Jane received a letter. Jimmy was managing very well. Remembering the name of the warehouse company to whom the Snowville folk shipped wool, he had applied for and obtained a position as one of their night watchmen. "That means I'll have a little income and a place to stay where I can practice as much as I like," he wrote. Mornings he spent with his teacher. By the second letter his teacher had secured him work with a broadcasting orchestra. "The master is harsh and stern, but that's just his way," Jimmy told them. "Sometimes I please him and sometimes I don't, but always I work hard." Jane could read between the lines an adoration of the master and a growing bond between them.
In a month he had played at one of the master's recitals. "I must have pleased at least one person," Jimmy wrote exultantly, "for I have received a wonderful old Cremona from an anonymous donor, and my teacher thinks if I work hard enough he can get funds from the same source for some study abroad! As for the violin, it's like a part of me, Miss Jane. It seems to know the songs I dream of."
Justification! She had not been mistaken. Jimmy was a genius. He would find help, recognition, from now on. She had had a part in giving him to the world. She thought, "What do I care if the school board is meeting this very day to decide not to reemploy me? That flash of revelation I've helped to give to the world an artist."
To share the good news, and to be less conspicuous while the school trustees were in session, Jane rode out to Talbot's to talk with Jimmy's mother about it. Then still excited and loath to return home, she rode on toward the foothills. When she came to Henry Talbot's prosperous ranch she couldn't resist the impulse to turn in and tell him of Jimmy's great progress—"to gloat a bit," she told herself.
Uncle Henry listened with apparent interest but made no comment. "It proves that he did the right thing by going," Jane concluded. "He's a born musician and never would have made a good farmer."
Explosively, Uncle Henry dropped the repression of years, his voice vibrant with emotion, "Oh, yes he would. He would have made a good farmer eating his heart out trying to make melodies of pastures and symphonies of plow-furrows!" For once his determined chin was overshadowed by the eloquence of sparkling eyes. Jane saw with a shock that the gnarled, clenched hands were long and sensitively delicate. She was almost stunned before she understood it all, Jimmy's position in the warehouse, the intimation of opportunity to study in Europe, the old Cremona which sang so readily.
"Uncle Henry!" she said to herself, "and all these years no one ever knew."
THE store was agog with chatter and excitement when Jane returned. Mrs. Snow was bubbling over with news. "You've got your contract for next year, with a raise in salary."
"What!" gasped Jane weakly. There were too many surprises for one afternoon.
"Yes, indeed," exulted Mrs. Snow. "Of course, all the patrons wanted you back but John Talbot never would have let the board hire you, but bless my soul if Uncle Henry Talbot didn't come to Trustee's meeting, first time in thirteen years. Talk about a wild meeting! They say he out-roared John Talbot, thumped on the table, shook his fist in John's face, and simply brow-beat the rest of the board into out-voting John!
"You're the only person in history who ever got a good turn from Henry Talbot!" she ran on happily, "and I guess the only reason he helped you was because it gave him a chance to plague John."
"Oh, no," Jane started a defense, but she realized that they would never understand—he would not want them to. She didn't even tell them that she had just seen the Stepper contentedly munching alfalfa hay in Uncle Henry's corral.
KINDLINESS
By Adeline R. Ensign
There never was an unkind word
That did not leave a sting,
No bitter thought or selfish deed
That did not sorrow bring;
For though they may seem trifling things
True happiness they mar.
There never was a real heartache
That did not leave a scar.
And since there's so much suffering
O'er which we have no power,
Then let the things we do and say
Enrich each passing hour;
For pleasant words and kindly deeds
Make love in triumph reign,
It's what we sow in kindliness
We reap in love again.
Pioneer Sacrifice
By Ellen R. Bryner
IT was an early fall morning. The air was crisp and cold. The comforts of the improvised two rooms of log with earthen floor and roof were very few. Caroline Butler awakened after a night of restless anxiety. There were eleven hungry mouths to feed. For days their rations had been scanty. A little wild game had come to them occasionally from members of the camp, while the husband and father, with his teams and wagons assisted poorer Saints into Winter Quarters. The food in the larder was not sufficient to satisfy the needs for one meal of the hungry growing family.
As the anxious mother placed the last scanty store of food upon the rough table, and urged her family to make preparations for their morning meal, her heart was full of entreaty to God to send help from some source that day. As they were about to partake, an old Indian woman walked into the room and asked for bread. Caroline was conscious of her family's needs for food and of her own physical weakness from an almost utter lack of it, because she had given most of her portion to satisfy the hunger of her smaller children. "This is all we have," she answered, "but we will share it with you." The Indian woman partook and went her way. Not far away through the woods she had thriftily stored some food after the Indian fashion.
CAROLINE learned that day that bread cast upon the water to satisfy the hungry shall come back an hundred fold. This Indian grandmother (for thus she was known from that day forth) returned with sufficient dried buffalo meat and dried berries to stay the pangs of hunger until other supplies came. Many times during the three years stay she came to that humble refuge sharing her own savings of food with her adopted family.
Poverty was the order of the day with these driven and much persecuted Latter-day Saints. As many were doing, this large family was planning the long journey westward without sufficient foot-wear and clothing, a consequence of the confiscation of their possessions and being driven from their homes. Hearing that the journey to the mountains was soon to be continued, Grandmother Squaw determined to make heavy buckskin moccasins for each member of the family. After tedious weeks of labor all were finished and fitted with the exception of a pair for the mother. She spent extra time decorating this pair as a visible sign of her deep devotion. Early one morning, knowing the time for their departure was near, she approached the little log house only to find her loved ones gone. Almost overcome with disappointment and sorrow, she sat up an Indian wail and started to follow the wagon tracks.
Five miles the family had traveled that first day. After the campfires had burned low, oxen cared for, and all the weary travelers were settled in their beds, an Indian wail was heard in the distance, growing louder as it came nearer. Grandmother Squaw had followed her new found family in order to present her last token of love before a final goodbye. With the moccasins she had brought a generous supply of dried pulverized venison in a pouch made from the stomach of a deer, and a sack of dried berries.
Sacrifice and service bring their own reward. Reaching out to share, however little our own portion, richly compensates the giver.
Nutrition and Health
By Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe, University of Utah
"NUTRITION, The Chemistry of Life" is truly an inspired title to a great book. This book impresses one with the vital necessity of an understanding of nutrition in building positive health. Nutrition is not a new field of knowledge. Investigators have been conscious of its importance and as early as 1585 people understood that body temperature and energy to do work came from the food they ate. Nothing was known of the special values of any one kind of food; all foods were considered as aliments. From this vague beginning up to the present time many wonderful truths have been discovered by our research workers.
Today the science of nutrition occupies a prominent place in the scientific world and its importance is generally recognized. The nutrition problem of concern is how the mothers in thirty million homes of the United States and the millions in other countries, may become informed concerning the principles of correct feeding of their families for health and efficiency, and what means can be used to convince them of its serious importance in family well-being. The next most serious problem is how to distribute the world's wealth so that each family will possess sufficient purchasing power to provide the right kinds of food in sufficient amounts to meet its needs.
The important functions of nutrition are roughly classified as follows:
1. To provide heat and energy.
2. To supply body building material.
3. To control the body functions.
*"Nutrition, The Chemistry of Life" Mendel Lafayette.
To Provide Heat and Energy
IN order to meet all of these requirements one must understand what constitutes a food supply that will meet these needs. First, in order to insure an adequate supply of energy, a diet must contain enough foods so that when they are burned in the body there will be sufficient heat released to keep the body warm and sufficient energy given off to enable the body to perform its internal and external work.
Where do heat and energy come from and how are they made available for the use of the body? Originally all energy comes from the sun. It is stored in growing plants; animals and human beings eat these plants which constitute our original food supply. The plant world furnishes our entire supply of vegetables and fruits; the animals eat the products of the vegetable kingdom and then transform them into animal foods such as meat, milk, eggs, etc. In all these foods, vegetable and animal, the energy is stored. These foods are prepared for consumption, some are eaten in their raw state, others are cooked in order to make them more palatable and more easily digested.
The next step towards the release of this energy is the digestion of the foodstuffs. The sole purpose of digestion is to prepare the food so that it may be taken into the
NUTRITION AND HEALTH
blood stream and thence carried to every living cell in the body. All food that is ready for the blood stream is in a liquid form, that is, the food is in solution so that it can pass through the body membranes. All indigestible material and all waste products are eliminated from the body.
As this food enters into the millions of little cells in all parts of the body, some of it is burned and this is the source of our heat and energy. Just as gasoline is burned to supply energy to run the car, or as we burn fuel in our stoves or furnaces to give us heat, so is food burned in our bodies. Some of this food is also used to build new body tissues, muscles, bones, brain, nerves, etc. Some of the food is used to form the digestive juices, the secretions of the many glands that have so much to do in controlling the functions of the body such as the beating of the heart, the breathing of the lungs, the oxidation of foods and many other vital activities of the body.
Since it requires energy to grow and energy to do the internal work of the body of which we are not conscious, as well as the work that we do externally, one must be sure that he is eating sufficient food to meet these needs.
What foods are the best sources of energy? All foods except the minerals and water will yield heat and energy when they are burned. Some foods will yield more heat and energy per given unit just as some fuels will yield more energy, depending upon their composition and the completeness of their burning. Fatty foods, like hard coal, will yield the greatest amount of heat and energy if completely burned. Butter, fats, and oils of all kinds will give us the most heat for a given amount of the food. All of the starchy foods such as rice, tapioca, bread, cereals, root and tuber vegetables; the sugars, syrups, honey and fruits will give off heat and energy when burned. Meat, fish, eggs, and other protein foods also supply heat and energy.
The following illustration will give an idea of the comparative amounts of heat and energy: One gram of fat will yield nine calories and one gram of starch, sugar, or protein will yield four calories of heat. The words heat and energy are used interchangeably. Heat is a form of energy and while we do not know just what energy is we do know that it is the power by means of which the body performs its internal and external work.
To Supply Body Building Material
THE next important function of food is to supply building material for the growth and development of the body. Protein foods are the chief sources of building material. Such foods are found universally distributed throughout the animal and vegetable kingdoms. Life is dependent upon the presence of proteins. They are absolutely necessary in the nucleus and active or protoplasmic tissue of every cell. No new cell can be built nor any old cell repaired without the presence of protein. All the vital processes of life are dependent upon it. Plants can build protein out of the simple substances in the soil and air, while animals must feed upon the plants or other animals in order to obtain their protein. If one ate no protein, even though an abundance of the starches, sugars, and fats were eaten, one would soon starve. To death. Surplus protein 598 foods cannot be stored for use in the body as can fats and carbohydrates, but must be supplied by the daily diet. Protein foods differ from the other food classes in the fact that they contain the element of nitrogen. Protein foods are made up of what are called amino acids. There are twenty-one definitely known amino acids at the present time. These amino acids are spoken of as building stones. Each amino acid has its own chemical identity and one cannot be substituted for another, but they can supplement each other. In order to show the differences in the protein values, the protein foods are classified as follows: Complete proteins—those that contain all of the amino acids that have to be supplied in the food in sufficient amounts to maintain life and provide for normal growth— such as the protein in milk, meat, eggs, cheese. Proteins partially complete—those which, when used as the sole source of protein in the diet, are able to maintain life but will not support growth—such as the proteins in cereals and vegetables. Other proteins—such as gelatin in meat and others in certain cereals and vegetables—cannot even maintain growth because of the absence of certain important amino acids. The common protein foods all contain mixtures of proteins. Proteins rich in certain amino acids will supplement the proteins that do not contain all the amino acids thus making all of them function in maintaining life and supporting growth. Thus milk, a complete protein, will supplement bread, an incomplete protein; cheese will supplement macaroni; meat will supplement vegetables, etc. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Minerals are also necessary for the building of body tissue. There are thirteen important elements in the composition of the body. Only five of these elements are present in the carbohydrates— sugar, starches; fats—cream, butter, vegetable oils, fat meat; and proteins—meat, eggs, peas and beans. The other eight elements needed by the body must come largely from the minerals which are found combined with our food supply as it is produced by nature. Purified foods such as pure fats, sugar, corn starch and highly milled grains contain almost none of these important minerals. It is difficult to say which of the minerals are most important. They appear in the body in widely varying amounts but iron which is present in minute amounts is as important as calicium which is found in very great amounts. Some of the most important minerals and their chief uses as building materials are as follows: Calcium and phosphorus build bones and teeth. Sulphur is needed by the hair, nails and skin. Potassium, phosphorus, sulphur and chlorine are needed by soft tissues, especially the muscles. All of the mineral salts, especially phosphorus, are needed by the nervous tissue. All the minerals, especially iron, calcium, sodium, phosphorus and chlorine, are needed to build good normal blood. The various glands need special minerals for their secretions: the stomach needs chlorine; the intestinal secretions need sodium; the thyroid needs iodine. "Nutrition and Health" Bogert. NUTRITION AND HEALTH To Control the Body Functions "THE third important function of food is to make it possible for the many wonderful and important functions of the body to work smoothly and_ efficiently. The mineral salts are mainly concerned in meeting this important responsibility. Food will do no good unless the various processes of the body can be regulated. The first necessity in the control of the body functions is to maintain a normal exchange of the body fluids from one part of the body to another. All food must be dissolved before it can be carried to the various parts of the body. The blood stream is largely made up of water and the soft tissues of the body contain a great deal of it. The concentration of minerals in the fluids of the body are responsible for the movement of the dissolved food products from one part of the body to another. These dissolved food particles are carried from the intestinal tract where they have been digested, to all parts of the body to be used for building material, or burned to produce heat and energy. All of the minerals take part in this important work. Mineral salts are also necessary in order that the muscles of the body can expand and contract, as in the beating of the heart and in the breathing of the lungs; all physical work done by the body, such as walking, washing, ironing, etc. Is done through the power of the muscles to contract and expand. This great muscular action is initiated by the nerves which stimulate the muscles to action. All of the minerals help in these two latter functions. The clotting of the blood which 589 ls so necessary in hemorrhage or when blood vessels are broken is made possible by calcium. We said that the heat and energy was made available to the body through the burning of foods. This oxidation is controlled and made possible largely through the action of the minerals, iodine and iron. There are two general classes of minerals, those that are acid in their reaction and those that are basic. The best health of the body is maintained when the blood stream is slightly alkaline. The blood builds up a reserve supply of alkaline materials so that the blood stream can always be kept alkaline. For this reason one must be sure to eat plenty of fruits, vegetables, nuts and milk to insure a supply of the basic minerals. The acid foods are eggs, meat, and cereals of all kinds. A balance between the acid minerals, phosphorus, sulphur and chlorine and the basic minerals sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium must be maintained in health. The vitamins also play an important part in regulating the body functions. These vital food substances are necessary to growth and the maintenance of health. There are six known vitamins at the present time and there are others that are not definitely known. Vitamins, A, B, C, D, G, E, are known. Each one has definite functions to perform. No one can be substituted for another but all supplement each other. The existence of these vitamins and the fact that they are essential to growth and health has been established beyond question of a doubt. Space in this article will not permit a discussion of the various classes of foods with their special food values but a well-balanced dietary will include daily a pint and one-half to one quart of milk for growing children and at least a pint for adults; whole wheat bread and whole grain cereals should be used liberally; two or more fresh vegetables other than potatoes should be eaten daily; green leafy vegetables, carrots, tomatoes and all red or yellow vegetables should be eaten as often as possible as they are our richest sources of mineral salts and vitamins.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
A careful selection of proteins should appear daily especially in the diet of a growing child. Milk should supply the chief source of protein but as the child grows older it should be supplemented with eggs, cheese, and meat. Nutrition is in no sense a fad. Its facts are scientific and positive; health is dependent upon a diet that will provide the various needs of the body. Every mother owes it to her family to study this important subject and thus contribute to the well-being of her family.
BARE TREES
By Beatrice Knowlton Ekman
Storm drives the clouds. The sun has set.
A branch moves up and down the pane.
Against the sky in silhouette
The trees are bare along the lane.
The sparrows cheep beneath the eaves.
In chill discomfort they complain.
Above a motley bed of leaves
The trees are bare along the lane.
Belated geese are flying south,
Their call an ancient keen refrain.
The land is drab with autumn drought.
The trees are bare along the lane.
The Gourd Hobby
By Dorothy Nell Mair
AUTUMN days are hobby days! A few seasons past autumn days found us scouting through the fields, the foothills, and the marshes for reeds and weeds of attractive shapes and sizes. We took them home, dipped them in paint pots of enamels and variegated bronze powders, and when we were through we had a gay and artistic winter bouquet. Autumn days still find us searching for decorative material, but no longer do we raid the ditch banks, or snatch long stems of bearded wheat from a farmer's field. Our search takes us now no farther than our own backyards, or the neighbor's, where grow those twisted, fantastic squashes we call gourds.
Gourds are the hard-shelled relatives of garden squashes and pumpkins. Even though we may find them in vegetable gardens, or any warm sunny place where their use as a screen adds a decorative background to some unsightly place, they are not vegetables. They are fruits and the product of a flower. Some of these blossoms are beautiful, covering the long vines that trail for as many as fifty to one hundred feet over the ground, or upon a strong trellis. They bloom at night and are the most attractive at dawn when the flowers are full. With the first rays of the sun the flowers close. The leaves, too, are large and ornamental, adding to their desirability as a decorative screen. The fruit of the vine is the most fantastic and interesting of all, and has been adapted to many purposes.
Growing gourds give a novel touch to the garden during hot summer days. When autumn frosts have killed the vines the fruit is still useful—not as a food—but for decorative ornaments and containers. They are among the oldest of our cultivated plants. The Lagenaria gourds were used by the Egyptians for water vessels and food containers as far back as the Twelfth Dynasty.
MANY years ago gourds were popular as table decorations. Then, as fashion changed, interest in them vanished to some extent. They were much too fascinating, however, to be forgotten by the horticulturists. They were also much too fascinating to be forgotten by the public for long. Interest in gourd cultivation and ornamentation is keener today than ever, having flared forth with new zeal to such extent that the growing, decorating and use of gourds has developed into a worth while hobby.
If you favor a particular kind of gourd for a particular use, and wish to enjoy the pleasure of cultivating the gourd yourself, your hobby begins not in the lull of autumn days, but as soon as the danger of frost has disappeared in the springtime. Gourds grow best in warm, temperate or tropical regions, but they can be cultivated in the cooler zones. They require warm, fertile soil and plenty of sunshine, also plenty of room in which to ramble, for ramble they will to great lengths. They can be started in pots indoors and later placed where desired. This is an especially good plan if you live where seasons are short. They require a long season to reach full maturity, as the first frost kills them.
There are numerous kinds, but the Lagenaria gourds are the most commonly used for containers and ornaments. They grow in the most fantastic shapes and are often quite large. Many of the small gourds, and even the warty ones, make beautiful ornaments for a table centerpiece. Odd dishes for candy, nuts and handy little trays can be carved from them while shells are green. Because the Lagenaria gourds are large and better shaped for utility vessels, they have been given names suggestive of them, such as: dipper, bottle, spoon, powder horn, African pipe, siphon, and so on.
One of the most common uses for them today is for bird houses. They add a quaint picturesqueness hanging in your garden. The little doorways should be cut while the gourd shell is still green as it is easier done then and in no way harms the shell. If anything the drying is hastened when the air is allowed to penetrate the inside. The seeds and fibrous substance are removed. The outside of the shell can be painted, or merely cleaned and polished with wax. But even this does not have to be done, as a gourd birdhouse is decorative enough in itself.
For interior ornaments the gourds are often varnished. Sometimes, little desert scenes are sketched on them. If you have a patio or a sunporch where you enjoy using bright colors in furniture and pottery, gourds are most appropriate. They can be used for water bottles and quaint vases
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
or flower bowls. Strings of the smaller ones in varied shapes, highly polished, lend an atmosphere of Mexico, and give a queer tinkling sound when the wind moves them. New and novel uses for gourds about the home will be discovered as one experiments with them.
The very small ones thoroughly dried make excellent and safe rattles for the baby. The outside need be only thoroughly cleaned before given into his chubby hands. The dry seeds within, falling against the shell, create an amusing rattle. These rattles were at one time part of a medicine man's equipment to frighten off the devils of disease.
The secret of long life for any gourd is to have it thoroughly dried and hard before usage begins. It may be cut and shaped while still green, but not used. Painting, waxing, or varnishing the outside also gives a protective coat against wear.
If you become a gourd hobbyist you will want to cultivate them yourself. Most of the fun of having them about is in the cultivating. No one can predict just what shape a gourd will be until it is fully matured, and there are always delightful surprises hidden among the vines. To plant the seed, to watch the vines grow and bloom, to anticipate the fantastic shapes and uses of the fruit, and then to actually fashion them for use about the home, is to experience the full joy of creation.
Aunt Heartha
By Minnie I. Hodapp
WHITE winter had come overnight to Riverbend, transforming the scattered village into a landscape of sky and snow. All the wayside hedges were arrayed in dainty plumage. Even the brown farmhouse at the curve of the highway seemed taller in its cap of downy softness. The house was surrounded by an orchard in immaculate robing. Fairy arches led from the gate to the front door.
Soon a glossy blue roadster halted by the gate. Through the car window a pair of lovers—an engaged couple—were peering toward the brown house and conjecturing upon it as their possible home.
"Nice place," whispered Christy, her eyes beaming with gladness.
"Yours and mine," answered Hap. "My heritage from Grandmother Worth. Do you see that lilac tree by the corner of the porch? Grandma Worth planted it years and years ago."
Christy was perfectly aware that she couldn't match Hap's worldly possessions, but in accord with Aunt Heartha's guidance, she had gradually acquired a chest of durable household goods including table linen, sheets, pillow cases—even a couple of fluffy satin quilts—the workmanship of her own hands. Long ago she had resolved that Aunt Heartha's many little sacrifices for her chest of pretty things should not go unrewarded. Christy meant to take the dear soul into her future home—not as a housekeeper or caretaker—but as the beloved and loving angel of the hearth. Often had she mused and reflected upon this possibility until it had come to seem natural and plausible. She told herself that if Hap should leave Aunt Heartha out of their mutual plans, Christy herself would soon manage to fade out of the picture, too. Her method would be self-effacing and quiet and void of bitterness or acrimony. This was a foregone conclusion. She recalled it now as she gazed upon Hap's hospitable house this snow-clad winter morning.
"Look, Christy," said Hap, "that rambler along the front porch will be a bower of roses next June. And you know what this coming June means to you and me."
At this the little house seemed to beckon.
"It's a charming place," said Christy. "Shall we look inside?"
"That's just what we've driven out here for, Darling," and his arm went round her in an endearing embrace.
Hap helped Christy out of the car and his gentleness expressed more than words how very precious she was to him. Christy skipped blithely up the long path a few steps ahead of Hap. He walked steadily erect carrying Christy's very heavy case of art equipment, including brushes and color boxes and sheets of paper.
Christy paused by the porch and glanced up into Hap's face. His features were suffused with joy and pride as he stepped up and unlocked the door, flinging it wide. A wave of warm air like a summer breeze enveloped them.
"You've set up a new stoker, Hap! And I dare say you did it for this visit," beamed Christy.
"I want you to feel comfortable while you're looking through the place."
The spacious east window had a wide, long, roomy sill. Christy at once envisioned a window of geraniums with Aunt Heartha coaxing them into bud and bloom. Hap, meanwhile, was thinking only of Christy. His Christy! She glanced up at him with an ingratiating smile.
"I had no idea you had so thoroughly remodeled," said she.
Hap opened an adjoining door. "This room is rather small," said he, "but will be convenient for an occasional guest."
Christy's face was radiant and sunny as she stepped inside the cozy little sanctum. Inaudibly her heart exclaimed, "Heartha's own little room!"
Closing the door, Hap remarked, "This is an old-fashioned stairway with worn steps, Christy, but none of them creak."
Hap grasped her outstretched hand and slowly led her up the narrow passage. With the opening of the loft door came a blue-bending arch of sky.
"A roof garden!" exclaimed Christy. "Whoever would have dreamed of such a luxury!"
Turning to Hap she whispered, "Dearest, you did this all for me!"
He smiled a slow, meditative smile and gave answer: "To tell you the fact, Christy, I've stayed awake nights thinking this out—a place for you to steal away by yourself to sketch the summer landscape. Here you'll be at liberty to apply yourself to your beloved art unmolested."
Christy's eyes were resting on the fields of snow, and beyond the willow-lined creek and little groups of young oak trees. She seemed dumb with happiness and surprise.
"In early spring," continued Hap, "when the green begins to creep back into the trees and the spaces between show the bonny blue sky"—
A LOUD, clamorous knock at the front door called them below at once.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
A hearty old Scotchman stood on the front porch. He was smiting his mittened hands together and stamping the snow from his overshoes. His cheeks were ruddy and his breath came like white vapor.
"It appears to me the homestead's come alive this mornin'—smoke curlin' from the chimney. Are you young folk movin' in?"
"Not today. Won't you take this rocker, Uncle Alec?"
"Don't want to sit down. I'd rather go below and have a good long look at your stoker. I might watch it half an hour, if you don't mind."
"Go right ahead, Uncle Alec," said Hap as he turned good-naturedly back to his conversation with Christy.
"Maybe you'll want a fireplace in this room. Sort of friendly, wouldn't it be, having a fireplace?"
Christy could see dear old Heartha in the glow of a cheery yule log and her heart exulted at the picture. Deftly she hid it from Hap, who suddenly burst out:
"Your presence here seems to brighten the very air, Christy and just think, this home is ours alone—yours and mine. Sometimes it seems as if this whole, big world holds but you and me."
Christy who ordinarily would have responded to these warm, glowing words, seemed actually to shiver. Hap perceived it.
"You aren't cold dear. What's the matter?" he asked with a penetrating look as if trying to probe her inner conscience.
"I've changed my mind, Hap. That's all. This house isn't for me."
Hap drew his lips into a thin, straight line. "What's wrong with you, Christy?"
Her voice lowered to a whisper. "I can't go on."
Hap eyed her closely. Her face looked drained and bleak—utterly colorless—but there was burning
AUNT HEARTHA
pain in her eyes. Never before had he seen Christy like this—his clear-eyed, trusty pal—the one girl in all the world who had no skill in evasion or lies.
"Is it something I've done, Christy?"
"No."
In spite of her outward calm, Christy's throat cramped and her voice was near suffocation. "I can't marry you, Hap. That's all."
Hap's face looked haggard. He cleared his throat roughly. It seemed to him in this emotional crisis that Christy wasn't Christy at all. Another girl stood in her place before him. And this girl was unfeeling, hardened, acutely cruel! Worst of all, there was nothing he could do about it. The silent rage that seized him was gruelling to his nerves.
"I'll take the interurban car back to Cedarville," announced Christy.
MECHANICALLY the two of them made their way back to the little blue roadster by the gate. With chill hands, Hap clutched the wheel and they were off. At the depot Christy forced back unshed tears and nodded goodbye. Hap replied with a fixed, unseeing stare and a frigid bow. The train pulled out of Riverbend with its customary stutter of start and stop. Soon it gained its usual rhythm. Hap stood watching until it had disappeared behind "Queen's Bluff"—a cliff of colored stone near the turn of the track.
"Queen's Bluff," he ejaculated ironically as he leaped into his car and banged the door. His reckless driving might have cost him a heavy fine had there been a rush of traffic.
Upon entering the door he stumbled over Christy's valise filled with art material. This gave him pause. He reached down and unlocked it. There was every needful tool and brush in perfect order and readiness for a day of sketching.
"She even denied herself that special treat," said Hap aloud. He was certain that their suffering at parting had been mutual. He sat down and examined the contents of her art folio. There he found sketches on various themes—a face, a bust, a tree, a distant hill, even a placard bearing a printed quotation, "When half-gods go, the gods arrive."
SOMEONE was stirring in the basement tinkering with the stoker. Hap listened to big footsteps, and presently Uncle Alec stalked into the room. Uncle Alec could see trouble on Hap's brow and blurted out, "It couldn't by any chance have been a lover's quarrel between you and Christy?"
"We've never quarreled in our lives and we've been seeing each other more than three years," explained Hap.
"Then how come she's gone?"
"As to the reason, Uncle Alec, I'm safe in saying you know as much about it as I do."
Uncle Alec sniffed in a droll, bewildered way as if he might accidentally scent the hidden clue. "Is it something you might have done, Hap, or is it something you've failed to do?"
"I didn't ask. Is there anything I've left undone, Uncle Alec?"
Uncle Alec pondered, cleared his throat as if to speak, then remained silent.
"Come on! Out with it!" urged Hap.
"Well—there's Heartha. Did you have a good heart-to-heart chat with Christy concernin' Heartha?"
"I never mentioned her name. Not even once."
"I thought maybe you would-a mentioned how nice to have a visit from Heartha once in a while. It would have been handy-like to have said so when you and Christy were lookin' over these rooms together."
At these words there dawned a mysterious awareness in Hap's eyes as he gazed confidently into Uncle Alec's kindly face.
"What do you know about Heartha, Uncle Alec?"
"I only know what I saw with my own eyes and heard with my ears. Wasn't I in the funeral twenty years ago—the double funeral for Christy's parents? Her mother and daddy died within twenty-four hours of one another. I was present at the services.
"Heartha took Christy Clemens, a motherless infant only three weeks old, and did a mother's part by her. You know what my meanin' is when I say she went the second mile. There's a bit of scripture that exhorts one to travel the second mile, do more than's asked. Well, Heartha Wylie went the second mile as a mother. Christy had schoolin', sewin', cookin', music lessons, parties. I bet my bottom dollar she has had more fine clothes in her young life than Heartha's ever owned in all these years."
Hap seemed profoundly touched, meditative, and gravely silent.
"Well, my boy, I guess you've heard enough. It's just another story of Ruth cleavin' to Naomi. Christy can't tear away from Heartha, at least not in one sudden jerk. It's like this, Hap, you're young. You're not a mind-reader. It takes the mellowin' touch of time to be able to discern the inside workin's of a woman's mind. Comes like a gift to some few men."
HAP'S eyes were aglow with a strange illumination. He grabbed up his hat and said, "I'm off, Uncle Alec. I'm going to beat that interurban car into Cedarville."
"It's goin' to be a race, Hap. The train has half an hour the start."
So the glossy, blue roadster went zooming down the lane. It was already eleven o'clock and Hap sped along as if trying to overtake ten-thirty a. m. The train was due in Cedarville at noon. Hap managed to reach the station a minute and a half before it pulled in. His alert eyes soon caught a glimpse of Christy as she falteringly descended the platform steps.
"Christy!"
She looked up and they stood face to face. He grasped her hands and said in low, clear tones, "The sun didn't go into a total eclipse, girlie."
She glanced up into his sparkling blue eyes with a dazed, wondering smile. Gently and quickly he ushered her into the glossy, blue roadster and they soon reached the wee, gray cottage of Heartha Wylie. Here they found the snow-path swept to the door. Aunt Heartha was seemingly unsurprised to see them. She was accustomed to their various quirks and whims. At the same time they were totally unaware that Uncle Alec had interceded for Hap in a telephone conversation with Heartha—the most lengthy indulgence of the kind he had ever allowed himself.
"Aunt Heartha, will you ride over to Riverbend with Christy and me?" importuned Hap. "We want to show you some improvements on Grandma Worth's old home."
Gallantly, almost tenderly, Hap escorted Aunt Heartha into the little blue roadster. She seemed as bright-eyed as a snowbird ensconced between the two. The white fields were a-glitter stretching to right and left on the highway. It didn't seem long until they were back at the little homestead. Uncle Alec was still there. He stretched out warm, welcome hands to Heartha, and kissed Christy's forehead. Christy hurriedly gathered up the sketches Hap had scattered here and there in the room.
"You'll excuse us, Aunt Heartha, while we carry this case of art material upstairs," said Hap.
"Go right ahead, you two," said Uncle Alec. "I'll take care of Heartha."
"I wonder what's on Uncle Alec's mind?" queried Hap of Christy when they reached the landing.
"Oh," said she, "they're old pals and neighbors. Just glad to see one another. That's all!"
"Aunt Heartha's a dear soul," said Hap warmly.
Christy sought his arms and he enfolded her for one long, blissful moment.
"Aunt Heartha will want to see the house," reminded Christy.
They found her and Uncle Alec in the kitchen pouring chocolate and spreading sandwiches.
"Oh, I just tucked a whole-wheat loaf and a pat of butter into my satchel," explained Aunt Heartha. "Folks are sure to get hungry."
"Aunt Heartha's a knowin' soul," spoke up Uncle Alec. "And we may as well tell you youngsters out and out—"
"Come now, what's all the hurry?" asked Heartha, looking up quickly into Uncle Alec's face.
"Can't they stand a bit of a shock?" asked Uncle Alec.
"What do you mean?" asked Christy.
"Just one thing. Your Aunt Heartha and I have agreed to set up our own housekeepin' back in my old home in Cedarville."
"You've made up your minds in a hurry!" gasped Christy.
"I'll say so!" rejoined Hap.
"It's all on natural principles," explained good old compromising Uncle Alec. "You young folk need to climb the stairs step by step while we of the older generation find it a heap handier to take the elevator."
Relief Society Magazine
By Edna J. Gardiner
SINCE its inception the Relief Society Magazine has been an organ of spiritual uplift for all Latter-day Saint women. Its advent into the homes each month elevates and promotes a spirit of cooperation and peace. It links members of the various stakes and missions into one united sisterhood. Containing the subject matter for each week's lessons in Relief Society, it is invaluable as the official guide. Stories, articles, poems, biography and notes of interest constitute the subject matter found here. Editorials are timely and well chosen. May we, as members, appreciate this publication and be loyal to the slogan: "The Relief Society Magazine in the home of every member."
The Children's Reading
By Florence Ivins Hyde
NO. IX—THE GREAT COMPANIONS SPEAK
"Could we give one gift to every child,
We should choose the love of books."
—William Frederick Bigelow.*
I REMEMBER once riding for days over almost endless stretches of prairie, and looking anxiously across the space to the far horizon for the appearance of some human being who would give a sense of security to fill the place of that aloneness which takes possession of one in the great out-of-doors. With the appearance of an occasional car, from whose driver we received the assurance that we were traveling in the right direction, we felt that we had met a friend, and fear vanished in the knowledge that though the distance might be long, we would eventually reach the place we were seeking.
When I became the possessor of a progeny of three growing children, and was learning that no sooner was one problem in some manner solved than another loomed like a mountain before me, I felt the same awe that I had experienced in looking out across that desert space—the fear that we might be on the wrong road. Then it was that I felt with Julia Ward Howe that it is a "delightful but terrible thing to be a mother." I had not yet become adjusted to the fact that with the passing of each stage my children would die and had not yet learned that the "mother of boys and girls must die, too, if the mother of men and women is to be born."
As my family approached adolescence I stood in Chicago before two paintings which depicted the change in the American family in the last one hundred years. "In the first, a young lover is alighting from a carriage to call upon his fiancée. He starts across a velvety sweep of lawn shaded by magnificent elm trees. Beyond rises in dignity a massive brick mansion. With gallant yet humble decorum he advances to speak to those who have come out to greet him—the modest and fluffily dainty young woman, her mother and father of gracious but stately bearing, and the keen-eyed grandmother, zealous guardian of the name and traditions of the family.
"In the modern scene, a very young fellow, incessantly active, starts the honk of his Ford horn echoing insistently down the solidly paved canyon of a street above which rises a massive apartment house. He cranes his neck up toward an open window on the third floor out of which leans a girl smoking a cigarette. Her expression seems to indicate that she 'knows all the answers' already. She gesticulates her answer to him. There need be never a thought of a moment's delay for bidding adieu to her elders, because her parents are already gone to their country club and her stranger-grandmother is keeping a late appointment for a facial and permanent in preparation for tomorrow's
THE CHILDREN'S READING
departure on the next lap of her perpetual and restless gadding about."*
TO fortify my family against such shallow rootage I appealed to my God of philosophy. He answered my plea with a quotation from the immortal Goethe, "He who is plenteously provided for from within needs little from without." And so I retreated to my world of books—"noble-minded books, books that lead to contemplation, books that reveal the charm and joy of life." In them I have met helpful companions, often more potent than those we meet in life—the kind of companions who fill me with new hope and energy, make me face more bravely the perplexities of life. I found enshrined in this world of literature great companions who furnish the solution to numberless problems in a time when the family as a social institution seems to be threatened by the noise and bluster and sophistication of the age.
From one Great Companion, Samuel Butler, I learned that fathers and mothers are to be honored, not because of their accidental parentage, but only because they are honorable. I must, then, make myself honorable. Florence Nightingale reminds me that it is so important for a woman to be a person. I must, then, develop opinions of my own. From the Great Companions of moral education I learn that most of the problems of today are not problems at all but symptoms which must be studied and the remedy applied line upon line, precept upon precept until the troublesome thing is eradicated.
*From The Modern Family and the Church by Margaret Westcott Wieman. Harper Brothers.
When gritty irritation hangs in the family atmosphere I learn that an essay or a story from one of the Great Companions has the same effect as pouring oil on troubled waters. If my young son casts admiring glances at a frivolous, giggling, young damsel, I seek consolation in the philosophy of George Eliot when she said that many a man who in youth would have been satisfied with nothing less than a Venus or a Psyche has settled down in middle life with a woman who waddled. If the boy of my daughter's choice does not please me, I may quote William Penn, "Never marry but for love, but see thou lovest what is lovely." When spending seems to be their greatest fault, I preach with Benjamin Franklin, "A penny saved is a penny earned."
The tragedies of youth are as real as the tragedy of old age. When the Slough of Despond threatens to engulf them as it did Christian of Pilgrim's Progress fame, I quote, "Life is a lovely thing when our hopes are high, but the secret is to know it lovely and loveworthy when we have no hopes at all." And if preaching becomes a bore, I relieve the situation by quoting Mark Twain, "It is noble to be good. It is nobler to tell others how to be good—and is so much easier."
There has always been and will continue to be as long as the world lasts, a group of men and women more distinguished than others. They are those who have made use of nature's gifts to them. Many of them belong to the Great Companions and after an hour with them, I return to my practical world and my family singing, "If I could give one gift to every child, it would be a love of books."
Conclusion of Series
Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd
By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
CHAPTER SIX
I WAS quite elated over the way my various officers were assuming their responsibilities. So far their outlined plans for the season's work had met with instant approval. It has been my experience that any well thought out plan prepared and presented intelligently by the officers will be happily received by the members. They have confidence in their leaders.
The day of her first lesson, Mrs. Horne, the Sociology class leader, came before the class with a map. On it was indicated with pictures the sections where the principal industries of men are carried on. She had drawn it herself and had tacked it to a piece of beaver-board so it could be moved in and out easily. She began her lesson by telling this incident:
"My neighbor raises the most beautiful zinnias and asters. They have taken many prizes and every woman in the neighborhood is envious of her success. I was determined this last spring to get some of her plants so I, too, might have some lovely flowers this fall. I got some and set them out around a circular plot of lawn.
"Imagine my disappointment when they turned out to be sickly, spindly plants with few blossoms, while my neighbor's blossoms again took first prize at the fair. What do you suppose was wrong?"
I could see a smile come over the face of a woman in the audience. She raised her hand. "If I remember rightly you planted your flowers and then forgot them for a month. Beyond watering them every two or three days you left them to shift for themselves. The one who gave you the plants worked with hers at least two hours each day."
Everyone laughed and Mrs. Horne added, "Yes. The way I raise flowers is a joke in the neighborhood. From lack of care my flowers showed very little of the possibilities contained in the parent plant."
Then leaving the subject she asked abruptly, "Now, someone tell me what sociology is."
When someone answered it was the study of human relationships she turned to the map. At approximately the place in the state where we were she drew a large circle and within it wrote some names.
"Here is where the Perkins family live. We shall have them with us all winter so I want you to know them. They are: grandfather; father and mother; John, age 24; Rufus, age 21; Francis, 19; and two little ones, Wesley, 10, and Agnes, 6. Grandfather Perkins came into this country when it was new and took up a homestead. Later he sold his farm and he and the father went into business in town. But now we have Rufus and John coming on. The business is not large enough to absorb them and they cannot take up a homestead. Then there are the two little ones. They haven't a farm to wander over nor chores to do, so what about them? Where are they going to play? What schools will be open to them—what chance to learn a trade or profession?"
She was a skillful questioner and by her questions tied up the lives of the Perkins family with our past lessons on Diminishing Resources,
DEAR TO THE HEART OF THE SHEPHERD
Drift to the Cities, Housing, Communication, etc., until the class had heard a very comprehensive review of the past two years' work and knew how each lesson affected the lives of the Perkins. She took the entire class period for it and left them anxious to know what the future promised for the family. I have never seen greater interest exhibited in any subject. It promised well for the season's work.
But while the discussion was going on my mind lingered over the story of the flowers. Why should human plants be stunted in their growth because of lack of cultivation? When the class period was over I arose and expressed some such thoughts. Then I said:
"In our ward is a family who comes from strong sturdy parent stock, but who need their environment enriched to promote better growth. Their soil isn't conducive to good development. I am wondering if we couldn't add a few things to enrich the soil and make their chance of development much more sure."
I was careful to keep my description impersonal. Within a week I had a complete set of clothes for the family to wear for best. I had three good beds, some reputable bedding and six chairs. Mrs. Holsinger gave an old leather davenport that was sturdy enough to withstand the hard usage it would receive. Some of these things had come from the bishop, some from our cupboard and some from the women. Then, as if providence were helping us, Mrs. Holman became ill and had to go to the hospital for a few days. That gave me a needed excuse. Bishop had found a part-time job for Mr. Holman so I sent the Peters, husband and wife, to the Holman home to clean up. The Peters were settled in a small house nearby. After a few pushes and pulls and half-threats the big farmer had come to life. Now he attacked his neighbor's home with determination. He painted and calcimined and repaired. Mrs. Peters washed and scrubbed. The large back room was made habitable. The good furniture was exchanged for the old. It was a clean habitable home to which Mrs. Holman returned. It gave the Peters groceries but the effect on the family helped was negligible though their gratitude was unbounded. The habits of years were too inflexible. Mrs. Peters helped her for a few days and for a few more she kept up the appearance but not being well she had an excuse for slipping back into her old ways.
ONE evening when Tim was working I decided to go to the store and walk home with him. I had been studying and felt that a walk in the open would do me good. I peeked in at the children. They were all sleeping soundly. They would be all right for fifteen or twenty minutes. I locked the door after me and walked swiftly down the street.
It was a dark night but crisply cool and invited swift walking, and I was happy. My work was going well. People were beginning to forget the fact that I was a young president. My home problems were fading away. Tim had been home with me more than usual and I had so many things for which to be thankful.
I had covered three of the four blocks when I became aware of people ahead of me, a boy and a girl, and they were walking close together. I could hear the excited pitch of the girl's voice but could catch no words. They were quarreling. Not wishing to embarrass them I turned to cross the street and thus avoid passing them. As I turned I was quite near and heard the girl say, "You just try it, Don Grow. If you marry her—," the rest was lost as I crossed the street.
That had been Nedra Williams. There was no doubt as to whom she meant by "her." I found my thoughts leaping here and there, accepting and rejecting possibilities. Was it right to let Salle go ahead and marry him? Was it any business of mine? Should I tell her what I had heard? After all just what had I heard? Nothing that would stand repeating. I could tell her my suspicions but did she not know the situation better than I? Salle was not dumb and she was going into this marriage with her eyes open. I would ask Tim. He had a supply of common sense that was refreshing.
The last few yards I almost ran. I went to the side door that he used. It was locked. That was not unusual. He would not leave it open. Skipping around to the front I looked in. There was a dim light burning but only the one that is always left on at nights. I rattled the door but there was no response. I turned away. Could I have missed him? It was possible but not probable. There was nothing to do but go home.
Suddenly the joy of the night was gone. Problems gathered thick about me in the dark. It was cold and from every side things leered at me. I passed a boy and girl lingering by a tree on the corner and was opposite them before I realized they were the ones I had passed before. Only now he had his arm around her and they were murmuring in low tones.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
I was nearly to the street light on the last corner when quick steps sounded beside me and a dearly familiar voice demanded: "What are you doing out alone this time of night again, Young. Lady?" "Tim. I wanted to walk home with you. I thought you were working at the store." "I have been." "But you weren't there." "I left the store more than half an hour ago." There was an edge of caution to his words that aroused my anger. Wasn't I his wife? Why shouldn't I know where he had been? "Where were you?" Tact and confidence were swept away before the suspicion that entered my heart. Perhaps the couple on the corner had something to do with it. I had to know where he had been, what he had been doing. "T'm not at liberty to tell." "Why? Why should you be doing something you cannot tell me about? I have a right to know." "Don't be demanding, Dona. There are things come up in your work that will not bear: repeating. This is one of those things." "Oh." It was not until later that the unreasonableness of my attitude struck me it its full light. Just then I couldn't sense anything except that our confidence was broken by terribly secret things. Only one fact stood out from the evening's happenings that brought joy. Salle had not yet married Don. Perhaps now she never would. (To be Continued ) ENV Women We Should Know Agnes Lovendahl Stewart—Master of Arts—Business Woman By Ramona W. Cannon AGNES LOVENDAHL STEWART is more interested in talking about modern girls and their opportunities in business than in talking about herself. Yet her own achievements are outstanding. She is regarded as one of the leading figures among women in business in the West. Both her talents and her experience have been unusually diverse, and the advice she gives to others to work at whatever offers, for the sake of development, she has always taken herself. She spent three years teaching in the Church schools, took a Master of Arts degree at Columbia University, and on the side did all the work that institution offered in journalism. She wrote her thesis for graduation on the subject, ""Mormons in Literature." She gave up teaching to take a position in Gillam's Advertising Agency as a stenographer because she wanted to enter the field of business. A year later she began to write advertising copy. She went to Auerbach's department store as assistant in the advertising department, and now as Sales Promotion Manager, she is familiar with the buying, personnel work, fashion shows, window displays, interior displays, and many other lines. She can handle this important position only because she has developed herself highly in the various phases of merchandising. Personality and temperament have been important in her success. Common sense, sympathetic human understanding, a sense of justice, reliability, are outstanding traits of Mrs. Stewart. She has dignity with humor, and efficiency with polish. Her intellect, swift and true, allows of no wasting of precious moments. Through her power of self-discipline, her many qualities are blended into an harmonious, wellpoised personality, prepared to meet any kind of situation intelligently. PERHAPS one reason Mrs. Stewart loves to discuss the opportunities that are open to young girls today is because she has two young daughters who will, before very many years, be branching out into careers of their own. Mrs. Stewart, through her work comes in contact with the many fields of activity in which women have, of recent years, become successful.. "In just the few years since I graduated from college, women have made strides that are simply amazing—and if you go back in history less than one hundred and fifty years to the start of the factory system when women first began going out of the home and into the business world, you will find that the progress has been nothing short of miraculous," is Mrs. Stewart's enthusiastic comment. "Can you believe that just about a hundred years ago—in the decade between 1830 and 1840—women and little girls worked in the textile factories of New England from twelve to fifteen hours a day, six days a week, and for this heavy labor received the magnificent sum of $1.50 a week! Not only have conditions greatly changed, but now women may use their abilities in many more occupations," she adds. 614 "In the retail field, with which I am most familiar, she can achieve success in selling, in buying, in executive management, in personnel work, in advertising, display, or sales promotion work, in merchandising, or in office work—such a variety in this one single field, that it offers opportunity for many types of personalities, and many different kinds of ability." THAT woman should achieve success in retail business seems a very natural development. Since she has always been the one to do the shopping for the family—buying, so experts estimate, more than 80 per cent of the family's purchases—it is natural for her to know what kind of sheets,. Blankets, draperies, bedspreads, pots and pans, dresses and hats, that women want. It is natural, too, that she should help to plan, design, and make these things and many others that women use in their homes and for their families. In colonial times in New England, and in pioneer times in our own western states, every home was a little factory, where the things the family needed were manufactured by the mother, with the help of her daughters. Little by little these activities, which kept a woman's day so full of happy work, were taken over by machinery in the factories outside the home, or were done more quickly and easily by machinery in the home. So, when women go out into business and industry today, they are just continuing the "women's work" that their great-great-great-grandmothers did in their homes before the days of machinery. The only difference is that now women do this work in a different environment and in a more specialized way. "HOW can a girl prepare herself for a career in business?" is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE one of the questions Mrs. Stewart is most frequently asked. "By getting the best education she can possibly secure, by taking part in school and church activities, and by working whenever she gets the chance," is Mrs. Stewart's answer, based on her own experience. From 1914 to 1917, when Agnes Lovendahl was just "one of the girls' at the U. Of U., she was partially earning her own way by working as a telephone operator at the University switchboard, and selling behind the counter in various stores on Saturdays and during vacations. At one time or another, she has sold almost every type of merchandise a department store carries, and she has also had "behind the scenes work" unpacking china from its barrels of straw, and wrapping bundles. She recalls with a chuckle that the hardest problem she ever had to face in the retail business was figuring out how to wrap a broom, a dishpan and a set of glassware during a rush sale, while an impatient customer fidgeted. During her college days she also found time to work on the University Chronicle, the Utonian, and the Pen, because she loved to write and to draw pictures. She also enjoyed working in Sunday School and Mutual, and writing for the Church magazines. "I think I was most fortunate in having to work while I was attending school because I am now sure that the varied experiences I gained in that way have been the most valuable preparation I could possibly have had for my present job. I believe it was just as important to me as the formal education I obtained in school," is Mrs. Stewart's comment. She added that she would advise every girl to take part in school ac- AGNES LOVENDAHL STEWART—MASTER OF ARTS 615 tivities, in church and ward activities, and to work during her school - vacations if her health and energy permit. These experiences are most valuable in developing a well-rounded personality. GIRLS of today have great opportunities open to them, and' each opportunity is a challenge to the best they have to offer," continues Mrs. Stewart. "Not very long ago, there were only a few professions considered proper and fitting for a girl." How different now! If a girl scribbles cartoons all over her school. Textbooks, and goes into raptures over the colors of a sunset, she'll probably never be happy unless she is giving expression in some creative way to her artistic bent. So she can become a fashion artist, and draw the luscious pictures of glamorous ladies wearing gowns and furs so superbly that every woman who reads the newspaper or magazine in which the sketch appears, immediately is consumed with the desire to look like that—or at least to own the clothes that the glamorous lady wears! The things her clever fingers can portray for advertisements are legion: amusing children, teen-age and college fashions, still-life studies of smart accessories. Some women with a talent for art become illustrators for books or magazines. Others with artistic talent combined with a flair for clothes become designers of dresses, underwear, coats, or children's frocks. When they are successful, as a very great many of them are, they command very high salaries indeed. Sonie, with a more exotic trend, become designers for the stage or screen, while others design patterns for fabrics, styles for Turniture. One high-salaried woman employed by a large mail order firm, does nothing but design packages in which their products are to appear, and as a side-line she has stream-lined their refrigerators, ranges and washing machines. "There are so many opportunities for the use of a talent for drawing or painting that it would take hours to name them all!" says Mrs. Stewart. For the girl who has literary talent, there opens up the entire field of advertising. This is a very big field, and a very attractive one from the point of view of the absorbing interest its many and varied subjects have. To work in advertising is a college education in itself, because if you must study the manufacture of aluminum the first hour of your day, in order to write appealingly about the new utensils for waterless cooking, during the second hour you are quite as likely to be digging into the details of the latest Paris fashion openings. No wonder advertising is a fascinating job for the girl who likes to write! For the girl with radiant enthusiasm, who talks well, who likes people, who has boundless energy, there opens up a splendid career in selling merchandise—a career that is full of romance and delight, and that has a real future if one is willing to work. For the girl who is a keen judge of values, who weighs and compares, who is interested in textiles and materials, in how things are made, who has a fine sense of style, and who at the same time works well with other people, can sell with enthusiasm, and has a good mind for statistics—for this girl there is the possibility of a career as a buyer in a department store or specialty shop. It's a big order, to have so many diverse qualifications, but it is a big job, too, with big rewards! Quite aside from the financial rewards—and a buyer's job 616 is one with an excellent salary—there are other rewards that also attract. - Buyers for important fashion departments make frequent trips to the markets in California, Chicago and New York. Buyers for some of the larger stores and syndicates make buying trips to Europe, although of late years these have become more rare. The buying job is a challenging, fascinating one, for the girl who is willing to accept responsibility. For the girl who is interested in people, who is kindly, human and understanding, who is a natural'born teacher, there is a splendid field in personnel work in retail business. A Personnel Director has many duties: teaching fashion facts, and merchandise information to salespeople; welcoming new employees to the organization, giving them training in system so that they can work efficiently; helping the co-workers in any problem or difficulty; planning and carrying out the details of various activities of the organization, such as parties and outings. For the girl with a keen sense of fashion, who instinctively knows what goes with what, and who can accurately judge what the women will want to wear next spring or next fall—for such a girl, if she has also an infinite abundance of tact and good nature, there is an opportunity to work as fashion co-ordinator. Sometimes this involves also the presentation of fashion shows, and the giving of radio talks on the store's merchandise, in which case she should have a pleasing voice, and enthusiasm for her subject so great that it fairly bubbles over and spreads contagiously to her audience. "Retail business offers almost boundless opportunities to girls with many different aptitudes and desires," says Mrs. Stewart. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "CONSIDER for a moment, a few women who have been outstandingly successful: Mrs. Hortense Odlum has done a wonderful job as president of Bonwit Teller's. In New York, and has become nationally recognized for her leadership in that fine store. Her career 'is doubly interesting to us because she is a Utah girl from a pioneer family of southern Utah. Another successful woman in retailing is Mary Lewis, recently resigned as vice-president of Best & Co. Of New York, who earned in that position more than $53,000 a year. Think of Margaret McBride, radio commentator, whose salary is $52,000 a year. Consider also Miss Tobe, fashion prognosticator par excellence, who reports fashion news for smart stores throughout the country, and whose income is in the very high brackets! Shouldn't such records encourage girls starting on their careers today?" But of course the top looks a long, long distance away when one is just beginning. "I know by heart what every girl says,' comments Mrs. Stewart. "She cries with great despair, 'Every employment manager asks what experience I have had, and when I 'say I haven't had any, he says there isn't any opening! How can I get experience if nobody will give me a job?' That is the first big hurdle the beginner has to meet!" Mrs. Stewart has gained in her business experience a few bits of wisdom which she passes on to the beginner in the following Do's and Don't's: "Get the best education you can afford—both general cultural education and also vocational training for the job you want.. "Keep on studying after you get AGNES LOVENDAHL STEWART—MASTER OF ARTS 617 out of school—your education has just begun when you graduate! "Be thoroughly prepared for the work you want to do—not just halfbaked. If you want a job as stenographer, be sure your shorthand and typing are excellent—not just passable. In any job be sure your preparation is sound and thorough as far as you can get it in school. "Don't get discouraged at the first refusal—come back again and again and again! "Be well groomed when you make your application —- remember you must make a good impression in the first ten seconds. "Know exactly what you are going to say when you apply for a job— it doesn't hurt to write down all your good points and memorize them. It's a good idea, too, to practice what you're going to say—you won't be so likely to forget in your nervousness later before the interviewer. "Remember that no matter how much education you have had, you will still have to start at the bottom and work your way up. The education should help you to rise more rapidly, but it isn't an Open Sesame to the big jobs—you still have to go through the apprenticeship period, gaining the knowledge that only experience can give. "Take whatever job is offered, even if it isn't exactly the job you had hoped to get—it will still give you the right to. Use the magic phrase which is so important: J Have Had Experience! "When you get an interview with a prospective employer remember the following points: Don't slump or slouch—sit erect but at ease; don't fidget with your handkerchief or tap your fingers on the arm of your chair—sit quietly no matter how painful it is; look at the employer when he asks questions and when you answer them; walk briskly — many an applicant has lost the chance of a job because her walk was listless or tired. "Most important of all, remember that in getting or keeping a job, one of the most effective words in the English language is SMILE! "And after you get a job," continued Mrs. Stewart, "'it is important to do it every day to the best of your ability, studying all the while, so that when a vacancy occurs above you, you are ready and prepared to move up a step. Employers will give opportunity for advancement to those within their organization who have the ability, knowledge and ambition to progress." MRS. STEWART?'S own career has demonstrated this fact, for the Auerbach Company has given her opportunity to advance from the position of assistant in the advertising department, to the position of Sales Promotion Manager, which involves supervision of newspaper, radio and direct mail advertising, window and interior displays, and other activities connected with selling. Although she is very keenly interested in the many fascinating phases of her job, she finds the greatest delight of her life in her home, and in the two daughters who are adored by Mrs. Stewart and her husband, Robert Stewart. "There has been no loss of affection in our home because of my business activities," says Mrs. Stewart. "I am more alive, because my work keeps me alert and interested in everything." Her greatest ambition is to be a worthy friend and companion to her daughters, and her greatest hope is to be able to give them the educational opportunities that will enable them to live their lives fully and completely, realizing their greatest possibilities for mental development and spiritual service. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon SEPTEMBER—Take one's work seriously no matter what the field. It is one step toward success. A COMMENDABLE enterprise is the County Woman's Market, situated on the outskirts of Washington in Maryland. The farm women own and run this market as an avenue to dispose of the products of their farms. Each woman has her own stall and dispenses her fresh fruits, vegetables, dairy and poultry products or fresh bread, cakes, pies or whatever her special fancy may he. The market is popular with Washington ladies, who quite informally drive out to replenish their larders with choice viands each Wednesday and Saturday. MARIE of Rumania is dead. Noted for her beauty, her wit, and queenly grace; with the wisdom of the statesman she controlled the destiny of Rumania and other principalities of Southern Europe for generations. MLLE. SUZANNE LENGLEN, daring unconquered queen of the world's tennis courts, died last July in Paris, France. She was champion in the Olympic games at Antwerp and in the tournaments at Wimbledon. DR. ELZADA CLOVER and Lois Jotter, Michigan University botanists, women members of the expedition that rowed the Colorado River from Green River in Utah through the gorges of the Grand Canyon, gathered over 300 rare plant specimens during their thrilling experience. No other women have ever made this trip. MRS: VERA S. KING, wife of Utah's senior Senator, according to an article in the "Washington Star," possesses unusual charm and decided literary taste. She is founder of a club called "The Seven Arts" and has a novel ready for publication. LILY PONS, Metropolitan opera star, scored a triumph almost equal to the great Jenny Lind in her recent tour of South American cities. In Buenos Aires the city took on the aspect of a national holiday. ARGARET ARMSTRONG'S latest contribution to literature is "Fanny Kemble, A _ Passionate Victorian". This biography is more colorful than any work of fiction. It is a brilliant scintilating portrait of a fascinating and great woman. In the book are also passages of other Kembles of who Thackeray's daughter Anne wrote, "The Kembles strike one somehow as a race apart." ELIZABETH BANKS died recently in London. Her book, "The Almighty Dollar," is said to have caused a change in presenting Americans at court. PHYLLIS CRAWFORD with her book, "Hello the Boat," won the Julia Ellsworth $3,000 award for the best children's book of the year. Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary East German Mission DA D. Rees, Relief Society President of the East German Mission, writes a very delightful account of the organization over which she presides. The picture below is of a bazaar held by one of the branch organizations in the mission. There are only twenty members of the Church in this branch and fourteen propriate readings and addresses was presented. An enviable attendance record of 193 persons was made. The fourteen enrolled Relief Society members look upon those who were in attendance as potential members of the Church to be cultivated and encouraged until they too see the light. The zeal and well directed enthusiasm of the sisters who made this BRANCH BAZAAR, EAST GERMAN MISSION of these are enrolled in Relief Society. The bazaar was called to the attention of all Saints through effective advertising methods and everyone helped to make it successful. No admission was charged but attractive articles as well as refreshments were sold. A splendid program consisting of vocal and instrumental music, apoccasion a memorable one is an inspiration to all. Czechoslovak Mission HE accompanying picture is of the Prague Branch Relief Society on the occasion of the visit of Sister Amy Brown Lyman, President of the European Mission Relief Societies. Sister Martha S. Toronto, "Relief Society President of the 620 Czechoslovak Mission, writes that from May 2 to 4 the Relief Societies of the mission held some very interesting meetings with Sister Lyman. Sister Lyman reminded the sisters of the important part women play in the world and spoke of the advantages which have come to Latterday Saint women through the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. She called attention to the fine lesson program and other activities of the Relief Society which provide opportunity for self-expression and learning along many practical lines which enable women to be more efficient in the discharge of their duties. President Lyman told the women of the fine organization of Relief Society the world over and the blessing it is to women. Though women face many discouraging situations, with the faith and courage which comes from a knowledge of the Gospel they can more adequately cope with life. A conference was held at Brno at which all the missionaries were in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE attendance. During the afternoon a visit was made to Mendel's garden. In this little garden Mendel, a Catholic Priest, worked for twenty years to develop his theory on the law of heredity. The garden is most interesting and the instruments and books which have been preserved are of great educational value. On the return to Prague the Machocha Caverns were visited. These are enormous caverns of stalagmite formations similar to our Timpanogos PRAGUE BRANCH, CZECHOSLOVAK MISSION Cave. The country in this neighborhood strongly suggests the Rocky Mountains. In Prague a visit was made to the Masaryk Social Homes. The director of the social work in Prague conducted the party through the homes. The homes were especially interesting to President Lyman because of her long connection with social welfare work. The Saints of the mission felt greatly benefited in having had the inspirational presence. And instructions of President Lyman..... NOTES FROM THE FIELD Central States Mission AN account of an entertainment held in the Kansas City Branch of the Central States Mission is an excellent indication ot the extent of Anniversary Day celebrations. The sisters of the Kansas City Relief Society Branch acted as hostesses to the sisters of the Independence Branch. A one-act play entitled "An Interesting Shut-In" was successfully presented and luncheon followed. There were fifty-two members in attendance at this gathering. Tahitian Mission UPON her return from the Tahitian Mission Sister Maude Woodbury submitted the following tribute: "Would I had the privilege to transport my sisters in Zion for just a short while to the beautiful Isle of Tahiti where I have been favored to labor for eleven short months among the reverent mothers of the dark race. "They love the missionary boys, the earnest sons of the white women, sent to preach the Gospel to them. Willingly do they deprive themselves of the finest foods to give to their visitors who are not accustomed to the native foods. They scrub and bathe the entire family that they may enter the house of the Lord clean in body. The pealing of the bell one-half hour before service often finds them gathered in groups on the steps or in the hall with hats reverently removed waiting to enter the church. There is no disturbance of talking or loud laughter, but great reverence for the house dedicated to our Savior for true worship. As the hymn is announced, rapt attention fellows as it is softly played. At a given signal the song bursts 621 forth in full harmony. The sonorous voices of these Saints fill the chapel, as praises from a worshipful gathering ascend to the Father in sweet cadence. "They have their beloved Bible and their revered Book of Mormon. What finer gems do they need out of which to learn the truths of the Gospel.
"Your sons should return home stabilized, thankful that the Lord called them to labor in a land of dazzling sunshine, of indescribable beauty of nature, among a self-sacrificing, warm-hearted people."
Southern States Mission
SISTER Ann Clayson, President of the Southern States Mission Relief Societies, gives a most interesting report of the activity of Relief Society in the mission. Particular attention has been given to diet and instruction in cooking and in preparation of green vegetables. Excellent food charts have been obtained from the Child Welfare League of America, also helpful information from the Consumers' Problems. Sister Clayson also obtained circulars on correct diet and food preparation from the State Department of Georgia.
The following picture is of the Augusta Branch during a supper. The following is a quotation from a letter and is indicative of what is being accomplished: "We enjoyed our cooking lessons and appreciated the invitation. We met at the home of one of our members and cooked our dinner. We were surprised to learn how delicious vegetables can be when prepared in the manner you have indicated. The vegetable dinner proved to be a real banquet and everyone enjoyed it immensely. There were twenty-five persons present. Everyone approves of the steps we are taking in this direction."
From the Columbia Branch in the South Carolina District another fine report comes. On the evening of March 17 in the Columbia Branch church the sisters gathered in the amusement hall where a fine demonstration of home cooking was given. The county cooking agent was present in response to an invitation from the local officers. After the demonstration was over games were enjoyed by the sisters and their hus-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
bands. This was followed by serving of natural foods prepared solely by the Relief Society sisters. The demonstration was to show that a meal can be prepared with natural foods and very little fat. The demonstrator said that if every woman would plant at least a row or two of leafy vegetables using their waste spaces for planting, there would be very little suffering during a depression. She encouraged the sisters to plant just as many vegetables as they possibly could. On the whole, both the planting of vegetables and their use and proper cooking has been a very worthy project throughout the entire mission.
Northwestern States Mission
FROM Sister Ann Nibley, President of the Northwestern States Mission Relief Society, comes the following: "The Relief Society work in the Northwestern States Mission has made rapid progress. During 1937 the mission was divided into seven districts as follows: Portland, Seat-
AUGUSTA BRANCH, SOUTHERN STATES MISSION
tle, Yakima, Spokane, Great Falls, Missoula, and Butte. In each of these districts a Church organization similar to a stake organization was perfected and in each of the districts a Relief Society Board was organized.
"These boards have labored diligently to build up the branch organizations under their supervision. They have tended to unify the various societies and to standardize the work, and a new impetus has been given Relief Society work in the
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
mission. The enrollment has increased and seventeen new societies have been established, making in all fifty-seven organizations, with a membership of 1,307.
"On Sunday, June 26, the Portland District was organized into a Stake by President David O. McKay and Elder Melvin J. Ballard. Sister Birdie Bean, President of the Relief Society Board in the Portland District was retained with her entire board in the new Stake."
Sunday, July 31, the Seattle District was organized into a Stake by President Heber J. Grant and Elder Melvin J. Ballard. Sister May W. Milligan was chosen to preside over the Relief Society in this Stake. These sisters have been very efficient in their work and we congratulate these new stake presidencies. The work of sister Ann Parkinson Nibley as Relief Society Mission President is deserving of commendation. Working constantly for the advancement of this organization she has proven herself a woman of vision and understanding. We extend our best wishes to her in the work she is doing in the mission and also to these new Stake Boards as they assume their duties, feeling certain that the work will be carried forward with honor and credit.
THEOLOGY REFERENCE BOOKS
THE list of reference books published at the beginning of each Theology lesson recognizes the sources drawn upon in the preparation of the lesson. It is not required that all books be purchased by the stakes or wards. The essential truths for the development of the spiritual messages of the lessons are contained in the Magazine and in our Church books. However, if class leaders have access to the references through libraries or seminaries, they will find them of value. Reading the context throws light upon the meaning of the quotations used. Any of these books would make a valuable addition to Relief Society libraries. If restricted to the purchase of but one book, "THE TRAINING OF THE TWELVE," by A. B. Bruce ($1.00) is recommended. This book is of special value to class leaders and could be read with profit by Relief Society members.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - President
AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - First Counselor
KATE M. BARKER - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Second Counselor
JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Jennie B. Knight Ida P. Beal Nettie D. Bradford
Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Marcia K. Howells
Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Emeline Y. Nebeker
Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine Janet M. Thompson
Belle S. Spafford
Donna Durrant Sorensen
Vivian R. McConkie
Leda T. Jengen
Beatrice F. Stevens
Rae B. Barker
Nellie O. Parker
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Manager: Louise Y. Robison
Assistant Manager Belle S. Spafford
Amy Brown Lyman
VOL. XXV SEPTEMBER, 1938 No. 9
Editorials
Living Standards
EVERY individual has a criteria which he sets up for himself as the satisfactory mode of living—his living standards. Many influences play upon the individual and have voice in the determination of standards. Early life patterns, education, financial status, social contacts, religion, all are of moment in establishing the grade or level of excellence or advancement which the individual finds right or fitting. When standards are high we have a superior and most desirable individual while we find inferiority to the degree that standards become lax.
Often during periods of industrial depression, of war, of epidemic, or other abnormal pressure, standards that have been established laboriously are not only battered down by the stress of the time but remain down long after the occasion has passed. This is owing in part to the tendency to carry over into ordinary times, habits created by the emergent period. Not only should those things which elevate standards be cultivated but constant caution must be exercised lest a slow but general lowering of standards occur.
Individual and community life are so inter-dependent that we find individual standards affecting community life, while on the other hand, community standards have a direct influence upon individuals. When inclined to be lax or when once started downward standards lower with marked rapidity whereas their lifting is a slow and tedious process. Community standards are best lifted through elevating those of the individual. One or two leaders upholding high standards of thrift, industry, sanitation, cultural pursuits, etc., may elevate an entire group.
To grow to the "measure of the
EDITORIALS
stature of the fullness of Christ" is the possibility of mankind. In order that man might attain this measure of perfection the Gospel plan has been restored in its fullness. Our leaders from the beginning have interpreted the Gospel for us in terms of everyday behavior, making clear those standards by which we should order our lives. Acceptance of the Gospel should be reflected in the superior living standards of every Latter-day Saint. The Latter-day Saint should be honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, doing good to all mankind. He should be thrifty, industrious; his home should be clean and attractive; his surroundings inviting; his tastes cultured. To the degree that he fails in these things he fails as a Latter-day Saint.
The Latter-day Saint community should be a model community. Health, sanitation, beautification, educational and recreational activities, all should impress with their superiority. Latter-day Saint standards are recognized and respected throughout the world because they embody those virtues which make for the highest type of individual and community life.
The Lord has said, "Where much is given much is expected." This is true—the world rightly expects much of the Latter-day Saints. We are living in an age when through easy means of transportation and communication men are very close to one another. This is an age when men are more or less open minded, seeking after those things which contribute to satisfying living. Observing the fruits of the Gospel in men and women of high standards, in communities clean, wholesome, attractive and law abiding, they may well pause and say, Let us seek after these things.
New Stakes Organized
LATTER-DAY SAINTS have cause to rejoice in the growth and strength of the Church. Two new stakes have recently been created in sections of the territory formerly presided over by President Preston Nibley of the Northwestern States Mission.
Under the direction of President David O. McKay and Elder Melvin J. Ballard of the Council of the Twelve, the Portland Stake of Portland, Oregon, was organized June 26, 1938, with Elder M. L. Bean as Stake President. The Seattle Stake of Seattle, Washington, was organized Sunday, July 31, by President Heber J. Grant and Elder Melvin J. Ballard, with Alexander Brown as Stake President.
The Relief Society in this territory has been presided over by Sister Ann Parkinson Nibley as Relief Society Mission President. The women whom she has directed are well fitted to assume positions of leadership in the newly created stakes. Sister Birdie L. Bean has been chosen as President of the Portland Stake, and Sister May W. Milligan, President of the Seattle Stake.
The General Board extend to these new stakes their best wishes. Confident that the Relief Society organization will continue to grow in this section we extend our sincere cooperation to the Relief Society officers in the part which is theirs to play in expanding the work of the Church.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Amy Brown Lyman
WORD has been received of the early return of Sister Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor in the Relief Society General Presidency. Sister Lyman has for the past two years presided over the Relief Society organizations of the European Mission. Her work in the Mission has been characterized by thoroughness and efficiency. The benefits of her many years of experience in Relief Society have been extended to our Latter-day Saint sisters in these far-away countries and have added to the strength of the Relief Society organizations. We are happy to welcome Sister Lyman home.
Harrison R. Merrill
THE untimely death of Professor Harrison R. Merrill came as a shock to a host of friends and admirers. Enjoying a wide range of acquaintance through his many activities and versatile talents his passing is profoundly regretted. His remarkable abilities, his friendly personality, his generosity in sharing without reservation have made him of inestimable value to the many worthy causes with which he has been associated. A devoted Latter-day Saint, Professor Merrill interpreted his religion as a "way of life." Reveling in the goodness and the beauty of the world about him he imbued others with a love of life.
A poem composed by Brother Merrill and published in the August, 1928 Relief Society Magazine expresses his philosophy:
LET THIS BE HEAVEN
Oh, God, let this be heaven—
I do not ask for golden streets,
Or long for jasper walls,
Nor do I sigh for pearly shores
Where twilight never falls;
Just leave me here beside these peaks,
In this rough western land,
I love this dear old world of Thine—
Oh, God, you understand.
Dear God, let this be heaven—
I do not crave white, stainless robes,
I'll keep these marked by toil;
Instead of straight and narrow walks
I love trails soft with soil;
I have been healed by crystal streams,
But these from snow-crowned peaks
Where dawn burns incense to the day
And paints the sky in streaks.
Dear God, let this be heaven—
I do not ask for angel wings,
Just leave that old peak there
And let me climb 'til comes the night—
I want no golden stair.
Then, when I say my last adieu
And all farewells are given
Just leave my spirit here somewhere—
Oh, God, let this be heaven.
Richly endowed with native ability Brother Merrill trained and cultivated his native endowments, then spent them lavishly for the good of mankind. The Relief Society has immeasurably benefited. His contributions to the Relief Society Magazine, to Conference programs, his counsel in planning Literary courses of study, the excellent Literary lessons which he has written as well as the personal association with him have been distinct factors in the success of our work. Writer of the 1938-39 Literary lessons, "The Advance of the Novel," his influence will be continued in Relief Society meetings throughout the Church. Truly the line from the above poem, "Just leave my spirit here somewhere—" will know fulfillment.
Sister Edna Merrill, like her husband, has given generously to Relief Society. She is at present President
EDITORIALS
of the Fifth Ward of Provo, Utah. We extend to Sister Merrill and family sincere appreciation for the part this family has had in the advancement of Relief Society work and invoke the blessings of a kind Heavenly Father upon them in their hour of sorrow.
Early Day Minutes
(Santaquin, Utah—June 30, 1878)
THE following minutes taken from the Santaquin Relief Society records under date of June 30, 1878, were read at the President's Banquet recently held in Payson, Utah. The minutes are of interest, bearing evidence of the spirit of our early-day leaders and the clearly defined purposes of the organization in its beginning.
"Minutes of a Special Relief Society Meeting called by Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. Young, June 30, 1878, in Santaquin, Utah.
"Sister Snow spoke and said she came for the purpose of instructing the Relief Society. She said Relief Society was not organized solely for relief of poor, but to save souls and to help bishops in their work of salvation. She said there could not be a true Church without the Relief Society organization, that she had heard Brother Joseph Smith say so. Husbands cannot save us; our salvation depends upon our own exertions. Therefore we should honor our calling, living the life of a true saint. She said we need not be afraid of doing too much or getting ahead of the brethren and if we did, let them hurry up. A woman who always stays at home is not happy, nor can she make her family happy; she is apt to become a fault finder. Relief Society is to promote home industry and to make the people self-sustaining. The people were advised to save grain and to raise beans.
"Mothers were advised to keep their daughters at home and to watch them, not letting them go away to work. The sisters were advised to be faithful to their duties and to keep God's commandments.
"Sister Zina D. H. Young spoke, bearing her testimony to what Sister Snow had said, stating that everything that was necessary for our salvation was in the Gospel, both temporal and spiritual. 'No one can teach a woman how to rear her children but God,' she stated.
"Mothers must rear the captains of the earth, therefore we should exercise care, study the diets of our families, make our own dainties. We should raise our own silk and be self-sustaining. We can make ourselves the elect if we keep the commandments of God.
"Sister Snow again rose to her feet and spoke regarding the right use of our talents.
"The meeting was dismissed by Brother Stickney. The minds of all present had been impressed with the spirit of God, with a sense of their duties both to God and man."
"The cost of alcohol in human life far exceeds that of war, and the victims of alcoholism do not die out, they drag miserably through a sick life, and transmit their decay to following generations."—Professor T. G. Masaryk. (First President of the Republic of Czechoslovakia.)
Music Department
CHOOSING THE CHORISTER
By Wade N. Stephens
Acting Conductor of the Singing Mothers
IN any musical group, the conductor's ability, not that of the members, determines the excellence of the performance. A fine conductor must have all the abilities of a business executive, an army officer, or the president of an organization. Most important of all she must have a thorough knowledge of music and of the art of singing. Such a combination of talents is of course very rare, and we usually have to be satisfied with somewhat less. But here are a few of the things the Relief Society president should look for when she chooses a chorister.
First of all, the chorister should be a trained musician—not necessarily a professional musician, although these are best—one who has studied music of some sort for a number of years. It is a surprise to the non-musician to hear that the best chorister is not always a singer, but often an instrumentalist. This is due to the fact that an instrumentalist is studying music, while a singer is learning to produce a beautiful tone. Often a singer can turn out a better toned chorus, but has not always the musical education necessary to read and comprehend six lines of music at once, and therefore cannot teach the chorus to sing with musical taste. An instrumentalist more often has musical taste, but might not be as good in tonal problems.
Since the best trained musicians in a small community, such as a ward, are usually teachers, the best potential choristers are, in this order, the piano teacher, the violin or cello teacher, the vocal teacher, and the school music teacher. After these come the advanced students of each. The president should try first to secure one of these for chorister. Often the most necessary qualification—musical study—is overlooked in favor of leadership qualities that are useless without musical knowledge. A timid leader who is a musician is preferable to a confident leader who is not. And, having chosen the chorister, the president should leave the personnel of the chorus entirely in her hands.
The technique of conducting is a special study, which few music teachers will understand, because it is seldom taught except at distant conservatories and universities. This, the most universal lack among our choristers, is easily remedied since the organization of the Church Music Institutes by the General Music Committee. Relief Society choristers can take courses in technique and musicianship that will result in better music both in regular meetings and in the appearances of the Singing Mothers. These courses are available to both chorister and organist. If the musicians of your ward already understand the fundamentals of their art, there is a second year course that any musician can take with profit.
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
LESSON 3
THESE TWELVE JESUS SENT FORTH
Helpful References
David O. McKay, Ancient Apostles, pp. 1-5.
James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 139-142, 217-229.
A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve, pp. 29-51, 1, 5, 126, 319, 398. This work is considered the classic in its field. The references given are to the fourth edition, 1889. However, an inexpensive edition of the book has been put out by Harper & Brothers. Consult references to apostles in index.
Robert Freeman, What About the Twelve, pp. 3-11. (Doubleday, Doran & Co., Inc., Garden City, New York, 1929.)
The Savior's Twelve Foreseen by the Prophets—Not only was Christ's advent in the flesh predicted by the ancient prophets, as we know, but the twelve men who were to be apostles and special witnesses of our Lord were also foreseen by them. The Book of Mormon is especially rich in its references to the apostles. The high spirituality of Lehi and Nephi made it possible for them to see in vision the mighty men who were to carry on after the Savior's death.
Nephi records his father's vision in the following words: "And it came to pass that he saw one descending out of the midst of heaven, and he beheld that his luster was above that of the sun at noonday. And he also saw twelve others following him, and their brightness did exceed that of the stars in the firmament. And they came down and went forth upon the face of the earth." (I Nephi 1:9-11.)
Nephi's own vision is recorded as follows: "And I also beheld twelve others following him (Christ)." (I Nephi 11:29.)
Nephi also records the following: "And after he was slain I saw the multitudes of the earth, that they were gathered together to fight against the apostles of the Lamb; for thus were the twelve called by the angel of the Lord... And the angel of the Lord spake unto me again saying: Behold the world and the wisdom thereof; yea, behold the house of Israel hath gathered together to fight against the twelve apostles of the Lamb." (I Nephi 11:34, 35.)
To Nephi was also vouchsafed the remarkable information that Christ's apostles should judge the twelve tribes of Israel; wherefore, the twelve ministers to be raised up among the Nephites should be judged by them. (I Nephi 12:9.)
Some special work of John the Revelator was made known to Nephi as were some other matters pertaining to the apostles. (See I Nephi 14:18-27; 13:24-26.)
WHY did Christ Choose Twelve Witnesses?—We may with propriety ask the question, Why did our Lord choose twelve witnesses, or apostles—why not ten, eleven, or fifteen? A complete answer may, of course, be impossible to give. But the Lord often expresses great truths symbolically. Careful observation and meditation on the part of man may often reveal to him the meaning, at least in part, of the Great Architect's symbols.
That the Twelve stand in a close and special relationship to the house of Israel has already been made clear in that they are to be its judges. (See I Nephi 12:9; Luke 22:30.) In his glorified picture of the holy Jerusalem descending from God, John the Revelator describes it as having a "wall great and high, and had twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names written thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel.... And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb." (Rev. 21:12,14.)
It would seem quite clear that there is a definite symbolic relationship between the twelve tribes of the house of Israel and the chosen Twelve of our Lord. May it not be that each tribe of Israel is represented in the councils of the Father by a member of the Twelve?
THE Character of the Twelve—It is indeed one of the peculiar twists of history that twelve men so famous are yet so little known. When we say little known we mean the details of their lives. Yet the same can be said of their Master. Aside from a few details of his birth and his ministry what do we know of Christ's life? It was the work they wrought rather than cheap publicity that placed the Twelve in the ranks of the immortals. The writers of the New Testament were certainly not afflicted with the biographic mania.
But in the minds of Latter-day Saints there can be no question that all of the Twelve, with the exception of Judas, were mighty men. And who knows but that the arch-traitor of all time had qualities of mind that, rightly directed, would have made him one of the great. We cannot believe
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
that our Lord deliberately singled out one of his Father's children in order to bring to pass his ruin and damnation. It seems likely that Judas had the necessary equipment for a successful ministry, but deliberately failed in his use of it. One is reminded of the Lord's admonition through Amos to ancient Israel: "You only have I known of all the families of the earth: therefore I will visit upon you all your iniquities." (Amos 3:2.) A great Scottish preacher said of this verse, "Special privilege means special responsibility; and if that be evaded or mocked, then destruction is at the doors."
Professor Bruce classifies the Twelve into three groups of four each ranging from the best known to the least known. Judas is placed in the last group though "known only too well." The first group includes the following: Simon Peter, the man of rock; Andrew, Peter's brother; James and John, the sons of Zebedee. The second group includes: Philip, the earnest inquirer; Bartholomew, or Nathanael, the guileless Israelite; Thomas, the melancholy; Matthew, the publican. The third group is comprised of: James (the son) of Alphaeus (James the Less? Mark 15: 40); Lebbaeus, otherwise known as Thaddaeus or Judas of James; Simon the Zealot; Judas, the man of Kerioth, otherwise known as the Traitor.
It will be noted that so far as their outward qualifications were concerned, they were poor and for aught we know, unschooled—Bruce calls them "a band of poor illiterate Galilean provincials." Most of this little band that Christ drew to himself were fishermen. The writer knows from first-hand experience that the fishermen of Galilee are still
LESSON DEPARTMENT
poor and for the most part illiterate. One was a tax-gatherer, the most heartily despised of all professions that a Jew could take up. Certainly none of these men belonged to the so-called intellectual classes, the Scribes or Pharisees. But while this is true we ought not to suppose that they were not mentally keen and intelligent. Their work in later years would seem to indicate that they made up their deficiencies in great part. At any rate our Lord recognized these disciples for what they really were—princes among men.
The Twelve as a group displayed an amazing variety of character. Someone has said, "The whole human race seemed to be represented in that narrow circle. There is Peter the impulsive man of action, and John the quiet man of thought. There is Andrew the eager home missionary, and Thomas the desponding doubter. There is Matthew the Roman tax-gatherer, the representative of foreign tyranny, and Simon the Zealot, the fiery patriot, to whom Rome is anathema. There is Nathanael the Israelite in whom is no guile, and Judas Iscariot who is all guile."
The members of the Twelve had many of the foibles and weaknesses that beset the general run of mankind. Peter thrice denied his Master and later the Apostle Paul could say of the man of rock, "I withstood him to the face, because he stood condemned." (Gal. 2:11.) James and John wanted to call down fire from heaven because the Samaritans did not receive them. (Luke 9:52-55.) It is hard for us to believe that the spiritual John could be party to such a proceeding. Thomas would not believe his fellow members of the Twelve when they testified that they had seen their risen Lord. (John 20:25.) We could probably go on at length in such vein if the records were fuller. On one occasion the Christ found the Twelve disputing over who should be the greatest. (Luke 22:24.) Their hearts at that time were by no means free from the lure cast by the honors and esteem of men, nor, we fear, free from worldly ambitions.
We point out these weaknesses to show what necessity the Savior had to train the Twelve. They had the advantage of the greatest teacher the world has ever known. Let it not be said that God despises trained men. The Twelve had the best training God could afford. The necessities of the Church of that day demanded such trained qualities of heart and mind that the Redeemer "appointed twelve that they might be with him." (Mark 3:14; Matt. 10:1-4; Luke 6:13-16.) To be fit vessels to bear off the Kingdom it was necessary for them to undergo an apprenticeship. The Church needed and demanded men with rigorous training for effective leadership.
THE twelve individually considered. Philip the Inquirer—We have studied some matters pertaining to the Twelve collectively. Now, in this and the next two lessons let us consider those members of it of whom little is known. In later lessons we shall deal with the better known men including Paul who was not a member of the original Twelve.
The Apostle Philip has been characterized by different writers as the Prosaic, The Matter-of-Fact Man, the Inquirer, etc. These appellations seem to indicate that the impression given most individuals by the few references to Philip in the New Testament is that he was what we would commonly call a "practical" man.
Philip, we are told, "was from Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter." (John 1:44.) The record does not tell us that he was a fisherman as were the sons of Zebedee. We know nothing about his family connections or what his profession was. His name is Greek and means "lover of horses." Evidently Philip's parents were not narrowly prejudiced against all foreign influence in Palestine as were so many Jews.
The Gospel says, "Philip finds Nathanael, and says to him, We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets wrote, Jesus the son of Joseph, who is from Nazareth." (John 1:45.) Philip, like most Jews in this respect, seems to have been fairly familiar with his Old Testament. Furthermore, he takes it for granted that Moses and the prophetic writers spoke of Christ's coming—a fact of which modern critics might take more notice. When Nathanael gave his famous answer: "Can any good thing come out of Nazareth?" Philip rejoined with a characteristic "Come and see." No argument or fuss here. It was if Philip had said, "Just investigate and find out for yourself. Let the spirit of inquiry be uppermost, Nathanael!"
On another occasion the Christ seeing a great multitude coming to him tested Philip by asking him, "Whence are we to buy bread that these may eat?" Philip simply answered, "Two hundred denaries' worth of bread is not enough for them, that each one may take a little." (John 6:5,7.) It was not the answer our Lord should have loved to hear, but it reflected Philip's practical though worldly wisdom.
Philip was present with Christ on so-called Palm Sunday when the Master's path was strewn with branches from the palm trees as he entered Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover. Certain Greeks who had come to the celebration wished to meet our Lord and for that purpose asked Philip for the privilege. Why they first approached Philip is not clear. It may have been by accident, but the probabilities are that they knew his name which, as we have already seen, was Greek and so took confidence in him as one who would understand them. But the cautious Philip knew that Jews were suspicious of foreigners, however devout. He therefore laid the case before Andrew and to every reader's gratification the two men told the Savior. This led to a deeply spiritual discourse in which the Christ said, "And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men to myself." (See John 12:20-32.) Not Jews only, but Greeks also!
Philip's famous request on the occasion of the Last Supper will always be remembered, "Lord, show us the Father, and it sufficeth us." The Christ's answer is a loving rebuke for his lack of insight. "Am I so long time with you, and dost thou not know me, Philip? He that has seen me has seen the Father; how sayest thou, Show us the Father?" (John 14:8.)
But this man with all his limitations was judged worthy by our Lord to be one of his immortal Twelve.
Questions and Problems
(Deal only with as many as time permits.)
1. What are the powers and duties of an Apostle?
2. Think of all the reasons you can why so little information has been left us concerning the lives of so many of the ancient Twelve.
3. Why did Christ spend so much time training the Twelve? Discuss the particular value of training to a Latter-day Saint.
4. Point out the special abilities
LESSON DEPARTMENT
and training of each member of our present Twelve. Why is it wise to have men of diversified training in a council? 5. Show how a man of Philip's temperament and character would be useful as a member of the ancient Twelve.
Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME
No. 3—ANGER
"Whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment." Matthew 5:22.
HUMAN tendencies lead us to judge ourselves less harshly than we judge our neighbors. Remember, we are in danger of the same judgment we measure out to others. Anger, an enemy to wholesome personality, is an emotion to be reckoned with daily by most of us. It acts as an insidious poison, destructive to healthy physical and mental functions. Digestion is impaired, clear thinking blurred. Contagion is characteristic of it. Give anger and it is returned with interest. Jesus directed His teachings to our daily needs. He was not as deeply concerned with the justification of anger as with its detrimental effects upon the personality of those who indulge in it. Anger leaves its bad effects whether the cause is just or not.
True, Jesus displayed indignation but not over petty, personal injustices. At the Last Supper He was irritated when the Disciples were bickering as to who would be greatest. It was then Jesus demonstrated the way to show righteous indignation. He, the Master, washed their feet. No angry words could have been so effective. The rebuke was in the spirit of a father concerned with correcting harmful attitudes.
Personality is made up of little habits. The danger of an anger habit lies in the intensity and frequency of its occurrence. Our problem is how to deal with this warping emotion. Repression is not the solution. Outward control still leaves the inward disturbance. Studying situations that produce anger should help to build new attitudes toward persons or circumstances that irritate us.
Modern psychologists agree with the method Jesus used. He taught, supplant anger with a more useful emotion; replace anger with love. "Love your enemies." A victim of vicious hate, Jesus hung on the cross, but He did not retaliate. With love, characteristic of an understanding parent, He said, "Forgive them, for they know not what they do."
"The small personality carries a chip on his shoulder. The great character can go to the cross and pray for his crucifiers."
1. How can analyzing the cause of anger be helpful in combating it?
2. Who benefits most by the elimination of anger?
3. What dividends accrue through the sublimation of anger?
4. In what spirit should righteous indignation be expressed?
References: III Nephi 12:22. James 1:19-20. Matthew 21:12.
Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs planned by your ward.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
LESSON 3
ROBINSON CRUSOE (Concluded)
NOWHERE does Defoe reveal his mastery of drama better than in the finding of the footprint in the sand by Robinson Crusoe. Crusoe has been upon his island for years and has been left entirely to his own devices. He has built up a "town house" and a "country estate" and is really the master of his entire island, happy in his possessions, safe, and reconciled to his fate. Then suddenly when all is going smoothly and he has property to lose, he discovers that he is not the only inhabitant of the island.
Defoe makes use of this incident to picture Robinson's terror and his dread. The religion which he had constructed for himself in which he had his God, all-knowing, all-powerful, and sympathetic, went upon the rocks with a crash. Crusoe was human, after all. He was like us all who, when our hopes are shattered and real dangers loom, wonder if God does really know and if he does really care enough to save us. After hours of fear, Crusoe, like us, returned to prayer and to his Bible for solace.
"One morning early," says he, "lying in my bed, and filled with thoughts about my danger from the appearance of savages, I found it discomposed me very much; upon which those words of the scripture came into my thoughts, 'Call upon Me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver, and thou shalt glorify Me.' Upon this, rising cheerfully out of bed, my heart was not only comforted but I was guided and encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance. When I had done praying, I took up my Bible, and opening to read, the first words that presented to me were, 'Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and He shall strengthen thy heart; wait, I say, on the Lord.' It is impossible to express the comfort this thought gave me, and in return I thankfully laid down the book, and was no more sad; at least, not on that occasion."
Crusoe so comforted himself that he, like all of us might do, began to wonder if he had seen a footprint at all. He returned to the place and to his dismay found that it was not only a footprint, but that it was much larger than his own. Furthermore, it could not have been his own footprint. "Both these things," said he, "filled my head with new imaginations, and gave me the vapors again to the highest degree, so that I shook with cold like one in an ague." Defoe, however, did not allow Crusoe to find another person on the island at once. He used this experience of the footprint as the motivation of a great deal of activity on the part cf his hero. Crusoe set about strengthening his position on the island by building "barbed wire entanglements" or what amounted to the same thing. Years passed, this single footprint remaining a nightmare in the mind of the man who did not know what to fear or whence his danger might come. Defoe seemed to delight in keeping not only his hero, but his reader in suspense as he wove his tale, his hero caught in the meshes LESSON DEPARTMENT of it and feverishly building against an unseen, and unknown, and unpredictable enemy. Then one day while walking on the shore in a strange part of the island, Crusoe came upon a place where skulls were scattered about on the ground and the signs of a camp could plainly be seen. He knew at once that cannibals had been feasting on the spot. This sight, rather than increasing his terror, abated it, for at least he knew something definite about the visitors to the island. The footprint had been robbed of much of its mystery. He reasoned humanly and rightly that if he had lived eighteen years on his island without being found and eaten, he might easily live another eighteen in safety. However, no human being could know that cannibals were visiting his island without spying on them upon occasion. Robinson did that and began to plan a method of rescuing some of the prisoners of the cannibals who were being brought: over for the feasts. He says that should he write of all the plans he made, his book would go far beyond the length he had in mind for it. He did, however, sharpen his cutlasses and clean and prime his guns. During his twenty-third year on the island, Robinson found a cave. This place recommended itself to him as a hide-out. Surrounded now by his cats, his parrot, his goats and kids, he said he-felt like the ancient giants of the earth. Along about the twenty-fourth year on the island, Crusoe discovered a ship off shore. He visited it and from it secured gold and many other things more valuable to him at that time, including a dog, the only thing alive on board. The crew, except for two men who were found with prisoners once again. 635 drowned, had disappeared as if the ship for some reason or another had been abandoned, as his own had been. It was not long after he had found the ship that Robinson Crusoe had another dream. In it he beheld a company of savages coming to shore This time he thought one of the prisoners asked for help. During all of his years on the island, Crusoe had been planning some way to escape to the mainland which he knew could not be so very far away since the savages came to his island frequently. He decided, as a result of his dream, that he should make a rescue in order that he might have help in launching a boat large enough to withstand the waves. Thereafter he did much scouting and finally one day saw a company come to the shore and found it possible to rescue one of the prisoners whom he named Friday after the day of the week upon which he was procured. Certainly the crisis of the book is reached in the capture of Friday if not, indeed, in the finding of the footprint upon the shore. As soon as Crusoe has human companionship, the story loses some of its charm; however, Defoe still maintains the even tenor of his narrative by having Crusoe spend much time teaching this savage the ways of Christianity. The first days and nights with Friday were fraught with danger for Crusoe. How was he to know how this cannibal would respond to his new situation? Indeed, Crusoe spent many wakeful hours planning a means of making himself safe from this new companion whom he had obtained, However, as time passed, Crusoe discovered that his man Friday was really a splendid 636 man at heart, capable of all of the fine feelings of a Christian gentleman. His difference lay only in his early training and environment. This thought gave Defoe, the author, an opportunity to soliliquize upon the providences of God. Says he: "This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with wonder, that however it had pleased God, in His providence, and in the government of the works of His hands, to take from so great a part of the world of His creatures the best uses to which their faculties and the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that. He has bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason, the same affections; the same passions and resentments of wrongs, the same sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the capacities of doing good, and receiving good, that He has given us; and that when He pleases to offer them occasions for exerting these, they are as ready, nay, more ready, to apply them to the right uses for which they were restored than we are. This made me very melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the several occasions presented, how mean a use we make of all these, even though we have these powers enlightened by the great lamp of instruction, the Spirit of God, and by the knowledge of His word added to our understanding; and why it has pleased God to hide the like saving knowledge from so many millions of souls, who, if I might judge by this poor savage, would make a much better use of it than we did." Defoe makes the teaching of Christianity to Friday an opportunity for him to make a statement about religion. His discussion of the devil and God and the relationships of the two as he carries it on through his Robinson Crusoe to his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE man Friday is most interesting and might be read in class with profit. The leaving of the island by Robinson Crusoe was assured to the reader as soon as he had procured the assistance of another man. Therefore, the story loses in interest as it proceeds, for although the departure was somewhat different from that expected by the reader, the departure was certain. "And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as I found it by the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had been upon it eight-andtwenty years, two months, and nineteen days; being delivered from this second capacity the same day of the month that I first made my escape in the longboat from among the Moors of Sallee. In this vessel after a long voyage, I arrived in England - the 11th of June, in the year 1687, having been thirty-five years absent." That does not end the story, as it probably would. Have done had Robinson Crusoe been a modern 'book. Defoe is not willing to leave his story unfinished and, therefore, takes his hero through other adventures until all matters have been straightened out. The remaining portion of the book, though intended to be adventure, falls rather flat and may easily be omitted except as an illustration of Defoe's method. Here then is one of the greatest and most popular adventure stories ever written. Daniel Defoe will probably live in the hearts of English-speaking people as long as the language shall last. In Robinson Crusoe future novelists had a pattern and its success was motivating enough for other novels. With its publication, the English novel was well upon its glorious way. LESSON DEPARTMENT Questions and Problems 1. In what way did the length of the preceeding narrative contribute to the dramatic intensity of finding the footprint upon the island? 2. Name some unfoldments in Crusoe's character. 3. In what lies the interest of this story? How has Defoe succeeded in making the story of one man so 'two men: 637 intensely interesting that it has been a favorite for two hundred years? 4, What are some of the characteristics of Friday? 5. In modern life what is the significance of the statement when applied to a modern relation between "He is John Doe's Friday.?" 6. Evaluate Defoe as a novelist. A Social Service Lesson 3 Do My Emotions HINpDER or Hetp ME? I. Scope of the Lesson. Feelings and emotions give quality and color to our lives. Much of the value we place on any aspect of life depends upon the feelings and emotions it arouses. An emotion is considered here as a "stirred up state" in which our thoughts ramble and are somewhat out of control and in which our bodies are full of sensations of changes going on in preparation for meeting a conflicting situation. Emotions arise when we lose control of situations. The more completely emotions dominate us, the less of conscious control there is. Control over emotions increases with age, as habits of social living are acquired. The chief step in developing control over emotions is to learn to analyze clearly the causes of the emotion. This knowledge permits us to make conscious or intelligent adjustments in place of emotional ones. A set of rules for acquiring control is offered. II. What are Feelings? Feelings are generally milder experiences than emotions, but they still have much to do in determining the course of our lives. They are described by such words as pleasure, displeasure, mirth, amusement, excitement, contentment, surprise, resentment, and longing. Feelings are often diffuse and do nct refer te a specific object or situation. Thus when one feels tired, he has a mass of sensations within, but they are not like the sensations that lead us to look at a sunset, for example. Frequently a feeling will spread from one object to another, because it is so diffuse and often lacks a definite object. Thus, we feel joyous one day and may not know exactly why, yet, we speak particularly pleasant to everyone we meet. Intelligent activity or thinking tends to push feeling aside, as when we continue to read a detective story 'into the night, not noticing fatigue until the mystery is solved. Hurt feelings are most easily cured by busying ourselves with some constructive or benevolent work. Thought is influenced greatly by feeling too. A person may experience a mild failure and forthwith begin to think destructively about his abilities, thereby predisposing him- 638 self to the next failure. Thus is an inferiority complex developed. III. An Emotion is a More Stirred Up Condition Than a Feeling. Whenever circumstances get out of control, we become stirred up mentally and bodily. For example, when our competitor scores a gain on us, or we find ourselves unable to control a speeding automobile, we get stirred up and hate our competitor in the first case and fear an accident in the second. These experiences are emotions. On the physical side, when we fear something, our glands pour into our blood a substance called adrenalin which tones up our muscles for flight, restricts our small blood vessels in the skin making us turn pale and throwing all of our available blood supply to the large muscles where it will be needed in flight. Our heart beat is quickened and we breathe faster. Should the object of our fear suddenly disappear, as in righting an uncontrollable car, we sigh in relief, but for some time we still feel the bodily change that took place. William James claimed that an emotion is the sensation of bodily changes and that a person does not fear an object until these changes take place. He said "we feel sorry because we cry, angry because we strike, afraid because we tremble." (James, 1890, vol. II, p. 450.) Emotions usually last longer than thoughts and as in the case of feelings, emotions are even more likely to persist after the situation has passed. This residue from an emotion, which is often simply chemical products remaining in the blood, leaves us "set" to act emotionally in the next adjustment we make. It is easy for a newcomer into a group of people to start an argument with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE someone who has just finished one with someone else. IV. Bodily Changes in Emotions Have Been Demonstrated Eperimentally. Cannon at Harvard did an interesting experiment on a cat. After filling its stomach with a substance which could be X-rayed, he observed that as the cat purred peacefully its stomach churned rhythmically to digest its food. A dog was then brought into the room suddenly. The cat bristled its hair, spit, and became much stirred up outwardly. But the most interesting observation was that the cat's stomach stopped suddenly in its work of digestion, nor was this digestive activity resumet! Until about fifteen minutes after the dog was removed. The moral of this experiment is selfevident—let pleasant subjects predominate at the dinner table, for the sake of digestion, if for no other reason. Other bodily changes during emotion have been shown experimentally, such as the ability of the skin to conduct electricity, rate of breathing, blood pressure, and the presence in the blood of stimulating substances called hormones. A group of students were once given doses of adrenalin (the anger and fear producing substance poured into the blood during emotion) to see if they would immediately become angry. They did not really experience the emotion of anger, but they "felt as if" they might become angry if provoked. Organic conditions such as these probably persist and leave the body "set" for an emotional outburst. We say a person has a "'chip on his shoulder' when he has been made angry and acts ready to "pick a fight'"' wherever he goes. V. Prolonged Emotions May Have Bad Effects Upon Physical LESSON DEPARTMENT and Mental Health. It should be apparent that if one keeps. His body stirred up with an emotion of fear or anger, he is likely to impair his physical health. His digestion is impaired for one thing, and the fine balance of all of the internal glands is upset so that the least we should say is that his body cannot function most efficiently. Preparation for flight, as in fear, or for combat, as in anger, is seldom required in modern civilization. The effects on mental health are even worse. A hateful person makes enemies, wastes much of his energy with his grudges, and fails to do his work efficiently. These failures handicap him in his life ambitions and make his adjustments needlessly difficult. Fear likewise distracts a person, makes him unhappy, destroys his sleep and finally tends to make an inefficient machine of him. VI. Domination of Thought Over Emotion Increases with Age and Culture. An infant makes no effort to control his feelings, and a child cares little about concealing his emotions. An adult, however, carefully guards most of his emotional expressions, because so often emotion indicates he is not complete master of the situation. Particularly does an adult guard against appearing afraid. He "whistles in the dark," both to bolster his courage and to impress others that he is not afraid. The child acts emotionally more often than an adult does because he lacks control over his world and because he has not yet learned the checks and controls over his feelings, which come with training the emotions and with greater ability to solve problems thoughtfully. Anger outbursts have been shown to definitely decrease with age. Occasionally we meet an adult 639 who, through lack of early training or emotional maturity, acts childishly—fears objects ordinarily feared only by children, or more commonly demonstrates his anger on slight provocation. A large part of our culture is to learn to curb primitive expressions of emotions. Men formerly settled their difficulties only with fists and swords, but now we whip our enemies by cool-headed bargaining and arbitration and occasionally with battles of words. Our cultural control of emotion has not reached the fine point necessary to prevent wars. War occurs when propaganda stirs up the emotions of large masses of people on both sides to the point that thoughtfulness is crowded aside and diplomatic and cool-headed arbitration is no longer possible. Jesus spoke of a degree of emotional control impossible to most of us when he said, "I say unto you, That ye resist not evil: but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also." An even more severe test for some of us He defined when He said, "Give to him that asketh of thee. And from him that would borrow of thee turn not thou away." ' (Matt. 5:39, 42.) The person who can maintain a head clear enough to "pray for them which despitefully, use you' indeed has good emotional control. To think clearly when angry, as Jesus did in driving the money changers from the temple, is more than most of us can do. So often in fits of anger, reason is so suppressed that we say things we immediately regret. In controlling ourselves and others who may be angry at us, most of us would do better to learn the wisdom of, "A soft answer turneth away wrath, but grievous words stir up anger," (Prov. 15:1) and, "He that 640 is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city." (Prov. 16:32.) VII. Emotional Abnormalities When an adult shows a childish lack of emotional control, we say he has regressed to an earlier level of response which may have satisfied him as a child but which poorly fits an adult. Throwing tantrums when frustrated, crying freely over little hurts and disappointments, or turning back with too great enthusiasm to the interests of childhood, indicate either a failure to grow up emotionally, or a turning back (or regression) to earlier satisfactions because the present and future are so unsatisfying. When carried to an extreme, affect one's efficiency and therefore his happiness. In a certain condition called schizophrenia, the person loses his power to respond properly emotionally, in love or fear or anger. He just doesn't care much about what happens outside his own thoughts; he is never thoroughly thrilled nor deeply disturbed. What emotion he does show is out of joint with the situation producing it. He has no ambition, no purpose, no enthusiasms. The evil of this condition is evident. All of our emotional functions have their proper uses and should be cultivated and controlled in such a way that they give quality and color to our experiences and zest to the pursuit of our purposes. A complex is another form emotion may take that is sometimes injurious. A complex is a group of ideas with an emotional core. Complexes are emotionally colored and generally resist correction from reason. They are similar to the pet prejudices and grudges we have, or a, violent love attachment, or subjects regression can radically. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE about which we are cranky. When we find ourselves getting so emotional about a certain set of ideas, we would do well to "ventilate" with reason as early as possible, because when once the "emotional wall" around those ideas is constructed, reason no longer gains entrance. Extreme cases of complexes are the delusions of the insane, which are simply false beliefs, emotionally loaded, which resist all argument. VIII. How Emotions Develop Into Sentiments. Similar to complexes in their emotional origin are sentiments, such as respect for parents, idealization of the home, reverence for God, honor for the pioneers, and love of virtue. Our Church songs, dramatizations of great deeds and ideals, give feeling tone to these ideals and create sentiments. Sentiments, of course, are the cultural and proper expression for much of our primitive emotion. They affect our religious faith and govern our conduct where reason often fails us. Sentiments represent the finest type of emotional development. The myth of Santa Claus is a sentiment which is as real in our experience as anything can be. Christmas spirit, fine fellow feeling, attitudes toward our pioneer ancestors, attitudes concerning family reunion in the hereafter are all sentiments and represent the highest expressions of our feelings and add infinitely to the value of life. Cultivation of proper sentiments regarding home life is the strongest safeguard of chastity. Most effective moral controls are sentiments. IX. A Few Hints on How to Develop Emotional Control. 1. Take account of the time factor by allowing enough time to collect one's thoughts before responding to an emotion-arousing situation. A LESSON DEPARTMENT "Count ten, or better count to 100." 2. Learn to look for the causes of vague feelings of uneasiness, then think of something rational you can do to meet the situation. Guard against a spread of feeling to situations unrelated to the original cause. 3. Since emotions appear when "things get out of control," strive to regain the reins you have dropped as soon and as intelligently as possible. Ask yourself if the emotion really prepares you to make the proper adjustment or whether it simply indicates your inability to make a good adjustment. 4, When you have become the victim of a grudge, hatred, or fear, approach the object of your emotion often and coolly with the intent of seeing if you can handle it better by some intellectual means. 5. To regain control, use your friends to talk out your feelings, and to get an objective and intelligent view of the facts. 6. Fight the tendency to regress or go back to more childish emotional behavior. Make your emotional age correspond to your chronological age. Problems for Discussion 1. What is the relation between reason and emotion? 2. Select your most persistent and unpleasant thought or subject. At- 641 tempt to define exactly how it became so disagreeable. How could you have lessened the displeasure by meeting the situation more thoughtfully, less emotionally? 3. Have you ever "felt"? More afraid after a danger has passed than at the instant it appeared? Why? 4. What general class of situations arouse emotions? _ Illustrate with a situation which produces fear, with one which produces anger. 5. What has been your best formula for controlling your temper? 6. Show how lack of emotional control destroys one's efficiency and his popularity. 7. Discuss the efficacy of a few church practices on the development of sentiments. 8. Show the value of sentiments as moral controls. References for Further Study 1. James, Wm., Psychology, Vol. II, pp. 449, 450. New York: Henry Holt, 1890. 2. Morgan, J. J. B., Keeping a Sound Mind, pp. 169-201. New York: Macmillan, 1934. 3. Starch, D., et al., Controlling Human Behavior, pp. 235-257. New York: Macmillan, 1936. 4. Woodworth, R. S., Psychology, pp. 334-59. New York: Henry Holt, 1934. "The future belongs to the children. The three enemies of childlife are ignorance, poverty, and alcohol, every one of them preventable."—Sir Donald MacLean.  "Most social drinking is a matter of lack of courage to think and act for one's self. People accept drinks that are thrust upon them simply because they have not the backbone to stand their ground and refuse. I think such cowardice is as shameful as the drinking itself. Too many people who would never go out of their way to get a drink allow liquor to be forced on them."—Professor Stagg. 642 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Literature for the Missions TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH Lesson 3 CATHERINE MIKKELSEN—A Gem of DANISH ORIGIN TO a lowly dugout in the east central part of what is now the city of Logan, Utah, on the 17th of August, 1860, there was welcomed a tiny baby girl by Brother Niels Mikkelsen and his good wife, Sena Johnson Mikkelsen. The new baby was named Catherine and she, with her elder brother Ephraim, was carefully tended by the fond parents in the humble dugout for about two years until the father himself could make enough adobes to build a tworoom adobe house. At about this time through plural marriage another mother, Laura Ingaman, was brought into the home and for the next twelve years the two families of six children were reared together. The mothers were both wise women and so Catherine with the others learned through experience and kindly direction the valuable lessons of love, loyalty and unselfishness. Until she was fourteen years of age she attended the very primitive schools of the time, and despite the fact that the building was of logs and had a dirt roof, and although there were no desks and only slab benches to sit upon, she had instilled in her receptive mind the value of an education. Through keen observance during her girlhood she also learned many of the ways and characteristics of the American Indians who were numerous throughout the territory. When she was fourteen years of age her father built a new home for her mother in a part of the city called "The Island." After moving into this home Catherine was taught to make tallow candles and soap, how to gather and dry different herbs for winter use, also to spin yarn, and in many ways prepare herself for the duties of a wife and homemaker. Besides the instructions given her in temporal things, and of far greater value to her, werc the teachings by her ardent pioneer parents of faith in a Father above who was ever willing to help and bless those who would work and seek Him. When she was nineteen years of age she was married to Brother John P. Sorensen by Daniel H. Wells in the Endowment House, Salt Lake City, and from then on she was to know through very real experience the value of all she had learned as a child. She and her husband moved to Lago, a frontier farming district in Idaho, to make their new home and their first house was a tworoomed log one. The walls were whitewashed; clean, white cheesecloth provided the curtains for the small windows, and a woven rag carpet with straw under it covered the floors. Their nearest neighbors lived in similar homes dotted here and there miles apart throughout the vast stretches of sage brush relieved occasionally by plots of green grass. The young couple were very happy in their new surroundings and their lives were full of joy and satisfaction. In due time a baby girl came to the humble abode, but unfortunately it was called immediately to the world beyond. This proved a great disappointment to Sister Sorensen LESSON DEPARTMENT but later five stalwart sons were given to her. There was no whitecoated dector nor prim uniformed nurse to wait upon her during these birth ordeals. Besides her husband, her only attendant was a friendly neighbor or the kindly midwife who willingly did what she could to soothe, not relieve, the pain of this brave mother, as there were no anesthetics to be administered in those days. But after her labor was over and the tiny ones had been safely delivered into her aching but loving arms, her joy was complete and a song of thanks and gratitude would go out to the Giver of all life. Each time as she entered again into the routine of housekeeping and homemaking, instead of the many conveniences enjoyed by many mothers today, she had to keep the house warm, and prepare the plain food over fires fed with sage brush or wood. The clothes had to be washed in water carried from a well outside, rubbed and wrung out by hand, and when dry ironed with heavy irons heated on the kitchen stove. But through all this her heart still sang, for she realized that these precious souls had been given to her to love and care for; also she had been given health and strength and a kind and loving husband to assist and encourage her. As each busy week passed on there came as surcease from toil and labor the Sabbath with sacrament meeting to attend. Arising early Sister Sorensen would quickly do the necessary household tasks before dressing herself and the boys in their Sunday clothes while Brother Sorensen did the outside chores, caught the horses from the open range, and hitched them to the wagon ready for the trip to the meeting place several miles distant. The roads were narrow and rough and streams had to be 643 forded as there had been no bridges built, but the Sorensens always arrived on time. After the simple and humble services, the remainder of the day would be spent visiting at the home of some good neighbor, and through this spiritual communion and social contact, renewed courage was obtained for the work of the new week. Later on a new log school house was built in which socials as well as meetings were held and which were attended by old and young together. By this time things in the little pioneer community had taken on a more thriving and progressive atmosphere; roads had been improved, bridges built and more and roomier houses constructed. Brother and Sister Sorensen had kept apace. They had two homes now — two more rooms having been added on to the first one—a new two-roomed one on a homestead one-half mile farther east. During the six years of homesteading and the few succeeding years spent back in the four-roomed house, one more son and seven daughters were born to gladden the lives of this righteous couple and the Lord blessed and prospered them. The children never had to go hungry or ragged and although "their fare was simple and plain, love abided among them. They were taught to pray, to have faith in a loving Father above and to do all they could in service to their fellowmen. Brother and Sister Sorensen were both ardent church workers, and Sister Sorensen worked as an officer in each of the auxiliary organizations. During the time that she was a stake officer there would be occasons when she would be gone on her visits throughout the stake for eight or ten days at a time during which the well trained and loving older 644 boys and girls under the loving supervision of the kind father would take over the task of keeping the home and caring for the younger children. The work went on smoothly and well and there seemed never to be any discord or friction among them. Brother Sorensen was_ biessed with an aesthetic temperament and was always teaching and providing for his family the finer things of life. Through his diligence and successful farming and his wife's good planning, before many years there was prepared and built a good fif-- teen-room house for their large family. This house was furnished with beautiful carpets and curtains and mahogany furniture. There was an organ and later a piano, and the book cases were filled with the best books obtainable. There was also running water and electricity with all their conveniences. With each of the thirteen children inviting to their home his or her special friends and acquaintances, the big house took on, more than anything else, the aspect of a great community center. Especially on Sundays and holidays would large groups congregate there. There would be singing and games or more quiet visiting and studying, and always there was a ten-gallon freezer of ice cream with which to treat them. An aspen grove occupied a part of the farm and of this Brother Sorensen made a_ veritable picnic ground. He built swings and teeters and a platform upon which the young people would dance to the music of the organ which was often taken there in a wagon. As the children grew older and ready for a better education than was provided in the farming community, Sister Sorensen would take them all to Logan for the winter RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE months where they could enter better schools. Two or three years after moving into the large house there was one more daughter born, making fourteen children in all. When the baby was six months old and the oldest son was filling a mission in New Zealand, the father was called to the great beyond. This, as you may know, was a terrible shock to Sister Sorensen and her grief seemed more than she could bear, as she wondered how she alone could complete the task of rearing to good and honorable manhood and womanhood their numerous sons and daughters. Fre long, however, that inborn pioneer trait of overcoming all obstacles came breaking its way through the dense fog of her sorrow and she again began to carry on. After a few years she left the farm with all its kindly associations and fond memories and returned with her seven still unmarried children to her childhood home, Logan. After getting settled into a new home she once more became active in home and church affairs. Her mother who was now very old came into her home and for five years was cared for by Sister Sorensen. Later a little five-year-old boy whose mother had died was brought to her and for five years she cared for him as one of her own. She also tuok an active part in the ward organizations and for thirteen years served as a worker in the Logan Temple. Her children each in turn entered the Brigham Young College where they could receive religious as well as secular education. Two daughters and one son graduated from the Utah State Agricultural College,- three of the boys filled missions for the L. D. S. Church and each and every one of them was married to a LESSON DEPARTMENT good and true companion in the temple of the Lord. In August, 1937, on the seventy-seventh anniversary of her birth the eight daughters, assisted by the six daughters-in-law, held a reception to which loving relatives and kind friends came to wish Sister Sorensen many happy returns of the cay and to invoke upon her the continued blessings of the Lord during her remaining years. She is still active as a Relief Society visiting teacher. She nas given comfort and solace to the weary and sad, has mothered the orphans and has never turned from her door the beggar unfed. Her children and grandchildren honor and respect her; they rally round her always trying to make life pleasant. She in turn helps them with her wise and kindly counsel and takes a keen delight in their home life and wholesome entertainment. Each and all express themselves as being blessed beyond measure through having been born and reared by this wonderful woman. Items for Consideration 1. In this lesson we again have sketched pioneer life among the early Latter-day Saints in Western America. What were some of the principal features of this life? 2. In those days people of the world seemed to believe that a Mormon polygamous home must be a place where the inmates lived beastly lives. Instead, what were the children taught, both by precept and example, in the polygamous home in which Catherine Mikkelson was reared? 645 3. What did Catherine learn to do in her girlhood days that qualified her to be a good wife of a pioneer husband? 4. Tell what her parents taught her that was of the utmost value in making her life contented and happy. 5. State in what ways she observed these teachings in her life. 6. Why was she married to her husband in the Endowment House, a hundred miles from Logan? Why did they not stay at home and be married by the bishop of the ward? 7. Under the circumstances prevailing—no nearby neighbors, poverty, privations, hard work, absence of conveniences of a home, both inside and outside the house—explain how it could be that the young couple were very happy in their new surroundings and their lives were full of joy and satisfaction.; 8. How was the Sabbath observed in Catherine's home? What benefits did the inmates receive by keeping the Sabbath? 9. Besides rearing a large family and living saintly in her home, how did Catherine show her interest in the Church and the welfare of her neighbors? 10. What reasons are there for believing the Lord blessed her and her family? 11.: What very important religious principle did she teach her children? What value kas this principle in the lives of both children and adults? 12. What reasons are there for believing Catherine M. Sorensen to be a noble woman? Nominate and Elect PROVE...Vitamin "D" Bread is better by just trying fine quality and rare flavor. COUNTY RECORDER FISHERS Democratic Ticket VITAMIN D BREAD For Efficient, Economic The Big Home-Owned Bakery 1844 South State (Paid Political Adv.) Primary Election CLAUDE. T. BARNES UNITED STATES SENATOR Born in Utah of Pioneers of 1851. Lawyer, farmer, banker, author. A home-man of frugal raising whose heart is in Utah and Constitutional Americanism. A sincere, fearless advocate beholden to no faction. (Paid Political Adv.) Have All of Your FALL CLEANING Done Now! RUGS—CARPETING--DRAPES— UPHOLSTERY  "There is no substitute for QUALITY" Telephone HYLAND 333 | 1597 South 11th Street CLEANERS & DYERS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine to yourself that Fisher's vitamin it. People everywhere cheer it's A Product of THE AMERICAN LADY BAKING CO. Salt Lake City. Utah Jacobs Coles Courteous Government Qualified and Experienced SEPTEMBER 13, 1938 The Evening Hours Le Yours To Invest Qualify Yourself this Year for Better Position, Excellent NIGHT School facilities, you will find same Monday and Thursday evenings from 6:45 to 9:25, You'll be welcome as a Visitor—_70 North Main Street Salt Lake City than by an The RELIEF SOCIETY Vol. XXV OCTOBER, 1938 REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES Elect Re-Elect DR. FRANKLIN S. HARRIS CHIEF JUSTICE President of Brigham Young University
WILLIAM H. FOLLAND to the U. S. Senate
To Utah Supreme Court
Vote for LE ROY B. YOUNG For Congressman, First Dist.
Vote for DEAN F. BRAYTON For Congressman, Second Dist.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
RE-ELECT S. GRANT YOUNG Sheriff
Paid for by friends of S. Grant Young
This Year—Give BOOKS
In making your plans for Christmas or other special occasions, remember this— "There is a peculiar dignity attached to the gift of a book that is in no way affected by its price."
Our Stock of books is the largest and best in the Intermountain region— Standard works, classics, Church publications, fiction and non-fiction. We also have a complete stock of Greeting cards for every occasion. Also Radios, Cameras, Portable Typewriters, Fountain Pens, Pencils, Note Books, and a Thousand and One Gifts.
DESERET BOOK COMPANY
44 East South Temple
Salt Lake City, Utah
Specially Selected RELIEF SOCIETY MUSIC
Send for Copies on Approval
O Bread of Life
In The Time of Roses
O Morn of Beauty
The Lord's Prayer
Annie Laurie
By The Bend of The River
Sanctus
Dedication
Hail Thou Star Resplendent
and many others
We carry the largest stock of Sheet Music and Musicians' supplies in the Intermountain West
Send us your mail orders
Daynes Music Co.
47 So. Main St.—Salt Lake City, Utah
FOR SERVICE, EFFICIENCY & ECONOMY
Vote for Hazel Taggart Chase
Republican Candidate for COUNTY RECORDER
(Paid Political Adv.)
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
VOL. XXV OCTOBER, 1938 No. 10
CONTENTS
Who Makes A Garden...................................Maud Chegwidden 575
Frontispiece—Mormon Grove and Meadow.................................. 576
Fall Flowers and Their Arrangement...................Maud Chegwidden 577
Relief Society Scores...............................Esther D. Stephens 581
Paisley Shawls........................................Lutie H. Fryer 583
Not Without Honor....................................Mabel Harmer 588
Women We Should Know................................Ramona W. Cannon 593
Grains of Gold and Golden Grain....................Elizabeth C. Porter 596
Sweeten Our Speech.................................Della Adams Leitner 598
The Harbor of Truth................................Lella Marler Hoggan 599
Time................................................Anna Prince Redd 601
The Lord's Day......................................Jane R. Crawford 602
Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd..................Dorothy Clapp Robinson 604
Happenings........................................Annie Wells Cannon 608
Relief Society Dividends.............................Amy W. Evans 609
Your Tapestry.......................................Lucy H. Nielson 611
Members Old.......................................Margaret S. Heywood 612
Life's Span.......................................Beatrice E. Linford 613
Members New........................................Ella J. Coulam 614
Notes from the Field................................Julia A. F. Lund 617
Membership Survey.................................................. 620
Editorials:
Composure....................................................... 621
J. Golden Kimball................................................ 622
Music Department...................................Wade N. Stephens 623
Autumn In Utah....................................Christie Lund Coles 624
Lesson Department................................................ 625
Stitches...............................................Ida May Rees 645
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Telephone Wasatch 980
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
"Everything to Furnish the Home"
THE GREATEST VARIETY AND LARGEST STOCK OF
Living Room, Dining Room and Bedroom Furniture
in the Intermountain Territory
400 Suites to Choose From
GRANITE FURNITURE CO.
Out of the High Rent District
The home of
THE ROUND OAK RANGE, AMERICAN BEAUTY WASHERS
KELVINATOR, FRIGIDAIRE AND STEWART WARNER REFRIGERATORS
Quality and Service Come First—We Deliver Everywhere
MURRAY SUGAR HOUSE PROVO
ELECT LOUIS R. WATTS FOR REPUBLICAN SHERIFF
Years of experience as an executive and administrative officer.
(Paid by Rachel Watts)
Don't Be Deceived!
Our charges are according to your desires
Lindquist Sons Carlquist Co.
FUNERAL DIRECTORS
2128 So. State Salt Lake Phone Hy. 1572
Lindquist & Sons
Ogden
2620 Wash. Blvd. Phone 520
Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty
Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders
Temple and Burial Clothes
Variety of Grades and Prices
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY
Open Daily—9 A. M. To 5 P. M.
29 Bishop's Building
Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Telephone Wasatch 3286
YOUR GARDEN FULL OF
GIANT TULIPS
3 bulbs each of 10 popular varieties (30 bulbs in all) postpaid for $1.00
These will all bloom together next May around Memorial Day. Send $1.00 in stamps or currency
Write for FREE FALL CATALOG and ask for Relief Society Tulip Bulb Offer A. Give full details on Bulbs, Trees and Shrubs for planting this fall,
Porter-Walton Co.
Salt Lake City, Utah
FISHER'S ALL-AROUND FOOD
VITAMIN B-6 BREAD
Healthful, appetizing, and vitally necessary. Also try our delicious pastries.
American Lady Baking Co.
The Big Home-Owned Bakery
Telephone Hyland 1597 South Eleventh
Salt Lake City, Utah
ROYAL IS "Utah's Purest Coal"
Users everywhere know that Royal—
Starts quicker. Burns cleaner
Furnishes more heat per dollar.
Try Royal and realize the difference.
Ask Your Dealer
ROYAL COAL COMPANY
817-822 Newhouse Building
Salt Lake City, Utah
Have All of Your Fall Cleaning Done Now!
SPECIALISTS: We are particularly experienced in the highly technical art of DYEING and RE-BLOCKING Knitted Wear and Boucles, also all other delicate fabrics.
EAST MILLCREEK CLEANERS & DYERS
333 East Millcreek
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
WHO MAKES A GARDEN
By Maud Chegwidden
He who makes a garden is very sure to find
That men are tolerant and calm, benevolent and kind,
Who love the earth and till it, who take it by the hand
To find a living universe within each grain of sand.
He who makes a garden may listen to the beat
Of Mother Earth's eternal heart; may walk with eager feet
To find the resurrection in every cloven sod
That feels the leaping pulse of Spring beneath the touch of God.
He who makes a garden knows God in every breeze,
And meets a Presence in the tabernacle of the trees.
He fears not life, nor that new life which foolish ones call death,
For he has seen the blossom follow winter's killing breath.
He who has a garden may hie himself at last
To our beloved Gardener in heavenly fields and vast,
Knowing the alchemy of earth has wrought a miracle—
In nurturing the meanest plant his soul has grown as well.
MORMON GROVE AND MEADOW, GOLDEN GATE PARK
The Relief Society Magazine
VOL. XXV OCTOBER, 1938 No. 10
Fall Flowers and Their Arrangement
By Maud Chegwidden
WHEN the cooler days of autumn come we have a wealth of lovely flowers with which to decorate the home. There are the strictly autumn-blooming perennials such as chrysanthemums, helenium, Michaelmas daisies, phlox, statice, gaillardia, and so on; there are the dahlias and gladioli that we planted in spring, along with such annuals as asters, zinnias, marigolds and petunias—and last, but by no means least, there are roses. Surely, from these many beautiful things, our homes can be made most delightful with specially arranged bouquets for the dining table, the mantel, piano top, console table, or for a bare corner anywhere, and we may carry flowers to shut-in friends and to church or club or other meetings.
But most of the charm of any bouquet lies in the proper choice and combination of blooms, and the relation of the blooms to their container. Have you ever sat at meat when your hostess placed a huge bunch of long-stemmed chrysanthemums in a tall ornate vase, right in the middle of the table, so that if you wanted to talk vis-a-vis you had to lean around this central obstruction? I have! The garden-grown chrysanthemums were lovely, it is true, but their height made them cry aloud for a place
THIS IS A HANDSOME ARRANGEMENT
far removed from the center of the dining table.
PERHAPS the first consideration of all in making any room floral arrangement is the sort of container you will use. Low bowls are the vogue nowadays, in which the blossoms are arranged in wire or pottery frogs. These are almost invariably pretty and graceful, but care must be exerted that flowers with too tall stems are not used in them, or the finished composition may look top heavy. Low arrangements are best for breakfast, lunch or dinner tables. Very often bowls may be found with a pair of candleholders to match which have spaces for flowers at the base. These companion pieces look very lovely on the dining table, and even if you have no candleholders you can make a similar arrangement to the one shown in our illustration by sticking candles with melted wax inside small bowls of water. The effect shown was obtained by first arranging chrysanthemums in a solid circle around the edge of the bowls; a dark color, any one preferred, may be used. Then single chrysanthemums (daisies might have been chosen instead) were arranged above these, in a hue to blend with the candles. A few of them were pulled up loosely, as you see, to add a natural, free touch. This group would be beautiful on a mantel or piano, as well as on any sort of long table.
When tall flowers such as spikes of the gladiolus are used, tall vases are best. Very inexpensive ones are to be found in good design and color. The best colors to choose are white, pale yellow, green or blue. With white, of course, you are always safe. Glass vases are lovely if they are clear, and not too ornately cut. Never use a flower container
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
which is decorated in bright colors, nor one that is twisted and tortured into odd shapes or curves. Such a vase will call attention to itself rather than to the blossoms it contains and this is wrong, and in very poor taste. Chrysanthemums with long stems should be used in tall vases, as should any long-stemmed bloom, and then the most suitable place in the room found for this. Many times a tall vase may be set on the floor, with fine results. The rule is, the taller the flower, the taller the container— and roughly speaking the topmost bloom should stand one and a half times the height of the vase. This gives excellent proportion.
IT IS usually best to stick to one variety of flower or to two at the most, in any arrangement, although of course dainty groupings can be made with more varieties. But the fall flowers that are strong, sturdy things do not mix with such happy
FLOWERS IN TALL VASE
FALL FLOWERS AND THEIR ARRANGEMENT
results as more ethereal and dainty ones do. When flowers of different colors are used, and of varying sizes, keep the larger blooms towards the base of the arrangement, also keep the darker, heavier ones there, and so get good balance. In the chrysanthemum group pictured, large and small "mums" have been blended most happily. They are also in perfect accord with their container. Chrysanthemum colors are such that they will all agree wonderfully well with each other, even if you mix every tint you can find. Their yellow, bronze, tawny pink, brownish red and other tones are never aggressive and determined to fight with each other. This cannot be said of zinnias. With this sturdy flower we must use caution when we cut them for home decoration. Use plenty of zinnias if you have them, but keep the reds, pinks and magentas apart. White and yellow, yellow and lavender, pink and lavender, white and pink, white and red—these are handsome when combined; the magenta hues are never handsome, whether alone or with others.
Asters too are better if bouquets are confined to one color, although here the several tints are happier in close conjunction than are those of the zinnias. Dahlias and gladioli should be used in only one, or no more than two, colors. Dahlias, by the way, which are notoriously bad keepers when cut, may be made to live for three or four days in water if you cut them just before dark, and plunge each stem, the very second you cut it, in a can of boiling water that you have taken to the garden for the purpose. Then when you reach the house, put the dahlias in a deep bucket of cold water, right up to their necks, and leave them thus all night, arranging them in vases the next morning.
ROSES are probably the most popular of all flowers, and these are exquisite for church or home decoration. Here again, try to fill each container with roses of one color rather than mixtures. A round bowl of clear glass is a perfect holder for roses, but do avoid the ruby or dark blue bowls that are now so popular. Glossy pottery, in a tone which either blends or contrasts with the roses is good, and you can never go wrong with white. In making a large arrangement of roses, group most of them close to the bowl, as shown in the picture, but draw a few of them upwards and outwards. Above all, use no greenery except their own lovely foliage. This rule applies to all home floral compositions; keep the flower's natural leaves, and add no others. One rose, either fully opened or in the bud stage, is a most exquisite decoration for a writing desk, a bedside table, a dressing table, or for placing by each cover at breakfast or lunch. Slender, clear glass vases are perfect for one or two roses. Very often foods come in glass
ARRANGEMENT OF ROSES IN WHICH THE LOVELY FOLIAGE PLAYS A PART. NOTE THE SIMPLE CONTAINER AND HOW IT GIVES FULL ATTRACTION TO THE FLOWERS
containers that are of good lines and excellent for flowers. They may be used clear or enamelled. The screw grooves at the top may be filled with putty and then enamelled. Choose safe, neutral colors such as ivory, primrose yellow, buff, grey-green or soft blue, for your enamel. Black is good, very often, for a container that is to hold a flower of one brilliant hue; for instance, nasturtiums or marigolds are strikingly handsome in a glowing black bowl.
BESIDES the garden flowers, branches of trees or shrubs, with or without berries, are often used for decoration. The brilliant pigments in autumn leaves, the cool and lovely silver-grey leaves of Russian olive trees, the red hips from wild roses— all of these should be considered when you are making fall arrangements for church or home. In concluding, let me impress upon you again the fact that simplicity should be sought for, both in containers and in flower combinations. Keep groupings low that are to be used on meal tables, and have those compositions that are to be viewed from a distance, large and bold. Don't mix colors indiscriminately!
"All those who love Nature she loves in return, and will richly reward, not perhaps with the good things, as they are commonly called, but with the best things, of this world—not with money and titles, horses and carriages, but with bright and happy thoughts, contentment and peace of mind."—John Lubbock.
"Manhood, not scholarship is the first aim of education."—Ernest Thompson Seton.
Relief Society Scores
By Esther D. Stephens
SIX years ago the women of the San Francisco Stake planted several beautiful trees in Golden Gate Park in honor of the George Washington Bicentennial. Those who have been in Golden Gate park know what a restful and inspiring place it is and appreciate the great honor conferred upon the Relief Society in being granted such a privilege. A section of the park near the Nineteenth Avenue and Lincoln Way entrance where the trees are planted is known as "Mormon Grove." Large enough to accommodate several hundred people without crowding, the site is very secluded and quiet. The four pines, five redwoods and five blooming Japanese cherries, planted six years ago, show wonderful growth and add their charm to the lovely spot.
Since planting the trees it has been the aim of the women to identify them with a suitable marker and constant effort has been expended in achieving this goal. September 2, saw these efforts rewarded when a handsome copper plaque, a gift of the Utah Copper Company, was placed, and inspiring services held in connection with the occasion.
During the morning heavy fog hung low presaging a cold and disagreeable day, but by twelve o'clock, the time set for ceremonies to begin, the skies were clear and the sun was not only bright but hot. One of the cherry trees, seeming to sense the importance of the occasion, had sent forth five or six beautiful blossoms, although September is not the blooming time of the year. It seemed the day was made for the function.
Although there are many rules and regulations about placing objects of any kind in the park, Mr. John McLaren, founder and builder of the park, along with his fine associates, Captain Lamb, Mr. Schmidt, Mr. Duffy, and Miss Wakefield, were most kind and helpful, assisting in every way possible. Through their guidance the project passed the Park Commission, the Planning Commission and the Art Commission and made possible the accomplishment of the activity.
MR. JOHN McLAREN
Founder and Builder of Golden Gate Park
Mr. McLaren is a kind and sturdy Scotchman with a pioneer determination to build not only for the present but for the future. Under his direction Golden Gate Park has developed from a succession of rolling hills into its present state of beauty. Each flower, shrub and tree has been planted according to his plan. Everybody in San Francisco and the Bay Area loves and admires John McLaren. The world will always be grateful to him for the monuments of living beauty which he has aided in erecting.
Anticipating the large group which would attend the services the Park management placed seats for the congregation to enjoy during the program, also tables and benches for luncheon. A tall flag pole from which floated the colorful American flag was placed in the meadow among the trees. All present felt the spirit of the occasion.
The marker, a Utah copper plate, is set deep into a large natural granite boulder and placed approximately in the center of the grove. Standing between two fine Redwood trees it can be seen easily from the road. It says: "These trees planted in honor of the George Washington Bicentennial by the National Woman's Relief Society of San Francisco, March 17, 1932."
THE ceremony began with a few words of welcome. The reasons for planting the trees and placing the plaque were explained. An appropriate program followed with members of the stake Priesthood presidency, a General Board representative, the stake Relief Society president, ward presidents and others participating. President Winter of San Francisco Stake said that with the placing of this plaque on the Pacific Coast a chain of markers had now been placed by the Latter-day Saints from the Atlantic to the Pacific, a lasting monument to their part in the build-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ing of our great country. A stirring and effective close for the program was the playing of Taps by a United States Army Bugler. His clear tones and beautiful interpretation will always be
U. S. BUGLER PLAYING TAPS
remembered by those who were there.
Grateful appreciation is expressed to the Utah Copper Company, who through Mr. C. M. Brown, donated the handsome copper plaque; to the McGillvary Raymond Corporation of San Francisco who gave the large granite boulder for the base of the plaque; to Mr. Charles Ohran and his son, Carl Ohran, for their part in cutting, hauling and placing the plaque and stone; to Mr. McLaren and his fine staff at the park; to the United States Army for the services of the bugler; to the Relief Society women whose faithfulness brought success and made the day a memorable one.
Paisley Shawls
By Lutie H. Fryer
Assistant Professor—Home Economics Department—U. Of U.
THE Paisley Shawl involves an interesting portion of Scottish life and history which was stimulated by Oriental life and history. We know that the very soul of the weaver was expressed in the textiles of the Orient; just so, the Paisley weavers took up the art and wove Paisley shawls for the sake of art. Comparison of the Paisley Shawl with the Oriental is detrimental to the former, therefore it is best to throw comparison aside and consider the Paisley not as an imitation, but as an adaptation, and a remarkable and very beautiful one, worthy of greater appreciation and study than it has received from many persons.
It was at the time when the French and English armies were contending with each other in Egypt (1798) that wonderful shawls from India, Persia and Turkey were introduced into Europe, sent there as gifts from officers. Napoleon Bonaparte brought back several very fine Indo-Persian shawls for the Empress Josephine. When Josephine appeared in the French Court wearing this new article of dress, she set the fashion for wearing shawls. They were very scarce and equally expensive.
To meet the demands, the French weavers copied the Oriental patterns and were able to make duplicates more or less perfect. They even went so far as to make dies and stamp the pattern on a plain background, and they put some excellent imitations on the market at a comparatively low cost. France was the first European country to try to produce shawls. The first factory was started in 1817 by Janbert in Paris. Then Lyons took up the industry producing clever specimens woven in wool, silk, and mohair. In England the most successful attempts at shawl weaving were at Norwich. Colonel Harvey, a manufacturer, commenced the weaving of beautiful figured shawls in silk and wool similar to those of Kashmir and almost equalling them in beauty of color and in technical qualities of weaving.
EARLY in the Seventeenth Century, Paisley, on the Firth of Clyde, near Glasgow, had become famous for its beautiful fabrics. Homespun linen and woolen were being produced. Bobbie Burns described the witch that pursued poor Tam O'Shanter in "her cutty sark o' Paisley harn," which garment was a short skirt of Paisley linen. The very names of the streets in Paisley: Gauze, Lawn, Cotton, Shuttle, Silk Thread Streets, are all expressive of the rise and steady growth of the textile industry in Paisley.
The early woolen fabrics were piece goods, woven either plain, in check or stripe. Later more elaborate designs appeared because the ever increasing demand was an inspiration for designers and weavers to produce more beautiful patterns. By 1820 the long and square shawls known as "Paisleys" were being produced. The design was made at first by tambour or needle embroidery, but later was woven on draw looms. Thus, these artists produced on simple harness looms what the weavers in Kashmir had done by hand. Among these weavers at Paisley were musicians, poets, philosophers, and natural scientists.
The designs were at first rather geometric like those found in Turkish fabrics, but later became more like the beautiful floral and pine patterns found in Indian and Persian shawls. This was partly due to the fact that Queen Victoria who was interested in the industrial life of Scotland loaned her large collection of Kashmir shawls to the weavers of Paisley, so that the patterns might be copied. It is recorded that the queen was "kirked" in a Paisley
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
shawl at the christening of the Prince of Wales, the late Edward VII.
THE great popularity of this type of shawl in Europe and America helped the industry at Paisley to out-distance its rivals at Norwich, Paris, Lyons and elsewhere. In 1834 the output of these beautiful Paisley shawls was valued at one million pounds sterling, equal to five million dollars. Shawls were seen at all social affairs and no bride's trousseau was complete without two shawls at least, a thin, light-colored one for summer and a dark, heavier one for winter days. Every lady who could
A PAISLEY SHAWL WITH SCARLET CENTER AND WIDE BORDER SUCH AS ONE WOULD HAVE SEEN AT A MID-VICTORIAN PARTY
PAISLEY SHAWLS
afford it counted several such wraps in her wardrobe. Imagine a mid-Victorian garden party with a hundred or more of these gorgeous shawls in white, green, scarlet, turquoise and orange draped over crinoline skirts.
Some of the wool for these shawls was produced in Scotland, but a large part of it was imported from France, England, Australia and America. Some fine wool called Cashmere was used. In 1820 Baron Fernaux imported over a thousand Tibetan goats to France, some four hundred survived and were distributed in the Pyrenees, Provence, and Alsace. At about the same time they were introduced into England and a little later into America, where they thrived in the mountains of Tennessee. The wools from these imported goats was somewhat inferior to that of the animals raised in the Himalaya Mountains, but even so, it was soft and fine and was considered the best for making Paisley shawls. The best yarn was carded and spun in Amiens. A silk thread was used as a foundation around which the Cashmere wool was twisted. This made fine, firm warp yarns. Bradford, a well-known spinning center in England, provided yarns spun from other wools. Because of the lack of railways in those days, the spinners came on horseback from Bradford to Paisley, bringing their samples of yarns to the weavers. The baled orders would arrive later by boat from Liverpool to the Clyde. These yarns had to be washed and dyed before they were ready for use.
THE dyeing was done by experts. The various sections of the warp were dyed or printed separately, according to the pattern and colors of the finished shawl. To imitate the many woven borders of the Kashmir shawl, certain sections of the warp were marked out for certain colors. Each section was dyed separately, the rest of the warp being protected from the dye by an adjustable frame which allowed only the exposed warp to be colored when dipped into the vat. In the Paisley shawl the many-colored warp ends formed the fringe, which in the Kashmir shawl was raveled from the differently colored plain pieces of cloth patched together to form the outer border. The warp yarns between these colored border sections were then dyed one color, black, turquoise, scarlet, etc., according to the plain center of the finished shawl. In the early days of shawl making a man might have been his own designer, dyer, warper, threader and weaver, but with the increase of the industry and the development of the artistic side of it, he soon found that he had neither sufficient time nor talent to complete all the steps in the work, so there naturally arose guilds of skilled workmen specially trained for each process.
The most important of these classes was the pattern maker who, in addition to a thorough knowledge of design and its history, particularly that of the Orient, had to understand also the relation of design to weaving, as the loom places certain restrictions upon pattern making. Any pattern can be printed, but not every pattern can be woven.
THE next step after the dyeing of the yarns was the work of winding the warp on the beam. This required the greatest accuracy. Any slight unevenness in the lines of colored warp could afterward be corrected with a paint brush, but a displacement of the different colored sections of the warp altered the whole color scheme. The loom was warped with cotton, wool or silk, the last was often used for the side borders only to bring out the colors of the wool filling yarns and to give added strength to the edge. The threading of the loom required another specialist, as did also the tying. A very fine shawl often had as many as 150,000 warp ends and required several weeks before the loom was ready for the weaving.
The artist first worked out a complete design in black and white on a small scale, this was then covered with transparent paper on which the design was worked out in colors. Each minute part of the design was later enlarged by transferring it to sheets of squared paper, a task which took several months. The enlarged design when completed assumed enormous proportions, resembling a large rug pattern. The various sections of the pattern arranged in order were given to a "draw-boy." He had to be specially trained for his work because he had to understand the details of the design to be woven in the shawl as well as the technique of weaving.
The weaver worked from the back of the fabric and shot through the shuttles, thus forming a design by use of various colors. The duty of the draw-boy was to sit on the opposite side of the loom, read the pattern to the weaver, hand him colored yarns as indicated by the design and pull the "lashes" or "draws" to form a shed, so that the shuttle could pass through the opening formed by the warp yarns. The time required for weaving a Paisley shawl was from three days to a week, according to size, pattern and fineness. The market price varied from five to twenty pounds sterling. The weaving of Paisley shawls was considered a man's job, though in early days it was largely a family
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
affair. The women spun and dyed the yarn, and the girls often put the finishing touches to the shawl, such as fringing, clipping and pressing.
IT is interesting to compare the Kashmir's method with that of the Paisley weaver. The former wove his shawl in sections, which were pieced together afterwards; the latter wove the whole shawl in one continuous piece. The next important difference was the manner of putting in the filling yarn. The Kashmiri used an interlocking weave in which a weft yarn ran back and forth across each motif, interlocking at each turn with differently colored yarns of the adjacent motif or of the background. This method left no long floating yarns on the wrong
A LONG PAISLEY SHAWL USED AS A WINTER WRAP
PAISLEY SHAWLS
side. In the Paisley, every filling yarn was carried across the full width of the shawl, appearing on the right side only when the pattern demanded, and on the wrong side as a float of loose yarn. The interlocking of the weave of the Kashmir formed a tiny ridge around each motif, giving the fabric a slight stiffness, while the continuous weave of the Paisley made it more soft and pliable.
When the Paisley shawl was removed from the loom the long floats of yarns on the wrong side were cut away. This task at first occupied two girls an entire day, but was done later in one and one-half minutes by a clipping machine, with a series of revolving blades. This not only gave the shawl a neat appearance, but also reduced it to about one-third of its original weight. All roughness on the right side of the shawl was singed off with a large red-hot knife which was passed slowly above the surface. The shawl was then inspected and any faults or holes were mended by girls and women, who also knotted the fringe, brushed and folded the shawls, laying them between sheets of cardboard ready to be pressed, wrapped and taken to the warehouses which were mostly situated in Causeyside Street. Here buyers from Glasgow came by train to buy these Paisley masterpieces of art.
STYLES come and go and such was the case with the Paisley shawl. The change of fashion, the introduction of the power-loom, and the economic influence caused by the Franco-Prussian War hastened the end of this colorful age of woven art treasures in the little town of Paisley. An attempt was made to stimulate the demand by putting cheaper shawls on the market. Instead of being woven of wool, silk and wool, or silk and cotton, the shawl was woven of all cotton, and this finally gave way to the still cheaper printed shawls, turned out by the piece, cut into shawl lengths and finished with a sewn-in fringe. However, even these cheap printed shawls had a certain charm and artistic quality. The patterns though still adapted from the Oriental showed a wider range of design permitted by the block-printing method. The colors were well fixed by a process of steaming so they would withstand weather, wear and washing. A handsome woolen printed shawl could be bought for two pounds.
The printed shawl marked the last step in the decline of the once great shawl industry of Paisley. In 1870 the shawl-weaving was decidedly on the decline, and ten years later shawls were no longer woven.
No doubt many a person has wondered what to do with grandmother's old Paisley shawl. They make interesting and decorative wall hangings. The long shawls may be hung over a pole showing interesting proportions, while square ones may have brass rings sewn along one side and suspended from a rod. Used on occasions, they are effective when gracefully draped and worn as a wrap. A Paisley shawl, like a Kashmir, is far too precious to be used as a couch cover, but when placed on top of a grand piano will change an otherwise colorless room into a place of beauty. Bring out your Paisley shawl into the light, where it may give pleasure to many. Whatever you do, don't have your shawl cut up to be made into a dress or bags, as is sometimes the case by those who are ignorant of the true worth of such a shawl, or because they lack true appreciation for great masterpieces of art, such as a beautiful Paisley.
Not Without Honor
By Mabel Harmer
ANN BERTON was picking roses from the garden in front of the house. She wore a blue dimity dress as fresh as the June morning itself and her curls of deep bronze hue were partly covered by a large garden hat. Ann, being a very wide awake girl, was not unconscious of the fact that she made a very charming picture among the roses. The basket was almost filled and she was beginning to think that she might have to turn to weeding in order to keep herself occupied in the garden, which was not nearly so pleasant as picking roses and much dirtier, when the modest roadster driven by young Dr. David Ralston came speeding down the road and stopped on her own side rather than by the Billings' cottage across the way. The Billings had but recently become the proud possessors of a very new baby and Dr. Ralston called shortly after nine every morning to see how all were faring.
As the car came to a complete and not too placid stop, he climbed out, bag in hand and called, "Hello, there! Anybody sick at your house?"
Ann put a rose in the last possible space in the basket and called back, "I'm afraid not. We're all frightfully healthy over this way."
"That's too bad," he returned cheerfully, coming up and leaning on the picket fence, "because it would give me such a grand excuse to stay around. As it is, I suppose I'll have to go across the street where I can make myself useful. By the way, do you spend all your time in the garden?"
"Well, hardly," Ann answered, amused.
"You should," he continued, seriously. "It's good for the eyes."
"But my eyes are perfectly all right."
"I'm quite sure that they are," he answered, scrutinizing them closely. "I mean it's good for other folks' eyes."
Ann's cheeks grew as rosy as the flowers in her basket, one of which she thrust toward him, saying, "Such a pretty speech should have a reward. Will you have a rose, guaranteed good quality and picked fresh this morning?"
"Thank you. If I had time, I'd stay and win the whole lot, but Junior Billings might be annoyed so I'll have to be content with just this one. I warn you, however, that if it doesn't prove satisfactory, I'll be back for another."
He fastened the rose carefully in the lapel of his coat and with a cheery parting smile, he was off on his call leaving Ann with a curious tingling sensation in the region of her heart.
DAVID RALSTON was young, personable and very good-looking. It was not at all surprising, Ann reflected, that he had become exceedingly popular during the six months that he had been practicing in Chrystal Springs. So far, her own opportunities for acquaintance had been limited to an occasional dance. She didn't wish Mrs. Billings any hard luck, but she hoped that it would be necessary for the Doctor to call rather frequently. She turned and walked up the NOT WITHOUT HONOR long path that led to the house and into the trim white cottage. She arranged her roses in a vase near the piano where she could enjoy their beauty and fragrance during the hours of teaching. Then she removed her hat and washed her hands just in time to greet Sally Morris, the first student of the morning. Sally was an exceedingly plain child with straw-colored braids and a manner of sitting at the piano as if she were going to arise any moment and finish her playing standing up. Ann admitted very frankly to herself that she found the child far from prepossessing, but this morning the glow within included even plain little Sally and Ann watched her fidgeting on the seat without the usual desire to push her firmly down and hold her there. She heard her through the scales, exercises and final rendition of "The Morning Patrol," with practically unruffled feelings, and said goodbye without the customary sigh of relief. Her next pupil was Adele Warren, the very talkative daughter of the town's leading socialite. Ann had never quite been able to decide whether she was more annoyed by Sally's manner of tentative jumping or Adele's loquaciousness, but her feeling of vast kindliness toward all the world in general made her smile graciously as the child fluffed out her organdy skirt and began playing. Some of the kindliness vanished the next moment, however, when Adele suddenly lifted her fingers from the keys and said in a skeptical tone of voice, "Did you really go away to study music?" "Certainly. I was away for two years. Why do you ask?" "Because I heard Mama telling Mrs. Green that you must not have done so very well or you wouldn't 589 have come back to a little town like Chrystal Springs to teach music; you'd have gone on concert tours or stayed in a big city." "I'm afraid your mother did not intend you to listen or to repeat what she said," Ann replied cooly. "As a matter of fact, I came back here because it's my home and I love it. Perhaps, some day you'll understand such a reason." "Well, but Mama says " "Never mind," said Ann firmly. "Let me hear the new piece I gave you last week." She managed to guide Adele through the lesson without any more interruptions, and after seeing her down the path, dropped into an easy chair on the wide front porch. So that was why the townspeople had failed to take any recognition of her as a musician since her return, other than to send her their children as beginning pupils. They believed that she had come back to Chrystal Springs because she had failed to make a place for herself elsewhere. She, Ann Berton, who had been graduated from the Millard School of Music with honors and had been offered a teaching position in, the school itself. Evidently it isn't a prophet alone who is "not without honor save in his own country," she thought with a rueful smile. ND then because she was young and spirited and just that morning had discovered a new and delightful reason for the joy of living, Ann jumped up and ran inside to the piano where she dashed off her favorite Chopin waltz.. As she finished the last note and was about to get up from the bench a girlish voice cried out, "Oh, please don't stop! I've been standing here literally holding my breath for fear I'd spoil something." 590 Ann turned to see her best friend, Merle Stewart, in the doorway and answered smiling, "Come in, I was just giving vent to some of my feelings, both good and bad." 'You must have been concentrating entirely on the 'good' from all I heard because it sounded perfectly gorgeous. I was about to dash out and get an audience; it seemed a shame to waste so much beauty on my ears alone." Merle came in and seated herself in an easy chair near the piano. Ann turned to face her, sobered at once, and said, "You might have had quite a task—bringing in an audience." "Why Ann! To hear you play? How absurd!" Ann left the piano and sat down in a chair near Merle. "Do you know how long I have been home from school?" she asked. "Well, a couple of months, since you're inquiring. Why?" "Tn all that time have you heard me play anywhere except at home?" "No. Come to think of it, I have not." Merle pulled off her leghorn hat and dropped it carelessly on the floor. "Why haven't you?" "For the very simple reason that I haven't been asked and I think I learned the reason today from one of my pupils. People think I must have been a failure at Millard or I wouldn't have come back to this town to teach children. They think that if I'd been any good I'd have gone on the concert stage or stayed in the city. It doesn't seem to have occurred to them that I might love my home and family, even the town itself, enough to want to come back here and live." Merle's forehead was puckered in thought for a minute or two and then she said, '""Oh, I don't believe that can be the reason. After all, two RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE months isn't a very long time. Perhaps there hasn't been any very good reason for asking you to play, or," her face brightened, "perhaps there hasn't been any occasion they thought grand enough for a musical celebrity." "You're sweet," said Ann, smiling whimsically," but I'm afraid you' re guess isn't very good this time.' "Maybe not—we'll see," Merle replied. "Anyway, to get around to the purpose of my visit—I came over to see if you wanted to go to the dance at Parker's with Jim and me." "The dance?" for a moment Ann was puzzled and then it flashed across her consciousness that this was the night the Parker's were opening their new Hotel Resort at the Springs and were giving a large party in honor of the event. "I would like very much to go," she said, thinking of David Ralston, who would surely be there, "but I don't happen to be invited." "Why Ann! There must be some mistake. It's to be a huge affair. They've sent out invitations to everybody." "Except me, evidently." "There's something very strange about this," said Merle thoughtfully. "Do you suppose there could be some jealousy on the part of the young daughter because you "ve made such a success of your music and she never could get beyond playing, 'Moonlight and Roses'?" "Of course not. They just don't happen to remember that I exist— that's all," said Ann with a shrug of her shoulders and an attempt at lightness. Later on when Merle had left and she was alone in her own room, Ann threw herself down on the bed and dropped a few very real tears on the pink cover. Everything was turning NOT WITHOUT HONOR out so dismally different from the bright dreams she had had while at school. All her life she had studied and practised for this time, when she should return to her home town, a successful and accomplished musician. And now that she thought she might attain her goal, she was being practically ignored. "I'll show them!" she thought, punching an inoffensive pillow with her tightly doubled fist. "I'll go back to the city and all they'll ever hear of me will be through the newspapers. I'll——" her threats were interrupted by a knock on the door followed by the shrill voice of her young sister Jinny, saying, "Mother says that if you want any strawberries, you'd better come down because Bill is eatin' them awful fast." She had been thinking that she was too much upset for eating, but with Jinny's mention of the strawberries her appetite revived amazingly and she freshened up her hair and face so that the family would have no idea that she had been doing anything more than resting.
THE local paper the next day carried an account of the opening of the "beautiful new ballroom," as they were pleased to call it. It seemed that a professional decorator had put on the final artistic touches and that the list of guests had included many prominent people from the city and from neighboring towns. Furthermore, because of the successful opening, a well-known musician had been engaged to give a concert the following week for a group of select guests. "Jed Parker seems to be making an awful effort to get society coming to that new place he's built over at the springs," Mrs. Berton remarked, after reading the item aloud. "I guess he's put so much into the place already that he figures a few hundred dollars more or less won't make much difference." "Well, from all I know about it, Jed hasn't got many more hundreds to speculate with. If he doesn't make a go of it now, the Parker family may have to go back to planting onions and turnips along with the rest of us," Mr. Berton responded dryly. "I guess that's why they're so anxious to get people from the city coming out." "Then I hope they make a go of it," Mrs. Berton said, turning to another section of the paper. "And I don't care whether they do or not," was Ann's first rebellious thought, which she quickly thrust aside and said aloud, "I imagine they will all right. Merle says that the place is lovely." She set to work quite determinedly to forget about the Parkers and their dance and their forthcoming musical, and had succeeded so well that she was starting out happily with the rest of the family for a summer evening drive and picnic supper on the night of the concert when the telephone rang. "Ann," said a distressed, almost tearful voice, "this is Rose Parker. I'm in an awful scrape and I wondered if you could help me out." "Perhaps," was Ann's noncommittal answer. "What is it?" "We were to have a musical here tonight. We've invited prominent people from all around and I've just had a phone call from Madame Callister's secretary—she was going to play you know—and she's taken suddenly ill and can't come. We just don't dare disappoint people. So much depends upon making a success of this place—I was wondering if you could come and play?" The words had tumbled out breathlessly, almost incoherently, and Ann knew that Rose Parker was very much upset, indeed. Her first thought was to refuse. Why should she accommodate someone who had almost rudely ignored her in the past. Her father's words, "Jed Parker hasn't got many more hundreds to speculate with," came back to her and she said graciously, "Why, certainly, Mrs. Parker. What time shall I be there?" "Oh, thank you," Rose Parker gasped in relief. "We should begin about 8:30, and you have a formal gown, I suppose?" There was rising doubt in the voice which Ann quickly allayed by assuring her that she possessed the correct wearing apparel for a concert. "And—" Rose Parker hesitated, "and could you play something sort of fancy with runs and so on? They're expecting something real nice, you know." "I'll do my best," said Ann, with a smile that was just as well Rose Parker couldn't see.
TWO hours later, dressed in blue satin, her hair in deep shining waves and her blue eyes sparkling, Ann walked confidently toward the piano and began playing the "runs and so on" that Mrs. Parker had asked for. With infinite charm and understanding she played the lovely melodies of Beethoven, Chopin and Debussy. There had been no word of apology or mention that Ann was merely a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE last minute substitute. Mr. Parker, resplendent, though obviously uncomfortable in evening clothes, had introduced her as "one of the brilliant young graduates of the Millard Institute of Music," and inferred that they had waited almost breathlessly for her first concert appearance in Chrystal Springs. After it was over, including a number of encores, Ann stood with her hosts to receive the congratulations of the guests. One of the latter, Roswell Bennett, the portly head of a manufacturing concern from the city, began suggesting that he would like to talk terms concerning a radio contract in the near future. Ann smiled up at him and said that she would like to consider it, remembering, at the same time, that she had recently threatened that the townspeople would hear of her only from a distance in the future. As Bennett left, young Dr. Ralston stepped up. His hand clasped Ann's and forgot to release it. "I heard that old duffer talking to you about a radio engagement in the city," he said. "My professional advice is that you don't accept it. I think it best that you stay here in Chrystal Springs. That is—best for me." "I have been rather looking forward to a chance like that, of late," Ann said, looking up at him with starry eyes, "but on second thought, I think perhaps to stay here would be 'best' for me too."
Women We Should Know
Utah Women in Medicine Today
By Ramona W. Cannon
SOME decades ago several of Utah's daughters were among the pioneer women physicians of America. Even under the difficult conditions prevailing at that time they won distinction in classes of men frequently hostile and derisive. The requirements for practicing medicine today have grown so rigorous that they tax even strong men. Moreover women are not yet welcomed into the profession with open arms. Dr. L. L. Daines, Dean of our State School of Medicine, says it is very difficult to place in the more advanced schools in other states the girls who finish their two years of medical work at the University. He also states that the public generally have less confidence in women than in men doctors, though he himself does not concur in that opinion. However, despite these discouragements and the long years of preparation ahead and the heavy expense of a medical education, Utah women are still studying medicine, while former graduates are practicing with exceptional success in some instances.
Four intrepid girls are now enrolled in the State School of Medicine. Others are in the pre-medical school. At least two graduates are now interning. Some of our native women doctors have left the state and are doing outstanding work in their profession.
A UTAH woman who has had a colorful career in life as well as in medicine is Dr. Lurrine Miles Allen, now practicing in Roosevelt. She is one of seven daughters born to Mr. and Mrs. William Allen Miles, pioneers of Roosevelt. Brother Miles started the first store there and owned the first bank. At his funeral President Smart said that he had been one man who, "wherever he found one tree, had left two growing in its place." A man of such character discerns possibilities and desires intensely to see possibilities fulfilled. This quality undoubtedly had its influence on his seven daughters, for all of them have a versatile development and are unusually capable women. Brother and Sister Miles owned a large ranch. Many a time the father could be seen on his mount riding with a haversack on either side of him. The bags contained nothing less precious than a small daughter each. As soon as each girl could sit on a horse, she was given an animal for her very own. These girls rode the range and branded cattle and in this way earned money for attending college. The active, open-air ranch life developed these young women physically for the strenuous years ahead, and the training of wise parents provided for them an unusually practical education. The mother especially was determined, however, that all her girls should receive college educations. She lived to see her dream fulfilled. Two of the daughters married physicians and have worked side by side with their husbands. Leona was graduated in pharmacy in Chicago and later studied X-ray. When her husband went to Vienna to continue his studies, she accompanied him and specialized in X-ray treatment. Although Ruby was a graduate of the Conservatory of Music in Chicago, in both voice and violin, when she married a doctor she became his daily assistant in his medical work. Lurrine studied medicine at the University of Utah, then was graduated from Rush Medical College. While there she was made a member of the A. O. A. Scholastic medical fraternity. At that time only four schools were admitted to this organization, and from each of these schools only five members were eligible. Yet the signal honor of belonging to this group came to a woman, a Westerner, and a Mormon. Dr. Miles, as she is known, began practicing in Roosevelt where she now has a hospital of her own. She is noted for her careful, correct diagnoses, also for her success with maternity cases. She has done special work in the Idaho Falls Hospital and has attended the Mayo Clinic and other institutions for advanced work in medicine. She has been particularly successful with tularemia, contracted by handling rabbit furs, and with Rocky Mountain spotted fever, carried by ticks. These two diseases are common to our Western area. A few years ago Dr. Miles recognized a case of trachoma in a white child of Roosevelt. This disease of the eye leads to blindness, and like cancer it is difficult to detect in its early stages when it can be overcome. It is contagious and Dr. Miles traced its source to the Indians. Through her effort help was brought in from the Department of the Interior. Many were saved from blindness, and the danger to both whites and Indians was stopped. For her efficient work in this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE she was complimented by the Department of the Interior. Dr. Miles gives her heart to the cause of human welfare, and medicine is only one of the channels through which she does her good turns. She has had no children of her own but is a devoted and affectionate mother to two step-sons and has legally adopted a niece. She has assisted many young people to go to college and is now providing medical educations for two young men. Like her six sisters she is active in Church work. She is interested in practical social service movements and is a member of the Stake Relief Society Board. She has been instrumental in inducing the Church to establish a hospital in Roosevelt. When this hospital is completed she intends to relinquish her own private hospital for the greater good of the greater number.
ANOTHER Utah woman, Dr. Edna Calderwood Thayer, is practicing medicine very successfully in New York. A daughter of Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Calderwood of Salt Lake City, she displayed unusual mental capacity even in grade school work. She was graduated from the Salt Lake High School with the highest grades recorded there over a period of many years. While receiving her scholastic education she also studied piano for eight years, spending some months under Godowsky, in Los Angeles. She did her four years' college work at the University of Utah in three years. She also gave music lessons while attending college. Edna was ambitious for a career and had planned on music. One day she burst upon her parents with the news that she wished to study medicine. They attempted to dissuade her, but she replied, "I know it is a long struggle. You have told me, Mother, how you taught for three years to help father through, and how hard the first years of practice were after that. But I should like to specialize in children's diseases. There are splendid opportunities today for specialists." Her parents spoke of sacrificing woman's natural career as wife and mother for a profession already overcrowded with men. "I don't intend to forego a husband and children. I want both a profession and a family," daughter calmly replied. Edna took her first two years' work at the University of Utah then was graduated from the University of Pennsylvania. While there she became acquainted with a young classmate, Robert Thayer, a Southern youth. He accompanied her to the branch meetings of the Church in Philadelphia. He studied the Gospel, and they often talked of it together. Some years later he visited Salt Lake and made a more thorough investigation. Converted, he was baptized by Elder B. H. Roberts. The two young doctors were married in the Salt Lake Temple. Before this event, however, they had had to continue their professional studies in separate places. Edna specialized in the care of babies in St. Louis, interned in the Children's Hospital in Philadelphia, and did special work in Bellevue Hospital, New York. After marriage the couple settled in a tiny flat in Long Island, where Robert spent two more years interning and specializing. Edna gave physical examinations to girls in the telephone office by day, and to girls at the Y. W. C. A. at night. It was not long, however, before the two well trained doctors had their own office and a good practice. While Edna was busy with her babies, two daughters and one son, she did only a limited amount of practicing. But after a time, she had her own office in connection with her home. She supervised her household and carried on her professional work at the same time. Her children have had every care and every advantage, and justify their good treatment. Their parents are proud of their development. Today the Doctors Thayer own a handsome home in Hempstead, Long Island, with a large wing built on for offices and laboratory. They also maintain another office in Long Island. Much of their work is done by appointment. Dr. Edna has continued with her special baby work, particularly the feeding of babies, and has also specialized in allergies. Twice a week she does special work along this line at the Bellevue Hospital. She and her husband own their laboratory and keep two girl technicians steadily employed there. Both Doctors are thorough Latter-day Saints and are active in the Church work in Flushing. Edna supervises the Social Service lessons of the stake Relief Society. Also she is president of the Parent-Teachers Association of the Riverside School. Edna Calderwood was a cool-headed, methodical young woman of clear vision, who dreamed dreams and succeeded, as few succeed, in bringing them to fruition as happy realities.
Grains of Gold and Golden Grain
By Elizabeth Cannon Porter
"WELL, Mother, we have a house of sorts, a town lot and a ploughed field, but nothing to plant—thanks to your generosity. What little grain is left will hardly keep life in our bodies until the early harvest, and we will have no crop because we have no seed." "Perhaps our bread was cast upon the waters," replied the wife grimly. She did not begrudge the meager portions of grain she had given away—some to a family with sick children, some to a widowed mother, a little to an old man. She had the satisfaction of knowing that she had done what she could to aid those in need. "If we could only hear from George," she said after a moment. "After he reached California with the Battalion, why didn't he come home instead of staying there to build a saw mill for Mr. Sutter? I worry about him all the time and we've heard nothing of him for months." "It is hard to get messages through in the winter. Now that spring is here I believe we will hear from him. George is a good boy; he gave us his clothes' allowance and sent us his pay. But he would be a real help with the fencing," he sighed. "You must not be discouraged Joe, you've done wonders," encouraged his wife, "in not much over a year, and with so little to do with. We have a right good home," she added. The little home that she referred to in the Salt Lake Valley that early spring of 1849 was a log cabin located on the east bench. Attached to this was a shanty constructed of poles and a miscellaneous collection of lumber. The canvas-covered wagon box in which they had crossed the plains was still utilized as a bedroom. The place was home-like, the arrangements neat. Buffalo hides made thick rugs and some had been nailed to the walls to keep out the cold wind. The sturdy couple rejoiced that they had weathered the second winter in the valley so successfully. Spring, with its vagrant breeze, and sparkling sun, filled them with renewed courage. Here in this valley surrounded with its circle of mountains the terrors of the exodus were a thing of the past, the toil of the long journey over. They talked of peach pits and apple seeds. Already the frugal housewife had planted native currants and hollyhock seeds upon the rocky hillside. The wild flowers which would soon be in bloom were lovely—Indian paint brush, wild sweet pea, evening primrose, and sego lilies, the roots of which were good to eat.
THE late afternoon grayed into dusk. Mrs. Mack prepared the evening meal; tonight it consisted of rabbit stew, the result of her husband's lucky shot. She had flavored it with herbs and it gave out a tempting aroma. "Wonder what that noise is," exclaimed her husband as an unfamiliar sound was heard in the distance. Going to the door he glanced out. "Looks like wagons pulled by a string of mules. What does it mean!" Then more excitedly, GRAINS OF GOLD AND GOLDEN GRAIN "Seems to be headed here. It couldn't be—yes—it's George!" He ran toward the wagon, followed by his wife. The driver stopped his outfit and leaped down. Mrs. Mack was in his arms. She could hardly believe that this rough, bearded man was her slim boy who had marched away so bravely while the band played. After the effusive greeting, the parents asked many questions. "Did you hear about the discovery of gold in California?" enthusiastically questioned George. "Yes, we did hear something of it," admitted his father. "Well, I was in on it. A bunch of us fellows were helping Mr. Marshall build a mill for Mr. Sutter. It was located at Coloma, in the mountains, about eighteen hours' journey from the fort. Mr. Sutter has a great land grant, and imported machinery for a flour mill across the ocean and the continent. He needed lumber to construct the mill and so decided to put in a saw mill. We had the framework built and Mr. Bennet of Oregon was to install the machinery, and Madam Wimmer was to cook for the outfit. A brush dam was built in the river and a mill race constructed along the dry channel, to economize labor. The largest stones were thrown out of this and during the night the water was turned in to carry off the dirt and sand. One day while Mr. Marshall was sauntering along the tail race inspecting the work he noticed yellow particles mingled with the excavated earth. Sending an Indian to his cabin for a tin plate, he washed out some of the soil and obtained a small quantity of yellow metal. He believed he had found gold but the men reckoned not. They didn't think there could be any such luck.
"Suddenly Mr. Marshall decided to rush down and see Mr. Sutter and get his opinion. On his arrival he retired to a private room with the owner and displayed the grains that had been found in the mill stream. The wise old Swiss tested them with nitro-muriatic acid, read an article on gold in the Encyclopedia Britannica, decided that it was real gold, and then stayed awake all night, worrying about all the 'terrible consequences and fatal results' that it would have for him." "That's the way Brigham Young looks at it." "He didn't know the half of it. He tried to keep it quiet for six weeks until his saw mill was finished. He had already spent $24,000 on it. But it was no use. The news spread like wildfire. The workers began to desert. Sutter was left at his fort with a few faithful mechanics and eight invalids." "We Mormons were the last to leave; we worked on for awhile, but after everyone else was gone, it was of little use. Everyone who could walk started for the gold field. Shops and farmhouses were closed. Sutter's domain was overrun. The mills were plundered, the tanneries deserted, sheets of leather went to green mold in the tanks and the untanned hides rotted away on the walls. Even the Indians and Kanakas washed for gold, which they exchanged for liquor. Shepherds left their flocks on the hills; field workers threw down their spades; there was no one to cut a head of cabbage in the truck gardens. Unmilked cows lowed in their stalls. Even the soldiers deserted. Adventurers came, distilleries sprang up. The whole fertile plain was given over to pillage. San Francisco on the water front became a city overnight. The bay was black with vessels; the hills white with tents." "Did you find gold, my son?" "Sure, we panned it with wicker baskets, washed it out. Some days I did pretty good—others not so well." "What did you do with your gold? Do you still have it?" George felt in his shirt bosom and pulled out a leather pouch. He spilled its contents on the table. While his father and mother examined the nuggets curiously, he continued: "The bulk of what I found I exchanged for real gold—grain. I bought it from the mission fathers, the finest seed they had. It is out RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE there on the wagons, great sacks of it, to plant here in the valley of the mountains—Zion." "Thank God, my son. We are without seed for our plowed ground." Tears filled his eyes as he looked at his wife. "Eliza, your bread may not have come 'on the waters', but it has returned after many days." "Maybe there are ways of planting wheat besides in the ground," she countered dryly. Happily, hand-in-hand, the united family went out to look at the golden grain.
Sweeten Our Speech
By Della Adams Leitner
Sweeten our speech, dear Lord, we pray, That rankling scorn, the thrusts that mar, May never pass our lips to leave On tender hearts a cruel scar.
The criticism made in haste, The quick retort we often rue, The quip unkind, the joke that hurts, Exaggerations, rude, untrue.
These devastate and in their wake Leave barren tracks where might have grown The flowers of gentleness and love And graciousness had we but sown.
So let kind words of thoughtfulness New hope and strength and joy increase; They will return and bring to us The recompence of inward peace.
The Harbor of Truth
By Lella Marler Hoggan
"God is not foiled: the drift of the World Will Is stronger than all wrong. Earth and her years, Down Joy's bright way or Sorrow's longer road, Are moving toward the Purpose of the Skies."*
MAN is demanding more from life today than he even dared to request in ages past. He wants more than the necessities of life, more than the comforts and luxuries. He wants security. He wants assurance that not only he and his children, but all humanity, shall have an abundance of the gifts and blessings that make life rich and beautiful. He is coming to realize that physical comfort alone does not satisfy the soul. The heart hungers for something more than the values that are passed across counters in exchange for coins. The world is in quest of fundamentals. Men are beginning to "price-tag the values of life." They are searching for something that will bring permanent satisfaction, enduring joy. Where will they find the answer to their quest? "Is there a logical scheme of government," we ask ourselves, "that will satisfy the human heart? Is there some touch-stone that will bring peace to the soul?" From every field of endeavor comes the cry, "Lo here" and "Lo there." The scientist is searching for the answer that he is assured will come out of the laboratory. The educator is juggling the philosophies of life in hope of securing the right combination. The grafter is marking the lottery ticket for an "easy break." *By Edwin Markham.
MANKIND is in a turmoil of unrest. He is questioning, doubting, fearing, discarding past traditions, searching for new frontiers, listening to blind forebodings of disaster and chaos. Walking in his own strength he is fast outgrowing his own philosophy. His vaunted theories for universal peace and brotherhood, one by one, are meeting failure and being cast on the scrap heap. But out of the maze of confusion and heartache we are gathering dreams of romance, bits of song, fragments of truth that we are building into our temple of dreams. The value we place on our treasures changes with the changing years, and we toss out the old to give room for the new. Thoughts we accept with assurance today, may be labeled a menace to progress tomorrow. We find ourselves all at sea. With troubled spirits and questioning hearts we are hurried along the highway of life to a faltering goal. "By what light," we ask ourselves, "were other generations guided? For great men and good, down the years, have walked with sure feet and a clear vision. Why should we stumble in the darkness?" The answer is written in large letters across the scrolls of the past if we will but open our eyes to read. Life is not a hazardous aim in the darkness. There is purpose back of THE HARBOR OF TRUTH the whole tragic drama, a guiding spirit that is shaping the destiny of man.
THOSE whom time has haloed as teachers of truth—the prophets, the poets, the heroes—have all followed a light, the eternal light of faith. Hanging high in a sacred shrine, its gleam spreads out across the darkness to guide men to a safe landing in the Harbor of Truth. Moses did not question the divinity that led him into the Land of Promise. Nephi was not lured from his charted course by any false philosophy. Washington and Lincoln followed, without argument, the star of destiny set for them. It was not a faltering light that illuminated the rugged path of our pioneer ancestors across the continent. It was a steady gleam that led to a sure goal, the gleam of eternal truth. The pioneers gave the strength of their being in devotion to its cause. We are heirs to the heritage of that great devotion. The same harbor light that guided them to a safe landing is shedding its hallowed rays into the darkness of this troubled age. That torch of truth which the Master lighted shines into the highways and byways of life. Guided by its light, humanity will move on, not to defeat, but to eternal triumph. Only last year, Marconi, "the Wizard of the Wireless," announced his convictions: "Science is hardly more than the dim light of a pocket lantern in the black forest through which mankind painfully gropes its way to God. Only faith can bridge the gulf between man and infinity." In the turmoil and confusion of the present day, let us not lose our way. Let us go bravely on building our temple of dreams. But let us make sure that we carry into it no blurred ideals, no vain philosophies of men—only treasures of truth. Let us hold fast to that divine gleam as it streams from the Harbor of Truth. It will supply us with strength and wisdom for our daily task; it will hearten us for any hour of anguish we may have to meet; it will be a singing melody in the dawn; a prayer of peace in the darkness; a radiant joy to carry with us into eternity.
*Nautilus Magazine, 1911 — Holyoke, Mass. **"Faith Is Man's Bridge To Infinity," by George Sylvester Viereck—Liberty Magazine, May 23, 1937. New York. Quotations used by special permission of publishers.
For This
By Anna Prince Redd
God gives us life for just a while To shape, to mould, to beautify, To meet with courage and a smile, To trust in Him and glorify His name, and honor all His ways; Then calls us, singly and alone, To reap the measure of our days, And bears each upward to His throne.
The Lord's Day
By Jane Romney Crawford
LIFE is time given to you and me. We live it moment by moment, each moment is a link in life's chain, making the days and the years. A golden chain some lives become for they have learned to live. To live fully one must give himself completely to correct principles. There is a time for work and a time for rest. This principle of joyous living is so important that our Heavenly Father designates one day each week for man to rest from his labors and draw near Him. A day of rest was observed by God when the earth was made and in gospel dispensations from the beginning. Prophets have been inspired to live and teach observance of the Lord's day. Their instructions have been so well defined that hearers are not left in doubt as to how to keep this day holy before Him.
Through the prophet Moses, God said (Exodus 20:8-12): "Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. "Six days thou shalt labour, and do all thy work; "But the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God; in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates: "For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested on the seventh day: wherefore the Lord blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it." These are the words given through Moses to the children of Israel and as long as they observed and kept the Sabbath holy they were blessed. So great were their blessings that manna was sent from heaven in time of famine, but they must gather for the Sabbath the day before. Two hundred years after the people of Lehi came to this country the people of Nephi waxed strong for they observed the laws of Moses and kept the Sabbath day holy unto the Lord. King Mosiah preached the same law in his day, B. C. 148, and Alma, the beloved prophet, commanded his people to observe the Sabbath and also to make other days a time to give thanks unto the Lord their God.
IN latter days God has brought again the word to his people concerning the Sabbath. August 7, 1831, in Zion, Jackson County, Missouri, the Prophet Joseph Smith received a glorious revelation. In it the Lord blessed those who had come up unto this land with an eye single to His glory and according to His commandments. He promised those who live that they should inherit the earth, and that those who die should rest from their labors, and that their works should follow them; they should receive a crown in the mansions of the Father. "Yea," He said. "Blessed are they whose feet stand upon the land of Zion, who have observed my gospel; for they shall receive for their reward the good things of the earth, and it shall bring forth in its strength. And they shall also be crowned with blessings from above, yea, and with commandments not a few, and with revelations in their time—they that are faithful and diligent before me." THE LORD'S DAY "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; "For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High; "Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times; "But remember that on this, the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord. "And on this day thou shalt do none other things, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full."—D. C. 59. As we read this section our hearts are made to burn with joy and the desire to live these God-given commandments becomes an earnest prayer.
SURELY the Sabbath is made for man by God, and as these precious hours are lived in close communion the life of man is touched with divinity and God is pleased with his obedience. So Sunday is that link in the chain of life that connects the other days of the week. It is a day of refreshment when our souls are free to express themselves in terms of spiritual uplift. It finds us in places of worship, singing praises to Him, renewing new and everlasting covenants, and bearing testimonies of His goodness. There are those who practice true religion by visiting the fatherless and the widows in their afflictions on this day of days and they find comfort in so doing. If Sunday comes and it is impossible to attend church services there is still a way to make it a holy day. Affairs in one's home must be given thought and as we look forward to this day of devotion, other days will become touched with it. Yes, it is possible for us to lift ourselves up to the dignity of this sacred day. Perhaps the wearing of one's best clothes does something to the personality, a vase of freshly cut flowers gives a feeling of charm that finds a response in the emotions, and the eating of the Sunday meal with less haste than other meals gives a touch of sanctity. As these outward expressions affect us we reach out to a higher level of thinking and feeling; we take time to meditate; we listen to the symphonies over the radio and learn to appreciate the best in music; we read the scriptures, our testimonies are increased, and the comfort experienced in the knowledge that in so living we make the Sabbath hallowed, satisfies our hearts. There is no better time to read God's word, to fast, and to meditate. In these moments we learn to value life not in terms of what we have but in terms of what we feel. This makes for a wholesome personality. Surely the Sabbath is made for us and as we live it we reach upward, sense more keenly its significance, and learn more fully to appreciate the wisdom of an all-wise Heavenly Father who blessed it that it might become a holy day, a day of rest, the Lord's Day.
Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd
By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
CHAPTER SEVEN
"DO you think we shall ever get all our dues in?" Our secretary, Irene Walton, looked up at me in dismay. "How many are still owing?" "The usual group." Mrs. Walton, like Mrs. Blomquist, had been with the former presidency. "Most of them could pay but they seem to have forgotten." "Let's remind them," Rhoda suggested, "in a way they won't forget." "What way would that be?" Mary Grosbeck wanted to know. "I think it is all right to mention dues two or three times but beyond that it detracts from the dignity of the organization." "Oh," I cried, "we shan't be insistent if we never get them. Members do not exist just to pay dues. Yet we must have them if we keep our organization going." "I would be in favor of paying the delinquent ones out of the treasury. That would be the least embarrassing way to do it." "But I wonder if it would be the best." I considered a moment. "That would mean that a certain group would pay their own and help pay others' dues." "It is a certain group that keeps up the organization financially, anyway," Mrs. Walton reminded me. "But if each woman who is able pays her own dues it will give her a sense of responsibility and pride that would not come if we paid them for her. Then it will give her a feeling of belonging—a sisterhood with the group." "It was once suggested to us," Irene said, "that the women save their pennies each week and apply them on the dues and magazine. That makes it easier for most of them than leaving it all until the last. There are so many expenses between October and the New Year." I hadn't known about that suggestion. "Tell us about it," I urged. "There isn't a great deal to tell. We asked the women to keep a little bank for their pennies but that was too easily robbed. Then we had the magazine agent get a box of envelopes much like a card index system and put a woman's name on each envelope. Each week they put what pennies they had in it." "I think that was a grand idea. Why didn't it work?" "We didn't know. Evidently there was something lacking. Probably enthusiasm on the part of the officers. Or it might have been the personality back of it. One woman can put over successfully what would be a failure in the hands of another. Maybe we didn't keep the idea before them consistently enough." "Find a way to keep the idea before them without offending and you will have solved the problem." Rhoda's voice said that was impossible. "I have it." I sat up suddenly. "Let's draw a thermometer with one hundred fifty degrees marked on it. That will represent one hundred pennies for the magazine and fifty for the dues. Have it hanging where the members can see it. Each week let the magazine agent fill in with a red pencil as many degrees as there are pennies handed in." "You mean a thermometer for DEAR TO THE HEART OF THE SHEPHERD each person?" Mary asked in dismay. "That would take too much space." "No. I mean just one. Suppose there were forty pennies handed in the first week and there are forty women. The red 'mercury' would go up one degree. If sixty were handed in it would go up a degree and a half. Keep each member's pennies in her own envelope but add the total each time and divide by the membership. The red marking shall be done before the women each week. When it registers a hundred fifty we shall have one hundred percent for dues and magazines." "Some won't do it-—and suppose some finish before others°" "When her envelope contains one hundred fifty pennies each member may seal it and then she is through. On work day in August or September we can give a party and let the women open their envelopes and tell how they earned or saved their pennies. If any wish to hand in extra pennies we will put them in an envelope for the missions. In fact, 1 think we shall start with one for the missions." "It will work for you," Irene Walton said, and the admiration in her voice made me feel very thankful and very humble. 'You believe in it yourself and your delight and enthusiasm will be contagious." "Tt sounds like a dream of heaven," Mary Grosbeck added, "If we did need to speak of it we could speak of it as the thermometer instead of money. It would sound better." Irene Walton was still watching me. "When you first took over this work I wondered how one so young could handle it. I have noticed particularly that you tackle each problem as a problem and don't stop until you have a solution. You do not let things slide or take care of themselves. No wonder the organization is growing." 605 "Thank you, Irene." I blinked hard to keep my eyes dry. "But do not get over enthusiastic about me. Iam only one. We as officers could make plans forever but unless we have the members working with us we would accomplish nothing. It is really they who deserve the credit. But we still need to convince some of the women in the ward that Relief Society, instead of being just another place to go, isa way of life. It has so many phases, that each member can develop along the line of her interest. By the way, I shall expect each officer and teacher to lead the parade in bringing their pennies. This officers' meeting had been held in the Relief Society room and after it was over I decided to visit the Peters family. I had not been there for some time. There were so many people and problems to be handled that I could not give too much time to any one. After I had started the wheels rolling toward a solution I had to trust my officers and committees to carry on. S I left the meeting I was filled with a deep sense of satisfaction with what we had so far accomplished. Each part of the organization was cooperating and our attendance was the largest it had ever been. My hopes for results in music under Gloria Holsinger had been more than justified. Quietly, without criticisms or recriminations and without undue stress on the technical part of it she made music so interesting, so simple, so desirable she carried the women enthusiastically along to a larger appreciation. Like the class leader she helped them to interpret and understand, then singing came as a result. No longer were there two or three determined voices leading a discordant parade. No longer were there short rasping notes nor 606 an apathetic sing-song. They were now singing songs, songs that told something, songs that had a place in their lives. One instance came to my mind. In correlation with the lessons we had been learning songs of home. One of these was The Last Rose of Summer. Such an exquisite composition must have understanding rendition. I shuddered at the way some of them carried the eighth measure. Signaling for silence Gloria had said: "Imagine that your friends have all gone away. You wish to know if there is just one lingering somewhere. What would you do? Heartsick with loneliness you. Would go here, there, everywhere, looking, looking. | Notice the searching in the song. It starts at home on E flat, goes to the note above, back to E, to the note below, back to E again, to the note above and then on to the note above that. Then it closes the search with no friend found. Try it with me—slowly." They had tried and it had come so easily, for now they knew why the notes rose and fell. The general tone and spirit of our. Meetings had been raised beyond doubt. Some day Gloria would be come interested in all phases of the work. Just now music was her entire world. As I passed Holman's I decided to go in for a moment. No one answered my knock. Through the unblinded window I could see a small fire burning in the stove but no one was about. The living room Mrs. Holman would undoubtedly have said, "was cleaned up." It was free from a too great accumulation of clothes and belongings, but the effect was disheartening. I stepped to the other window. Probably no one under similar circumstance would have done any better but my hopes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hit a new low. I could not see any of the clothes we had given the children for Sunday School but nearly everything else the family owned could be seen in that bedroom or glimpsed through the door in the bedroom beyond. There had been an attempt at cleaning but the habits of years had not been broken. Perhaps some day results would show in the children. As I approached the Peters' place my steps quickened in surprise. This could not be the same place. The house had not been painted but almost everything else had been done. Years' growths of weeds had been piled and burned and the yard raked clean before the storms so it had the appearance of having just been swept. The front steps had been mended and new window panes had replaced the broken ones. Even the screen about the porch had been mended and tacked down as an lnsurance against the summer that was to come. Mrs. Peters opened the door before I had time to knock. "We saw you coming. Come in. Mrs. Holman is here and we are sewing." She was not the same woman I had brought from the White Daisy tourist camp. Her face had rounded and was bright with color. The old beaten look was gone and her eyes sparkled with the zest of living. From the kitchen came the sound of children playing. "What are you doing?" I asked, after I had greeted them. The small living room was literally crowded with old clothing that had been ripped apart. They laughed and Mrs. Holman said, "She's helping me make use of all this old stuff that's been given me for the past ten years. Imagine people giving me all this to make over when I can't sew a seam." "You mean couldn't sew a seam. DEAR TO THE HEART OF THE SHEPHERD You can now," Mrs. Peters corrected. She indicated a pile of material on the table. Old wool coats and dresses had been ripped apart, washed and pressed. One pile of scraps was on the floor. "We are going to have quilts and rugs out of that pile. There will be enough for both families. She gives me a share for helping her," Mrs. Peters explained. Tactful Mrs. Peters to allow the other woman to be the giver. "Mr. Peters fixed my machine that has been broken for ages. We brought it over here where we could have it handy. She won't let me come over until] my work is done." "T don't want her husband sueing me for alienation of affections." I FELT a glow of pride as I looked about. The floors were bare but clean. Cheap challis had been starched and hung at the windows for curtains. I recognized it as some I had brought from the Relief Society cupboard. I had thought it could be used for rags. Mrs. Peters caught my look. "Tt is grand to have a home again," she said sincerely. ''I can make most any effort if we stay put, but moving around takes all the starch out of me; and Sam is getting to be himself again. He was always all right as long as he had something to do, but he can't stand to be idle. He goes to pieces. Bishop already has him planning the ward garden for spring. He is going to Priesthood meetings, too. Come, see what we have finished." 607 She lead the way into a bedroom and Mrs. Holman and I followed. On the bed was an array of coats and dresses that had just been pressed. She modestly displayed a boy's jacket made from an overcoat turned inside out. "That is for my Jerold,"' Mrs. Holman informed me as she fingered it proudly. 'We had a hard time getting it out of that old coat so as not to use the worn places. Believe me he will be careful with this or I will know the reason why." There was her problem in a sentence. When she produced something by her own efforts she would care for it proportionately. Her problem was certainly being helped to a solution if it were being done slowly. One of her own class had done it. That was a fact worth remembering. Encouraged by my interest they showed me other things. For each girl there was a coat or skirt. There were two silk dresses for the oldest girls that defied one to guess they had been remodeled. This woman had an outstanding talent. She must be put on the work committee to help other mothers. "You are meeting the winter pretty well, aren't you?" "Yes. Sam cut enough wood at the wood lot to last us two months at least. If I could get a little sewing to keep us in cash I would be content." "You shall have it." When given a chance this family had worked out its own problems. Suppose I had sent them on with a little gas? Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon CTOBER—A bountiful harvest rejoiceth the husbandman be he a tiller of the soil or a diviner of righteousness. MOST interesting city is Alexandria, Virginia. Here are many homes of early Colonial history, but what endears the city to the hearts of the people is that here is Christ Church of classic structure where George Washington came to worship and commune. On the old minute books of the Parish Vestry is his signature as he paid for his family pew and among the Vestry relics is the Washington family bible. Within these hallowed walls the last rites for him were said before he was taken to his burial. Dr ERIKA RICKLI has been entrusted by the Swiss Association of Statistics and Political Economy with the task of compiling an Encyclopedia of Economics of 600 pages for the National Exhibition of Switzerland, to be held in 1939. CORNELIA OTIS SKINNER has again taken up the legitimate drama. She calls her character sketches, as a monologist, "a kind of missing link between lecture platform and the stage." Miss DORIS STEVENS, chairman of the Inter-American Committee of Women, was recently decorated by the Argentine Woman's Suffrage Association and presented with a scroll containing the flags of the 21 American Republics for her 10 years' service in behalf of Hispanic-American women. MARIJORY HOPE NICOLSON, dean of Smith College, says women have not yet accomplished much in scholarship. She gives as one reason that women are over-conscientious and that their own faults keep them from great accomplishments in the more abstract fields. In spite of these statements, tests made in the laboratory of the Stevens Institute indicate that women executives excel men. SIGRID UNSET, Nobel prize winner, and Margaret Ayers Barnes, both Pulitzer prize winners, are offering new books this fall, "Images In A Mirror" and "Wisdom's Gate" respectively; Mary Merrill Miller offers "First The Blade," a wonderful western story, and Margaret Bell, "Women Of The Wilderness," a story of early New England; "Tomorrow's Promise," by Temple Bailey, "Thrice a Stranger," by Vera Brittain, "The Mortal Storm," by Phillis Bottome, and "Mr. Despondency's Daughter," by Anne Parish, are all powerful novels by women writers, and then the attractive Anne Morrow Lindberg's new novel, "Listen The Wind," with Phyllis Bentley's "Sleep In Peace," Frances Parkinson Keyes' 'Parts Unknown" and Helen Topping Miller's "Never Another Moon" all show what a rich store of good books is awaiting the opening of the women's clubs for entertainment and review. Relief Society Dividends By Amy W. Evans "Go out, my friend, to a broader, nobler, happier life than you have ever lived before. 'The freer step the fuller breath, The wide horizon's grander view, The sense of life that knows no death, The life that maketh all things new.' MRS. SMITH lived in a small M railroad town where the 7 Latter-day Saints were in the minority. She was a convert to the Church from England and entered eagerly into all Church activities since coming to Utah fifteen years before. Especially was she fond of the Relief Society work, and was the Literary class leader in the ward organization. By her enthusiasm for and study of this subject, she created in the women of her class a love for good reading and thereby opened new avenues for intellectual development and growth as well as a new source of worth while entertainment for them. On one occasion when she visited the local high school where her daughter was a student, she met the teacher of English. During the conversation Mrs. Smith talked of literature, displaying such a breadth of understanding and information that the teacher finally said to her, "May I ask, Mrs. Smith, in what school you taught literature?" To Mrs. Smith's reply that she had never taught school the teacher then wanted to know what college she had attended. "T left school and went to work in a factory when I was fourteen years of age. It was necessary for me to help support the family. We were —Henry Van Dyke. In England then and I never had an opportunity to attend school after that time. My knowledge of literature and other subjects has been obtained through courses of study offered by my Church." She then explained the program of the Relief Society and showed the teacher the Magazine, offering to lend it to her. In a short time the teacher asked to borrow the next month's issue, as she had found the Literary lessons so helpful to her in her class work. Each month thereafter until the close of school Mrs. Smith sent her magazine to the teacher. When they were returned the teacher said she had paid well in college for a course in literature that was no better than the one offered by the Relief Society. She was greatly surprised that the Mormon people were so progressive, and since knowing the educational standards of the Relief Society she had the greatest respect for the Latter-day Saints. Mrs. Smith is one among hundreds of women who has found satisfaction for her hunger for culture through participation in the Relief Society educational program and in her mature years acquired a knowledge of many subjects which otherwise would have remained unknown to her. The lives of all these women have thus been greatly enriched and they 610 in turn have been able to enrich the lives of many others. FoMILY was very different from Mrs. Smith. She graduated from college and had many opportunities in the city for further study if she had been so inclined. She felt that the Church could offer her nothing in that respect. In fact she had an idea that she had outgrown religion, and was rather drifting around in an effort to form a philosophy of life which would satisfy her. She had no very definite idea of real values and was somewhat "adrift in the sea of her own logic." After teaching school for two years she married rather well from her point of view and entered into an active social life. A few years of this left her restless and dissatisfied. Somehow she had a sense of aimlessness and futility. It was at this period that she became friendly with one of her neighbors. This woman was always so busy and cheerful that Emily was greatly attracted to her. One day she asked Emily to go to Relief Society with her. At first Emily was quite amused at the idea as she had always had a feeling that only old women went there and that the work they did was dull and uninteresting. But when her friend said the Social Service lesson would be_ given, knowing that Emily had majored in sociology in college, Emily became interested and to please her friend went. The result was that she attended again and in a few months was assisting the class leader. At the end of the season she was asked to fill the position for the coming year. "To be a class leader," she said after some months' work, "is like going to college again. I have studied and read more widely on the subject of sociology than I did at the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE university. But best of all I feel that I have really helped others to appreciate and understand this most important subject of human associations, and I have made_real friends. My husband came to hear ine present the subject at Ward Relief Society Conference. He seemed quite proud of me, and is really becoming interested in the Church again too. This work has given new savor to my life. I do not have that feeling of being lost at sea any more, but I feel 'anchored to a deeper world.' I am beginning to see what constitutes the formula for happiness." MES. JONES' husband was a man of considerable wealth. She had therefore one of the most spacious and well furnished homes in the community. With both her own and her husband's parents well to do and prominent people, she had every opportunity to become a social leader in the city. She chose instead to be the president of the Ward Relief Society, much to the disappointment of some of her friends, who thought she was just burying herself in dull prosaic work, as with the care of her family she would have no time for anything else. Mrs. Jones was not an aggressive woman but she was very intelligent and took her position seriously. She worked quietly and unobtrusively, visiting the sick and looking after the needs of the poor. Many and many a night she left her comfortable home to go where there was illness or death among the people of the ward. She was a good organizer and planned so well that there was always on hand clothing and supplies to meet any emergency. The young mothers of the ward received her constant attention. She had many ways of getting them interested in Relief Society as she was RELIEF SOCIETY DIVIDENDS convinced that the courses in child guidance and homemaking would be of great value to them. There were many foreign women in the ward and for them she planned special things. There seemed to be no one whom she forgot. As time went on she became recognized as an outstanding woman. In her work for others she had developed her own latent abilities. She became a woman of courage and magnanimity. People looked to her for leadership in public and civic affairs, and her services and sponsorship were sought. She was asked to be president of the Parent-Teachers' Association and other organizations. Her friends were legion and most loyal. The love of her neighbors 611 and co-workers she valued most highly. "Beautiful friendships tried by sun and wind Durable from the daily dust of life." Thus through her choice of the Relief Society work she obtained what her more worldly friends feared she would forever lose, a development of personality and powers which made her a real leader, a force for good in her Church and in her community. She indeed went out to a "broader, nobler, happier life." These three women are representative of hundreds of others who have received dividends beyond price through sincere and continuous work in the Relief Society. YOUR TAPESTRY By Lucy H. Nielson A tapestry was woven Throughout long yeass of time; Its beauty still transcendent Awe inspiring and sublime. The colors firmly blended Unfaded through the years Reflect exact selection — Of substance one reveres. The warp of faith was woven In God who dwells above; The weft of honest patience Entwined with purest love. The filling was of kindness With base of courage strong; Design of truth a symbol Depicting right from wrong. Each day on the loom of life Were fastened threads secure; A pattern of brilliant luster Was made to e'er endure. Members Old By Margaret Smurthwaite Heywood AM come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly."—John 10:10. Real living—life abundant—at any age, is dependent upon wholesome activity. It is our wont to assume that our older members deserve a well earned rest and that they should be relieved of responsibility and work. Few people, even older ones, suffer from an over-expenditure of their energies. They suffer rather from negative reactions resulting from surplus energies unexpressed. Our older members should be relieved of drudgery. As much as possible they should be freed from the grueling, driving compulsion of providing the necessities of life. They have had their share of living on the plane of necessity. Their activities should now be on the level of the creative. They should be able to do many things they have always wanted to do. This does not mean a less active life—quite the contrary. Relief Society can surely provide this much needed activity. Class leaders and enthusiastic members can do a real service for these women by helping them realize the development and genuine pleasure that awaits them in the study of the English novel. Every woman should be anxious to learn the practical psychology of personal adjustment. Many of the older women only enthusiastic about Theology work must be shown that study along other lines broadens them and makes their perspective more accurate. These women need to be encouraged to Some of them have the urge to express themselves, but because they feel that the younger members do it better or do not appreciate what they have to say, withdraw themselves, suffering from a feeling of inferiority. Many aged members have grown timid because of continually repressing their impulse to do things. Some hesitate to go to the meetings for fear of being called upon to pray. Others, out of the habit of regular attendance, forget it is meeting day. There are those who cannot go alone and have no one to go with them. Some buoyant, energetic member in each ward could be assigned to help these women. GREAT power is represented in our older members. What a world of initiative, imagination, resourcefulness and skill they possess! We recognized this early in the spring when our Relief Society stake board _ members invited older members from the different wards to assist them in preparing for a bazaar. Forty women responded the first day.. Materials were supplied by the stake board. There was wool for crocheting afghans, for weaving robes, jackets and caps for babies; there was cotton thread for crocheted articles and edgings; there were lengths of colorful piece goods for making quilts and wearing apparel. At noon a dinner furnished and prepared by the board members was served. When the group of women surrounded the long banquet table the affair took on an air of festivity. Every one was gay. Every one was happy with the satisfaction MEMBERS OLD that only a driving purpose can give. While still at the table, time was taken out to discuss the possibilities of our venture. The women were eager to express themselves and were anxious to help with the project. It was decided that we should meet twice each month and spend two full days together, making things and getting acquainted. Since that first day many articles have been made. The banquet table idea has given way to a more practical "pot-luck" buffet dinner. We have sung together and prayed together. We have had a good time. As time goes on we expect to see a revival of talent among these able women. Each work-day a few minutes rest from sewing is taken while we enjoy a reading, song, or story. The congenial atmosphere is conducive to extemporaneous response. In the past many of our 613 women have not been asked to take part. There is no telling just where our project may lead. There is challenge in it. Making articles for the bazaar is only a beginning. Why should we not fashion artistic, distinctive things? Much is possible with this group of women. They have the ability and skill, the time and energy to spend on worthy endeavor. They are willing to do more than they are requested, for long ago they learned that happiness and satisfaction come with going the "second mile'. Relief Society offers many things for older members. At times it might be true that "they also serve who only stand and wait," but the service that yields the supreme joy of life is that which enriches the personality through a lavish expenditure of energy. LIFE'S SPAN By Beatrice E. Linford How precious are the fleeting hours That swiftly pass away; I must not waste one moment of Each golden joyous day. I count each moment solely lost Wherein I fail to see Some beauty, or some music sweet, Some task held out to me. The short allotted time of man Seems such a fleeting space; Each moment of its rushing term Is but a short swift race. Help me to grasp in this Prosi time All that I need to know Of life, of love, of sacrifice, Of beauty here below. And may I give some little might, Some smile, or bit of song, To ease the pain from some sad heart And help her way along. This only can I do to pay My great unbounded debt, For joys I've had along the way; I'm searching for them yet. Life is a game of give and take; You give me joy—lI take. In turn I do my level best For you, for friendship's sake. So let's continue gladly on, Smiling from sun to sun, Giving joy, and receiving joy Til life's brief race is run! Members New By Ella J. Coulam "There is glory to be gained, There are great deeds to be done, There are goals still unattained Waiting some courageous one. 'What was finished yesterday Merely paves tomorrow's way." NLISTING new members in E any organization requires enthusiastic workers. Those who have a love in their hearts for the organization will best generate interest and enthusiasm and will be most successful in attracting others to it. Enlistment officers are the salesmen or missionaries of the Relief Society. A cold, indifferent salesman seldom makes a sale. A good salesman understands the article to be sold and its value. He appreciates its worth and knows his job of selling well enough to make others desire what he is offering. Thus he is bound to be successful. Great care should be taken in the selection of enlistment officers, as they represent the organization. They should be tactful, courteous and pleasing personalities. A careful study of the Handbook is recommended for Union meeting classes to qualify these workers for their job. They should be able to answer intelligently all questions pertaining to Relief Society work. Each new member should be made familiar with the rules of the organization before joining. Emerson says, "Good behavior is the finest of fine arts." A study of personality is also recommended for the Union meeting class, together with an exchange of ideas and a general round-table discussion of problems pertaining. To the work. All enlistment officers should be constantly on the alert to know and solicit for membership all eligible ladies in the community. All good, virtuous women are entitled to Relief' Society membership. A survey is now being made by the Relief Society, Sunday School, Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and Primary Association which should be valuable in the Membership Drive. A missionary seldom makes a convert through one visit. First a tract is given, and a friendly interest established, then an invitation to attend meeting, followed by activity in the organization. The same procedure may be necessary in securing Relief Society members. ON E enlistment officer discovered on her first visit to a new ward member that her great interest was in handwork. She immediately recognized this and through it brought into the organization a very efficient work supervisor. The interest or hobby of an individual is often capitalized upon to secure activity. Another fine work supervisor was discovered when the Relief Society officers called to offer condolence at a time of death. They learned that the woman had supervised an art department in a local store before her marriage. Through kindness and perseverance she was persuaded to attend Relief Society meetings to relieve her loneliness and sorrow. She became a member and has given much service, changing a life of loneliness into one of happiness. MEMBERS NEW Another worker found a very bright, intelligent lady who attended all literary lectures. She immediately appealed to her through the literary lessons. She became a member, later a class leader and then a stake board worker. Her interest aroused the interest of her indifferent family and soon all members, including her husband, were actively engaged in church work. Often a little recognition is all that is needed. One fine lady was appealed to many times without success. Finally the ward president, knowing she was a college graduate and well qualified, asked her to give a five-minute talk on an open Tuesday. She complied with the request, appreciating the recognition. She is now an active member, eager to grasp every opportunity for service. Very often the presidents of ward organizations have difficulty in obtaining talent for special programs. Instead of bringing talent from other wards, it is suggested that they call on members of their own ward, and through this recognition new members may be added to the rolls. A Relief Society Chorus is an opportunity for utilizing talent. Recognition and extending the privilege of service opens the door of opportunity in building membership. UR Savior said, "Love thy neighbor as thyself." On returning to her home after attending a very fine Theology lesson, one of the enlistment officers called on a neighbor who seemed overburdened with household cares. She invited her to accompany her to meeting the following Tuesday. 'Oh, I would like to," the neighbor responded, "but I have no one to look after the two younger children." To her delight, she learned that a nursery was provided with an efficient woman to take care of the 615 children. She is now a visiting teacher. She looks and acts younger and, through contact with other women and service to others, makes a better mother and homemaker. Bazaars offer another advantage for enlisting new members. One president wisely called upon a Primary teacher, who was a member, to take charge of the doll booth, with the privilege of calling her own help. Some of those called were young women, not members. The activity challenged their interest and ability, promoted a sisterly feeling and brought most of them into Relief Society. THERE is a feeling among some of our younger people that Relief Society is just for older women. Before marriage they took an active part in M. I. A. Work and now feel they are too young to enter Relief Society, unaware of the opportunities they are missing and the need of the organization for their strength. The educational program offers a complete course of study which no woman can afford to miss. The late Sister Lotta Paul Baxter once said, "Relief Society work is comparable to entering college after graduation from high school." Ward Reunions also offer an avenue for building membership. The Relief Society is usually called upon to help the Bishopric on such occasions. Grasp this opportunity and divide the work into committees. Call as many women in as possible to help, and through the privilege of becoming acquainted and working together many new members may be drawn into the organization. The visiting teachers often find women on their districts who, through a little personal interest, will become active members. I have in mind a past seminary worker who seemed hungry for religious activ- 616 ity. Her teacher reported her name to the enlistment officers and through their personal interest she is now a very fine chorister in her ward Relief Society. LACING a goal is a great help to enlistment workers. Dividing the ward into districts and placing one member of the committee at the head of each, making her responsible for membership of all women living in her district, is one of the best plans for efficiency. Active enrollment of eligible women living in each district is the goal to be attained; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE prayerfulness, ingenuity, perseverance, and vigilance are the means by which it can be attained. Dale Carnegie says, "The most successful people are those who do a little more than their job." If class leaders, officers and members will cooperate and each do a little more than their job by encouraging old members to become active, and nonmembers to join the Relief Society, our newly adopted slogan will be fully realized— Members old, members new, One hundred thousand by 742. The Nation, the Church, the Home THE primary effect of alcohol is upon the brain, the seat of the judgment, the will, selfcontrol and moral sense. This effect is even more serious than its weakening effect upon the body itself. Consider what we have done in this critical time to endanger both the church and the nation when we have deliberately chosen to weaken the judgment, lessen the self-control and destroy the moral fiber of the people of our country, when, if ever in our history, we need clear brains, calm judgment and strength of character. "More than twice as many places are licensed to sell alcoholic drinks as there ever were beforeNational Prohibition. The legalization of liquor has lessened the health standard striking a blow at both physical and mental man power needed today. "Recently a statement was made by a representative of a liquor group that in order to repeal Prohibition the liquor organizations spent fifteen millions of dollars. Since repeal, they have, according to their own statements, spent at the rate of twentyfive to thirty millions per year in advertising which was a method not open to them under Prohibition) in order to induce people to drink. "Our Christian homes, the strength and bulwark of our nation, are the target of this nefarious business. Over the air, in the newspapers, and even by means of the letter carrier, the liquor forces enter our homes with their false and misleading propaganda. Crime and juvenile delinquency are increasing. Bootlegging on such stupendous scale as was unknown under Prohibition is flourishing. "Church bodies have taken no backward steps on this question but many church people have become indifferent. The program of eduation as to what alcohol is and does deserves the support of every trueblooded American citizen. Public safety, public health, public morals, and the preservation of our Constitutional liberties are threatened by this arch enemy of our homes, our churches and the nation." —The Union Signal. Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary Oahu Stake HE reports of activities in Relief Society received from Oahu Stake are interesting and stimulating. The Saints are bending every effort to build a beautiful Stake and of self-expression in which they delight. Six wards and five branches participated. In many of the groups it was a joy to see the way the young women supported their mothers. The picture below is of the Kalihi KALIHI WARD RELIEF SOCIETY Waikiki Ward tabernacle in which Relief Society is to have a special room. The Anniversary Celebration on March 17, 1938, took the form of an entertainment to further this cause. Months in advance, the Relief Societies of all wards and branches were invited to participate in a song contest. A song was selected for each group in addition to one of its own choice. Such a contest is particularly fitting for Hawaii as nearly all of the people love to sing, and do it very well. Music is a form Ward which won first prize. All the groups did excellent work and gave a most artistic and inspirational entertainment, followed by a social hour. On June 30 the Oahu Stake Board sponsored a delightful Daughters' Day program in which music formed an important part. A splendid talk was given by a young gir] whose mother is dead. It was a tribute to mothers and a plea to daughters to more fully appreciate their mothers while they have them. Each mother was presented with 618 a lei and the expression of love was sealed by a kiss. Those mothers who had no daughters present were not forgotten. Relief Society President, Sister Salm, expressed her appreciation of Relief Society and of her co-workers. President Ralph E. Woolley of the Oahu Stake thanked the sisters for their support of the welfare work and for their willing assistance in every worthy cause. A generous plate supper was served followed by a colored moving picture taken by President Castle Murphy of the Hawaiian Mission. A delightful operetta presented by the daughters of the Kalihi Ward concluded a very full and happy day. Sharon Stake HE Membership Drive in the Sharon Stake was officially launched on August 9 by a summer outing in which more than two hundred and fifty women participated. A chart was prepared by the stake Work and Business leader, Merle Foote, showing the progress of the organization up to the present and the space to be filled by 1942. It was a large drawing of two beautiful book ends, one representing a Relief Society member at the first meeting, and the other, a member today. The books between were some of those studied during the years, with an occasional roll book showing the increase in membership. It is a very effective drawing and can be used at various entertainments to show the increase. Each ward was given its quota for the year, which, it is hoped, will be filled at an early date. The slogan, "Members old, members new, one hundred thousand by '42", was the subject of many original songs and skits, each ward supplying one number on the program. Awards of six-month RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine were given to twenty-one sisters for outstanding records of service as Visiting Teachers. A picnic lunch was served and a most delightful social spirit prevailed. Millard Stake A COMPREHENSIVE report of the work of this progressive stake comes from the Secretary, Sister Ora B. Hanson. Every ward has contributed toward the achievements: "Relief Society Ward Conferences were held in Millard Stake during May and June and were attended by stake executive representatives and board members. The Singing Mothers of each ward furnished the music for the respective conferences and the campaign song, "One Hundred Thousand Strong," was sung. Some very outstanding programs were presented, portraying the various phases of Relief Saciety work. "Most of the wards had a large Relief Society Magazine built on the stage with the cover fixed as the entrance to the Magazine. As the Magazine representative explained what was contained in this wonderful magazine different characters came out and portrayed the work. The Theology department was very outstanding. One particularly fine presentation was of the quotation, 'If ye do it unto the least of these my brethren, ye do it unto me.' "The Literary class leader gave a brief talk on the work of this department emphasizing the study of the Old Playhouse. She told of one sister in the ward who had played as a child in the famous theater. Sister Elizabeth Robinson of Fillmore, First Ward, then appeared on the stage with her two granddaughters, Mary Ellen and Lillie NOTES FROM THE FIELD Robinson, who sang, Father, Dear Father, Come Home With Me Now, the song Sister Robinson had sung while playing Ten Nights In A Bar Room with her father, Robert Smith, in the Salt Lake Theater. "An ideal Work and Business meeting was conducted. Handwork and quilts were on display on the stage and conversation was carried on among the sisters while they worked with their hands. "In the Social Service field the leader explained that the mothers were studying national, state and community problems and pointed out that women could do much by studying and taking an active part in solving these problems. "The conferences in every instance were very successful and show the efficient work which is being carried on by every ward in the stake. "Another outstanding feature of this year's program was the Daughters' Day sponsored individually by each ward. The daughters are to be complimented on the fine way in which they carried on a Relief Society meeting. Most of the wards gave a prize to the mother having the most daughters present." Scipio is to be congratulated upon its high average attendance for the very active young mothers enrolled, and for the large increase in membership this year. Bear River Stake THE Anniversary, March 17, was appropriately celebrated in this fine stake. A beautiful original pageant, Loyal Hearts, written by Counsellor Maude O. Cook, was presented in the different wards. A very delightful social was held in Bear River Stake to do honor to the ward officers and class leaders. Music played an important part in the entertainment and as the theme 619 of the event was Enlistment the rallying song, One Hundred Thousand Strong, was made a feature. At the close of the program all adjourned to the ward Relief Society hall where luncheon was served. A color scheme of blue and gold was carried out on the beautifully appointed table. An incomplete arch made of flowers formed the center piece for the table with gold tapers at either end. The Relief Society daughters served approximately one hundred and fifty. Very successful Union meetings have been held throughout the summer and also an excellent course in Teacher Training for the different educational courses and Scripture Reading Project. Nebo Stake TO mark the close of a very successful year the Nebo Stake Relief Society officers entertained all members from the nine wards in the Tabernacle at Payson. A most carefully planned program was presented. Five of the wards had perfect records of visiting teaching. A challenge was given to the wards to attain the same fine record for attendance at Teacher Training meetings. The campaign for Magazine subscriptions for 1938 was outlined. - The Relief Society Stake President, Vera Cloward, opened the Membership Drive. There are 746 members at present. The aim is to increase the number to 995, the Stake's quota by 1942. Refreshments were served to more than 300. Beautiful music, inspirational talks, and a profusion of flowers made an event long to be remembered. Los Angeles Stake MONG the very fine things which Los Angeles Stake is doing is the launching of its Membership 620 Drive. The following account from the stake indicates this. "The slogan to be used to make our people Relief Society conscious and to increase our membership is, 'Members old, members new, One hundred thousand by 42. "The strength and power of Relief Society is measured by the number of women it serves. There is a purpose in this campaign which is deeper than the mere enrollment of numbers. That purpose is to build Latter-day Saint women and to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE strengthen the individual so that she may meet the ever-changing conditions of this interesting age with greater assurance." THE annual exhibit of handwork was a greater success than ever before. Hundreds of articles were displayed. It was an all-day program, and during the evening each of the thirteen wards responded. The occasion was greatly enhanced by the presence of President Leo J. Muir of the Los Angeles Stake and President Louise Y. Robison. MEMBERSHIP SURVEY A VERY important census has been undertaken as a cooperative effort of the Relief Society, Sunday School, Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and Primary Association. The Young Men are working upon a special plan for boys in connection with the Presiding Bishop's Office. The Sunday School Superintendent of the ward has been entrusted with the plans for taking this Ward Auxiliary Census. He is to be the Chairman of a central committee consisting of the executives of all the auxiliaries named above. He will give complete instructions and provide the blanks for taking the census. The survey forms are in duplicate. When the reports are all returned to the committee, the white ones will be given to the Y. W. M. I. A. And the Relief Society executives. From the names on these reports each organization should make complete lists of potential membership. Many names on the list will be of persons who are already members of the Relief Society organization and their names on the active roll. The other names should be placed on a special list to be worked with until they become actively interested in the Relief Society. From month to month this special list should decrease as the names are transferred to the active roll. Some names will be found duplicated on both Relief Society and M. I. A. Rolls. We believe that the information gained from this survey will be a very definite help in building up the membership, and we therefore urge our officers to give this campaign earnest support. —— 6 eee THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth LOUISE nr ROBISON - -: AMY BROWN LYMAN - -: KATE M. BARKER.- -: - - JULIA A. F. LUND - - Jennie B. Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine Ida P. Beal Belle S. Spafford THE GENERAL BOARD Nettie D. Bradford Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson President First Counselor - Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jengen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor, - - - Belle S. Spafford Manager: - - -: Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager:: - - - Amy Brown Lyman Vou. XXV OCTOBER, 1938 No. 10 Editorials Composure WORLD feverish with anxiety aroused by war threats, awaiting an ultimatum that would hurl thousands of young men into battle, disturb the serenity of homes, and dissipate nations, heard one great leader admonish his people: "Be calm." He knew nothing was to be gained by excitement, by uncontrolled passion, by rioting and violence. Perplexed as was the nation, composure was deemed essential to clear thinking and sound judgment in meeting a national crisis. The greatest leaders are those who have developed within themselves the ability to remain serene, undominated by passion in tense situations, and who have the ability to extend that composure to the group. History, both secular and church, is rich with examples of calm leadership preventing not. Only confusion, panic and suffering, but actual blundering and irreparable damage. Washington at Valley Forge during a period of deepest gloom when war had been waged for more than two years, with apparently less than nothing accomplished, found discontent and distrust springing up among the soldiers. Allowed to spread this would have meant certain defeat. Clear headed and composed, Washington held his men together, worked out a strategy that brought victory to the colonists and restored confidence in his leadership. Our Church history gives a vivid picture of the composure of Brigham Young in recording the advent of Johnston's Army. There were 2,587 Saints encamped at the head of Big Cottonwood Canyon to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the entrance of the Pioneers into Salt Lake Valley. The stars and stripes were unfurled on two of the highest peaks in sight of the camp, and on the tops of two of the tallest trees. The bands played and a spirit of joy and patriotism prevailed. At noon, rode in upon the scene, messengers bearing news of the approaching army. Their message was delivered: to Brigham Young and his immediate counselors and associates. Church history records, "the afternoon's merriment and enjoyment went on as if no messengers from the east had arrived. At about sunset the camp assembled for prayers when eye. 2 President Wells made a few remarks in relation to the 'latest tidings from the states,' upon the order of leaving the ground in the morning, and concluded with prayer." This calin, wise leadership evolved a plan whereby the advancing army in the end proved a blessing to the struggling settlers. Crises arise not only among nations and large organized groups but in our everyday relations with our fellowmen. The smooth-running satisfaction of all one's desires is quite outside the realm of probability since our lives are so interrelated. Tensions arise, conflicts occur and often crises of real moment must be met. In these situations the emotional outburst, the uncontrolled passion, is the infantile response and usually aggravates the condition. The person who remains calm, serene, is less apt to do or say anything which he will later regret or which will interfere with the best solution of the difficulty. The composed individual has the advantage; he has control of the situation, because his intelligence rules rather than his passions. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE There is no place where composure is more essential than in the home. The economic conditions reducing thousands of homes to inadequate incomes, the social demands of our day, 'the high educational standards, the general unrest, all have an influence upon the home. Members of the household are often strained almost to the breaking point by the conflicts of life in a world electrified with tensions. Home should be a sanctuary, a place of rest and refuge to which members may return from a world of confusion and find peace. A composed father, a serene mother, means the meeting of family problems with reason and intelligence and the creation of happy, restful home life for all. The Prince of this world was the great emissary of love and peace. Facing difficulties greater than any other, he went about his work with a composure which accomplished his purposes and preserved his dignity to the last. Composure does not prevent strained relations, but it is an invaluable asset in the wise solution of difficulties. J. Golden Kimball FOR many years the unwavering faith, the human understanding, the homely philosophy, the sparkling wit of J. Golden Kimball has given delight and helped many to see more clearly and walk more directly. A son of Heber C. Kimball, Elder Kimball inherited many of the sterling qualities of his pioneer ancestry. Accepting the faith of his father he has with diligence and devotion served his church. The positions of trust which he has held have given him contact with thousands of people whose lives he has influenced and whose love and respect he has gained. President of the First Council of Seventy, his passing is a distinct loss to the Church. His spontaneous, natural wit drove home to his interested listeners with clarity and conviction the truths which he desired they should know. His genial personality and words of wisdom will long be remembered. The circumstances of his death in a traffic accident while returning from a visit to his daughter in California seem particularly tragic due to his advanced years and his declining health. The Relief Society extend to his family their deepest sympathy. Music Department By Wade N. Stephens N every ward the Relief Society Chorister is faced with the diffculty of creating a balanced chorus out of the material at her disposal. Because of the great variation in size and color of individual voices, it is impossible to give strict rules for balancing the parts; yet there are general principles which will help in this delicate task. It is best not to throw open the membership to all who desire to join. This procedure attracts the less valuable singers, and often keeps away the best ones. It is far better to put membership on a competitive basis—hear each applicant sing, and then pick only enough of each part to balance. Many times you will Distribution in 4-Part Music Distribution in 3-Part Music Number in Chorus Soprano I Alto II 5. Numbers marked usually balance best. Have more applications, and better singers, by using this method. Here is a table showing how to distribute parts in small choruses. THE most common procedure in wards is to organize a threepart chorus with too many sopranos in it, and then to divide these sopranos for four-part music. Anything that is not thought out beforehand is bad in music, and this is a particularly disastrous form of carelessness, for it results in a chorus that does not balance either in three parts or in four. The plan here presented is much more efficient. Notice that in the table, when any part has an extra singer, it is one of the lower parts. This is because really low voices are very rare; most "altos" are really only people who can sing low tones. An alto section, particularly second alto, composed of ordinary voices is apt to be weak unless bolstered by an extra voice or two. The highest part generally needs the least singers, because a soprano usually has more power than a lower voice, or at least a more penetrating quality. If the average age of your sopranos is rather high, the upper notes may be thin—in that case, an extra soprano may be admitted. The plan given requires complete rearrangement of parts when changing from three parts to four. For example, if your chorus numbers 14 members, one of those who sings soprano and two from the middle part of three-part music make up the second soprano section in four parts; the remaining three who sang the middle part and one of those who sang the lowest part in three-part music will sing first alto in four parts. It is not as difficult as it sounds to make these changes—try it, and the results will more than repay the trouble. Do not let the part-preference of a member destroy the musical value of your chorus. Be very diplomatic, of course, but see that each one sings the part where she will do the most good. An excellent motto for every group of Singing Mothers is, "I'll RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Go Where You Want Me To Go." The actual numbers given in the table cannot be followed in every case. My advice to you is this: First organize your chorus strictly according to the table. Teach it one three-part and one four-part piece. Listen carefully to the balance. Then add to the weak parts. If you will do this, the quality of your chorus will be limited only by its conductor's ability and energy.
Autumn in Utah
By Christie Lund Coles
ONCE more it is Autumn in Utah. And where, where is there a greater profusion of beauty, a more prodigious array of red and gold and purple and all the shades of Fall that defy description? The hills are touched with the colors of the Supreme Artist in a supreme moment. They lie on all sides of us, easily accessible. The country roads are lined with yellow trees, scarlet trees, crimson vines along the fence. The sky is a calm, untroubled blue; a mist lies over hill and valley; there is the pungent smell of earth bringing back memories of other autumns; there is the scent of smoke rising indolently to meet the sky. There is the air that is like a clean, bracing drink of cool water; there is a whole wonderful world of beauty on all sides of us. Where need we go to find more? This is the perfect season in Utah—warm days, cool nights, invigorating mornings, evenings that are dusky, matchless. Why not drink deeply of this that is ours without any cost. The shortest walk can not help but give us an abundance of loveliness, an invigoration of body and mind, an appreciation of God's great handiwork.
Let others sing the sadness of the Fall—
The dying summer and the withered leaf;
To me this is the loveliest time of all,
The time of beauty reaching past belief.
The time of air like a gold intoxicant,
Sweet with its pungent breath, its smell of earth,
And crisp, dried leaf; its winds exuberant.
This is the consummate of summer's worth.
This is the ultimate end of beauty's ways,
The culmination of spring's promises;
The rich and ripened time of harvest days—
Not winter's foreword... Its antithesis.
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
Lesson 4
THESE TWELVE JESUS SENT FORTH—(Cont'd.)
Helpful References David O. McKay, Ancient Apostles, pp. 10-16, 117-121. James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 139-142, 217-229. A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve, pp. 240-249, 281-296, 319-325, 332-340. C. R. Brown, These Twelve, pp. 25-44, 69-88. (Harper & Bros., New York, 1926.) An interesting study in temperament by a famous religious writer. C. E. Macartney, "Of Them He Chose Twelve," pp. 15-24, 96-107. (Dorrance & Co., Phila., 1927.) Interesting collateral reading. W. M. Mackay, The Men Whom Jesus Made, pp. 36-56, 76-93. (Harper & Bros., New York, 1933.) An interesting study by a Scottish authority. F. J. Mueller, Christ's Twelve, pp. 30-39, 54-62.
James, the Counselor.—It is interesting to note the bewilderment of numerous writers who attempt to account for the "chosen Three" in the Twelve. These men were Peter, James, and John. This trio was often with our Lord when others of the Twelve were absent. On certain occasions they were specially called to accompany the Savior for reasons not entirely clear to most students. Mueller can account for Peter and John satisfactorily but goes on to say, "Why always James?" The answer is clear to Latter-day Saints because the Lord has revealed that three men form the Presidency of the Church. Following the death of Christ the leadership of the Church fell upon Peter together with his two counselors James and John. James, then, was Peter's first counselor. He together with Peter and John were specially instructed by the Christ because upon them were to devolve the arduous duties incident to the Presidency of the Church. The Christian world has seemingly missed the true explanation as to why the Three were so close to our Lord.
James is an English form of the Hebrew name Jacob. The latter would in fact be the better name to us. We know that James was the son of Zebedee and Salome of Bethsaida and the brother of John. Zebedee seems to have been a fisherman in somewhat better circumstances than the average for he had hired servants. (Mark 1:20.) Other than that we know nothing about him. Salome seems to have been a very spiritual woman for when the Savior was in Galilee she ministered to him and followed him. (Mark 15:41.) She with Mary the Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, came with spices to anoint the body of Christ on the fateful Sabbath that he arose from the dead. (Mark 16:1.) Salome was exceedingly proud of her two sons—perhaps she was extreme in this respect. "Then came to him the mother of the sons of Zebedee, with her sons, bowing down and asking a certain thing of him. He said to her, What dost thou wish? She says to him, Command that these my two sons sit, one on thy right hand, and one on thy left, in thy kingdom. But Jesus answering said, Ye know not what ye are asking." (Matt. 20:20-22.) Salome is supposed to have been either the niece or the cousin of Mary the mother of Christ. Truly James was from a great family!
The call of James and John to follow the Savior is well known. "And he called them. And straightway they left the boat and their father, and followed him." (Matt. 4:21, 22.) Henceforth James and his illustrious brother were to be fishers of men. James was destined to have an eventful life from that moment. What a privilege was his to sit at the feet of the Christ and to be instructed and admonished in the mysteries of the Kingdom! James was present with Peter and John at the raising of the daughter of Jairus—a special privilege. (Mark 5:35-43.) Then, too, he was called by the Christ to be present at his Transfiguration. (Matt. 17:1-13.) Of this great event we shall say much when the life of Peter is discussed. Suffice it now to point out that James with Peter and John received the keys of the Priesthood on the momentous occasion of our Lord's Transfiguration. (See Matt. 16:19.) That James was a forceful man and could at times be thoroughly angry is revealed in his desire to have a Samaritan village burned up because it refused entertainment over night to his Master who was a Jew. (Luke 9:52-55.) But the Christ rebuked his hot-headed follower. Without any doubt James was rebuked many times before he learned to control his temper. He was a true Son of Thunder. A good counselor he became in later years by virtue of his ability to learn the lessons his Master taught him. The impulsive Peter needed a steady counselor. James schooled himself to the point where the Lord could use him.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE James was present with Christ when the latter struggled in agony at Gethsemane. He with the other members of the Three seems not to have realized at the time the pangs of suffering our Lord passed through. He witnessed Christ's betrayal at the hands of Judas, his fellow-member of the Twelve. It is unfortunate that we possess no detailed account of what James did during Christ's trial and subsequent crucifixion. We may be justified in assuming that he, like Peter, his file leader, displayed the frailties and weaknesses common to men when faced with great danger. Following the death of Christ James passed through the difficult and stirring times incident to the persecution of the Church by the Jews. We can in fancy see him in counsel with Peter and John planning the progress of the Church and displaying his wisdom and firmness in dealing with the trying situations that arose. That his influence was felt is shown by the short and eloquent account of his death by Luke. "Now at that season, Herod the king put forth his hands to harm some of the church. And he slew James the brother of John with the sword." (Acts 12:1, 2.) James had finished his work, had completed his mission. Peter's mission was not yet finished as Luke goes on to point out. The forces of evil strike at the heads of the Church wherever possible. James was the victim at that time. His death was the most eloquent sermon that could be preached respecting his greatness and the good that he was accomplishing. James' death seems to have taken place about 45 A. D.
Most writers on the New Testament seem to believe that James was not the author of the Epistle by his name. Professor Scott says, "The James of the Epistle, it has always been assumed, was that brother of Jesus who in the early days became LESSON DEPARTMENT head of the church at Jerusalem.... But the name by itself gives little clue to the identity of the author. All we can learn from it is that the Epistle purports to be by a Christian teacher called James." It might be deducted that James the son of Zebedee could have been the real author. This deduction may be based mainly upon the wording of the opening lines: "James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are in the Dispersion, greeting." A general epistle of this kind would, in our opinion, come only from one of the leading authorities of the Church. But a difficulty exists in view of the fact that another James is mentioned in Acts 12:17; 15:13-21; 21:18; Gal. 1:19; 2:9, 10, after the death of the subject of this sketch. Was this other James elevated to the position of counselor to Peter? He seems to have had considerable authority and prestige. If he became one of the Presidency then we shall have to concede that he, too, could have written the Epistle. Our difficulties are due, of course, to the fact that so many men by the name of James are mentioned in the New Testament without being clearly identified. The reader is referred to Dr. Talmage's Jesus the Christ, p. 224, for a more detailed discussion.
Andrew, Brother of Simon Peter.—It sometimes happens that great men in their own right are eclipsed or overshadowed by some more famous individual in the same family. Such was the case with Andrew. When Peter became the leading light among the Twelve, Andrew seems to have become known as "Peter's brother." (See Matt. 4:18; 10:2; John 1:40.) Andrew was a fisherman of Bethsaida in partnership with his brother. His name was of Greek origin as was Philip's and shows the influence of Greek culture upon the Hebrew society in which both moved. The Gospel of John reveals the interesting fact that Andrew was a follower of John the Baptist when he first met the Christ. (1:35-40.) His spiritual insight seems to have been deep for when John said, "Behold the Lamb of God" he immediately followed the Christ and "abode with him that day." That our Lord made a profound impression upon Andrew is clearly discerned in John's record which says, "He finds first his brother Simon, and says to him, We have found the Messiah, which is being interpreted, Christ. He brought him to Jesus." (1:41, 42.) Andrew was one of those men—all too rare—who eagerly desire to share their good fortune with others. In this particular instance he was literally a "home missionary" and played an important part in starting his brother on his remarkable career. John relates another interesting incident about Andrew. In the story of the feeding of the Five Thousand the account runs as follows: "One of his disciples, Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, says to him, There is a lad here who has five barley loaves and two small fishes; but what are these among so many?" (John 6:8, 9.) There does seem to be incredulity here, but possibly there is hope as well that the Master would use his supernatural powers and provide what was needed to feed the multitude. In our sketch of Philip we mentioned the incident in which certain Greeks came to him desiring to see the Savior. But Philip first consulted Andrew. (John 12:20-22.) The latter must have had qualities of mind and heart that made him a good man to confide in or counsel with. The record points out that Andrew and Philip came to the Christ. Apparently Andrew's association with Greeks had made him more liberal in his views toward foreigners than most Jews, but he felt it wise to consult the Master in relation to his desires. Andrew was with Peter, James, and John on a certain occasion when they privately asked the Savior about certain great events that were to take place in the future according to our Lord's predictions. "Tell us," they said, "when will these things be. And what is the sign when all these things are about to be completed?" The Christ then related to them great and remarkable events that were to involve the Jewish nation and in general those which were to transpire before his Second Advent. Aside from the incidents we have related little or nothing more is known of Andrew's life. Many fanciful legends grew up about his person and work in the centuries following his death. St. Andrews in Scotland is named after him and was for a long time the ecclesiastical capital of the Scots.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Questions and Problems (Deal only with as many as time permits.)
1. Think of all the reasons you can why the Savior should give privileges to Peter, James, and John that he did not give to other members of the Twelve.
2. Some people find it hard to understand why the Christ should choose the Sons of Thunder (James and John) to be his close disciples when they had such fiery and resentful spirits. (Luke 9:52-55.) How would you explain? Note: The term Boanerges is thought by the best modern authorities to mean "sons of rage" and not "sons of thunder." (See Mark 3:17.)
3. Compare our conception of the organization of the Presidency of the Church with that of our Catholic friends.
4. What traits of character did James seem to have in common with his mother?
5. Briefly outline the substance of the teaching the Christ imparted to Peter, James, John, and Andrew respecting the future. (See Mark 13; Matt. 24, 25; Luke 21:5-36; "An Extract from a Translation of the Bible," Pearl of Great Price.)
Visiting Teacher Department
Messages to the Home
No. IV—Sensitivity to the Needs of Others
"Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful."—Luke 6:36.
THE social structure enabling people to live together without friction is not ready made. Men often seem unable to live with one another because of personality conflicts. Attitudes and conduct which promote desirable social contacts strengthen character and improve personality. Sensitivity to the needs of others is of inestimable value in personality adjustment. It has at heart depth of understanding and sympathy and a sincere interest in the welfare of others. This is conducive to mental health. Most mental disease is fundamentally self-centeredness. The person whose interest and sympathy LESSON DEPARTMENT is with others, is not susceptible to mental ill health. Sensitivity to the needs of others attracts people to us, and thus widens acquaintance which in itself is conducive to personality growth. It manifests itself in acts of mercy. In order to derive the greatest personality benefits, mercy must be intelligently expressed. Intelligent mercy is more of the quality of loving kindness than of cold justice or negative morality. It is concerned to do the thing that will result in the greatest ultimate happiness. It is always forgiving, however, it does not involve a compromise with righteousness nor does it always withhold punishment. Genuine mercy does not nourish the ego of the administrator nor in any way make the recipient feel inadequate. Neither are its acts selfishly and injudiciously performed that one may feel relieved of responsibility toward some fellowman. As interpreted from the teachings of the Master, mercy definitely contributes to strong character and desirable personality development. In all his dealings with mankind, Jesus was sensitive to spiritual as well as physical needs. He was merciful, practicing forgiveness—a forgiveness which enabled one "to take up his bed and walk." "The best illustrations of Jesus' concept are found in his own life. For example, he was merciful to the woman taken in adultery when the others would have condemned her and stoned her to death. He showed the quality of his mercy in his attitude, 'Neither do I condemn thee.' Furthermore, he did not stop with lack of punishment, but went on, saying, 'Go thy way and sin no more.' This involved a forgiveness which extends into regeneration."
1. Give illustration of Jesus' sensitivity to spiritual need. How did He express mercy?
2. Give illustration of Jesus' sensitivity to physical need. How was this expressed?
3. Explain "Mercy does not involve a compromise with righteousness."
4. Why is it not always merciful to withhold punishment?
References: Luke 6:27-29.
Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs as planned by your Ward.
Literature
The Advance of the Novel
Lesson 4
Defoe's Successors—Sir Walter Scott
DEFOE'S Robinson Crusoe was followed during the eighteenth century, by a number of other important novels. Among these were the stories written by Samuel Richardson, Henry Fielding, Tobias Smollett, and Laurence Sterne, to mention the most important of them. Other novelists of the century of slightly less importance were Samuel Johnson, who created his tiresome tale, Rasselas, and Oliver Goldsmith, who wrote his classic, The Vicar of Wakefield. Richardson is usually given credit for writing the first psychological novel in English and all four of the first-named writers are called realists, because they, like Defoe, gave careful attention to detail, thus stretching out their stories to interminable length. "Richardson is the originator of the psychological novel," says Phelps, "and in two respects has never been surpassed—in the tireless patience of his analysis, and in his unflinching march toward the inevitable tragic close." The first novel by this early genius was Pamela, a lengthy story written in the form of letters, an art Richardson had acquired somewhat by writing letters for his young lady friends. This method he uses in writing his other novels, all of which are models of their type. Fielding, Smollett, and Sterne are often grouped together on account of the fact that they were contemporaries. None of the books written by these men, important though they are, are likely to be of interest to the casual reader. They are to be reserved, in the main, for the scholar or the student of English literature. Students of this course will probably find in The Advance of the English Novel, by Phelps, enough to give them a slight acquaintance with these important men. Speaking of Dr. Johnson and Oliver Goldsmith, Professor Phelps says: "In literature Johnson was a super-dreadnought, Goldsmith an excursion steamer. Hundreds of thousands of happy men, women, and children have loved to travel anywhere with Goldy. So far as I know, there has been only one discontented passenger—Mark Twain, who said that any list of books for reading was a good list, so long as it did not contain The Vicar of Wakefield." I could probably name at least another.
During the latter part of the eighteenth century a new kind of novel made its appearance in England. This new form has acquired the name, Gothic romance. One of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE first of these to be written was The Castle of Otranto, by Horace Walpole. These "turgid" romances got their name from the fact that many of the stories were laid in ancient castles where one scene of horror and mystery followed another in quick succession. Walpole at first claimed that his story was a translation, but later admitted its authorship. "His preface contains (in the second printing) a significant statement: 'It was an attempt to blend the two kinds of romance, the ancient and the modern. In the former, all was imagination and improbability; in the latter, nature is always intended to be, and sometimes has been, copied with success. Invention has not been wanting; but the great resources of fancy have been dammed up, by a strict adherence to common life.'" The Castle of Otranto was followed by other Gothic romances of a similar nature: Clara Reeve's Old English Baron (1777), Ann Radcliff's Mysteries of Udolpho (1794), and M. G. Lewis' The Monk, (1795). These tales, as weird as they were, had some influence on Sir Walter Scott, whose great historical romances frequently have a Gothic flavor. However, Professor Phelps says of him: "The Romantic Revival of the eighteenth century reached a tremendous climax in Walter Scott. By virtue of his immense power and range, and unlimited creative activity, he remains the King of Romanticists. He belongs, of course, to the objective side of romanticism, as Byron belongs to the subjective; Scott is romantic in his material, Byron romantic in his mood. The great streams of Gothicism, Chivalry, and Mystery, as seen in architecture, ballads, and wild fiction, all united in the work of the Wizard. His achievement in prose LESSON DEPARTMENT romance is incomparably better than that of all his immediate predecessors put together, and had indeed no equal in English literature since the time of Malory."
"Scott, like all the great romanticists," continues Phelps, "was a mighty man, and much of his production has immortal life. Somehow a writer may be a great realist and yet not impress us with his vitality; may indeed seem anemic. But the great romanticists—Scott, Victor Hugo, Dumas, Cooper, Sienkiewicz,—men who find this world too cramped, and are forced to make their own world, where they can have elbow-room—these always give the impression of endless force."
As an example of Scott's work we have selected The Talisman for study in this course, not because it is his greatest, for it isn't, but because it is a readable story which many have not read and because the picturization recently of the Crusades has revived interest in it. Sir Walter Scott was born in Edinburgh, Scotland, August 15, 1771. His father was a lawyer, and in his own family traditions were tales that would rival in interest some of his own great creations. Scott was a great patriot, and therefore, delighted in telling historical tales which aggrandized the heroes of the past, many of whom he had come to revere from the tales told him by his mother and his grandmother, both of whom are reputed to have been splendid spinners of heroic stories. Scott was admitted to the bar in 1792, but had no marked success in his profession. During that time, however, he showed great zeal in gathering highland legends. These he translated into poetry, but seemed to sense the fact that he was never to rank among the first as a poet. Scott's first novel, Waverly, was written in 1814. William Long has this to say of the manner in which Scott came to write his first novel: "Rummaging through a cabinet one day in search of some fishing tackle, Scott found the manuscript of a story which he had begun and laid aside nine years before. He read this old story eagerly as if it had been another's work; finished it within three weeks, and published it without signing his name. The success of this first novel, Waverly, 1814, was immediate and unexpected. Its great sales and the general chorus of praise for its unknown author were without precedent; and when Guy Mannering, The Antiquary, Black Dwarf, Old Mortality, Rob Roy, and The Heart of Midlothian appeared within the next four years, England's delight and wonder knew no bounds.
"Not only at home, but also on the continent, large numbers of these fresh and fascinating stories were sold as fast as they could be printed." For seventeen years this indefatigable writer wrote on an average of two novels per year. Long says that "... It is well in these days to emphasize four noteworthy things that he (Scott) accomplished: (1) He created the historical novel; and all novelists of the last century who draw upon history for their characters and events are followers of Scott.... (2) His novels are on a vast scale covering a very wide range of action and are concerned with public rather than with private interests.... (3) Scott was the first novelist in any language to make the scene an essential element in the action.... (4) Scott's chief claim to greatness lies in the fact that he was the first novelist to create the past; that he changed our whole conception of history by making it to be, not a record of dry facts, but a stage on which living men and women played their parts."
Long says further: "Perhaps one thing more should be said, or rather repeated, of Scott's enduring work. He is always sane, wholesome, manly, inspiring. We know the essential nobility of human life better, and we are better men and women ourselves, because of what he has written." Cross says of his works: "The largest number of his romances have to do with the reigns of the first three Georges; his most distinctively historical novels have to do with the reigns of Elizabeth, the first James of England, and the Protectorate of Cromwell; his histories in which there is the most romance have to do with the Crusades, the age of chivalry, and the struggles of the Stuart Pretenders to recover the throne of England. Taken altogether, they form the most splendid series of historical scenes that fiction has yet produced."
With these brief notes about Scott perhaps we can turn to his great heroic novel, The Talisman. This greatest of all stories of those unbelievable expeditions known as the Crusades, was written in 1825 when Scott was fifty-four years of age. Charlotte M. Yonge, in a preface to a school edition of the classic, says: "In the year 1884, an English traveler in Edom found the Bedouin Arabs exclaiming to a shying horse, 'Teshoof Rikard?'—'Do you see Richard?'—and the mothers still threaten their refractory children with 'I will call Rikard!' The Lord de Joinville, who made his crusade with Louis IX of France, about half a century after the death of Richard Coeur de Lion, mentions these same expressions, and they have endured in the unchanging East for full seven centuries, to testify to the terrors impressed on the natives of Palestine by that lord of the mighty axe and beaming spear.
"Taken in one of its aspects, the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE crusade of Richard I against Saladin was one of the ideal conflicts of chivalry, and Scott has made The Talisman a kind of epitome of its most romantic moments, throwing many incidents together which happened at different intervals. Yet the brilliant fabric he has woven impresses the characters of the chief personages and the spirit of the Crusade on our minds better than that of many a more exact chronicle of facts." The Crusade spoken of in the story began in 1189 and in 1190. "The idea of The Talisman itself is, as he (Scott) tells us," says Yonge, "taken from a curious coin inserted in a stone, brought home as a charm in a subsequent Crusade by one of the Lockharts of Lee—the family to which Scott's son-in-law belonged—and known as the Lee penny." It is to be hoped that The Talisman will not be found difficult. Certainly if one is fascinated by action, one will get into it quickly enough in this tale of noble men and courageous women.
Suggestions
1. Read The Talisman. It might be well during this lesson to review the Crusades and the story up to chapter 6.
2. If The Development of the English Novel, by Cross, is available, read chapter 4.
3. If it is available, read The Modern English Novel, by Abel Chevalley, chapter 3. Chevalley says: "This lame man (Scott) walked straight, and carried the novel higher than any man before him. Why? Because he conferred upon the novel the grandeur of epic poetry."
4. Photographs of The Crusades might be obtained from the local picture theatre,
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Education for Family Life
Family Relationships
Lesson 1
Confusion of Tongues in the Home By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, Calif.)
THE patterns, ideals, and standards of a home are usually derived from a number of different sources.
I. Each of the parents is of a different sex and therefore inevitably lives in a world that is, to some extent, different.
II. Each of the parents grew up in a different home. Mr. A. looks back on his childhood with uncritical admiration. The way his parents did things seems to him perfect; his one ambition is to be just the kind of man his own father was (as seen through his childish eyes and remembered somewhat vaguely after a quarter of a century.) Mrs. A., on the other hand, had an unhappy childhood. As she grew older and more critical, she was continually saying to herself, "When I have a home of my own, it will be very different from this one." Thus each partner is unconsciously trying either to reproduce or to repudiate his childhood patterns,—according as the ancestral home is recalled with feelings of affection or antipathy. Those who come from broken homes have a special liability, because they grew up with a lot of bad patterns before them instead of good ones. The examples set them during the formative period were examples of selfishness, thoughtlessness, disloyalty, cruelty, irreligiousness, instead of unselfishness, thoughtfulness, loyalty, kindness, and an attempt to translate into daily life the ideals of religion. Statistically, this makes a happy home in the next generation less probable. The Institute of Family Relations found that when both husband and wife came from broken homes, they were half again as likely to make a failure of marriage, as if they came from successful family backgrounds. But the person thus handicapped can turn the liability into an asset by recognizing the need for extra effort. III. Each of the parents has a different birth-rank, in most instances, and this affects his outlook on life. The "only child" seems to have about 20% less chance of succeeding in marriage (and must therefore make a greater effort than others, in order to overcome his handicap.) The oldest child is said to be a "natural conservative"; as the oldest he always had advantages and privileges. He is ready to maintain "things as they are" because they have always been to his advantage. The youngest child is supposed to be the "natural rebel'; he has always had to fight for everything he got, because others older and larger could claim privileges, or even deprive him of his rights. The middle child is often a behavior problem; he feels that he is not getting his share of attention. The older one can do things because of his age; the younger gets attention because he is the baby and "so cute'; if the one in between wants anyone to pay attention to him, he sometimes feels as if he had to stir up trouble to get it. Similarly the only boy in a 634 family of girls and the only girl in a family of boys,—each of these has patterns which may color his whole life and may influence strongly, without his realizing it, his attitude toward his wife and children a generation later. IV. The parents also reflect their own different experiences and acquisitions. Mrs. B. Attends not merely the meetings of the Relief Society, but of the P. T. A., of the local child study group, and similar organizations. She has a lot of up-to-date ideas on the management of a home. Her husband has not had these opportunities or, when they were offered, he failed for various reasons to take advantage of them. He therefore may be a whole generation behind his wife in 'knowledge of modern methods of home management, and in the scientific understanding of family relations. In the past, the public schools have contributed to this "cultural lag of the male" (as the sociologists call it) because they have given home economics and similar subjects to girls but not to boys. One of the urgent needs of education at the present time is to reach the boys and men, through church channels, public schools, adult education courses, and general literature,—and to bring them up to par with the girls and women, so that the two sexes will come nearer to speaking the same language and therefore being able to cooperate effectively in the home. We shall then have fewer instances in which the wife tries to apply modern procedures, to be met by the husband's argument that the way he was brought up is the best illustration the world has ever seen, of how a boy should be reared; and that what was good enough for him is good enough for Junior! V. The children in the home, especially as they get into adolescence, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE bring in new patterns, standards, and ideals which they have acquired from their teachers and classmates at school, from their contemporaries in the M. I. A., and from a dozen other sources including those omnipresent. Educational agencies: the newspaper headlines, the movies, the radio crooners, the comic strips, and the billboards. The impact of these novelties on the older patterns of their parents brings about continual change, though often not without some friction as youth voices its ageold complaint that the "old folks" are behind the times, while the parental generation is continually anxious about the supposed radical tendencies of youth. VI. Finally, the parents are continually changing their own patterns, not merely through the give-andtake with the children just mentioned, but because of the necessity of finding ways to meet new problems which they had not previously encountered,—which perhaps no previous generation ever encountered. The privilege of using the automobile is an illustration. Parents may feel that the young people can not be trusted with the machine; sometimes a man is found who even thinks that his wife is not to be trusted with it! Such problems as are presented by unchaperoned dances and other social affairs, by the selection of radio programs, by attendance at moving pictures of more than doubtful value, by the wide distribution of books and magazines of more than doubtful value, by the hundreds of millions of dollars spent through commercial agencies to promote in the most insidious ways the use of harmful substances like alcohol and tobacco, by the presence of an immense range of new political, social, and economic questions (some of them such as "communism" and "fascism" being not LESSON DEPARTMENT new at all but as old as history, and yet appealing to the youth of today as novelties and carrying strong emotional implications), — all of these things keep parents from ever "settling down," either in their relation to each other or in their relation to other members of the family circle, whether of a younger or an older generation. From this scrambling of the personalities, experiences, and ambitions, first of husband and wife, then of all the other members of the family circle, there arises a chaotic mixture of patterns belonging to (or derived from) several different generations; and the confusion of tongues becomes continually worse confounded. What should a reasonable person do in such a situation? (1) Be patient and tolerant. Intolerance is never a virtue. On the other hand, if the opposite of intolerance is indifference, as it is for some people, they have gone from one evil to another. A genuine tolerance involves sympathy with the attempts of others to find the truth; it involves confidence in one's own faith, so that one does not react violently to any novel idea as if it were a personal threat; finally it involves patience and an attitude of love toward the world instead of suspicion, fear, or contempt. (2) Meet the problem not by attacking the other person and denouncing him but by trying to find what his motives are, what need he is really seeking to satisfy, and then helping him to get satisfaction in some more legitimate manner. I have been interested lately in looking over the list of registered voters, to find in how many instances among my neighbors husband and wife are registered as of opposite political parties. I suspect that in some instances the wife has "gone radical" 635 in an attempt to "express herself," to feel that she is an individual, an independent personality, and not merely an echo of her husband. Perhaps she needs other and more adequate outlets for her own personality all through the year. Similarly many an adolescent announces that he is an atheist, or a fascist, or a. Socialist, merely as part of the intellectual growing-pains of his age. He is striving to emancipate himself from too great dependence on his parents, and it is essential to his future success in life that he do so. If he is now attacked, either by scorn or by ridicule, he may be driven into a position from which he can not easily escape. If on the other hand he is met sympathetically and if every effort is made, without condescension, to help him get more infor-. Mation, better sources of material, and thus to work through his diffculties, he will end up on _ solid ground. (3) Finally, in attempting to work out the relationships in the home on an intelligent basis, parents must clarify their own minds by accepting a few basic principles and judging the various conflicting views with reference to these principles. Among many other possible standards of reference, it is suggested that parents must maintain a balance between the necessity for GROWTH and the necessity for SECURITY for each member of the family. These will be taken up in more detail in the two succeeding lessons. Questions and Problems 1. Analyze the happiest home you know. What in the backgrounds of the partners including such factors as health, education, religion, etc., contributed to making it a happy home? What factors contribute to making a home unhappy? 636 2. Analyze your own marriage. What difficulties have you had to meet that were due mainly to differences in backgrounds of yourself and your husband? (This question is not for group discussion.) 3. List three possible advantages and three possible disadvantages of marriage between persons of different racial or national background. 4. Which do you think would be likely to create the most trouble in a home,—wide differences in education of husband and wife, or wide RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE differences in their religious affiliation and outlook? Why? 5. It is notoriously hard to get men to attend, along with women, discussion groups dealing with problems of the family. What changes in the organization, management, time and place of meeting, method of conducting discussion, or subjects considered in these groups, do you think would be most effective in bringing about the full and free participation of the men? Literature for Missions TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH Lesson 4 Lijpa Maianna KUIPER DE JONG (HOLLAND) Nobility ls FOUND IN Every LAND THE subject of this short biographical sketch is unlike the other persons described in this series of articles in that she did not become a convert to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in her native land. On the other hand, it seems clear to those who know her and her family that the affairs of the de Jong family were definitely directed by the power of the Lord in order to bring her and hers to the headquarters of the Church. Lijda Marianna Kuiper was born on April 28, 1870, in the place called *tLoo, near Apeldoorn, Holland, where her parents lived on a small farm. Her father, Teunis Kuiper, was also employed as a gardener on the estate of the King, later of the Queen of Holland. Lijda was the second child in a family that ultimately counted thirteen children. Her schooling came to an end with her twelfth year, when she moved to the capital to work for her own support. Teunis Kuiper and' his wife were members of the Dutch Orthodox Church and were always extremely devout. The effects of spending her early years in this deeply religious atmosphere are noticeable even today. In Amsterdam Lijda became acquainted with and later married Gerrit de Jong, who was employed in a wholesale dry goods firm that did an international business. His mother belonged to the Mennonite Church, while his father, though inactive, was listed on the books of the Roman Catholic Church. Gerrit followed his mother's religious persuasion and became a member of her church. After their marriage both Lijda and her husband attended this church regularly. To this union two children were born: a boy, also named Gerrit, and a daughter, Trijntje. Desirous of giving their children an education the pair soon ventured into business for themselves, in which they were unusually successful, due largely to the untiring work and business ability which Lijda added to that of her husband. It should be noted that up to this LESSON DEPARTMENT point in her life she had not come in contact with the Church in any direct way. Because of the fact that the dry goods establishment which she helped her husband conduct was located just around the corner of a street on which the Latter-day Saints had rented a hall, Lijda and her husband visited a Mormon service once or twice, and were impressed with the practicality of the teachings given by the missionaries stationed there. Among these was Nicholas G. Smith, now a member of the Salt Lake Temple presidency. He used to come to the de Jong store occasionally as a customer and there became better acquainted with the family. Lijda's younger sister Marie had previously joined the Mormon Church and because of this was thereafter considered an outcast by the large Kuiper family. Lijda and her husband, however, showed more tolerance and always remained friendly to her, and corresponded regularly with her after she had gone to the Mission Home in London, England, to be employed there. When later Marie moved to Salt Lake City the correspondence continued. Apart from these indirect contacts the Church played no part in the life of the de Jong family. In spite of their material prosperity and the comparative contentment that a well respected place in their community and society brought them, the de Jongs were not satisfied with their lot and seemed to be reaching out for something not yet clearly defined. Lijda often prayed that for the sake of the family life the way might be opened for her to be relieved of the necessity of working incessantly with her husband in his business. As if in direct answer to her prayer, something did happen that radically changed the course of their existence. One night a devastating fire completely wiped out their business enterprise. This left them face to face with the choice of either beginning all over again or emigrating to a new country. The latter was decided upon. Now, at that time a new country almost invariably meant America. Since Lijda's sister Marie, the only person in America they knew well, happened to be living in Salt Lake City, it was decided to move to that city. Thus it was that with her husband and two children Lijda sailed from Rotterdam on the steamer Potsdam in July, 1906, with the headquarters of the Mormon people as her destination. As if it were a good omen indicative of their future, the first person met after arriving in Salt Lake City was Nicholas G. Smith, the same Mormon missionary who had shopped in their store in Amsterdam. In his great surprise he could not refrain from exclaiming that he had certainly never expected this family to meet him in Zion. The family settled in the Seventeenth Ward, where Elder Smith lived. Soon they made many friends among their Mormon neighbors and were receiving the frequent visits of faithful block teachers and others desirous of bringing them the Gospel message. They were invited to attend the sacrament and auxiliary organization meetings of the ward. All became diligent investigators of the doctrines preached and lived by their new friends. In 1907 Lijda, her husband, and her daughter, were baptized into the Church, and the son joined the following year. All have been staunch members of the Church since that time. For her naturally religious inclinations Lijda found a better opportunity for complete expression than ever before, and in the Mormon philosophy of life she recognized that at-one-time undefined something for which she had been longing before coming to America. It must not be supposed that Lijda was spared the many hardships that those who are found by the Gospel in foreign countries have to endure. There were varied difficulties: those incident to the learning of a new language; the task of establishing a new home in a nation where living conditions differed from those she had been accustomed to; the necessity of finding a different occupation for the husband who could not carry on his own work because of the language handicap. Throughout all these vicissitudes Lijda showed herself at all times helpful, resourceful, and above all, willing to do a great deal of hard work to maintain her newly established home. This was especially true during the two years (1909-11) her husband was in his native land as a missionary for the Church. Sister de Jong bears a strong testimony of the divinity of the restored Gospel and shows her devotion to the cause of truth by living an exemplary Latter-day Saint life. By nature she has always been very active, and membership in the Church of Christ has given her welcome opportunities for using her activity to a good purpose. She takes pride not only in serving, but in serving well even in little things. Among those in need she is known for her unbounded generosity, and an eagerness to work for the welfare and happiness of others. The home she maintained both in Europe and America has always been the rendezvous of numerous friends. Her greatest satisfaction, however, comes from the thought that, through the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE instrumentality of the Church, her wish for the success of her children has been quite fulfilled. Her son is a recognized scholar, holds a responsible position in the educational work carried on by the Church, is a high councilor in his stake, a member of the Deseret Sunday School Union general board, and a member of the General Music Committee of the Church. Her daughter is an ardent Church worker, having served as Relief Society president in her ward, and in other capacities. Now the third generation, Sister de Jong's ten grandchildren, are carrying on the work of service in which she has such an enviable record. Her sterling qualities have inspired a host of others besides her own children to be just, fair and to achieve spiritually as well as materially.
Topics for Consideration
1. The foregoing sketch of Lijda de Jong is brief but what evidence in her life do you find that "God moves in a mysterious way His wonders to perform."?
2. Why do you think that to "judge a tree by its fruit" is to use a good method of judging?
3. Learning from the text the quality of her children what kind of woman do you believe her to be?
4. State Lijda de Jong's chief qualities.
5. How do you explain the fact that she did not join the Church in Holland?
6. State the circumstances of her joining the Church in Salt Lake City.
7. What evidence have you for believing she is an excellent Latter-day Saint?
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Social Service
Lesson 4
Should I Be Afraid?
I. The Lesson in Brief. "Fear arises when we know enough to recognize the potential danger in a situation but have not advanced to the point of complete comprehension and control of the changing situation." (Jones, Mary C. "Emotional Development." Chap. 6. P. 276, Handbook of Child Psychology, Ed. By Carl Murchison.) The danger we seem to see in a situation need not be real danger. Fears based on imagined danger are most difficult to eradicate. The avoidance of the fear producing situations promotes ignorance of the true facts, and the ignorance in turn permits fear to run rampant. As we learn the facts, we gain control of the situation and fear is overcome. Some fears of childhood persist in adult life, some from severe emotional shock and some from teachings of parents, playmates, and others. Most adult fears, however, are based on a sense of insecurity as to financial and vocational status, health and welfare of loved ones, and one's spiritual standing with God. Vague fears and anxiety, when given no task upon which to work, dissipate more energy than hard work. "Constructive worrying" is suggested as a method of removing the cause underlying the fear, a means of putting fear to work. Some applications of Latter-day Saint philosophy to the problem of fear are suggested, and a guide to the management of fear is given in summary.
II. Why Are We Afraid? We are perhaps safe in assuming that every normal adult experiences certain kinds of fears. When we recognize in a situation factors which we think are not likely to be for our good, we usually withdraw from the situation. Fear is a type of withdrawal. In confronting circumstance which has in it elements which are clearly dangerous to our welfare, or which we vividly imagine are dangerous, we experience an emotion of fear and withdraw promptly. In withdrawing, we afford ourselves an opportunity to survey conditions from a distance and to recruit our resources for the struggle, if that is what is required. We may then become angry as we recognize what it is that is threatening us. In children, fears are based on a lack of knowledge and how to control potentially harmful conditions. Darkness is fearful because children do not know what might be there, and can therefore make no better adjustment to the situation than to take the benefit of the doubt and withdraw. They probably have an inborn fear of loud sounds such as thunder; and when this is coupled with darkness and lack of understanding of what thunder is, the child develops intense fear. In the lesson on emotion, we saw that fear is the emotion which usually appears when conditions get out of control and the possibility of harm appears quite clear to us. The uncertainty of outcome is characteristic of fear producing situations. If fears were always based upon fact, they would be quite amenable to control; many of our most besetting fears are not based upon actual danger, but upon imagined danger. When the conditions promoting fear are imagined there is nothing concrete to attack in the effort to remove them. Thus, the person who fears the last days and approaching destruction of the world, fears an idea that can neither be proved nor disproved; he is quite likely to persist in his fear. People who fear that they are being pursued by evil spirits, fear something that reason and proof seem incapable of removing. An investigation (Jersild and others, 1933) of the fears of four hundred children from five to twelve years of age showed that 21.1 per cent of all the fears named first were fears of the supernatural, of mystery, skeletons, corpses and death; 17.8 per cent were fears of animals; 14.1 per cent were fears of strange happenings and places, of being in the dark; 8.8 per cent of nightmares and apparitions; fears of bad people, kidnappers, robbers, etc., constituted 7.3 per cent of their fears. Most of these fears are irrational and the treatment suggested was as follows: "The most effective techniques in overcoming fears are those that help the child to become more competent and skillful and that encourage him to undertake active dealings with the thing that he fears." (Jersild, A. T., and Holmes, F. B., "Methods of Overcoming Fears." Jl. Of Psychology, 1936, Vol. 1, p. 102, see also pp. 75-104.) In the foregoing survey, not a single child mentioned a single experience with the object it feared. The conclusion first to come to mind is that most of these fears were acquired from parents and playmates, or other persons, whom the child has heard air their feelings about these objects. For a truth, most of the fears children have are those he learns from his associates, since there seem to be no complete inherited fears. Adults may have persistent fears which to them seem ridiculous because they are so childish. These persistent fears are sometimes extremely annoying because they resist treatment. Generally they can be traced to vivid experiences in childhood, if a thorough enough search is made. They may be fear of water, fear of a certain kind of animal, or even fear of a certain kind of people with a specific peculiarity. An exhaustive search into one's remote past often reveals that some severe shock was experienced in connection with objects of a given kind. Because the origin of the fear is so remote, we often have completely forgotten the circumstance. A tendency of our memories to obliterate unpleasant events aids in this process of forgetting the cause of fear. In some cases, simply to uncover the origin will forthwith remove the fear, but more commonly the fear remains even after we know how it developed. It is then necessary to recondition ourselves to the fear-arousing objects, by approaching them simultaneously with some pleasant object, or sometimes by simply acquainting ourselves with them so thoroughly and so often that they lose their fear-exciting force. It is possible to retain irrational fears that are not of this origin, but those we simply absorb from the people with whom we grow up. Even as adults we are often needlessly afraid of snakes of a harmless nature, afraid of thunder, afraid of being left alone at nights, and afraid of ghosts. Much help may be gained by simply thinking these fears through in a rational way and attempting to gather all the information we can to show how needless they are. There is a distinct difference between intelligent caution where actual danger is present, and fears that are not based on real danger and which therefore serve no purpose in protecting ourselves.
LESSON DEPARTMENT III. We Do Not Stop to Investigate What We Fear. The very nature of fear leads us away from the object we fear. We, therefore, do not linger to learn much about that object, as we would about one that arouses pleasant emotions. To practice one of the best cures for fear, however, we must work exactly contrary to this natural withdrawal impulse, i. e. we must approach the object and find out as much as we can about it. We must inquire either to determine that our fear is unfounded in fact, or to learn more about what is required to make the proper adjustment to the situation. When we run away, we rarely accomplish either purpose. If we hear strange sounds at the window and hurriedly hide in the closet, we do not learn that perhaps boys are playing a prank and that there is no need to fear; nor on the other hand do we learn that someone is molesting our property and that we should call for the police. Our primitive ancestors feared thunder and lightning as the acts of wrathful gods; they knew none of the laws of nature as we do today. Superstitions are attempts to explain away fears that do not have a more logical explanation. Among uncultured peoples even today we find innumerable superstitions of this kind. When we know all about a thing, we are in a better position to control it if it is dangerous, and not to fear it if we understand that it is harmless. Civilized people are therefore less afflicted with fears of natural phenomena. Civilized peoples have their own variety of fears, however, which are none the less energy consuming. Most of our major adult fears are of social consequences, such as the fear of financial or vocational failure and disgrace, fear of creating enemies, and fear of broken health and consequent inability to meet one's responsibilities. These fears are not exactly an outcome of lack of information, although in some cases they are more imaginary than real, and one does well to determine always exactly how much real fact there is behind any fear in order to make a more intelligent adjustment if the fear is well founded or to dispel it if there is no basis for it. We often are "afraid to find whether it is true" that we may need an operation, for example.
IV. Adult Fears are Usually Based on a Sense of Insecurity. What, then, shall we say is the basis of most adult fears? If we have disposed of certain irrational fears which carry over from either childhood crises or social influences from those with whom we have grown up, what shall we say of the fears that do not seem to fit into this interpretation and treatment? The constantly apprehensive and fearful person will be found on careful study to be usually a person with feelings of insecurity, and this feeling often arises from having failed to reach one's ambitions in life, from a habit of constant failure, or perhaps from a deep sense of sin arising from an over-strict conscience. Personalities of this kind often can be traced to parent-child relationships which were either over-solicitous or overprotected and over-restrictive. A normal sense of responsibility and courage to face the world as it is can hardly develop in the child when the parents shelter him from every possible danger and do all of his thinking. Fears in adults often reflect a lack of normal broad experience, a lack of control over the world they meet, which comes only through continued success in dealing with difficult problems. Among conscientious, religious people, one of the most common sources of fear is the sense of guilt for not having complied with every letter of the religious or moral code. This source of fear is most common among the people who have lived so uprightly that their little "sins" are hardly serious enough to worry about. The fact that they have a guilty conscience at all is fair sign that they have lived uprightly, for those who live wicked lives have no conscience to prick them when they side-step. Religious teachings are sometimes misconstrued by people with a sense of guilt to mean that they have lost their place in the esteem of God. We somehow easily come to feel that sins are such permanent stains on our record. Why not think of repentance as a process of education? As we learn, we repent of our ignorance and grow spiritually. So long as we see the error of our ways, whether they be called sins or mistakes, and promptly mend them, we re-enter into the grace of God through the door of repentance, the second principle of the Gospel. This door is always open. God could not be pleased to see progress hampered by a lingering sense of guilt, no matter what our folly may have been. A good conscience and sincere faith in God know no fear. The Gospel as taught by Jesus was a Gospel of love, not one of fear.
V. Vague Fears and Anxiety Expend More Energy Than Heavy Work. A brilliant medical student was approaching the final examinations on a year's heavy course. Suddenly he went completely to pieces. He said he had worked himself to death over his examinations. The report was carried to some of his professors and a request made for an extension of time for preparing for the examinations. One professor seemed indignant at the suggestion that a student had worked himself into such a condition. He said, "Tell me about his financial and romantic worries and I shall tell you better why he broke down." Investigation revealed that he had secretly married while at school and that his widowed mother had learned of his action and had threatened to cut off his financial support. These worries in turn had kept him from applying himself to reviewing the year's work. It soon became apparent to him that he probably would fail his examinations on this account. All of these worries soon combined into a vicious circle which finally dissipated his mental energy to the breaking point. After the examinations had been postponed and the domestic and financial worries intelligently met by both the young man and his mother, he recuperated and finished his schooling with a good record. While it is true that worry and fear thrive better when a person is fatigued and ill, they may equally well cause fatigue and illness. A definite task, however difficult and unpleasant it may be, is a challenge to which one may apply his fullest energies. Effort that leads to goals is not so fatiguing as effort spent in worry and fear with no concrete accomplishment. Worrying may become an effective use of energy only in so far as it leads to a direct attack on the situation which produces the worry. Fear is unlike anger in that it runs away from the situation, while anger leads to attack. Fear that does not lead to an objective effort to remove the cause may easily spread to other circumstances and leave the person in a general state of anxiety.
VI. All Normal People Have Handicapping Fears. Life abounds with opportunities for growth for everyone. They are often overlooked because they present themselves to us as challenges for us to do something we probably have not done before. We are afraid to do the things at which we have not already succeeded. But they are the very challenges that make us grow. "Courage comes in having been there before." Any of us are likely to fear entering into those undertakings in which we have not previously tested our strength. Most of us would not think of accepting an invitation to sing in public, because we could not enhance our value in the eyes of others. No one would advise plunging into those challenges in which failure is evident before beginning, but everyone could profit by the habit of accepting gradually greater challenges as his strength grows. There is infinite human waste as a result of the almost universal fear of trying to do tasks a little more difficult than people are used to doing. It is possible to acquire the habit of laughing at fearful situations; it somehow gives a playful spirit which adds great zest to the adventure of finding a more enriched world for ourselves.
VII. Factors in Latter-day Saint Teachings Which Allay Fears. There is much in Latter-day Saint philosophy to give one a sense of security. Most everyone, whether religiously inclined or not, at some time or another becomes anxious about the final destiny of his spirit. Much satisfaction may be gained by the assurance that the spirit survives the body and that our ultimate destiny is more secure than the clay of which we are formed. The Atonement grants us the assurance that we shall all be made alive again: "For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive again." (1. Cor. 15:22.) There is no better safeguard against the fear of death than an implicit faith in the Atonement. Faith, the first principle of the Gospel, is psychologically the opposite of fear. "Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen." (Heb. 11:1.) Where we cannot see, faith hopes for the best, fear runs away with an anticipation of the worst. That it was not the spirit of Christ to leave people who had sinned with a condemned spirit to handicap their progress was illustrated in the incident of the woman who was brought to Christ to be condemned for a grievous sin. "But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he heard them not. So when they continued asking him, he lifted himself up, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground. And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last: and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst. When Jesus had lifted up himself, and saw none but the woman, he said unto her, Woman, where are thine accusers, hath no man condemned thee? She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more." (John 8: 1-11.) The teachings of Christ are replete with reassuring thoughts: "Peace on earth good will toward men"; "Fear not, and be not afraid"; "If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth." There is strength to ward off fear and insecurity in the answers our philosophy gives to the questions of the great verities: the existence of God, the origin and destiny of man, and the free agency of man to work out his own salvation. A well thought out and sincerely believed philosophy of life assists materially in the great struggle against insecurity and anxiety. It gives direction to our living, and no one is more insecure than he who does not know where he is going.
VIII. A Guide for Preventing and Overcoming Fears.
1. Acquire the habit of prompt investigation of the circumstance underlying fear. Don't let a fear become a habit.
2. Look for the cause of persistent and unexplained fears. Search out your childhood experiences, if necessary. Find out what kind of teaching you were given as a child with regard to the object of your fear.
3. Don't be apprehensive over slight lapses in conduct. If your conscience bothers you over small "sins" it proves you have lived so well that your conscience is still alive.
4. Cultivate the general life habit of undertaking tasks you are reasonably sure of accomplishing. Gain self-assurance by the habit of success.
5. Avoid extreme fatigue, and maintain good physical condition.
6. Cultivate the habit of "constructive worrying" to replace destructive anxiety. Do something!
7. Uncondition fears by associating fearful circumstances with pleasant surroundings. Gradually accustom yourself to being in the presence of the fearful object without being afraid.
8. Learn to see the humor in fearful situations.
9. Don't fight fear directly, but fight the situations which produce fear.
Problems for Discussion
1. Enumerate some fears that are valuable in making a good adjustment. Name a few that serve no worth while purpose.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 2. Discuss two general classes of fears that may carry over from childhood into maturity. Why do you suppose these fears are so persistent? 3. Discuss the relationship between ignorance and fear. Show how ignorance and fear are combined into a vicious circle. 4. What is the chief characteristic of most normal adult fears which have not been carried over from childhood? 5. Recommend a rule for "worrying effectively." 6. Give your ideas on the role of a sense of guilt in producing fears and anxiety. Refer to Church teachings which would tend to discourage a sense of sin. 7. Show how the habit of success and adult courage are related. 8. How does childhood training for a normal sense of independence contribute to courage in meeting adult problems? 9. Show how Latter-day Saint philosophy contributes to a sense of security in meeting the great verities.
References for Further Study
1. Burnham, H. W. The Normal Mind, pp. 417-450. New York; Appleton, 1924.
2. Louttit, C. M. Clinical Psychology, pp. 465-472. New York: Harpers, 1936.
3. Morgan, J. J. B. The Psychology of Abnormal People, pp. 243-249. New York: Longmans, Green, 1928.
4. Morgan, M. J. B. Keeping a Sound Mind, pp. 63-98. New York: Macmillan, 1934.
5. Overstreet, H. A. About Ourselves, pp. 123-136. New York, Norton, 1927.
6. Sadler, W. S. Theory and Practice of Psychiatry, pp. 974-978. St. Louis, Mo.: Mosby, 1936.
Stitches
By Ida May Rees
Mending, patching, darning all day, Old things thinning and wearing away, New clothes ripped in a too rough play, Children's lives must be joyous and gay.
Work all day and nothing to show, Nothing that any but I would know; Back to the shelves the same clothes go, Respectable, orderly, row on row.
Maybe with stitches and method and thrift Something will somehow in character sift, Into their lives with a mild uplift, Into their hearts as a fairy gift.


For SAVE SIGHT With CHEAP LIGHT If your eyes could talk they would ask for better light. Safeguard precious eyesight with I. E. S. Lamps. They are priced low — and you may choose from many beautiful models in our store. They may be purchased on easy terms if you desire. See Them Today! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine FORWARD UNDER THE CONSTITUTION Lets Put America to Work THE REPUBLICAN PARTY OF SALT LAKE COUNTY PRESENTS THE FOLLOWING TICKET FOR THE NOVEMBER ELECTION AND RESPECTFULLY SOLICITS YOUR WHOLEHEARTED SUPPORT FOR THE GOOD OF THE COUNTY, STATE AND NATION. FOR STATE SENATORS Harvey H. Cluff Wilford Owen Woodruff Wilford C. Brimley FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVES Willard R. Smith J. A. Alder James Devine Gordon B. Christensen Leland C. Larsen William L. Beezley Wilford W. Gardner David H. Thomas Hemming C. Mortensen Lon Fisher LaMar Duncan Olive P. Eardley James Wells Joseph F. Richards Roscoe W. Irvine Arthur T. Shurtleff V. L. Oleson Walter Fitzgerald Orson McRae FOR JUSTICE OF PEACE George F. Parkin Charles E. Love Wendell C. Vawdrey Harry W. Parker FOR CONSTABLE SALT LAKE CITY Geo. R. Bringhurst A. E. Jensen Stanley P. Davies FOR COUNTY COMMISSIONER (4 Year Term) T. A. Butterfield FOR COUNTY COMMISSIONER (2 Year Term) Leon C, Higginbotham FOR SHERIFF Louis R. Watts FOR COUNTY CLERK John M. Peterson FOR COUNTY TREASURER Sid Lambourne FOR COUNTY RECORDER Hazel Taggart Chase FOR COUNTY ASSESSOR Eli D. LeCheminant FOR COUNTY AUDITOR Gordon E. Cowan FOR COUNTY ATTORNEY Carlos J. Badger FOR COUNTY SURVEYOR George E. Fisher VOTE THE ABOVE TICKET STRAIGHT AND WE GUARANTEE TO CLEAN UP THE COUNTY, AND GIVE YOU SOMETHING DIFFERENT FROM "YES" MEN IN CONGRESS. CLARENCE BAIRD, County Chairman (Paid Political Adv.) When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine The Evening Hours Are Yours Jo Invest Qualify yourself this year for a better position. Lift yourself out of the rank and file. You can do it by increasing your value to your employer! Investigate our excellent NIGHT School facilities. You will find the same equipment, courses, and faculty that are available to our day school students. Classes meet on Monday and Thursday evenings from 6:45 to 9:25. You'll be welcome as a visitor—or 'call Wasatch 1812 for information. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Street Salt Lake City ole Have You Ever Thought... Of the convenience and smartness of a personal calling card? LA, of how useful a few hundred of such cards would be to your son or daughter at college? of the desirability of such an item in your work and calls in the Relief Society? Call or write now! The cost is surprisingly low. The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine HAPPY FAMILY LIFE AND SECURITY OF THE HOME NC HOME OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH NSURA HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT: SHE RELIEF SOCIETY AZAZINE Vol. XXV. NOVEMBER, 1938 No. 11 Christmas is Coming Individualize your gifts by purchasing them at Mormon Handicraft Each gift has just the personal touch you are seeking. The variety of articles will make selection easy. Lovely handmade articles at reasonable prices. MORMON HANDICRAFT 21 West South Temple DIVIDENDS I PAID FOR 32 YEARS SAFETY of your INVESTMENT INSURED up to $5000 DESERET FEDERAL SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION 44 SOUTH MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Free Booklet on Request Explaining Insured Shares NEPHI L. MORRIS. Pres. J. E. KJAR. Secretary When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine O. P. S. Guarantee At O. P. Skaggs System Stores you get—a greater variety of foods, a guaranteed quality and a guarantee that the quality is all that or more than you would expect or your money will be refunded. O. P. SKAGGS "A Surety of Purity" This Year—Give BOOKS In making your plans for Christ- "mas or other special occasions, remember this— *' "There is a peculiar dignity attached to the gift of a book that is in no way affected by its price." Our Stock of books is the largest and best in the Intermountain region— Standard works, classics, Church publications, fiction and non-fiction. We also have a complete stock of Greeting cards for every occasion. Also Radios, Cameras, Portable Typewriters, Fountain Pens, Pencils, Note Books, and a Thousand and One Gifts. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing A Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail. Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Blue Blaze... UTAH'S SOOTLESS COAL Burns with a LONG FLAME. CLEAN—HOT—ECONOMICAL Jewkes Coal Sales Company 514 Judge Building Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Von, XXV NOVEMBER, 1938 No. 11 Contents
There Will Be Summer...................................Vesta P. Crawford 719 Frontispiece—Ducks Take Flight................................................... 720 Spreading the Cloth...................................Dorothy Nell Mair 721 Erratum............................................................................. 722 The Early American Coverlets..........................Lutie H. Fryer 723 Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd................Dorothy Clapp Robinson 727 Happenings........................................Annie Wells Cannon 731 Editorial: General Conference.................................................... 732 Relief Society Conference......................................................... 733 Lesson Department................................................................. 769
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 980
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
There Will Be Summer
By Vesta P. Crawford
Remember this, oh heart, long winter bound From sorrow that the white earth cannot end, There is a healing that the wise have found; For soon the blue of columbine shall bend In fragile beauty on the blossomed hill, And aspen lift their silver in the sun. The sound of trembling leaves shall fill The shadowed space. A limpid stream shall run Among the shining stones that lie between The willows and the boughs of alder brush; And deepened in the darkness green and cool The silence shall be rifted by a thrush. Remember this, the winter days must pass, And God will weave his summer in the grass!

The Relief Society Magazine VOL. XXV NOVEMBER, 1938 No. 11
The Spreading of the Cloth
By Dorothy Nell Mair
THE great American feast day approaches! From far and near the scattered members of the family come. Around the festive table they assemble to give thanks to the Creator for a bountiful harvest, and to acknowledge in united spiritual communion the blessings He has bestowed upon them. Thanksgiving Day is a sacred day and a joyous one. Should not a sacred feast be spread upon a sacred cloth?
In the Old Testament there is mention made of the spreading of the cloth when guests arrived in one's house. Also, in various places throughout the Bible, linen is spoken of. In Chronicles we read of Solomon importing linen from Egypt, and indeed, it was held in such esteem that only priests wore garments made of it. Linen was called the cloth of purity. It covered the altars and sacred objects in the temples, no other fabric being considered good enough for such service. On Thanksgiving Day we hold a sacred feast, too. We bow our heads in prayer and lift our hearts to God to thank Him for our blessings and to commemorate the blessings He bestowed upon the Pilgrim fathers. The feast before us is spread upon a gleaming white cloth—the sacred cloth of linen. And so it should be.
THE modern housewife meets with no problem when she shops for table linen. Fashion has decreed for us many varieties from which to select. There will be tables graced with lace coverings made from linen threads; there will be glassware and silver service sparkling on white damask. Originally, damask was a heavy silk, elaborately ornamented, and took its name from the ancient city of Damascus where it was first made. When table linen began to be woven in brocaded effects, it took its name from elaborate brocaded silk, and was called linen damask. Whatever your choice for a table covering, preserve the sentiment of the feast and use linen. Linens from Ireland and Belgium are accepted as the best in quality. In fact, the flax from Belgium is said to be the best in the world, having a very rich creamy color, thought to be imparted by the chemical content of the waters of the river Lys, in which the flax is retted.
Tablecloths were in use for many years before napkins were considered part of the table equipment. The cloths used by the ancients had very long ends, which served as napkins, and it was not until the time of Queen Elizabeth that separate napkins were fashionable. Because of the elaborateness of the old-time banquet tables, professional table setters were employed. When the napkin was introduced, these professional table setters received large sums for folding them in odd shapes and forms which was thought to add to the table's decorative appearance.
All through the ages memorable events either of religious significance or of social importance have been celebrated by feasts. The elaborateness of the early Egyptian banquet tables was superseded by those of the Roman Empire during its height. At that time it was customary for the host to present each guest with a crown of flowers to be worn during the dinner hour. But, with all the display of elegance of historical feasts of the past, perhaps none of them had the sentiment and significance of our own Thanksgiving Day dinner, excepting those given by Christ when he fed the multitudes and nourished not only the flesh, but the spirit.
Thanksgiving Day is a home day. During the year members of the family may wander, and grow thoughtless of one another, so absorbed does each become in his own interests, but when Thanksgiving Day approaches all thoughts turn toward home and all that it stands for. An irresistible longing for loved ones brings us back to the family fireside. Truly, it is a communion when both the flesh and the spirit are nourished, and each soul acknowledges the goodness of God. Many there are who have families to return to; many there are who have not. Welcome the stranger and the poor to your board on this day of Thanksgiving, as Christ welcomed the lonely and the outcast to share with Him. Thanksgiving Day is a sacred day; let the spreading of the linen cloth be one of hospitality, charity, and good will for all.
Erratum
ATTENTION: The Editor of the Relief Society Magazine and General Board most sincerely regret a number of mistakes occurring in the October issue. Particularly do we regret the omission of the note (Paid Political Advertisement) under the page REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES and the transposition of photographs of two of the candidates. All political advertisements appearing in our Magazine are paid advertisements, and in no way represent the political opinions of the General Board. Attention is called to the political advertisements of both parties appearing in the September and November issues.
The Early American Coverlets
By Lutie H. Fryer Assistant Professor—Home Economics Department—U. of U.
AS all things early-American increase in popularity the coverlet of our grandmother comes back into its own. A large majority of American families cherish at least one such heirloom woven either for or by an industrious ancestor. Far greater than mere family or antiquarian interest, however, is the genuine beauty of these masterpieces of textile art. The things made by our forefathers and their neighbors show how they lived and vivify their times. The impulse to know our past gives rise to the general interest in early American textiles. Historical societies and many private collectors are devoting themselves to finding and preserving the work and names of many kinds of early American craftsmen, and foremost among them are the coverlets and the coverlet weavers.
Much has been discovered about these weavers and their work. We know that hand-woven coverlets as coverings for beds were a part of the household furniture of our forefathers in America from the earliest days down to about the time of the Civil War. In the great houses of the South the mistress of the mansion superintended the weaving of coverlets; likewise, in the smaller homes of the North and West, each woman did her own weaving. As a spontaneous expression of beauty the coverlet is to America what the rug is to the Orient. In fact, Oriental rugs and American coverlets have more in common than their folk origin. The eight pointed star and the pine tree borders, so common in Colonial coverlets, are to be seen in rugs from the East. The original symbolism of design has been forgotten, but it is interesting to note that our pine tree is very much like the Egyptian Dibu, a pillar of the sky, emblem of Osiris and of the eternal duration of the dead. The Colonial weavers used traditional designs brought from their homelands, but the question of their origin of design and ornament is ever a puzzling problem for the wise.
The Colonial coverlets are works of art. "Art is the wine of life," says Richter, and the hand-woven coverlets tell us that the humblest artisan who kneels at the shrine of Beauty receives his share of that priceless draught. Thoreau says that the value of a thing is determined by the amount of life that goes into it. If pioneer mothers valued their work according to Thoreau's standards, only a queen or millionaire could possess such an art treasure, for almost a year of a woman's life went into the making of a coverlet. The passing years leave us many legacies, but every generation casts aside old customs, old ways of thought, old faiths and old ideals, as the tree casts aside its withered leafage, and in the hurried march of the years it may happen that something of real value will be purposely thrown away or carelessly left by the wayside. Now and then we should turn from the clamorous present and go back in thought to that quiet past where the roots of our being lie. One of the Half-way Houses on the road might be called "At the Sign of the Old Coverlet," and by pausing here we may recover certain lost things unknown to us or unremembered, but well deserving both knowledge and remembering.
THE art of weaving had its beginning in prehistoric days. In Greece nine hundred B. C. the art was highly developed because Homer tells us that Isis finds Helen, the goddess, "in her palace at her loom" weaving into "a golden web" the story of the Trojan wars; and he clothes Ulysses in "a robe of military purple" into which Penelope had woven a hunting scene. "In the rich woof a hound, Mosaic drawn, Bore on, full-stretch, and seized a daffled fawn." Egyptian hieroglyphics show the goddess Isis with a shuttle in her hands. China made textile fabrics, twenty-five hundred years before Christ. The weaver's art was born westward from Egypt and China in the march of civilization. Italy was the first European country to weave cotton and wool. Flanders led the world in the manufacture of woolen goods and later introduced wool-weaving into England. Early in the seventeenth century the Puritans brought the art to America, along with their ideals of civil and religious liberty. When the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes drove the Protestants from France, they carried their knowledge of textile art into the southern part of the New World, and from Massachusetts to South Carolina the sound of the spinning wheel and the loom was mingled with psalms of thanksgiving for the right to worship God according to the dictates of one's conscience. As the tides of emigrants went westward over the Alleghanies and later beyond the Rocky Mountains, the spinning wheel and hand loom were a part of every household. Coverlets were in common use in most places. In earlier days a linen thread was used for warp, which tells us that flax had to be grown, hackled and spun. Later the coverlet was made of cotton warp overshot with wool. These materials, too, were home products. The cotton had to be picked, carded and spun. The sheep must be sheared and the wool washed, carded and spun into yarn. Those early weavers also dug roots, collected plants and the barks of different trees, and made dyes, according to ancestral methods. When all the drudgery was finished, the weaver seated herself at the loom. Her weariness fell from her like a garment; she became an artist, breathing the divine air of that region where beautiful things are created, while weaving a fabric that would last to the fourth and fifth generation. She finally christened her work at the fountain of fancy with a name that sounded like a song or a poem.
A STUDY of the names of coverlet patterns reveals the full depth of magic that a name can hold. Here are a few poetic names: "Flower of the Mountain," "Rose in the Wilderness," "Rose of the Valley," "Lily of the West," "Path of the Sunbeam." Some names were more prosaic: such as, "Log Cabin," "Bricks and Blocks," "Bird's Eye," "Cross Roads," "Hail Storm." Here are a few names celestial: "Rising Sun," "Morning Star," "Ocean Wave," "Star of the East." A few of the historical names are of interest: "Washington's Victory," "Jackson's Army," "Lee's Surrender," etc. The drama of yarn preparation and weaving of coverlets was enacted by most of the pioneer communities of America. They are still woven by hand in the Southern mountains where they are called "kivers." Many families moving to the far West took their bedding with them, even though their beds and other heavy furniture were left behind. So one may find coverlets in regions that were not settled until long after the machine-made ones were in such general use. Two hundred and twenty-seven years after the Pilgrim families landed at Plymouth Rock, a band of pioneers wended their way into the Salt Lake Valley. Here, also, the hum of spinning wheel and loom was mingled with psalms of thanksgiving for the right to worship God according to the dictates of one's own conscience.
Where, reader, is your family coverlet? In a dusty garret corner perhaps, or buried from sight in the basement. Wherever it is, go bring it out into the sunshine. Spread it out and enjoy its design for it was born in the same ethereal region where Praxiteles first saw his statues and where Shelley heard his "Ode to the Skylark." If your imaginative faculties are not wasted away, this old bed-cover ought to bring you face to face with your grandmother, as worthy a person as any whose names appear on the social register. If your coverlet has known neglect and ill usage, clean it and restore it to its original beauty, for when time is permitted to destroy a coverlet a form of beauty perishes that makes the world poorer evermore. A certain peculiar, majestic quality of beauty and an irresistible appeal will always keep these old coverlets from passing into the musty realm of the obsolete.
THE secrets of color are as fascinating as the names of designs. The green leaves and greyed barks of trees, the golden yellow of daffodils and marigolds and the maple and oak leaves that bedeck the autumn hills all contain the color of sunshine that may be distilled from their juices; and when we know that here it was that the handmade coverlet came by its splendor of hue, the gardens, fields, forests and canyons will mean more to us than ever before. The association of hand-woven coverlets with pioneer life tells us that they are akin to simple homes. They do not go well with gilding or costly inlays, brocades and fine porcelain. Elegance and sophistication put them out of countenance. Their home-spun textures need woods that are giltless and free from varnish. Their beauty of color and design show to greatest advantage against plain walls. They form a symphony with simple, sturdy furniture made from native woods. A bedroom with an old, low-poster, chest of drawers, and table of maple or cherry rubbed to a soft finish with perhaps some painted and stenciled chairs and a blue rug will form a perfect setting for a blue and white coverlet. Those of rich reds, greens and yellows will look best with a darker wood such as walnut or chestnut. Old coverlets, however, do not demand old furniture. They go surprisingly well with modern pieces that are not ornate and with a plain rug. A boy's room with neutral colored walls and dull surfaced woodwork and furniture will take a coverlet with admirable effect. When hung on the wall of a room, or in a hall, you will find that home-dyed, home-woven fabric will be "the cynosure of every eye." The walls may be hung with masterpieces in oil and the floors carpeted with oriental rugs, but the coverlet, though worn and faded, will hold its own in the midst of all this magnificence, because the hand that made it was guided by the soul of an artist. Too often the fabrics used in decorating our homes tell the story that ours is the joy of the careless buyer while the weaver of a coverlet knew the joy of the toiler and creator.
SOME call themselves high-born, if they can trace their ancestry back to some degenerate king. But it is well for us to remember that every family tree has its roots in the life of the common people, and though crowns and princely blood are not found in our pedigree, a hand-woven coverlet may be our genealogical chart, proving that our life came through a woman who was girded with strength and never "ate the bread of idleness". That is noble birth. The names of many of the old weavers are preserved both in family tradition and by their custom of weaving into the corners of at least their first piece their names, the date, and often the town and country or state. There are few articles indeed in the whole range of collectors' interests where authenticity is so well established as these signed and dated coverlets. A link between the present and the past, between you and your grandmother, that is what your coverlet should be to you. Cherish it according to its real worth, and if you are incapable of doing this, let it pass into worthier hands than yours. A wave of wholesome taste is sweeping over the world, and the law that brings to us our own is lifting the hand-woven coverlet out of obscurity and neglect into an atmosphere of loving appreciation.
Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd
By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
Chapter Eight
IT was the evening of March seventeenth. My first, and it had taken on greater proportions than we had at first anticipated. For weeks our social and enlistment committees had worked to make it a success. Gloria and I had written a pageant and after its presentation we were to have a dance. That was a gesture toward the younger group. I wanted the younger women, especially, to see the pageant to help build within them a consciousness of what Relief Society really is. I had been at the recreation hall all afternoon superintending last minute preparations and was hurrying home when I overtook Salle Richards. We walked together.
"How is your work by now?" "Better than ever. I am going to night school, too. Do you know I am a secretary?" "Yes, Mr. Holsinger told me. He sings your praises every time I see him. He thinks himself quite clever to have discovered you." "I still do not understand why he hired me in preference to many who were both experienced and better trained." "He undoubtedly had his reasons. Are you going to the dance tonight?" "I'd love to but it would be no fun going without a date." "Date? What about Don? Wouldn't he take you?" "Yes, but—well, I have never gone to anything at the church with him. He would seem rather out of place."
I stopped suddenly. "And yet you expect to marry him. What happened that you were not married before Christmas?" "I got my promotion and was too interested. I can have a good home without taking him with me everywhere." "A good house you mean, not a home. And you will have a great time trying to live in his world. Better think it over." "I have. I know I shall never be deeply in love with anyone, and without that I couldn't do better than Don." "Come to the dance with me tonight. Tim can't be there until late and I have been dreading going alone. Bring your clothes over to my place and dress." "May I?" Salle fairly skipped. "Really, I am dying to go. I bought a new dress yesterday. The sweetest thing I have ever had. I'd like to have one good time at the church before I marry Don, if for no other reason than to be able to tell him about it truthfully. He thinks the church people like me as much as he does." She gave a short hard laugh. "If he knew the truth he would probably turn against me too. Apparently the only reason boys like a girl is because some one else does."
"She has improved unbelievably," I thought to myself. "She sounds bitter just now but she really is too satisfied to care about being a martyr." Aloud I said, "Come over as soon as you can."
Salle came in time to help me with my dinner work. When she walked out of my spare bedroom we stared incredulously at her. "Salle Richards, you beautiful creature!" I cried. Mrs. Jenkins added, "All the boys will fall for you tonight."
There is nothing so beautiful as a girl dressed for a good time when her heart is full of expectancy. Salle's hair was an incredible mass of light and shadow. It lay back from her face in soft downy waves. She had been wise enough to avoid artificial curling. Her dress was exactly the same shade as the copper tint in her hair, and clung to her in flattering lines. But it was her face that brought the quick trip to my pulse. She was going to have a good time. She was, she was, and the eagerness with which she was going to meet it set her apart from ordinary girls. "Dear Father," I prayed under my breath, "let her have her good time—just this once. It might change the course of her life."
THE hall was already crowded when we arrived. A member of the reception committee, who was receiving the people as they came in, laughed at our surprise. "It was the hand-made blue and gold invitations that did it. We would not have had nearly as large a crowd if we had given out a mere blanket announcement."
"Oh, I am not so sure," another member of the committee added. "Every one, these days, is intrigued by Relief Society. It has been put on the map. But the verse on the invitations was a direct challenge."
Gloria Holsinger led the community singing. Her flawless appearance and her own keen appreciation of the songs communicated itself to the audience. They sang because they could not help singing. Irene told me afterward that she heard a man say, "If singing sets the spirit of the gathering this will be a grand party." It was. The pageant was a thing of beauty and recompensed fully for the long hours spent on its preparation. The audience, set for it by the singing and prayer, paid silent but eloquent tribute to it. Relief Society, portrayed by Mary Grosbeck, dressed in white, led the watchers from Nauvoo, to the western banks of the Big River where she went from tent to tent ministering to the needy. Then they saw her at evening camp fires and beside broken-down wagons on the open plains. They followed her, breathlessly, among the lowly huts in the valleys of the mountains, and finally went with her back over the old trail and on into the far-flung countries of Christendom. Her handmaidens were Peace and Unity; her ladies-in-waiting were Light and Knowledge. The Singing Mothers provided a background of harmony for each scene. The final tableau showed Relief Society climbing to a higher stage where before her, in a sweeping picture, lay the dark places of the earth waiting her coming. (What an unbelievable amount of work had been required to secure properties for that scene.) A replica of the monument erected at Nauvoo was unveiled and rallying round it came women from every country in native costume, also the pioneer, the modern, the rich, the lowly—all joined in a common sisterhood, eager to serve and learn. The chorus hummed "On the Banks of the River" with Mrs. Holsinger's clear tones carrying the melody. As the curtain closed there were deep sighs of appreciation from over the room. Now the audience knew Relief Society, knew its beginning, had seen its past, and had caught a glimpse of its future. Never again, to them, would it be just another organization.
SEEING to the putting away of the things and greeting the women, kept me occupied, and it was not until the fourth dance that I again thought of Salle. Finding her was like a dash of cold water on my spirits. I hadn't dreamed anyone could be so alone in a crowd. Each little clique was dancing with its own and no strangers need apply for entrance to its exalted circle. Not a girl in the room looked sweeter or more exquisite than Salle, but she was alone. To the dancers she was still Salle Richards and did not belong. Just then Dave Holsinger came to claim me for a waltz.
"Oh, Dave, I am not dancing. I have too many other things on my mind." "Come along." He led me onto the floor. "I can't get near Glory. You two covered yourselves with honor this night. I was so proud of her—and you." The way his wife's name lingered on his lips told me the "you" was merely a concession to courtesy. For him the entire evening had centered around his beautiful "Glory." Never had he been so proud of her and never had the fact been so evident.
"It was a beautiful pageant," I agreed, but was unable to hide the edge in my voice, "and it shall not be spoiled by a crowd of thoughtless people." "What now?"
Quickly I explained. As I talked his glance went to the girl who was trying so bravely to be unconcerned. He whistled. "Habit," he said shortly. "Easy to maintain—hard to break."
"It is being broken right now if I have to stop the dance. Will you dance with her?" "I'd love to but that will only partly fill the bill. She wants companionship with those of her age. Who is managing your dance?" "The chairman of the social committee." "Let's talk to her without attracting attention."
That was not hard and she readily agreed to a plan he sketched for her. When the next dance was called he went to Salle and led her onto the floor first. Everyone saw them. All about I heard quick comments. "Hasn't Salle changed?" "Why, she is beautiful!" "They say she has a good job." "What a striking couple!" Dave managed her slowly past a group of young people, even stopped to exchange quick-witted repartee with them. A surreptitious glance showed him that Kent Evans was watching them closely. When the floor was well filled the manager called "circle-all." Holding tightly to Salle's hand Mr. Holsinger joined the ring. But when it again changed to a waltz he still held her possessively. Two boys tagged them but laughingly he shrugged them off. Then Kent Evans stopped them. "My dance, Old Boy."
"Go jump in the lake." Dave made a great show of protesting but the young man persisted. Salle turned readily to his inviting arms. "That's gratitude," Dave grumbled to himself but his eyes danced as he winked at me. To be seen dancing with Mr. Holsinger and Kent Evans, and both so openly enjoying themselves, did the trick. The girl sat out no more dances and as the evening progressed she gained in poise and assurance. Never again would she be "that Richards girl," even to herself.
TIM had come and we watched Salle as she danced with Kent. Supremely easy their steps followed each other in a rhythm of motion that built a wall between the world and them. When it was nearly time to close they came up to where I sat alone. Salle's arm was through one of Kent's and her hand was imprisoned in his larger one. Her face was shining with a glory from within.
"Do you mind," she asked shyly, "if I do not go home with you?"
Mind! This was too perfect. Words refused to come. Mistaking my silence Kent cried: "Don't tell me you do mind. I have waited ages for this chance. We'll see you home if—so you needn't go alone."
Ages. Chance. And his had been the prerogative. Men are queer sometimes.
"Run along, children," I told them gaily. "Evidently you haven't noticed that Timothy Maylord is here. I will walk to the door with you."
As we neared the door I went suddenly limp with fear. Standing just inside, leaning against the door jam, was Don Grow. He had been drinking and his face was hot with anger and jealousy. Unnoticing, Salle was clinging to Kent's arm, laughing up into his face that was bent slightly toward her. Neither saw the waiting figure until it was too late to retreat. Then with a little half-smothered cry she tightened her hold on her companion's arm. They stopped before Don.
"So," he began, in a passionate undertone, "this is why you would not let me come? I might have known. Dressed up for him, didn't you?" His eyes had not failed to see the change in the girl nor the effectiveness of her new dress.
"Oh, Don," Salle tried to withdraw her hand but Kent held it. "That was not the reason. Really, it wasn't." "You were going home with him, weren't you?" "Yes, but—" "But what?" "I had forgotten."
My heart leaped at the implication but the boy laughed shortly. "Well, my memory is better." He turned with forced calm to Kent. "Thanks, but I will relieve you now."
"Like something you will—unless she prefers." He turned to her with a grim smile. Salle had wilted. Her shoulders were stooped and all her brightness and self-assurance were as if they hadn't been. She was torn as she had never been before. The two forces, what she had thought she was and what she wanted to be, fought for control.
"After all," Don reminded her, "we are engaged. She belongs to me."
The possessiveness of his tone aroused Salle's stubbornness. Her shoulders straightened. Her head came up. "But until we are married I am still Salle Richards." She said it clearly and unhesitatingly. "Come, Kent." They would have passed out, but Don, by now thoroughly aroused, blocked their way. I was suddenly panic stricken. They must not disturb my lovely party. Kent must not lower himself to a brawl. Then Tim spoke over my shoulder:
"Hello, Don. I was over to see you tonight but you were not there. I wanted to talk over the trip with you." He laid his hand on the boy's shoulder. It broke the tension. The couple passed out. Afterward I squeezed Tim's arm in appreciation.
"You are my salvation," I whispered. "Let's hope!" But the look he gave me warmed me through and through. He was my Tim after all and this had been a perfect evening.
Happenings
By Annie Wells Cannon
NOVEMBER — The Armistice sublime came to an anxious world in Autumn time.
NO more frontiers? In our America lie long canyons and gulches where, if ever, not for decades the foot of man has trod. Here are virgin forests where trees rise above trees, from the base to the summit of the mountain side, towering to the skies, silhouetted against the heavens like sentinels, and all reflected in the lakes below; winter and summer an emerald green, and in between, yards of ferns and mosses and flowers rare. Over the soft carpet of the pine needles roam deer, bear and fox, furry squirrels and chipmunks in harmony serene. It might be Paradise or Eden where all is peace and no more fear. The heart beats high, the head is bowed, the knee is bent in reverence to such magnificence, for only God could make a world so beautiful.
AMY BROWN LYMAN, of Utah, prominent sociologist, recently returned from a two years' sojourn in Europe. She attended as a delegate two of the great Congresses of the International Council of Women, one in Jugoslavia and one in Scotland. Among the groups of distinguished men and women with whom she associated she found all willing to forego individual interests in behalf of world peace, determined, especially if women's influence can be felt, that there shall be no more war.
EVE CURIE, scientist, author, and candidate for the French Parliament, shines now according to Paris modists as one of the ten best dressed women of 1938.
PAULINA OSIPENKO, Marina Raskova and Valentina Grizadubova, three Soviet women, established a new international distance record for women last month in their flight from Moscow to Manchoukuo.
DEANNA DURBIN, charming and gifted, is said to be "cinema's ablest specialist in roles of school-age girls since Mary Pickford."
MARY PARRISH HOWELLS, 85, Mary Burmingham, 90; Hanna Anderson, 95, all of Utah and pioneers, still take their daily constitutional walk and enjoy the birthday parties given by friends. Like Catherine M. Isaacs, 103, of Nova Scotia, who says she "does not want to live to be old," they believe age is just a matter of mind, as does Gertrude Atherton, novelist, who at 81 has just published another book.
JOSEPHINE KIMBALL of New York runs a children's bookshop, where for a sideline she has a doll department de luxe. Dolls are dressed to represent characters in children's classics.
LADY ELEANOR SMITH'S "The Spanish House," Margaret Byer's "Designing Women," Margaret Halsey's "With Malice Toward Some," "Rebecca," by Daphne Du Maurier and "Sister Eileen," by Ruth McKenney, are last month's popular books.
The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
The General Board
LOUISE YATES ROBISON President AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor KATE M. BARKER Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
Jennie B. Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine Ida P. Beal Belle S. Spafford
Nettie D. Bradford Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson
Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jengen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Manager: Louise Y. Robison
VOL. XXV NOVEMBER, 1938 No. 11
Editorial
General Conference
ONCE again Church members from many states and countries assembled in conference to receive instructions, counsel and inspiration from those chosen to lead. These semi-annual gatherings increase the faith, renew the enthusiasm and spiritually strengthen all who attend. The practical aspects as well as the spiritual aims of our religion were forcefully presented at the recent sessions. Keenly alive to conditions of our day which demand the highest type of citizenship Latter-day Saint standards were clearly defined and members admonished to live by these standards. Our venerable Prophet opened the Conference with a strong defense of work as a spiritual and health boon to mankind, saying, "Work is pleasing to the Lord." The present-day need and importance of honesty was emphasized; not honesty restricted to the commandment, "Thou shalt not steal," but an all-inclusive honesty—fidelity to promises, honesty of purpose, honesty of thought and deed. Selfishness was vigorously attacked as being responsible for many of the ills besetting the world today. The spiritual phases of our religion were stressed. Prayer as a daily guide in life was encouraged. The doctrine of Sabbath observance, which was declared to be "a very old doctrine of the Church," and yet one which is being more and more flagrantly disregarded, was courageously defended and the benefits accruing from strict adherence to it were convincingly presented. Our religion constantly holds before us such concepts as truth, justice, honesty, charity, brotherly love; it has always dignified labor, and taught with vigor the doctrine of thrift and industry. Most of the inhibitions which restrain us from wrong doing and most of the ideals which lead to strong character and to a wholesome social order are ours because of our religious teachings. Men and women are incapable of making a good life as individuals or a good society collectively without the assistance of ideals, and where can higher ones be found than in the doctrines of the Church? That these be reiterated often is imperative; that they be interpreted and re-interpreted in the light of current needs by divinely called and inspired leaders is essential. It is well that Church members assemble to hear.
Editor Belle S. Spafford Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Relief Society Conference
October 4, 5, 6, 1938
By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
THE Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints held its semi-annual conference October 4, 5, 6, 1938 in Salt Lake City, Utah. Due to the great importance of the Church Welfare Program, which the Relief Society wished to stress, an extra day was added to the usual period. There were ten meetings in all.
President Louise Y. Robison presided over the Conference, which opened with a short meeting in the Assembly Hall, Temple Square, at 9:00 a. m., Tuesday, October 4. A hearty welcome was extended to the sisters in a brief address from President Robison before adjournment was taken to the various departments. The committees of the General Board spared neither time nor effort in the preparation of the various department meetings which were attended by a large and enthusiastic number of workers from the stakes and missions.
There were two sessions of the General Officers' meeting held in the Assembly Hall on Wednesday, October 5. The first convened at 9:00 A. M. and was devoted to the regular business of the Relief Society. One hundred and twenty stakes and thirteen missions responded to the roll call. The second session beginning at 10:30 was devoted to the special assignment given to Relief Society in the Church Welfare Program.
The first general assembly was held in the Tabernacle, Wednesday, October 5, at 2:00 P. M. At this session the music was furnished by a group of more than two hundred Singing Mothers from the California Mission.
Two general sessions were held in the Tabernacle on Thursday, October 6. At the afternoon meeting special attention was again given to Relief Society participation in Church welfare. The music at all meetings should be given special praise for it was all of the highest order from the special instrumental and vocal numbers, especially appropriate to the various departments, to the Relief Society Singing Mothers under the able direction of Wade N. Stephens with Alta Cassity at the piano and Frank W. Asper at the great organ.
New Organizations
DateStakePresident AppointedApril, 1938Moon Lake (Taken from Duchesne Stake)Margaret M. PaceJune, 1938Portland (Taken from N. W. States Mission)Birdie L. BeanAug., 1938Seattle (Taken from N. W. States Mission)May W. MilliganReorganizations
DateStakeReleasedAppointed PresidentSept., 1938BannockSusan S. TurnerAnna LloydJune, 1938Bear LakeMargaret S. HogeVeda ShepherdSept., 1938BonnevillePearl A. DaynesErma G. ClaytonApril, 1938DuchesneMargaret M. PaceFlorence B. MadsenMay, 1938GraniteMyrtle B. LatimerAgnes M. BoltoAug., 1938GrantAnna S. BarlowLois D. CannonSept., 1938JuabFlorence R. WinnChloe N. BaileySept., 1938LehiHarriet M. WebbAdela G. FoxAug., 1938LymanMartha FieldEllen RollinsSept., 1938MoapaLois E. JonesLaPrele BunkerMay, 1938MorganElizabeth GearyMay D. RichSept., 1938Mount GrahamEthel D. PayneErma StewartSept., 1938OaklandSara H. CarruthAnna EllsworthJuly, 1938San BernardinoEthel BlomquistJosie B. BayJune, 1938ShelleyBessie KellyAnnie B. JohnsonSept., 1938TaylorAllie R. JensenJoyce R. HarkerMissions
MissionPresident AppointedArgentineCoraine WilliamsAustralianWest GermanCanadianSusan G. KellyBrazilianDella M. JuddFrenchEmily J. SmithMexicanLucy W. BowersSouth AfricanNorma S. EvansTahitianVera P. AndersonJosephine H. FollandIona B. StevensEvelyn N. WoodOpening Session
Greetings
President Louise Y. Robison
It is a genuine pleasure to meet so large a group of Relief Society workers this morning. I am not only grateful for your attendance at Conference, but I congratulate the Society on having as officers and board members the type of women who are here this morning.
The office of teacher or leader brings blessings twofold. Every effort made lifts one to a higher level and gives greater power. The Gospel teaches us that the way to perfection is going from one small degree to another, from one small capacity to a greater one. We are all familiar with the statement made by the Prophet Joseph Smith that, "You have to learn how to be Gods yourselves and to be Kings and Priests to God, the same as all Gods have done before." Teachers and leaders must study the Gospel and uphold its standards if they would stimulate the desire for higher life in those whom they teach or lead. Acceptance of service in Relief Society gives this glorious opportunity and the service rendered adds to one's progress.
This morning I am thankful that so many of my sisters are proving by their presence here that they are working for that perfection which is salvation. We have all proven the truth of the statement that, "The finest triumph of human life comes from facing a necessity and making it an opportunity." This challenge is before all teachers. Professor William James says, "To be interested in anything, get information about it." The General Board committees have tried to prepare that information. I pray that our Father will give us His Holy Spirit—that Spirit by which our minds are illumined—which transforms our weak efforts into power; not only that we shall be blessed, but that we may stimulate others to life more abundant.
Visiting Teacher Department
Belle S. Spafford, Chairman
Preview and Instructions
By Amy W. Evans
THIS year instead of the teachers' topic there are to be messages from the Relief Society delivered by the visiting teachers to all Latter-day Saint homes. These will consist of a spiritual message which will be given according to the outline in the Magazine, and information regarding the program of each of the educational departments and the Work and Business meeting. Messages must of necessity be very brief. The stake board member in charge of the visiting teachers' message is to be responsible for the information from all departments being in the hands of the visiting teachers in her stake.
One aim of this work is to acquaint all homes visited with the educational opportunities afforded by the Relief Society and to arouse interest in the organization among those who are not members. The visiting teacher should be qualified to adequately represent the Society in her delivery of these messages. She should have a background of the history and achievements of the past, the movements it has initiated and sponsored, what it has stood for and now stands for in education, health for women and children, child welfare, social service, etc. And the great contribution it has made through patient, untiring and often unsung labor to the welfare of the Latter-day Saints and others.
The spiritual messages deal with "The Teachings of Jesus As They Affect Personality". In selecting these messages the thought was to call attention to the fact that there are no principles of conduct and attitudes more effective in developing and maintaining healthy minds and wholesome, well integrated personalities than the principles taught by Jesus. It is not expected that the visiting teachers can go deeply into the discussion of these principles, but she can leave the thought that Jesus taught faith—faith in one's self, faith in man and faith in the spiritual laws of God which are so worth finding; that faith is a constructive force and is a wholesome factor in personality. Jesus taught men to banish fear and anger and hate from their hearts. These are destructive factors and do great harm to the individual who harbors them. Jesus taught sensitivity to the needs of others, to be the good neighbor, not self-centered. The psychologist today would tell us, I am sure, that there is no greater panacea for unhappiness and discontent than to lose one's self in service to others. When Jesus said to His Disciples, "Ye are the salt of the earth," He meant for them to display the qualities of salt in their relationships to society, that is, to preserve the good, to purify the polluted and to add savor to the lives of others by good deeds. So a simple statement of the main thought is perhaps all the visiting teacher can make. But as stake leaders, give as much background as you have time for to your ward workers at Union meeting, emphasizing the fact that the message to be delivered must be brief, clear and simple.
We hope through these messages that the teachings of Jesus will take on new meaning for us, that we shall appreciate more fully than ever before their simplicity and their greatness.
The address "Jesus' Teachings as They Affect Personality" by Miss Hazel Peterson will appear in a later issue of the magazine.
Theology Department
Annie Wells Cannon, Chairman
Lesson Outlook for 1938-39
By Annie Wells Cannon
THERE is no department in the educational system of our Relief Society that requires more prayer, more faith, more sincerity of thought, or more devotional study than the teaching of Theology to Latter-day Saint Women—the mothers in Israel.
The taking up of a lesson is like the beginning of any kind of work. If you are making a garment you do not ruthlessly cut into the material without a pattern and as you lay the material and pattern before you, you consider how best to fit it to the circumstances and conditions at hand. We are not a part of the curriculum of an ordinary school or university with arranged classes of equal ages and grades of education, but the membership of our classes are mature women from every walk of life, of many nationalities and different degrees of advantages and opportunities, whose minds and souls alike we are endeavoring to enrich and benefit. This great democratic group gathered together in our meetings has met primarily with the same desire, to build up the Church and to learn of the ways of the Lord.
In the preparation of outlines the aim has been to give the material of "The Ministry of the Ancient Apostles" as effectively as possible, to place in your hands to mould and fashion as you will. First you have the lessons in the Magazine, and if you had no other guide than your own Bible you would be well provided, but these together with our Church scriptures and the more recent books by our own theologians furnish a wealth of material.
Giovanni Papini when writing his Life of Christ used few reference books. He states in his preface that he based his book on the Gospels, "as much let it be understood the synoptic Gospels (Matthew, Mark and Luke) as on the Fourth. We have no older nor any other documents—contemporaneous, Jewish or Pagan—which would permit us to correct them or deny them. The most famous New Testament authorities agree on only one thing; that the church was able to select from the great mass of primitive literature the oldest Gospels thought up to that time to be the most reliable. No more need be asked."
The first two lessons in the new course are like an introduction or foreword to the text to follow, giving a clear view of the background of the people and a description of the countries visited by the apostles. Thus we have a setting of those lands where the apostles taught in response to the injunction placed upon them by the Savior when He visited them after His resurrection, "Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost; Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world."
I would admonish you to seek for yourselves a testimony of the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, through whom the Gospel was restored, that you may have a deeper and clearer understanding of the lessons you teach.
The address "Ministry and Authority of the Early Apostles" by President David O. McKay, will appear in a later issue of the magazine.
Literary Department
Emeline Y. Nebeker, Chairman
Education and Culture Through Reading of the Novel
By Rosannah C. Irvine
YEARS ago novel reading was considered almost sinful. A century ago the price of books was almost prohibitive. That, with a scarcity of libraries, made it impossible for most people to obtain good literature. All normal people love reading. This demand for reading brought into existence a flood of low-grade literature. The notorious dime novel, passionate romances, tales of horror and crime, printed on pulp paper with poorest type brought the price within the reach of thousands. Wise people recognized the evil effects of such trash and put a ban on it. Unfortunately, this type of literature being classed as novels, brought upon all fiction the same condemnation.
In the early days of our Church life was so hard, time for reading was so limited, and the need for spiritual development was so vital that pastime reading was discouraged. Our early church members were mostly people of superior intelligence. The question was, not as to the value of the higher types of civilization, but as to the best means by which they might be obtained.
"The proper study of mankind is Man." For people who cannot travel, reading of good novels offers an excellent opportunity for education and culture. Consider how many friends we can have by knowing people who live in books. We can enter into the lives and customs of their times. We can learn of their civilization, characteristics, and trends of thought. What history or travel can picture Nineteenth-century London as Dickens does in his novels? To learn of the Scotch people read Sir Walter Scott. You can learn far more about ancient Italy by reading Bulwer Lytton's "Last Days of Pompeii" than can be learned from the encyclopedia. Study "Les Miserables" by Victor Hugo for fascinating romance, accurate history, and good literature. An exquisite and exalting description of a night visit with the stars is found in Thomas Hardy's "Far From the Madding Crowd". What is true of the authors mentioned is true of all great authors of all civilized countries.
The novels chosen for your study have been carefully selected. Although they may not all suit the taste of all of you, there has been good reason for their selection,—to suit the majority of our members. Even more than in earlier times, the market today is flooded with vile literature, not only in wood pulp varieties, but in de luxe editions which are, as Shakespeare says, "Like a villain with a smiling cheek; a goodly apple rotten at the heart." Don't let anyone persuade you that you should read degrading rubbish in order to learn about life. For entertainment, education, and culture, there is nothing less expensive and more enduring than a good novel. Erasmus, the Dutch philosopher said, "When I have a little money I buy a book. If I have any left, I buy food and clothes." An Egyptian king had this inscription placed over the door of his library, "These are the medicines of the soul."
Then let us study the novel. And by that study gain happiness and satisfaction, as well as education and culture.
The address "Literary Landmarks" by Julia A. F. Lund, will be published in a later issue of the magazine.
Social Service Department
Jennie B. Knight, Chairman
Themes for the Coming Year
By Jennie B. Knight
SOCIAL service might be known as religion in action. The lessons for the past three years have been on Civic Sociology. They have done much to make our women community conscious. "As we help lift the world the lifting helps us" is the testimony you fine workers bear today. Your work cannot be measured, but in your communities are seen better playgrounds, better sanitation, more beautification of homes and public places, and many other things due to your cooperation in community betterment. Among your members a better understanding of many public problems is had. Many have come to appreciate the advantages of group life—greater necessity of observance of law, paying of public bills, promotion of peace, and those phases of social progress in which women must take a prominent part.
As the community is no better than the members who comprise it, we are turning our attention to more personal problems during the coming year. Dr. Mark K. Allen, son of our beloved Inez Knight Allen, has prepared a course of interesting lessons on The Psychology of Personal Adjustment. As we remember that we are co-responsible with God for our salvation, these lessons challenge our best efforts in understanding ourselves and in learning how to be better women. In applying these lessons there are two memory gems we need to repeat often: "Build thee more stately mansions, O my Soul" and "Weary not."
The address "How Modern Psychology Can Help Me As An Adult" by Dr. Mark K. Allen will be published in a later issue of the magazine.
Officers' Meeting
Wednesday, October 5, 1938
Official Instructions
By President Louise Y. Robison
THAT all members of the Church may have an opportunity of affiliating with the organizations of the Church, and that none shall be overlooked, the Auxiliary Executives, with the approval of the General Authorities, are having a survey made. The survey forms have been sent to the Superintendents of Sunday Schools, and communications from each of the General Boards have been sent to their respective officers. When the surveys are made the original copy will be given to the Primary and Relief Society officers, the duplicate copy to the Sunday School and the Mutual officers. Will the Stake Presidents urge all Ward Presidents of Relief Society to check the names appearing on the survey with the members enrolled in the Society, and make a list of the adult women who are not enrolled, for use of the Coordinator.
Although the Coordinator is an important officer, there is no provision made for recording this special activity. The Stake Coordinator would logically be a Stake Board member, the Ward Coordinator must be an active member of the Society and each recorded as such. If outstanding work is accomplished, a record of this activity should be recorded in the history of the Society. We want to compliment the Stakes on the originality of the programs which have been arranged to introduce the Membership Campaign.
ARE you using the great number of Visiting Teachers to build up your Societies? Over twenty-five thousand of these fine women represent Relief Society in the homes. There is much more for them to do than merely calling on the families and making 100% visits, important as this service is.
To be a successful Visiting Teacher one must have a testimony of the Gospel and be diligent in upholding Church standards. One can never teach any principle successfully which that person does not believe and try to live. A Visiting Teacher must attend Relief Society meeting and become familiar with the lessons if she would be retained as a teacher. It is impossible for her to carry Relief Society spirit into the homes unless she consistently attends her meetings.
There is a rich opportunity to stimulate older women to have hobbies. Our foreign-born sisters, many of whom have skill in producing handwork, should be encouraged to make a precious heirloom or produce articles to be sold in Mormon Handicraft. Stake Officers and Board Members, look to the personalities of your Visiting Teachers. They will raise the standards of your Society if you choose your women wisely.
WE ARE introducing a new course of lessons in the Relief Society, a course which we are confident will appeal to the women of our communities. We are fortunate in securing one of the most popular writers in the United States, Dr. Paul Popenoe, to prepare the lessons which will deal with the vital interests of life. We are asking that the Counselor—Stake and Ward—who is directing the educational work of the Society have charge of the new course. It is to be conducted quite unlike our regular lessons. Instructions will be given in a special meeting for Stake Presidents and Counselors at four o'clock this afternoon, and Sister Barker will discuss the subject more in detail tomorrow morning.
THERE has been some misunderstanding about Daughters' Day. Although we enjoy having parties with our daughters, it was not our intention to make this a party. We hoped to acquaint our daughters with the real Relief Society program, and it was our desire to have the lessons given by them. Serving light refreshments on this day is quite in harmony with our plan.
MEMBERSHIP cards for 1939 are ready for distribution. We think the historical data on the reverse side of the card is attractive, and thank President May G. Hinckley, of the Northern States Mission, for the suggestion.
THE Literary course requires several books, but as arrangements were made with the publishers to purchase a large number of these books, we have obtained them at a fraction of the usual cost. We suggest that the Stake Supervisor of the Literary lessons, as well as Ward Class Leaders have access to these books.
Do not feel that all books referred to in the Theological lessons should be purchased. The writer of these lessons mentions them as source material and as books which enrich the class work if available. Please be loyal to the lessons. Two or three of the Stake Supervisors have reported that the Theology lessons were difficult. Do you realize that we have been studying theology for many years and should be capable of understanding the Gospel message beyond the ordinary person? Consider, too, that we have three hundred and sixty-five days in which to prepare nine theology lessons. The course we are now studying is planned to especially help mothers whose sons and daughters are frequently disturbed by scientific statements in colleges and universities.
PLEASE be assured that the General Board appreciates the work which you wonderful women are directing in the missions, stakes, wards and branches. Our prayers are always that you will have health to carry on this work. May our Father in Heaven sustain you in your labor of love I humbly pray.
The Strength of the Stake Board
By Belle Smith Spafford
WOMEN called to work on Relief Society Stake Boards hold important and responsible positions, being the leaders of the units over which they preside. Leaders must rise above the common stature in spiritual, mental, and moral qualities. The strength of the organization, to a large extent, is determined by the quality and strength of its leadership.
Stake leaders exercise spiritual leadership, not leadership by the sheer weight of position and authority but leadership by a depth of insight into the purposes of the organization, and into the personalities with whom they are working. Then by perfected techniques in meeting the women at the point of their needs, interests and abilities, growth opportunities are provided.
There is great satisfaction in belonging to a strong Stake Board. All Boards should be strong, composed as they are of carefully selected Latter-day Saint women, each with unique backgrounds of experience, unique capacities, aptitudes and abilities. But full strength can only be enjoyed when tireless, intelligent, well directed effort characterizes the work of each individual in her own department and when each member contributes her strength to group strength whenever opportunity affords.
There are many contributing factors to group strength, each deserving careful consideration: Inter-stimulation—one Board member working at par has a decided tendency to increase the efforts of others in the group; harmony—members should study one another with a view of enjoying mutual support; good morale—joint consideration and group approval of major policies, programs and problems is a powerful factor.
The Union meeting is the place where the strength of the Board is most profoundly felt and is the chief factor in the unification and improvement of ward work. Here ward leaders are inspired with the spirit and purpose of the Relief Society program and assistance is given with the work in hand. Guidance is also given which develops the individuals who present the work.
A successful lesson department means a great deal more than providing class members with a wealth of supplementary material. It means well directed effort in the selection, arrangement, and use of teaching material in order to achieve desired teaching objectives which the class has agreed upon, based upon the subject matter contained in the Magazine. The Union meeting lesson is not a smooth unfoldment of ideas which move from a point of departure to a logical conclusion as is the ward lesson. Rather, it is analytical in nature. It assists in the interpretation of the Magazine material. It aims to aid class leaders in defining objectives; it aids in organizing subject matter, stimulating and assisting in the selection of authoritative supplementary material; it anticipates lesson trends and problems that may arise and fortifies the class to cope with these. The most enlightened methods of presenting the work are developed. Each woman is given opportunity for growth and development through guidance in the basic principles of good teaching. This may have to be done incidentally, due to limited time, but it is never lost sight of.
Opportunities for growth are provided through active participation in the lesson: Special teaching weaknesses of certain members receive attention. Some may have to be converted to the work they have been called to do; with others confidence must be established in their own abilities; where interest and enthusiasm are lagging encouragement is provided.
The influence and strength of the Board is felt when ward visits are made. These visits are made with a spirit of friendly interest and helpfulness—ward strengths are observed, teachers and officials encouraged, and their good work commended. Every visit should be purposeful. If there is a message to be given, it should be expressed briefly. Ward difficulties and failures often serve as a guide in the conduct of Union meeting departments.
Last and possibly most important of all, the strength of the Board should be felt wherever a Board member finds herself. She represents the leadership of Latter-day Saint women. She is dignified, ever expressing the finest in womanhood. She is an example to all in upholding Latter-day Saint ideals and standards and so conducts herself that any seeing her may say, "Where she leads, there am I safe to follow."
Church Welfare—Relief Society Assignments
Relationship of Relief Society to Home Service
By Robert L. Judd
I COME to you this morning by direction of my superiors and not of my own choosing. I feel most humble in your presence, and trust that I may have your moral and spiritual support in this effort.
As I know that the Gospel of Jesus Christ as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith is God's plan of life for His children, so do I know that it is through the inspiration of our Heavenly Father to His present prophet that we, the membership of this Church, are under commandment today to work out among the unfortunate of this Church what is known as the Welfare Program.
It has not been easy to make the progress that we have made up to the present time. The problems we are seeking to solve are difficult of solution. We are fighting for the great principle of the right to live in honor and self-respect for all. We are waging this fight in a world of avarice, greed and class hatred, and the latter never more than today. In a world that man has made for himself, in the main, without dependence upon our Heavenly Father, a great unbalancing of those things which go to make a secure life has occurred. The balance between production and market, between distribution and the ability of the people to acquire those things which they need for consumption has been entirely upset. From every part of the nation and the world have come acclaimed panacea for the trouble that faces us, but none seem to work.
It is nine years ago about the ninth of November, since the Stock Markets of this nation, as a herald, trumpeted to us that we had been an improvident nation and had lived unwisely, and that we must suffer for our sins. Today we are still suffering, at a time when the harvests of the country are more abundant than in many years past.
I have the abiding conviction and faith that we, the members of this Church, can free ourselves from the condition that we are in. My faith and my conviction of that fact is supported by what God has done for His children in times past. I remember distinctly the lesson which came to me, and has continued with me from the situation the Children of Israel found themselves in at the time that Moses came to them as their deliverer. They were mixed up in a world much more difficult for them to understand than the world which we are mixed up in, but God delivered them through their leader. There was none among them who could have attempted to figure out how that deliverance would come, but we have it in Holy Writ that their leaders and many of the people had faith that God would keep His promise to them, and I imagine that if we had stood that day with Israel on the shore of the Red Sea, with the armies of Pharaoh gathering at our rear, as they had them, we would have quaked and wondered if indeed God was to deliver us, but Moses stretched forth his arm and the waters parted and the Children of Israel were delivered.
I COME now to another time in the history of our own people which supports me in that conviction that we can be delivered. You remember the troubles and trials that confronted the Saints during the winter of 1846-47 in Nauvoo. It just appeared that nothing could work out for their deliverance, and yet Joseph Smith had said that they should be delivered, that they should come to the tops of the Rocky Mountains and become a great people, and Brigham Young and the leaders had faith in that, as did a great many of the people. It was in February when the command was given that they should cross the Mississippi River and start their trek west; there were those who had faith that through that movement they would be delivered. There were some who did not, and they stayed instead of crossing the Mississippi, and what has become of them? I had the privilege of being in that country recently, and they are not to be found; they have been swallowed up and lost, whereas those who had faith to cross the Mississippi River, and undertake this trek, have been established in the Rocky Mountains, and we, their descendants, testify of their deliverance.
And so it is today. We can be delivered, not through our own power, but by and through the power of God, if we live in accordance with and follow His directions. Our Church organization is equal in every way to meet this emergency and help us out of it. It can accomplish our objectives for us if we will put our hand to the task.
To exemplify what I mean, let me review with you the objective of this welfare work. It is first to provide those who are unable to work for what they get with food and clothing and other necessities of life. It is to provide those who can work, with work to do, and to assist in their rehabilitation. Now as exemplifying the first: After eighteen months of operation it was determined that we would figure out a budget for the Church based upon our experience. From this it was estimated that 45,000 people in our ranks would need help between October 1, 1938; and the last day of April, 1939. Based upon that load there was budgeted to every stake in the Church that which it could best produce to be accumulated as the source from which all people would be supplied. From my understanding of the way in which that budget has been carried out, I have absolute faith that during this period to which I have referred, every individual in the Church in need can be taken care of.
Now to exemplify the second point—the rehabilitating of our people: Does our organization measure up? It does where we make it measure up, and may I hurriedly give you what to me is a thrilling example of that. One of the corporations in which the Church is interested last April decided to tear down a large block of its buildings situated in the center of the business district of Salt Lake. It asked for bids from professional wreckers for tearing down these buildings. A bid was received in the sum of $2,150 to be paid the owner, the wreckers to have all the materials that came out of the buildings. Someone suggested that it ought to be a project for the Welfare Program. The project was gone over, and it was so risky that we thought we should not undertake it at the expense of the welfare of our people. To demonstrate just how risky it seemed, we went to the Industrial Commission and found that the rate of insurance for carrying our compensation would be 46c on every dollar of pay-roll, and to get it from a paid insurance company it would cost us 54c on every dollar of pay-roll. It seemed that it was about to be given up, and then a meeting was called. In the course of the meeting somebody said, "What would Brigham Young have done under the circumstances?" Somebody else spoke up and said, "He would have done the job," and therefore it was agreed unanimously that we would do the job. The Industrial Commission kindly let us carry our own insurance, and we went forward with the job. We furnished approximately 43 men, gathered from the wards of this region by the Priesthood and the Relief Society with 70 days of work, and provided their families with the cash needed for light and rent and things of that kind, and their food from the storehouse into which your sacrifices had gone.
I WANT to make my point with you sisters of the Relief Society as to what you can do in the home work. I cannot add materially to what was said six months ago. We know you will cooperate with the Priesthood of your wards in working out the problems which I have suggested. In connection with the home service work, you will cooperate with the Priesthood in making investigations such as will enable people to be served to the best advantage from the abundance which we have gathered.
I pray that our Heavenly Father will bless us and inspire us all to the great accomplishment that is ours. May we carry forward this welfare work for the redemption of the membership of the Church from the bondage that they suffer as a result of conditions that exist.
Relationship of Relief Society to Sewing Projects
By President Louise Y. Robison
WE are happy in having members of the Church Welfare Committee with us today. We anticipate having definite instructions on the best way in which we can assist in promoting the Church Welfare Program. From all our stakes and wards women are asking, "What else can we do?"
When families or communities or nations unite on a policy, those families or communities or nations can be raised to any standard to which the leadership is competent of taking them. Having a testimony that the Church Welfare Plan is inspired by our Heavenly Father and that the First Presidency are His authorized representatives on earth, we believe that under their leadership we can be led to greater accomplishments than we have ever known.
Relief Society has been given the responsibility of caring for the used clothing. After two years' experience in this work we have some definite suggestions to give to our sisters. Through the visiting teachers we have an excellent opportunity of informing every household in the Church of the need we have for used clothing. We hope the visiting teachers will understand the program in order to acquaint the women they visit with the need of giving articles which have some value.
Clothing should be collected only in such quantities as can be segregated and cared for at once. It is not a good policy to store clean and unclean clothing, woolen and fur trimmed articles in promiscuous piles. Before sending used clothing to storehouse or serving center the president should select and keep in the ward sufficient to supply her own needs, retaining such articles as can be used in teaching women to sew, as well as providing them with material for making over for their families.
Through the proper approach and having only one person appointed to make the contact, valuable material can often be obtained from apartment houses in large cities. Determining where sewing centers should be opened, whether in wards, stakes or regions, is the responsibility of the Priesthood, as the expense of operating sewing centers is always met by the Priesthood authorities of the ward, stake or region. We believe, however, that the advice of the Relief Society presidents in establishing such centers will be valuable. While it is most desirable that all women give voluntary service in sewing centers for supplying the needs of the people served by the center, we feel that they should not be required to sew for people in other localities. We have Relief Society women in every locality where there is need who are capable of sewing for their own ward or stake and who know their own needs better than any other group. We suggest that women who are given employment on bishops' orders could profitably do extra work on surplus stock to supply an emergency order from the General Committee. In localities where there is a shortage of material Relief Society ward presidents should ascertain the clothing needs of their people and notify the stake president, who should make requisition on the region or General Committee for material to supply these needs. Under proper 746 supervision women would have the opportunity of giving voluntary service and those who require assistance could be paid for their labor, as they are in larger centers. When we work with the spirit of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE loving service we can lift this project above the ordinary used clothes department. I am sure we have the power in Relief Society to make it an honor to sew or wear used clothing. RELATIONSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY TO THE CANNING PROJECTS By Bishop Marvin O. Ashton BEFORE presenting the subject assigned to me I would like to say a word regarding Mormon Handicraft. This spring the Sugarhouse Club of Rotary International had the honor of entertaining the President of the Rotary Clubs of the world. He was a Frenchman— a big man, representing a big organization. We were very anxious to give him an appropriate gift. We had in mind the name "Sugarhouse" and thought it would be well to give him a silver-mounted wooden cup turned from an old timber that came out of the early-day sugar factory. Then we thought of the hundred yoke of oxen which brought the machinery for the factory across the plains in 1852-53. In the Handicraft Shop we found exactly what we wanted—a covered wagon and two yoke of oxen, cut with a pocket knife by someone who was contributing to this Shop. You should have seen the expression of pleasure when the gift was opened by this gentleman. Somewhere in France, among a collection of hundreds of choice things, there is now a specimen of "Mormon" handicraft in the shape of two yoke of oxen and a covered wagon. I am wondering if sometimes we do not fail to appreciate such 'a thing in our midst. You all have birthdays, you all make gifts. Make use of the Mormon Handicraft Shop. If you want to be individual in giving, the Mormon Handicraft Shop will help you. speaking to my assigned subject: I remember in school we learned equations, and if you remember your arithmetic, 1 is to 2 as 4 is to 8, or 6 is to 12 as 18 is to 36. In Church Welfare work the Relief Society must take a tremendous part; it not only must, it does. Going back to the equations—l is to 2 as 4 is to 8 —a wife is to the home what the Relief Society is to welfare work. When you educate a man you educate an individual; when you educate a woman you educate the whole family; she raises the standard of the entire family. May I tell a story from my own experience, that illustrates the generosity and character of women? Last winter I was driving through the Fort Douglas cut-off on the way to a funeral. All at once I found myself "up to my eyes" in a snowdrift. I had ten minutes to get to the funeral and was supposed to speak when I arrived. I got out of the car and looked around. First one man came along and then another; at least half a dozen men passed, and then along came a little woman, She stopped and said, "I believe I have a chain in the back, look and see if it is there, I believe I can help you." But there was no chain there. She said, "Just wait RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE a few minutes." She rode back to Fort Douglas, returning in about five minutes bringing two men and two shovels. In about three minutes I was out of the snowdrift. She was an aristocrat of the first order. "THERE are some things in our program so evident that they need no argument. Can you think of a Relief Society without thinking of its particivation in canning? I cannot. Can you think of a canning project without the Relief Society taking a big partin it? Iam going to parallel Sister Robison's remarks—what is true of sewing in a certain sense is true of canning. There are going to be ward projects, stake projects and regional projects. I think in the Salt Lake districts most of the canning will be done in regional capacity, but it must be done in the wards in some places. This thing must be attacked from two places—first, the home, and second, mass or group production. I think if there is anything sad in the world, it is the case of the woman who needs help in the home and yet who simply does not exert herself, who sits twiddling her thumbs while busy women work for her. You may know a woman who never participates in our activities. What if that particular woman who never helps had not married whom she married, or suppose that she had not come to the home of her particular father—if we can imagine such things—what if her environment were entirely different, where would she be? I think a woman who shuts herself off from helping little children, though these little children may have an indolent mother, is losing a real opportunity in life. One of the best signs of lack of real culture is a lack of real human sympathy. If a woman who is blessed with the things of this life wants to handicap 747 her own children, she has only to keep out of their lives the sweetness that comes from a desire to help children not so fortunate. If you do not help little children, if you just let them "go to seed," if you do not touch their lives, they are going to marry and produce the same kind of offspring, and instead of having one parcel of responsibility you are going to have seven parcels of responsibility i in the next generation. If you can find an opportunity to reach an underprivileged family, that is a big item. If you have a ward canning group or a stake canning group and in some way induce the incompetent mother to participate with you, you have then achieved something. Put a clean apron on her, and everyone else can put on a clean apron so that she does not feel out of place. See that she does things well. That may be the means of getting into her home and influencing her life. Some women do not know how to do things. You must touch their lives, and if you can get them into a canning group and from there touch their lives at home, you are really going to accomplish something. I think where you have a woman of this type, prepare the women of the group to receive her kindly and respond lovingly to her needs. While she may not be just up to the standard of the group, help her, and it will reflect itself in the home. I think you women are very, very foolish if you do all the work. Ask the men to lift the lugs of fruit and do the heavy work. From my experience with men, if you let them get away with it they will let you do all the work. It is an inspiration to be here this morning. It is an inspiration to see 748 just how you ladies work. You take things more seriously than men, you come better prepared. After all your name is Relief Society and you are certainly the embodiment of your name in every way, and we do RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE appreciate your attitude and cooperation. The address "Deseret Industries" by Harold B. Lee, will be published in a later issue of the magazine. General Session Wednesday, October 5, 1938 YOUTH SPEAKS By Janet M. Thompson In the present time the United States has over twenty million boys and girls between sixteen and twenty-four years of age who are the potential citizens of tomorrow. We depend upon these boys and girls to control this country—theirs is the responsibility for carrying on. These twenty million citizens are facing the most difficult situation, probably the most dangerous, which has ever confronted youth in the history of this nation. Dr. Rainey says, "Discouragements and frustration of the normal aspirations of millions of our young people present one of the most painful aspects of the contemporary scene." Because of these frustrations and discouragements many of our best informed educators have reached these conclusions: first, that present conditions demand an immediate remedy; second, that a long-range program is necessary if we are to equip youth to carry on. Let us consider these suggestions in the light of the many opportunities we have to strengthen faulty gaps. Young people desire experience — _ responsibility, security and recognition. They recognize the need of more education, more permanent jobs and better recreational facilities. In view of these facts one is inclined to ask: How many young people in our Church are out of school and out of employment? What type of experiences are they reaping? They can choose well if wholesome experiences are provided them—if they choose a lower course of action, they will not find security. What educational advantages have they had? A young person may have a wonderful education but when there is nothing to occupy his time and mind, how easy it is to lose sight of cultural values. What are their attitudes toward life? What are their needs in educational, employment and recreational fields? If we are to be an influence in helping to meet some of the handicaps of youth, how may we best proceed? Church organizations offer a solution to many of our problems. Church machinery provides something for everyone to do. While it provides some permanent jobs and some of the material things of life, its richest contribution is the SPIRITUAL. Youth believes that a widespread return to religion is necessary to the progress of the nation. It wants spiritual leadership. Leadership is developed through Church activity. Church Seminaries and Institutes are invaluable. Where young people have been graduated from high school or college and are not associated in any way with these religious units, would it be possible to make arrangements for them to receive religious training in these institution? RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Oftentimes when youth neglect Church duties, it is considered a personal matter and not much is done about it. Why not make these personal matters ward or stake responsibilities; do something for youth in a collective way—work toward a ward, stake or regional goal; aim to build SPIRITUAL SECURITY? Religious forums conducted in the evenings might prove a source of real worth. Why not make this a returned missionary activity? Youth is thrilled to have missionaries relate the deep and abiding truths they have learned in the performance of their missions. How valuable their experiences and training! What greater service could they extend than to keep the light of the Gospel message aglow in the hearts of wavering youth? Junior Church Beautification committees might be organized, also Junior Church Welfare committees, to plan a program similar to the 4-H Club movement. A community forum composed of members and nonmembers—where adults might serve merely in an advisory capacity — where youth could be free to develop 749 individual interests and needs might also be organized. Can we meet the needs and desires of youth by making such forums retraining schools? Are we utilizing our Church amusement halls and school buildings sufficiently? Have we attractive centers to which to invite youth? If there are no such accommodations, invite young folk to provide them— let that be their responsibility. Unoccupied and unemployed youth should find happiness and satisfaction in making social centers attractive—should also enjoy clearing vacant lots and beautifying them. What facilities have we for leisure-time occupations? "Leisuretime occupations should have the importance of any occupation — frequently they have the germ of a new job within them. Occupational versatility is a bag of gold." The Relief Society Magazine offers many helpful suggestions for youth. Are we particular to see that young folk read it? How many of our young girls are reading the articles on "Women We Should Know"? COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION By Emeline Y. Nebeker COMMUNITIES are doing much for their people in health and in education. Governmental health activity in the United States began shortly after the formation of the Republic with the organization of city boards of health. The passage of the National Social Security Act with its very large allocations to the states for improvement of health services has quickened the movement and will unquestionably tend greatly to raise the standard of health service throughout the country. A most valuable and farreaching result will be the improvement in the training of medical personnel. While it is true that public agencies must always bear the main burden of protecting public health, the services of the volunteer organizations are always essential to progress. These are of two classes, the first having a membership limited by professional qualifications and the second often including large groups of interested laymen as well. 750 Through large endowments for the promotion of human welfare profound contributions have been made to public health through laboratory and field research. Life insurance companies were among the first commercial enterprises to establish medical departments. Many national organizations, lodges, service clubs and others have health departments or committees. For many years the needs and care of crippled children have engaged the interest of public and private organizations. We all know the wonderful work of the Primary Association of our Church for many of these handicapped children. The Senate Finance Committee in its report on the Social Security bill in May, 1935, stated that there are about 300,000 to 500,000 crippled children in this country, and estimated that about one child in every 100 is crippled." Asa result of the provisions of the Social Security Act, state plans for relief and other services to the physically handicapped have been greatly stimulated in recent months. The mentally diseased or deficient constitute another group requiring attention. Health education more than any other health service requires the effective cooperation of volunteer organizations with official agencies, both locally and nationally. The Relief Society thas always been interested in health and nursing. Soon after the arrival of the Pioneers in Salt Lake Valley in 1847 a council of health was established, with a view of conserving the health of mothers and children. Today Relief Society is cooperating with Public Health nurses, school nurses, and all others interested in this important subject. The nutrition program recommended by our Work and Business committee for this year's study RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE should be of great help in promoting child health. COMMUN ITY interest and effort has not only been directed toward the field of health but education along all lines has received public support. Adult education in the United States has become an integral part of the country's life. In the past five years it has assumed the proportions of a national movement, "with literally millions of participants, and many thousands of professional and lay leaders." For the fifth consecutive year of the W. P. A. Program in education enrollment showed an increase, according to the recently issued report for the year 1937-38. Total enrollment for the year was 1,586,211, as compared with 1,569,529 in 1936-37—an increase of over 16,000. L. R. Alderman, W. P. A. Educational director, reports that a five-year goal of teaching one million illiterate adults to read and write has reduced illiteracy in this country about twenty-five per cent. Other outstanding features covered in Mr. Alderman's report are: naturalization classes, classes in homemaking and child welfare, nursery school for children of two to four years, correspondence courses for persons living in remote farm and mountain regions, vocational education, general adult education, and workers' education. One stake Relief Society cooperated with W. P. A. Whereby a group of young women were given training in cooking and homemaking to enable them to earn wages as helpers in homes. Another stake helped to make it possible for a nursery school to be opened. The economic depression has dramatized and emphasized the inter-relation of adult education and RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE social work. Social workers during the past five years increasingly have turned to education for its therapeutic and morale-building values in treating individuals dislocated by the collapse of industry. When jobs are not available, education often can be made an opportunity for cultural expansion and preparation for a hopedfor job. Libraries, museums, the extension work of colleges and universities, and the programs for rural residents conducted by the extension divisions of the state colleges of agriculture in cooperation with the United States Government are giving opportunities to all who will avail themselves of them. 751 "The glory of God is intelligence," expresses the underlying philosophy of "Mormonism." Relief Society has ever upheld the educational standards of the Church. Our program today is keeping abreast of the times and let us hope that the knowledge obtained may be interwoven in our lives and manifest itself in character development. Progress is a fundamental doctrine of the Church. We are in sympathy with the advancement being made in community health and education and are anxious that it continue to go forward, but it can advance only in accord with the standards of the individuals who comprise the community. INTERPRETING THE RELIEF SOCIETY EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM By Eva Williams Darger IN the minutes of the first meeting of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo we find that those women assumed the responsibility of helping the needy to find suitable employment. As the organization has grown this work has continued, and thousands of women and girls have found pleasant and profitable employment through the Relief Society. When it is recognized that paid workers in the home constitute the largest occupational group of women in our country, it is clear that we have a great responsibility to help place them. Homemaking is a great art. Household employees who are privileged to work in homes where there is a spirit of love, comradeship and fair play, learn attitudes toward homemaking which they themselves will carry on into their own lives as they marry and rear families. Seventy per cent of the employees placed through the Relief Society are under thirty years of age. The majority are placed for domestic service. There are many important things for young women who come to the city from smaller districts to consider: The health of the individual is of vital importance. It is advisable for a girl to have a complete physical examination before she leaves home. References as to her character, background and qualifications from reliable members of her community should be obtained. She 'should be provided with funds sufficient to care for her needs until suitable employment is found. She should bring adequate clothing such as neat, modest dresses, shoes, stockings and underwear. Some knowledge of the hotels, location of employment bureaus, addresses of friends or relatives should be had. Some educational qualifications are necessary. Systematic training in household tasks for all girls would be of great 72 benefit. Where it is possible girls should complete their high school education. If household employment is chosen as the field of work, specialized training by which a girl may become a skilled worker, should be pursued. In this way efficient and well-trained workers, able to establish high standards of work would be available, instead of the unskilled laborers that are now for the most part all that are to be had. The director of the United States Employment service said at the National Conference of Social Work, "The biggest of all tasks today is restoring employment to workers, not merely finding the man or woman a job, but finding the right job for the man or woman." In order to accomplish this, vocational guidance should be given: to counsel and assist girls and women contemplating employment to obtain more insight into their own aptitudes, capacities, traits, skills, knowledge and background; to secure additional education or training for available employment opportunities; to make the most of educational, recreational and other opportunities provided by the community. Someone standing between RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE these young women and society as a kind of two-way clearing station, bringing facts to the individual from society, and in turn bringing facts back to society that emerge out of the individual problems disclosed in the process is necessary. With an understanding knowledge of human beings, skill in dealing with other people's problems, with the desire to strengthen and encourage the individual's faith in herself, this program of providing employment for women is being carried on. In working toward satisfactory employer-employee relations, much would be gained if the worker would do all in her power to maintain the highest standards of home life, to consider her relationships with the family confidential, refraining at all times from harmful gossip, to be careful of her personal appearance, respect her employer's home furnishings, guard her manners and language especially in the presence of children, guard her habits in order to maintain good health and to enjoy wholesome recreation, to remember the Golden Rule, "Do unto others as you would have them do unto " you. ADDRESS Bishop Joseph Wirthlin AM deeply interested in Relief Society. Perhaps I inherited this from my own mother. She was at one time, a Relief Society president, and as a young man I saw how a Relief Society functioned. Many of its affairs came into our home. I saw much of the work that was done by the sisters of our ward in connection with this great work, and for that reason I have a warm spot in my heart for this great organization. I do not hesitate in saying to you that I do not think there is an organization anywhere in the world today that is comparable to it. It seems to me that your program includes everything that is good, lovely, fine, progressive, spiritual; and the organization has to its credit many outstanding accomplishments—accomplishments within the memory of all of us. I am sure if there ever was a time in the history of the Church when a Relief Society was needed, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE that time is today. We are facing serious problems that will require the united support of every organization of the Church, and I am confident that the Relief Society will respond to each call that comes, as it always has done, and the same fine success will attend its efforts. Relief Society offers many splendid opportunities to the women of our Church. We have many talented women who most graciously give their time and abilities to the organization for the benefit of those who are not so privileged. JI am sure that if it were not for the fine program that has been developed there would be many women in the remote parts of this Church who would have very few opportunities. There comes to mind now two instances. One is of a woman who has lived in one of the Canadian stakes for thirty years, in the home which her husband constructed when they first went to that country—a log house with two rooms. When she and her husband first went to Canada they had high ambitions. They were young and vigorous people and battled with the soil on the bleak prairies of Canada. One year they were successful, then for three or four years drought came and destroyed their crops. The sum total of their experience is that theyare still in the same log house situated ten miles from the nearest town. Their physical comforts are few, but a highlight in this woman's life has been the fact that she was given the opportunity of teaching the literary work in Relief Society. Her president gave her the opportunity of going to Provo, Utah, to further her studies. She counts that as the 753 greatest blessing that ever came into her life. If it had not been for the Relief Society she never would have had that opportunity, and the joy which she now has would never have come to her. The other case is of a lady who lives in one of our districts. I have known her for years. As a girl she was shy and timid. In the course of time she married and moved: to a small town in California where there was a branch of the Church. The president of the Relief Society appointed her to supervise the Social Service department of the organization. She had never had any experience along that line; her knowledge was limited, but she had ambitions; so she set to work, visited the public library and studied all available authorities on social service. Today she is an outstanding worker in her community. It is quite possible that if this woman had not had the opportunity of rendering this service and overcoming her inferiority complex, she would not have developed to any great extent. The Relief Society organization of the Church afforded her this opportunity and she made the most of it. The opportunities being offered to the women of this Church are a great inspiration, and I am sure the sisters appreciate the privileges afforded them. THERE is something else Relief Society has done—something being done now— which is most outstanding. We talk about the depression and its effects upon people; we hear the First Presidency constantly telling us to be frugal. The Relief Society is heeding that advice and setting a wonderful example. One of the fundamentals 754 that has come to my attention is that of good home management. I happen to have had the privilege of working in the Salt Lake Region, where a study was made of conditions relative to home management. We found that in many instances where people were on relief the mother did not know how to sew, to bake bread, nor how to do many of the simple things. Because of the lack of this knowledge the family found itself in poverty. So the Relief Society has taken up a project of teaching people how to make bread properly, how to do the washing correctly, how to do good sewing. About a year ago in a well-to do Salt Lake City stake a survey was made to determine how many of the women were baking their own bread and doing their washing and sewing. As nearly as I can remember, about 65 per cent of the women were doing their own work, 67 percent their own washing, and 60 per cent their own sewing. The Relief Society has gone into the wards and taught people how to do these things. One Relief Society president told me that she experienced much pleasure in going down to her laundry room on Monday morning and doing her washing because the Relief Society program had dignified this duty. Connection with teaching our people to follow the advice of the First Presidency of the Church I want to compliment the Relief Society for teaching our sisters the necessity of properly managing their homes. The Relief Society has some definite duties in connection with the Church Welfare Program. Personally I cannot conceive of  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE any bishop trying to put over the Church Welfare Program without you—you are a part of it. If the program is to be successful you will have to be in it actively—you will have to be used. My experiences as a bishop and stake president have taught me, without any doubt, that the Relief Society has a very important part to play in the Church Welfare Program. It is true that we have the Priesthood quorums, and the Priesthood quorums of this Church should be so stimulated that there will come a degree of activity that we have never had before. It is through the Church Welfare Program that this activity will be stirred. For that reason welfare committees have been organized, composed of eight persons, the Relief Society President being one of them, and representatives of the various Priesthood quorums being the other members. With the Relief Society president a member of this committee many of the problems now confronting us in connection with relief will be properly solved. Women have an understanding relative to relief problems that men do not have; consequently it is important that the Relief Society have a definite part in this great program. Me2st of us think of relief in a physical sense. We think that if we administer relief in the form of clothing, fuel and food, that the job is done. As I think of the depression and the effects of it, there are some other forms of relief—forms of relief that have been mentioned by Sister Thompson. There is a need for spiritual relief, recreational relief, educational relief, cultural relief, and there most certainly is a need for a very RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE close study of the morals of our communities. These forms of relief will come largely through the Relief Society organization of the Church, and I personally think that they should. When we think of the finer things in life, such as the spiritual, the educational, the cultural interests, the women of the Church are interested in these perhaps more than the men. I am sure that through the contacts with those who find themselves in destitute circumstances, through the mothers in the homes, opportunity will come to render educational, cultural, and spiritual relief. So, as this great Welfare Program progresses and continues to develop, we are going to find through the Relief Society that there are many problems that we can solve. We know that you are loyal to the Priesthood of the Church; we know you are loyal to the bishops. I never had a more loyal group in all my experience than the Relief Society of my own ward. I remember the time when forty families were thrust upon us through the depression. The first people we called were the sisters of the Relief Society. We formulated a plan and carried it out for General 755 more than a year. It was most successful and the task was well performed because of the cooperation and help we received from this fine organization. We are grateful for what you have done—grateful for this wonderful organization which came to us through the instrumentality of a Prophet of God. It has a purpose and a destiny, and I am sure you are well on your way to the fulfilment of that destiny. This great organization of mothers promotes encouragement, kindness, liberality, sympathy, tolerance and unselfishness. It has a continual desire to do all that falls within the scope of the good, the true and the beautiful; in fact, I think the thirteenth Article of Faith applies to you and to your objectives: "We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men; indeed, we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul. We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." Session Thursday, a. M., October 6, 1938 TO RAISE HUMAN LIFE TO ITS HIGHEST LEVEL By Counselor Kate M. Barker O the women of the Church has been given a sacred trust, divinely given, which we must maintain and develop that it may be passed on unimpaired in spirit, enlarged in usefulness—"to raise human life to its highest level." From this obligation nothing can absolve us. Certainly if we meet our responsibility we must meet immediate present-day needs right around us, in our own community, our own neighborhood. We must get the vision of the Gospel ideal for human life, then we must see conditions as they are. This we must see and then we must bring to it a new sense of responsibility. Our effectiveness will be in organ- 756 ization. One family cannot do much, but several families can; one group may not be able to do much alone, but all groups interested, if they cooperate and coordinate their efforts, can do much. When it comes to human welfare who should lead out but the Relief Society whose major interest is human betterment? Surely if someone takes the initiative, community resources may be so organized that no child need go through life handicapped because of lack of medical care or other necessary advantages. Another community project might be the control of the type of magazines sold at the news stands in many of our towns. "Such magazines can nearly always be suppressed by the force of public opinion." Public opinion can only be effective if someone takes the initiative in organizing that opinion to carry over into action. The hunger for friendship is one of the deepest longings of the human soul. Growth and happiness is dependent upon happy human relations. Solitary living destroys mental health. We must not interpret our Church Welfare Program altogether in terms of food and shelter; emotional security is equally important. Neighborliness might well be revived and thus tone up the emotional condition of everyone. OF all relationships in the human world, family relationships are the most everlastingly difficult, and the most permanently rewarding." The greatest growth, the greatest BLESSINGS OF RELIEF RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE happiness can come from those close, intimate relationships of home and family, providing that the family seeks above all else to make life as meaningful as possible for all its members. Intelligent understanding, sympathy, a high regard for the sacredness of the personality of each member so that each one feels he is wanted, loved and understood, these are the bases for wholesome mental health and happy family life. The family is a fellowship where through sympathy, love, understanding, cooperation, sharing, such strong bonds are built that they can never be broken, developing such companionship that all through life pleasures are enhanced and burdens lightened because they are shared. _ If marriage and family relationships offer such potential joy, should conduct of them be left to chance? Young people are realizing that the only sensible procedure is to plan and build for happiness on a solid foundation of mutual understanding. To offer help in laying this solid foundation the Relief Society is offering a new course—"Education for Family Life'"—and the first year will be devoted to "Family Relationships." Dr. Paul Popenoe, Director of the Institute of Family Relations of Los Angeles, is the writer of these lessons. May we begin the year's work with the determination that we will so conduct our home life that there will be mutual sympathy and mutual understanding, such peace and joy that the Spirit of our Father in Heaven will dwell therein. SOCIETY MEMBERSHIP By Anna S. Barlow ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON once said, "When we look into the long avenue of the future and see the good there is for each of us to do, we realize after all, what a beautiful thing it is to work and to live and to be happy." Every one is striving to live happily RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE and effectively, in other words, abundant living is the goal of man. Some follow one avenue and some another, but to Latter-day Saints the Gospel of Jesus Christ points the way to the abundant life. Women of the Church have been given the Relief Society through which the essentials of abundant living may be obtained. Spiritual strength, opportunities for service, cultural and educational advancement, and wholesome social contacts, are to be obtained from active membership. Through our organization we gain spiritual strength which is so necessary in order to live well and properly influence the lives of those about us. Youth of today must look to parents for inspiration and guidance —to mothers who stand firm upon the rock of faith in God. To live abundantly, we must learn the beauty of service. Many desire to serve but they must be shown the way. True service as interpreted by Relief Society does not mean just the giving of relief to the needy or the visiting of the sick and those who mourn, but it means living every day to the best of one's ability, giving of one's self for the good of others. In these days of trouble and strife there are those who need just a word of encouragement more than anything else. We all need the strength and courage of one another. We 757 need to pray, watch, think, speak and live hourly the kind of life that emanates peace, security and protection. The world is progressing rapidly in adult education. In this time of complicated affairs we need education that we may know how to live. Almost one hundred years ago a Prophet provided the women of the Church with the opportunity for. Adult education of the highest type. Throughout the years knowledge. And intelligence have come to us until today we have courses of study comparable to any offered to women by any society or group. I am sure we are all most grateful for the social opportunities provided by our organization, for the privilege we have of building wonderful friendships, friendships that will last forever. I am most grateful for my membership in the Relief Society organization and I desire to see its benefits extended to all women. It is not for any special or select group but for all women of good moral standing. It is a great sisterhood filling our lives with joy and satisfaction. Our membership goal of one hundred thousand by 1942 deserves the support of every woman who now enjoys the benefits of Relief Society. I have a testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I know that we are engaged in His work and I appreciate the opportunity to serve. RELIEF SOCIETY WORK IN EUROPE Counselor Amy Brown Lyman THE European Mission consists of twelve separate and distinct missions located in sixteen countries. Ina recent tour of the continent early this year we visited ten of these missions in the following order: Netherlands, French, Swiss-Austrian, Czechoslovak, West German, East German, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian. Two, Palestine-Syrian, our smallest mission, and South African, our most distant one, we did not visit. In these twelve missions nine languages are used. It was most interesting to see 758 these various European peoples in their natural settings and observe their national and racial characteristics. There is nothing truer, I think, than that the Gospel breaks down barriers and transforms strangers into friends, into brothers and sisters. In all our Church groups, in all of the fourteen countries, no matter what the nationality, culture, background or language, no matter what the race or temperament — whether Germanic, Nordic, Celtic or Slavic—we found the same brotherly love and understanding, the same sympathetic interest, the same generous hospitality, all of which are the result of the spirit of the Gospel itself. It was marvelous to be associated with these foreign brothers and sisters; to feel the warmth of their spirits, and to observe their devotion to The Cause. I was deeply touched by the hospitality extended to us everywhere. We visited the people in their homes; we slept in their beds; we ate at their tables. I never felt more at home, nor more secure out of my own home. I knew that if I were ill or in need or discouraged, that help would be forthcoming. For the lovely Latter-day Saints in Europe I have a deep affection. My heart goes out to them in love and appreciation. I shall never forget their kindness to me. THE Relief Society has active organizations in all of the missions, and there is nothing more evident than that they have the real Relief Society spirit and the interest of the organization at heart. They are loyal to the organization and love the opportunities it gives for development and self-expression. The entire membership, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE according to the 1937 report, is 4,642—just 7 more than the combined membership of six of our City stakes—Ensign, Bonneville, Granite, Liberty, Pioneer and Salt Lake. If all of the people who have ever belonged to Relief Society in the European Missions could be listed, it would reach many more thousands, and we could visualize what they have contributed to the organization all down through the years. For a hundred years emigration has been going on, constantly reducing the size of branches and membership rolls. Today the plan is to build up Zion in Europe. We have local leadership in all Relief Society organizations, both in the districts and branches. EIders are no longer needed for supervision or for presiding. Relief Society meetings are held weekly and in the evening. It is necessary to have evening meetings because many of the members work and others have little children whom they cannot leave. This plan interferes with the work meetings, but much of the sewing for bazaars is done at home, and special days are occasionally used. Visiting teaching is very limited due to the scattered conditions, long distances and transportation expense. Union meetings are almost impossible due to the same reasons. A new plan is being inaugurated this year to hold branch Union meetings to develop branch leadership and teacher-training. The regular courses of study are the same as in the stakes. The testimony meetings here are especially good. Most of the women are converts, and they have gained their testimonies through the fire of conversion. They know what they believe, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE why they believe, and they can express their beliefs. The Relief Society women in Europe are interested in, and well acquainted with, the social security programs of their various countries. They keep informed on all social welfare activities generally and are able to help people who are in any kind of distress. They know what can be done for children, orphans, sick, aged, tubercular, unemployed, etc. The charity funds which are raised by the Society for charity work are used largely to supplement government and county relief. With these funds they are able to take care of extra needs which would not otherwise be provided for. There is of course poverty everywhere in the world but in most of the European countries they are trying to do something about it—something besides mere temporary relief. They are trying to do constructive, preventive work and are developing fine social security schemes. There is also some unemployment everywhere, more in Great Britain probably than on the continent. All countries are keeping their work for their own people. It is impossible for foreigners to get a job anywhere. Great interest is being taken in all countries in child welfare and in the youth movement. The birth rate is so low in many countries they are greatly worried and are determined to save every child. The Relief Society organizations are presided over by the wives of the Mission Presidents— a group of as fine and able women as can be found anywhere in the Church. As for humility, devotion to the Cause, and spirituality, they cannot be surpassed. Six of 759 them are young—enthusiastic, eager, vigorous. Three are between the ages of 27 and 30; three are between the ages of 30 and 40. The rest are older with years of experience in auxiliary work. These women are all tender and sympathetic and assist their noble, kind-hearted husbands—the Presidents of the Missions—in watching over the health, happiness and general welfare of the missionaries. I wish to impress upon the mothers the fact that their sons and daughters are in good hands in the European Mission. ONE of the greatest joys of my missionary work was the close association with the missionaries. They are a constant source of satisfaction and exhilaration. It was a joy to see them grow and develop and assume responsibility, to share their confidences and to hear their testimonies. I am stimulated and my faith is strengthened with the testimonies of the mature and aged, from-whom we expect to hear of strong convictions, but I am especially stimulated with the testimonies of young men and women. Their frankness, earnestness and new understanding are most faith promoting. I have heard them raise their voices in the various countries and in various languages, and I have heard them night after night in Hyde Park where they have to win their audiences, hold their audiences, and defend themselves from the professional hecklers. Since preaching the Gospel is the most important work of the Church, I have sometimes wondered if we, as mothers and members of Relief Society, generally might give a little more understanding help to the Priesthood in this great cause, both in our own homes and in Church activities, and if we might be more 760 helpful to the missionaries themselves. I wonder also if we of the older generation stop to realize what "going on a mission" means to young boys and girls. What preparation they should have before they go, what attention they should have ' while they are away, what consideration they should receive when they return home! To the young Elder, a mission is a series of new experiences, and often serious adjustments from the time of "the call" until he is back and established in his normal setting in his community. He has tests of all sorts, sacrifices to make, new and different situations to face, new worries and longings. He is determined to make good; he is determined to live up to all the expectations of family and friends. He feels most humble, more humble than he has ever felt before, and he seeks his Heavenly Father as he has never sought Him before. I would like to make a plea for more interest in the returned missionary: First, that he be given attention, plenty of Church work to do, plenty of Church responsibility. He has been working full time and enthusiastically for the Cause, and he would like to continue to do something. His interest should not be allowed to wane. Many young missionaries dread the ordeal of getting back into the community life, for the change is drastic. They wonder how they will be received, and how they will fit in. Second, I would plead that interest be taken in his temporal affairs. There are quite a number of missionary sisters returning yearly to their homes. These would be great assets as helpers in the women's organizations. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE | I am persuaded that we do not, as a rule, begin the training of our missionaries early enough. What a fine thing it would be if all boys and girls from childhood up could have opportunity to take the lead in family prayers, to pray in public, to become familiar with the scriptures, to take part in auxiliary work, and the boys in Priesthood activities. It is an easy matter in the mission field to ° tell which of the missionaries have had these advantages. In England there is Bible reading and discussion in the schools, which is a marvelous help in familiarizing the children with the scriptures. A few years ago a young Utah boy wrote home from a military school to his mother: "I am the only boy here without a Bible. All the boys read the Bible, why was I not trained to do so?" I am pleased to report that we have forty women missionaries in Europe today, and that they are doing excellent work—work that is equal in many respects to that of the Elders. They are especially helpful in the auxiliary organizations. In their travels they make splendid contacts. Allin all I think the work and the situations are a little harder or more difficult for them in Europe than they are for the Elders, and I would like to pay them a little special tribute for their courage and willingness to face so bravely the "ups and downs" of missionary life. If preaching the Gospel is the most important work in the Church, and we are told emphatically that it is, let us continue to support it vigorously, both as mothers and as Relief Society women. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 761 General Session Thursday, p.m., October 6, 1938 ADDRESS Bishop LeGrand Richards M* heart thrills when I think of the wonderful program prepared for the Saints of this dispensation, which was so minutely described by the prophets who lived thousands of years ago. They saw all that we are seeing today. They saw the gathering of the Saints in the valleys of the mountains when the Lord should turn again to Israel, as stated in the words of Jeremiah when he said: "And I will take you one of a city, and two of a family, and I will bring you to Zion; and I will give you pastors according to mine heart, which shall feed you with knowledge and understanding." They saw the temple established here; they saw the settlement of these valleys in the Rocky Mountains; they saw the wilderness blossom as the rose, and the waters flow down from the high places through the building of the great reservoirs; they saw the rivers of water flow in the desert—these great irrigation canals that have been built. They saw the Kingdom of God established in the earth; they saw it rise in might and power and majesty until all the kingdoms of this world should be made subservient unto this kingdom. Now when we read these things and understand them, we realize something of the great assignment the Lord has made to His people—Latter-day Israel. I am proud of this Church; I am proud of her institutions; 1 am proud of her people. I am proud of the youth of Zion, and I think we have much to be grateful for. It has been my privilege to labor with the young people of the Church in the mission field, and they are worthy to call the world to repentance. When I think of the fine organizations that have been set up and try to analyze the organization of the Church, I ask myself this question, '""What more could Jeremiah have seen, when he saw the Lord bringing them one of a city and two of a family to be taught of His ways, than the great organization that now exists in this Church?" One has to be intimately acquainted with each organization to know how marvelously it is set up and directed and qualified to carry on the work that has been assigned to it. We could not dispense with any one of them. When the Prophet Joseph was given the marvelous revelation on the organization of the Church, he was told that it was patterned after the organization that exists in heaven. No wonder we pray, "Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven." The only thing, my brothers and sisters, that I am concerned about is whether we are using to the greatest advantage the instrumentality within our reach—the great organization of the Church—for the overthrow of evil, for the accomplishment of righteousness, for the establishment of the kingdom, that His will might be done in earth as it is done in heaven. As long as there are disturbing 762 influences, as long as we are losing ground in any one field of activity, there is a call to service. Since I was appointed, with my counselors, to the Presiding Bishopric of the Church six months ago today, we have had the privilege of meeting the executive officers and the presiding authorities of eighty of the stakes of Zion in regional meetings that have been held with the approval of the First Presidency. We are grateful to have had in these groups the presidents of the Relief Society. We have felt the power and the strength of the great Priesthood organization of this Church. There is not a power under heaven that can stay the onward march of this Church. The men need the help of the women. The Lord has = said, through His servant, the Apostle Paul, that "the man is not without the woman, neither the woman without the man in the Lord." It takes a man and woman united to make a perfect home, and when the Lord placed upon the Priesthood of this Church the responsibility of leadership, He automatically placed upon their wives also the responsibility of leadership. I have read to the brethren some of the admonitions of Paul with respect to the calling of a bishop, and will read just a few words to you today of what Paul has to say about the wife of the bishop. "A bishop then must be blameless, vigilant, sober, of good behavior, given to hospitality, apt to teach.... One that ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity; (For if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take care of the Church of Moreover, he must RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE have a good report of them which are without; lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil.... Even so must their wives be grave, not slanderers; sober, faithful in all things." No doubt many here today are wives of stake presidents, bishops and high councilmen, and I am somewhat concerned about the first organization of the Church —the home. TAKE presidents hold weekly council meetings with their counselors to analyze, to discuss, and to plan ways and means to better conditions in their stakes. The same is true of the bishops and of all the auxiliary organizations. But I sometimes wonder if in our study, if in our endeavor to carry out the assignments that have been made to us in these auxiliary organizations, we are not giving finer leadership in the auxiliaries, more time to study, more time to planning than we are actually giving in our own homes? Paul said that the bishop should be able to have his children in subjection with all gravity and should be able to set an example, or else how can he rule the Church of Christ? The Church calls for the finest leadership in the home, on the part of its leaders, and I feel its need. I have boys and girls, and I know that when they go out in the wards, to parties and to school, the hardest thing to meet is the report, "Brother So and So's daughter, or Brother So and So's son does this or that." You know how it is. You have met the same thing. I wonder if each of us is doing all he can to hold his own children in "subjection" and to teach them the way of eternal truth. I believe a lot of us are turning the responsibility of the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE leadership of our homes over to the Church, feeling that the auxiliary organizations will do the thing for us, and we are not planning with our children, and we are not making our program in the home, and we are not setting up standards and requirements for our children to live up to. Some of us are believing our children when they tell us that we are "old fogies,' and that "they do not do things that way nowadays." I hope the day will never come when I will believe my son or my daughter if they tell me I am an "old fogy." Bearing the Priesthood of the Living God, being called to preside in the midst of the Church, I cannot resign the leadership of my own home and then attempt to assume the leadership of the Church. Why am I talking about the home? I am talking about it because our statistics reveal that we are not getting all of our people. Weare only getting a few of them, even in our auxiliaries and Priesthood quorums. We are marvelously organized to take care of those who come to us, but we are failing ina great measure to reach many who should come. I know it is often hard to get children to attend Sunday School, Sacrament meeting, the Mutual organization, and the Institutes and Seminaries. I hope that we are availing ourselves, as far as possible, of the opportunities that God, the Eternal Father, has put within our reach for the edification and the training of our children. I hope our boys and girls are availing themselves of the Institutes and the Seminaries that are being conducted under the leadership of this Church. We spend nearly $800,000 a year in our educational program to help parents with their children 763 and we have literally thousands of parents whose children are within walking distance of these great institutions who are not attending. I wonder if we have tried and failed, or if we just have not tried. The Mutual Improvement Association has its influence upon youth, and when I attend its meetings and see the young people who are there, yet so few of the parents, I wonder if the parents whose boys and girls fail to come could not take their children by the arm and lead them there, and in that way assure them the association of the type of boys and girls found in such places. When your young people say to you, "Well, Daddy, they all smoke," you begin to fear that probably this habit is becoming more universal than we want to believe. Then there is more need to call in our reserve forces in order to bring our boys and girls under the leadership of the Priesthood of God, so that they may be preserved in the traditions of the Church, in the standards that God has given unto us, so that they will not fall away into the ways of the world. "Oh well," you say, "What is a cigarette, or a glass of beer?" It would not be so bad if it were only one cigarette, or one glass of beer, but there never is a second without there is a first, and then there is a third and a fourth. This means not only injury to the body, but the robbing of our children of manhood and womanhood, for liquor in my judgment is the most destructive thing that exists in the world which the Evil One may use to destroy the morals, the honor and the virtue of our youth. When our boys and girls start using tobacco and liquor they also cease to pray, and in that respect they divorce themselves from God. When a man, a boy or a girl stands alone and is subject to these bad habits, and prayer ceases to be a part of his daily life, it takes every effort to rescue him and bring him back to the Church.
SO I am pleading today that we study the family needs, that mothers—the wives of these leaders of the Church—go over the problems of each of their children. I do not think that God ever intended that we should put old heads on young shoulders, but making allowance for youth, He does expect that as parents we keep them clean and unspotted from the sins of the world, and that we keep alive within their breasts the love of God, the Eternal Father, and the desire to pray, so that when they go out into the battle of life they may be strengthened and protected, even as David of old. You will remember what became of Israel when they lost confidence in their God, the God of Israel, and when Goliath hurled forth his great challenge to the armies of Israel. One by one they withdrew, but little David had been taught to pray. He had seen the power of God manifest in his own life. He had been able to deliver his father's sheep from the mouths of the lion and the bear, and so when he heard that challenge he accepted it. David knew there was something stronger and finer and more powerful than steel. When he went forth clad as a shepherd lad, with his sling and a few smooth stones, Goliath laughed at him and was offended, and said, "Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves?" And David said to him, "Thou comest RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. He shall deliver you into my hands." In a few moments Goliath lay dead at his feet. So if we can plant faith in the hearts of our children, and keep it there, and guard it with our sacred lives, we shall carry them through with a power and a strength greater than the sword and the shield.
I once read a sermon delivered by President Joseph F. Smith, and he said that in all his effort to save others he hoped it never could be said of him that in trying to save others he had lost his own, and I heard one of his sons say one day, "If I did not believe there was a God, if I did not believe there was an eternity, I would feel obligated to live the teachings of the Church because of the respect I have for my father." I believe that if men and women live as they should live that the power of God will be felt in the home. There are those who desire to go to the temple of God in order to partake of His divine influence, but it is my conviction that there should be no temple, no shrine, where the love of God and His Holy Spirit is to be found greater than in the homes where men and women are living as priests and priestesses, as God the Eternal Father intended they should. When they so live, they will demand the love, the respect, and the confidence of their children. If there is a home where the leaders of this Church do not engage in family prayer I call them to repentance. They need the prayers, and their children need the influence of family prayers. I would like to see in every Latter-day Saint home every child, after he has been baptized into the Church, take his turn praying. When I hear my children pray in family prayers I arise and say in my heart that as long as they can pray like that they will never stray from the Church and from God.
I pray the blessings of the Lord to be with you. I pray that we shall appreciate the great institutions of our Church—this great Relief Society organization and the other auxiliaries that have been created for our good, but I hope we will never forget that in the responsibilities that come to us none are greater, nor even equal to the leadership, the presidency of the home which God has given us, for there it is that we commence to build the kingdoms of eternity that are to be ours if we keep the faith and endure to the end.
I did not have to become the Presiding Bishop of the Church and meet Sister Robison and her associates to know the value of Relief Society, but I have learned to appreciate more than I did before the marvelous characters and the love these women have for service in the responsibility that is theirs. I honor them, and I pray God to bless them and all you good mothers and Relief Society workers throughout the Church.
Relief Society's Contribution to the Church Welfare Program
By President Louise Y. Robison
THE August 1938 issue of the Relief Society Magazine carries an Editorial which should be widely read. As an opening statement the Editor chose the following quotation from I Cor. 10:24, "Let no man seek his own but every other man's wealth." Upon the first reading, this statement appears to be a difficult injunction, but the Editor made it seem not only workable, but desirable by this statement: "Man's destiny is to become a creator and he is happiest when creating. Denied the opportunity to give of himself he stagnates.
"The Savior stands the pattern in giving as in all else. He invariably gave guidance and opportunity that joy and development might come to others. He had no need of the widow's mite but recognized the need of the widow to make the gift."
The editorial closed with the following statement: "He that provides opportunity for another increases the fruits of his own righteousness."
The opportunity to accomplish this is provided in the Church Welfare Plan. Our Heavenly Father has graciously offered every member in the Church, no matter what that member's financial condition might be, an opportunity to prove his willingness to "seek not his own wealth," but to help others. While the call came primarily as a Priesthood activity, the Relief Society, as auxiliary to the Priesthood, responded whole-heartedly to the inspired message of the First Presidency.
Before we were really given an assignment, Relief Society asked women who did canning of fruits in their own homes, to share with others and give every tenth jar to what was then called Church Security. Hundreds of women cheerfully responded and many testified that they were blessed in making this contribution. One woman reported that was the first time in the many years of her married life when all her fruit jars were filled.
The first summer after the Church Welfare Plan was announced, Relief Society in some stakes had city lots plowed, and women planted peas, beans and tomatoes. These women believe they were blessed, for their crops were bounteous, and without modern canning facilities these vegetables were canned with excellent results. Quilts and articles of clothing were made by the thousands. In fact, women were so busy producing they did not keep a record of the articles made.
HAVING the assurance that the Church Welfare Plan is our Father's Plan, and knowing that "the earth and fullness thereof" belongs to Him, we were confident that the Priesthood Quorums would provide for the material needs, but we saw the opportunity of helping some of the mothers to use these commodities to the best advantage. Relief Society, with the valuable cooperation of the Agricultural College County Demonstrators, began a systematic course of instruction in food. The value of properly prepared vegetables, homemade bread, and the necessity of having milk for children were considered. In order that all families might have sufficient, and to provide against waste, a food budget was introduced. The incomplete report indicated that 3,301 women were taught to make better provision for their families.
We have worked in sewing centers where women were not only supplied with clothing, but were taught to sew. Relief Society has, in the past, supplied quilts for those in need. Our policy now is to help them make for themselves. The slogan adopted is, "We work with people, not for them."
That there might be a market for the lovely handwork made by our RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sisters, the "Mormon Handicraft" was established in 1937. In the first year more than $4,000 was paid to women who made these exquisite articles. We were in the Bureau of Information on the Temple Square, but we have recently moved to 21 West South Temple. The merchandise has been sold largely to tourists. If our own people would patronize the Shop when buying birthday, Christmas and wedding gifts, the revenue would bring comforts to many of our fine, courageous women.
Another activity was also promoted to give employment. Relief Society contributed $250 and one of our City stake Relief Societies added another hundred dollars, which was used to pay for temple work. This money was thrice blessed—it brought material comfort, gave encouragement and spiritual blessing, and was the means of redeeming hundreds of our dead.
As an organization we are deeply interested in the Church Beautification program, and were really pioneers in stimulating women to beautify their homes by planting flowers, shrubs and trees. Reports of this campaign showed that many thousands of trees and shrubs were planted, flower-shows held, etc. Each ward Society was urged to plant at least one tree.
We are opposed to the traffic and use of liquor, and have earnestly tried to provide interesting literature and have purchased motion picture films in the interest of alcohol education. Although now a Priesthood activity, we urge the women to do all in their power to have in every home the material prepared and distributed by the Church committee.
The health of the people, especially the children, has been a grave concern of Relief Society. Women in many localities have worked unceasingly to improve conditions. There RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE are many, many children who will meet life more comfortably and efficiently through the efforts of our Relief Society, but the need is still most urgent.
SPLENDID as has been our work during the past year, the call is clear and definite for the coming year's work. Human values must be kept in the foreground. "The Kingdom of God for which we pray includes bread to eat, clothes to wear, wholesome homes in which to live, employment to challenge the best in a person, as well as sacrificial love to our fellowmen." Our Church Welfare plan encompasses each of these requirements,—and more—the absolute need of faith in God and a willingness to cooperate in giving service to others. Each of these requirements was included in the charge given to Relief Society at the time of its organization. We have a splendid record of achievement, but there is more to be done. So for the coming year we pledge ourselves anew to do not only more but even better work.
Comparatively few of our women have carried the load. Let us begin by being good community mothers. All mothers know it is easier to do home tasks than it is to get children into the attitude of wanting to do and of teaching them to do tasks well. We all know that we are not doing right by our children unless we teach them how to carry responsibility and to do so cheerfully. To my mind the most important assignment to the women of Relief Society is to get people in our wards into this attitude, and although it looks insurmountable, it can be accomplished. Let us not forget that God is always on the side of right. When we are working earnestly, under the direction of His Priesthood for the benefit of His children, a power greater than our own is with us. Leadership and cooperation are needed to popularize the Church program so that everyone will want to work, will want to have clean, peaceful homes, and to have comfortably dressed, healthful, happy children. Can you catch the vision of what it would mean if this simple program were universal?
Groups of people can be interested in almost any project provided someone can lead, organize the task and delegate responsibility. Definite instructions indicating how these projects might be accomplished would be helpful, but conditions in different localities are so unlike and the group requirements differ so greatly that only by working with them and knowing the needs can constructive plans be made. We must know facts in order to have an intelligent basis of understanding. As adult groups learn to think together and to analyze situations their interests broaden. In addition to knowing the local situation, it would be well to know what the conditions are in other communities. For example, if we knew that in 1935 every seventh person in the United States between the ages of 16 and 24 was on relief, we would have greater interest in helping young people of our own group. If we knew that half the male heads of families on relief had been out of regular employment for three years or more, that knowledge would give us greater sympathy in judging their needs or their actions.
THERE is a close relation between religion and mental health. A discouraged person who feels humiliated on account of her clothing, who is bitter because of what she feels is unjust, needs the most sympathetic understanding and tolerance to interest her again in Church groups. The best sermons of the Church are not all pronounced from the pulpit. Relief Society presidents are given the special mission of prayerfully and tactfully making the path easier for such individuals to re-establish contacts with the Church. And who does not need encouragement?
The most vital influence in life is a calm, positive testimony that God lives and that He is really our Father. To know positively that our Father and His Son Jesus Christ did visit the earth and restore the Gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and to know that President Grant and his associates represent our Father here on earth—this knowledge is more precious than life. Spirituality is the only power that keeps human beings steady and unshaken when overwhelming sorrow comes. Outside of spiritual interpretation there is no solution for the problems of life. How thankful we should be for the great blessing of faith and the knowledge which our Father has given us. How careful we should be to keep this precious gift. Only our own actions can deprive us of it.
Those who know that President Grant represents our Father, recognize that he speaks to us the will of our Father. Relief Society is in the class believing that our Church can and will succeed for righteousness. When responsibilities are given, do we face them gladly, courageously, or merely fold our hands as though they were others' problems? In loyalty there are no such words as, "What's the use?"
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Our parents and grandparents gave evidence of this loyalty. Hundreds of them who had established homes were asked to leave them and take their families into even more unsettled places. As descendants of these brave people we are proud of their devotion, and we cannot do less when the Prophet of God speaks in our day. Church Welfare does not call for the heroic sacrifice our parents made. Church Welfare calls only for sharing the comforts which through the kindness of our Heavenly Father we enjoy; even if we were asked for all, does not that all belong to our Father who graciously lets us use His possessions? He gives us the very life and health to accumulate these material blessings.
I humbly pray that our Father will give us the power to see where we can serve, and the courage not only to do our part but to stimulate others that they may have the joy that comes through service. I pray that when we have the privilege of raising our hands in covenant to sustain the General Authorities of the Church, that we do more than manifest it by raising our hands, but that we make a solemn covenant that we will try our utmost to "manifest it" in our lives by cheerfully and eagerly following the counsel of men who hold the Priesthood of the living God.
The addresses given by President Heber J. Grant and Elder Melvin J. Ballard will be published in a later issue of the magazine.
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
Lesson 5
These Twelve Jesus Sent Forth—(Cont'd.)
Helpful References J. E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 217-229. A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve. Consult index for references to each apostle. C. R. Brown, These Twelve, pp. 139-157, 161-180, 183-201. C. E. Macartney, "Of Them He Chose Twelve," pp. 63-69, 71-78, 48-55, 144-155, 56-62, 40-47, 122-134. W. M. Mackay, The Men Whom Jesus Made, pp. 112-128, 149-162, 163-177, 178-192, 193-211. F. J. Mueller, Christ's Twelve, pp. 82-91, 92-103, 104-112, 113-123.
Nathanael, an Israelite Without Guile—In this lesson we shall consider the remaining members of the original Twelve of whom little is known. Nathanael is, unfortunately, among this group for the Gospels say very little about him. There has even been some dispute over his name. The Synoptic Gospels speak of a Bartholomew as an apostle, but no mention is made of Nathanael. (See Matt. 10:3; Mark 3:18; Luke 6:14.) On the other hand the Gospel of John mentions Nathanael and never Bartholomew. It is thus practically certain that both names are applied to one and the same individual. Bartholomew is of Aramaic derivation and means son of Tholmay. Nathanael means God has given. He seems to have been a resident of Cana in Galilee. (John 21:2.) This town is some distance from Bethsaida, the home of Philip his friend. In a previous lesson we considered the fact that it was Philip who sought out Nathanael and made known to him that he had found the Messiah. Nathanael's skeptical nature made him say, "Can any good thing come out of Nazareth?" (John 1:46.) To his credit he followed Philip. He may have been skeptical, but in the best sense of the term. He had the spirit of the man who is willing to be shown, of suspending judgment. Our Lord on seeing him said, "Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!" (John 1:47.) There were no traces of deceit, treachery, or cunning devices in the soul of this man. He was straight and fine and clean. Nathanael heard Christ's words and the latter explained, "Before Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee." (John 1:48.) This was an astonishing statement. He realized that by supernatural means the speaker was acquainted with a particular incident in his life that he supposed was known only to himself. What it was no one knows. The Gospel respects the secret. At any rate Nathanael was convinced that his friend Philip was right. "Rabbi," he said to our Lord, "thou art the Son of God; thou art the King of Israel." (John 1:49.) In return Christ blessed him with a great promise. "Verily, verily, I say to you, ye shall see heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man." (John 1:51.) Of this fine character we should like to know more but the record is silent.
Thomas, the Honest Skeptic—The name Thomas is from the Aramaic toma and means twin. It is so translated by the Greek Didymus in John 11:16. We know practically nothing of Thomas' background. He was probably a Galilean, but who his parents were is a mystery. We do not even know whether his twin was a brother or sister. Thomas seems better known for his doubts and questions than for his positive virtues. The very fact that Christ chose him to be one of his little band of Twelve shows that his inner nature and splendid worth were only too apparent to the Master. The Gospel of John has characteristically preserved for us a few bits of information that help us estimate the character of Thomas. The courage and love of Thomas for the Savior was displayed when the latter announced his intention to go to Lazarus and raise him from the dead. (John 11:11.) That there was considerable risk attached to the journey is shown by the words of the disciples: "Rabbi, the Jews were seeking but now to stone thee; and art thou going there again?" (John 11:8.) Thomas spoke up to his fellow disciples and said, "Let us also go, that we may die with him." (John 11:16.) While this statement betrays Thomas' courage and love it also points to his despondent or melancholy disposition. There is little of the element of hope in his words. On another occasion the Master made the famous declaration: "In my Father's house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you; because I go to prepare a place for you... And where I am going ye know the way." Apparently Thomas did not have the spiritual insight to understand Christ for he said, "Lord, we know not where thou art going; how do we know the way?" (John 14:2-5.) Mueller comments on this speech as follows: "It is a pathetic speech, thrilling with devotion and love of the man who saw his great Friend and Master going from him into the unknown, whither he was expected sometime to follow. The way was dark, and Thomas far from home." We can quite understand the reason for our Lord's remarks when he said, "I will not leave you orphans; I am coming to you." (John 14:18.) The incident best known in Thomas' life is the one which has caused the world to coin the epithet "Doubting Thomas." The risen Christ appeared to his disciples who were meeting behind locked doors for fear of the Jews. All of the apostles were there with the exception of Thomas. Why he was not there can only be a matter of conjecture. On his return his companions related to him the appearance of the Lord. Thomas would not believe them. "Unless I see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe." (John 20:25.) Many have been the comments on his remarks. Certain of these are to the effect that Thomas displayed the true scientific spirit. But to doubt the testimony of ten other great men in a matter of this kind is, in our opinion, nothing more than a commentary on the fact that Thomas had a temperament that was very uncommon among men. When finally the Christ appeared to Thomas the latter exclaimed, "My Lord, and my God." All doubt had fled. Our Lord gently reproved him when he said, "Because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed; blessed are they who have LESSON DEPARTMENT not seen and have believed." Macartney comments on the Savior's statement as follows: "Jesus did not mean to discount intelligent faith, nor did He put a premium upon easy, unquestioning faith. Nor did he mean to teach that future believers who could not have the evidence afforded Thomas would be happier, more blessed in their faith than was Thomas." According to Dr. Robert Ellis Thompson the experience of Thomas was "useful but not ideal." Tradition credits Thomas with carrying the Gospel as far east as India.* Some of the early Spanish Fathers even believed that he visited America because the Indians had many religious beliefs and customs closely resembling their own.*
James, Thaddeus, and Simon.—We shall consider these three apostles together because so little is said of them in the New Testament and also because of difficulties inherent in their proper identification. James "the son of Alpheus" (Matt. 10:3) has been identified by some writers as the brother or kinsman of Christ. Paul states that when he went up to Jerusalem he saw no other of the apostles... But James the brother of the Lord." (Gal. 1:19.) At once we ask how the son of Alpheus could be the same person as the Lord's brother. To complicate matters Thaddeus (Matt. 10:3) is spoken of by Luke as Judas "of James." Translators usually render it "brother of James." (Luke 6:16.) Then there is the statement made by Matthew. "Is not this the carpenter's son, and is not his mother called Mary, and his brothers James and Joseph (Joses) and Simon and Judas?" (13:55.) Certain writers believe that three of these men—James, Simon, and Judas (not Iscariot)—were the three we are attempting to sketch and that Joseph was the only one not a member of the Twelve. The reader who wishes to attempt a solution of the puzzle is referred to the following passages of scripture: Matt. 10:3, 4; 13:55; 27:56; Mark 3:18; 15:40; Luke 16:15, 16; John 7:5; Acts 1:13, 14; Gal. 1:19. Those who do not wish to attempt the problem themselves may read the analysis of Macartney (pp. 48-50, 144 ff.) Suffice it for us to say that there was a second James, a second Judas, and a second Simon (Zelotes) in the original Twelve and that they may have been brothers. Possibly they were related to our Lord. As pointed out in the last lesson James may have been made a counselor to Peter following the death of James, son of Zebedee. (Acts 12:2, 17; 15:7-21.) Tradition has it that James was high in authority in the Church at Jerusalem and that he was especially loved by the people. He was surnamed "The Just." James is supposed to have met his death by being hurled from a tower. Thaddeus is sometimes known as the three-named disciple (See Matt. 10:3; Luke 6:16; John 14:22; Acts 1:13.) We are uninformed as to why he was known by three names,
*While I do not ask that anything be changed in these lessons, it seems to me that commentators have made too much out of a few random, or isolated, expressions coming from these Apostles. I do not feel that Thomas was any more doubting than any other of the Twelve would have been. Had it been Peter, James, John, or Andrew, who was absent would he not have said, "I will not believe!" Remember the resurrection was something none had seen, and none at that time understood. It was not until after the Lord had risen from the dead that the disciples understood his words. They all thought the end had come when the Master was in the tomb.—Joseph Fielding Smith.
Lebbaeus and Judas being the other two. John calls him Judas but is quick to add "not Iscariot." It is John, characteristically enough, who has preserved for us one question directed by Thaddeus to our Lord on the occasion of the Last Supper. The Master was discoursing on the Comforter who should come to his disciples after his death. Among other things he said, "I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you... He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him." (John 14:18, 21.) Thaddeus then asked the question, "Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the world?" (Verse 22.) Thaddeus has been roundly criticised for asking this question by numerous commentators. Even Bruce has said, "The question of Judas was founded on a misapprehension of the nature of the promised manifestation. He imagined that Jesus was to re-appear corporeally, after His departure to the Father... Neither Judas nor any of his brethren was capable as yet of conceiving a spiritual manifestation..." We feel that such statements are too severe as applied to Thaddeus. As a matter of fact the latter did not misapprehend the Savior's meaning. Our Lord did have reference to his own personal appearance. He did not rebuke Thaddeus but went on to explain or rather emphasize what he had said before. "If a man love me, he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him." (Verse 23.) The Prophet Joseph Smith has explained to us that there are two Comforters. One is the Holy Ghost, the other the personal appearance of the Son and even the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Father to those who serve God at any cost. Thaddeus may have been the author of the Epistle of Jude though most scholars of the present day think not. Simon is otherwise known as Zelotes or the Canaanite. (Matt. 10:4; Mark 3:18; Luke 6:15; Acts 1:13.) The latter name has no geographical significance and in fact both may be translated "Zealot." This has led many commentators to believe that Simon was a member of a political group by that name. The Zealots were a band of Jewish patriots who had risen against the Romans unsuccessfully. They were crushed unmercifully by the Roman soldiers. The Zealots were also characterized by their close adherence to the Mosaic ritual. It seems passing strange to us that the Master should have selected a member of such a dangerous political party to be one of his apostles. But the Christ looked upon men's hearts and not purely upon their outer characteristics. He realized that the zeal and earnestness of this man could be turned to good account in a far nobler cause than a political one. No special incidents involving Simon apart from his brethren are preserved for us in the New Testament.
Judas Iscariot, the Traitor—We shall spend but little time discussing the arch-traitor of all time. The name Iscariot suggests the meaning the man of Kerioth but is generally acknowledged to be of doubtful origin. Judas is supposed to have been a resident of Judea but we cannot be sure of this. John tells us that Simon was his father's name. (John 6:71; 13:26.) We are further informed that Judas was the custodian of the "bag" or "purse" of the apostolic group and served as a purchasing agent. (12:6, 13:29.) The apostles seem to have realized that he was unworthy even of this LESSON DEPARTMENT trust for he is spoken of as a "thief" and "having the bag, was accustomed to take away what was put into it." (John 12:6.) The hypocritical nature of the Traitor is to be noted in his complaint against the use of costly spikenard when Mary anointed the Master's feet. (John 12:3-5.) His final act in betraying our Lord with a kiss for a paltry sum of money has made him the symbol of all that is foul and revolting among men. It is almost impossible to believe that a man with such a glorious opportunity could descend to such depths as did Judas. As mentioned in a previous lesson we feel that Judas had the qualities in his makeup necessary to the making of a good apostle but deliberately chose the evil course. Our Lord gave him the same opportunities as the others in the Twelve. That is what makes his perfidy so damning. Surely he was the man of lost opportunity!
Questions and Problems (Deal Only With As Many As Time Permits.)
1. Distinguish carefully between faith and credulity. Illustrate each. (Be sure to consult Alma 32:21.)
2. Discuss the question directed by Thaddeus to our Lord (John 14:22) in the light of what commentators say and in the light of modern revelation. (Consult Macartney, pp. 56-58, Mackay, pp. 165 f, and Parry, Joseph Smith's Teachings, pp. 21-23.)
3. According to tradition in what country did Simon the Zealot and Thaddeus (Jude) preach and what was their final fate?
4. What is a son of perdition? Some people say Judas Iscariot became a son of perdition. What do you think about it? (See Pres. Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 25, 26, 545-547; D. & C. 132: 27.)
Visiting Teacher Department
Messages to the Home
No. V—Ye Are the Salt of the Earth
Jesus Said: "Ye are the salt of the earth! But if the salt hath lost its savor, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing but to be cast out and trodden under foot of men."—Matt. 5:13.
AN understanding of this expression leads one to know that it was addressed to persons with strong personalities, to the disciples of Jesus. Long before the time of Christ the use of salt had been made a symbolism of fidelity, hospitality and covenant. In the Orient during Jesus' day it was a scarce and valuable article. To be of use it must be pure. It was the only antiseptic and about the only preservative, and is still used for these purposes in some places. It was used then, as now, for flavoring, an important thing in one's diet. It never gains its ends in rejoicing in its own saltiness, and it is important to remember, that although it may be pure and powerful it is of very little use alone. It may as well have lost its savor if it is not used. It is only valuable in the midst of things, losing itself for the good of other things, making them taste better, preventing them from spoiling, and freeing them from corruption. Jesus expected His disciples and all who followed Him to counteract the poisons which destroy society.
They must preserve the good qualities in themselves and others with whom they come in contact, and add flavor to the Christian life by their example as well as by their precepts. President Heber J. Grant said to the Relief Society: "Ye are the salt of the earth. It is expected of the women of the Church to be pure in the sight of God, to preserve and teach the Gospel in its purity to their children and their associates, and to be kind and faithful in their daily lives."
Problems for Discussion
1. Why may one not be passive and be the "salt of the earth"?
2. How many Relief Society women fulfill this commandment?
3. What personality benefits accrue to self and neighbor through obedience to this precept?
References: Matt. 22:14; Matt. 20:16; I Peter 2:9.
Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs as planned by your Ward.
Literature
The Advance of the Novel
Lesson 5
The Talisman—By Sir Walter Scott
IF, as was suggested, you have reviewed the history of the Crusades from some good book of English or Medieval and Modern history, and especially of the Third Crusade, then you are ready to go forward with understanding in reviewing the novel, The Talisman. If you reviewed the first five chapters last time, you are acquainted with three of the principal characters in the novel—Sir Kenneth, Sheerkohf, the Saracen, and Theodorick, the hermit of Engaddi. Pronounce those names Sheer-Koff (the "o" long), Saracen, En-gad-di (accent on the middle syllable.)
The story of The Talisman, like the crusade of which it speaks, goes nowhere in particular, but it does present heroic figures against an entrancing background. There is a love story intermingled with the events of the Crusade, and though Scott is not most at home in dealing with the finer emotions, his romance is clean and wholesome. As Carl Sandburg would say, "He is a bold slugger,"—his heroes being most at home when most engaged in battle or at least conflict of some sort. These are noble men that ride through this book. Sir Kenneth is the soul of honor, and the Saracen, of grace, nobility, and wisdom. Sir Richard is ever the Lion-hearted, whether in bed with a fever or dashing out the brains of a would-be-assassin. One cannot read of these three men without honoring honor more and reverencing his breeding and his race. Pardon the repetition, but I believe it is worth while to quote William Long again: "He (Scott) is always sane, wholesome, manly, inspiring. We know the essential nobility of human life better, and we are better men and women ourselves, because of what he has written."
Scott draws his bold men with bolder strokes. Passages like this one paint pictures that are unmistakable in their strength:
"It is well they allow that I am living yet," was his (King Richard's) reply. "Who are the reverend ambassadors?"
"The Grand Master of the Templars, and the Marquis of Montserrat."
"Our brother of France loves not sick-beds," said Richard; "yet had Philip been ill, I had stood by his couch long since. Joscelin, lay me the couch more fairly; it is tumbled like a sea; reach me yonder steel mirror; pass a comb through my hair and beard. They look, indeed, liker a lion's mane than a Christian man's locks; bring water."
"My lord," said the trembling chamberlain, "the leeches say that cold water may be fatal."
"To the foul fiend with the leeches!" replied the monarch; "if they cannot cure me, think you I will allow them to torment me? There, then," he said, after having made his ablutions, "admit the worshipful envoys; they will now, I think, scarcely see that disease has made Richard negligent of his person."
In those lines, King Richard actually speaks—an achievement for a novelist. Furthermore, in those lines King Richard lives, a hard, huge, rough-and-ready fighter. In another passage we have this:
"Who has dared," he said, laying his hands upon the Austrian standard, and speaking in a voice like the sound which precedes an earthquake; "who has dared to place this paltry rag beside the banner of England!"
That again is Scott's Richard, the Lion-hearted. He has been very ill, but no illness could lay the hero so low that he could not and would not defend his flag. A little later during the same scene, the Earl of Wallenrode, "A gigantic warrior from the frontiers of Hungary," "Drew his sword and struck at the King a blow which might have proved fatal, had not the 775 Scot (Sir Kenneth) intercepted and caught it upon his shield. "I have sworn,' said King Richard—and his voice was heard above all the tumult, which now waxed wild and loud—'never to strike one whose shoulder bears the cross; therefore, live, Wallenrode, but live to remember Richard of England.' ' "As he spoke, he grasped the tall Hungarian round the waist, and, unmatched in wrestling, as in other military exercises, hurled him backward with such violence that the mass flew as discharged from a military engine, not only through the ring of spectators who witnessed the extraordinary scene, but over the edge of the mount itself, down the steep side of which Wallenrode rolled headlong, until at length pitching upon his shoulder, he dislocated the bone, and lay like one dead. This almost supernatural display of strength did not encourage the Duke or any of his followers to renew a personal contest so inauspiciously commenced. Those who - stood farthest back did, indeed, clash their swords, and cry out, 'cut the island mastiff to pieces!' but those who were nearer veiled, perhaps, their personal fears under an affected regard for order, and cried, for the most part, 'Peace! Peace! The peace of the Cross, the peace of the Holy Church, and our father the Pope!' " These are but a few of the many passages in which Scott celebrates the strength and prowess of the great King whom he admired greatly. Richard is made a demigod by Scott whose Scottish heart thrilled ever with the spirit of loyalty and patriotism. In this story Scott paints portraits of only two. Women—Berengaria, the Queen, and Edith Plantagenet. (Ber-en-gar-ia, accent gar and give "a" short sound; Plan-tage-net, accent second syllable.) Both 776 are. Made to appear as beautiful and noble women, worthy to be the lady loves of any knight. Actually, in history, King Richard married Berengaria while en route to Palestine, but Scott does not pause to make note of that matter. In fact, he takes considerable liberty with history and brings many events close together that in reality were not close together. The picture, The Crusades, utilized the event in order to place in the picture more woman interest. Berengaria and Edith show to best advantage in their conversation with the irascible King when they are pleading for Kenneth's life which they almost forfeited, and when Richard is attempting to set his own house in order. The two ladies are a bit too much for the King, as strong as he is at arms. He is not sufficiently wily and resourceful to stand well against the two of them. Scott takes special pains in presenting Edith in these interviews since she is really the heroine of the story. Scott's two chief villains—the Grand Master of the Templars, and Conrade of Montserrat—as contrasted with the three great heroes, King Richard, the Saracen, and Sir Kenneth, are despicable traitors. In Scott's mind, as, indeed, he shows in his story, they committed the unpardonable sin when they plotted treason against the person of the King. However, both were made strong enough to serve as foils for the stalwart and brave characters of his three heroes. In depicting the death of the Grand Master of the Templars, Scott has used an historical incident. In a Note prefacing a school edition of the novel, Charlotte M. Yonge has a paragraph which reads: "Guy could make no head against such a warrior as Saladin, and on the Hill of Hattin, near the Sea of Tiberias, was totally defeated and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE made prisoner, and with him a robber knight, Renaud de Chatillon, who had shown himself lawless and treacherous, and had plundered a caravan among which Saladin's mother was traveling. The King was treated by the Sultan with all courtesy, led to his tent, and presented with a cup of cooling sherbet; but, as Chatillon was about to drink, the Sultan exclaimed, 'Hold!' and swept off the traitor's head with a single blow of his sabre, ere the tasting of his cup had bound him by the crude laws of hospitality. It is from this incident that the fate of the Master of the Templars is borrowed." This paragraph is quoted to indicate how Scott wove into his stories many actual facts that had come into his possession. The novelist has Saladin explain his sudden act of vengeance thus: "I had designed otherwise,' said Saladin; 'but had I not hastened his doom, it had been altogether averted, since, if I had permitted him to taste of my cup, as he was about to do, how could I, without incurring the brand of inhospitality, have done him to death as he deserved? Had he murdered my father, and afterwards partaken of my food and my bowl, not a hair of his head could have been injured by me..." Sir Walter, in his own fairness, makes his Saracen so honorable in all his dealings that he almost outshines the Christians. In Theodorick, the caverns, the mystery, the dwarfs, the talisman, itself, are to be found traces of the Gothic romance. The disguises of Saladin and those of Sir Kenneth. As well as the veiled woman as they were found in the convent, are all reminiscent of the mysteries which held sway before Scott's time. In him, however, the novel was given a strong forward and upward sweep. LESSON DEPARTMENT He will ever live in the hearts of those who love strong men fighting for a cause which to them seems worthy. The Talisman is not one of 'the very greatest of novels, measured by the standards of today, but it is still a brave, good story. It pictures an era even though we cannot understand that era, and a group of persons who assist in making the Crusades, with all their futility, live for us. 779 Suggestions quickly put aside  and emotional. 1. Give a brief Crusades. 2. Have class memory weakening character sketches of Sir Kenneth, Saladin, Grand Master of the Temp. 3. Locate on a map Jean of Arc and Ascalon. (Palestine) 4. What are some of Scott's characteristics? Social Service Lesson 5 PSYCHOLOGY OF PHYSICAL HEALTH I. The Lesson in Summary. The proper care of the body is a religious duty because the body is the tabernacle of the spirit; it is a personal duty because one's ability to live a full life depends so much upon health; and it is a social responsibility because those upon whom we are dependent or who are dependent upon us require that we keep well. The Word of Wisdom is a partial guide to good health. It emphasizes moderation in all things as well as pointing out injurious substances. The use of alcohol is not only detrimental to mental functions and health, but it leads to all manner of evil social consequences. The personality of the alcoholic fits into a typical description. Family adjustment has much to do with preventing drinking. The use of tobacco is particularly harmful in the effect it has on the standing in the Church of those who use it. Its use often signifies rebellion against restriction of the Church. A complete health program is much broader than the scope of the Word of Wisdom: it includes recognition of needs for exercise, elimination, rest, and proper ventilation. Good mental condition fosters physical health, and good physical health fosters mental health. The serenity of faith and a genuine desire to live and serve are recommended as an essential safeguard of physical health. II. Proper Care of the Body is a Religious and Moral Duty. The spirit of man to fulfill its mission was clothed in flesh. Proper functioning of his body is a condition for the most complete fulfillment of this mission. From time to time, God has spoken with reference to the proper care of the body as the tabernacle of the spirit. Only through the instrumentality of the body can the spirit gain experience and attain that growth for which earthly existence is designed. Modern psychology has not answered the question as to how the mind of man functions in relation to the body, but it has shown clearly that mental states are greatly affected by the condition of the body, and the functioning of the body is likewise affected by mental states. This fact was illustrated in our study of 776 are made to appvious lesson. That noble women, who promotes mental loves of any fact too obvious to history, King discussion. engaria while religious obligation to but Scott for the body; the pernote of thtage of keeping well takes coadditional incentive the social reasons, such as the value of those intered in our care and to those interested in our care and to those whose existence is dependent upon our assistance. Poor health is often extremely expensive in a financial way, and equally expensive in the social loss of our services to others. Good disposition is difficult with poor health; the general adjustment of a family may be badly upset by the strain of even persistent mild illness. Illness must come in many cases and we do well to meet it with good grace and courage; but much of the ordinary illness could be prevented if better health habits were acquired in youth, or even later in life. III. What Does the Word of Wisdom Contain? When the Word of Wisdom was given to Joseph Smith in 1833, the attitude of the Latter-day Saints had not become clearly crystallized with reference to the use of the substances of which it speaks. Tobacco was most commonly chewed rather than smoked at that time. Background history of the Church has suggested that some of the brethren were accustomed to chewing tobacco, which practice was distasteful to Joseph Smith. Upon inquiring of the Lord as to what attitude should be taken on this and other practices, the Word of Wisdom was given. In the preamble, it was stated that the Word of Wisdom was "To be sent greeting; not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom." (D. & C. 89: 2.) With continued practice in the Church and subsequent inspired statements, we have come to regard this revelation more as a commandment. Perhaps in the beginning the Word of Wisdom was not meant to be one of the cornerstones of the Church, but as we shall see later it has come to have a very special significance in our religious lives.
Of the injurious substances, strong drinks are mentioned first, which means to us alcoholic beverages. Tobacco is mentioned next and is condemned as "not for the body, neither for the belly," from which we assume that the statement referred more explicitly to the tobacco chewing habit. Hot drinks are also condemned. We should think of this part of the revelation to cover not only tea and coffee, but all drinks of a temperature high enough to risk injury to the digestive system. Excessively hot drinks, whatever their composition may be, are known to have definitely injurious effects which sometimes contribute to certain gastric disorders. Herbs and fruits are recommended as wholesome, the modern equivalent of which is the emphasis of a balanced diet with considerable fruit and roughage in the form of fresh vegetables. Sparing use of meat is urged and finds support in modern dietetic practice. Notice that certain grains are recommended for various kinds of animal life and that they have been made for the "use of man only in times of famine and excess of hunger." (v. 15.) This may be interpreted to mean moderation in satisfying our appetites, a detail of the Word of Wisdom often neglected, just as is the sparing use of meat.
IV. What Has Science Shown Concerning the Validity of the Pronouncement of the Word of Wisdom on Alcohol? We are concerned here LESSON DEPARTMENT principally with the psychological aspects of health and shall not enter into the studies which have mainly to do with medical investigation. First, as to alcohol, the case seems indisputably against its use. No mental functions are improved by the use of alcohol so far as the science of psychology has shown. Every kind of mental work is definitely impaired. There is, however, a certain courage that goes with moderate doses of alcohol which makes certain tasks more easily attacked. But this mental effect of alcohol is at once the most evil effect, for it gives a false sense of well-being which leads one to undertake tasks beyond reach, if not outright dangerous.
Prof. Walter P. Miles, now of Yale Institute of Human Relations, has made some extensive studies of the mental effects of alcohol in various quantities. He summarizes some of the effects as follows: "The peculiar charm of alcohol lies in the sense of careless well-being and bodily and mental comfort which it creates. It unburdens the individual of his cares and his fears; relieves him of his feelings of inferiority and weakness... The fundamental animal drives of the organism have free rein; the intellectual self-critic makes no strong pulls to the right, for he is dozing. Under such conditions it is easy to laugh or to weep, to love or to hate, not wisely but too well. Warmth of friendship may be expressed in ways seemingly appropriate but actually absurd. On the other hand, slight irritations, real or imaginary, cause outbursts of anger and may lead even to acts of physical violence.
"The increase in the tendency to sex offenses which alcohol induces has been noted from time immemorial... Under these conditions stimuli that would ordinarily claim but little attention or be quickly put aside easily arouse emotion and emotional expression. It is claimed by scientific observers in this field that alcohol has a particularly weakening effect on the control of the sex impulses in women and also that it positively increases the urgency of these impulses. Not only is sexual promiscuity more frequent among intoxicated persons but also an increase in the incidence of venereal diseases occurs because of the inability of more or less drunken persons to take necessary preventive measures.
"The selfish level of existence which characterizes the state of the inebriated person, is shown by the discomfort and distress which the drinker may bring upon the members of his family, on whom he is really dependent, in the cooperative activities of living. The realization of the meaning and value of the relationship between parent and child or between husband and wife resides primarily in the higher mental processes. When this mental level is depressed or dulled by a chemical agency, the irksomeness of care and of constantly sharing with others may stimulate irritation or even marked dislike and so result in harsh and sometimes brutal responses. Alcohol thus becomes a source of anger, hate, and fear, three powerful opponents to human happiness." (Miles, Walter R. Psychological Effects of Alcohol in Man. Chapter 10, pp. 263-264, Alcohol and Man, Edited by H. Emerson. New York: Macmillan, 1932. Quoted by Starch, et al, Controlling Human Behavior, pp. 226, 228.)
Thus we see that aside from the gradual undermining of health, both physical and mental, from the use of alcohol, there is a long train of evil social effects. The dare-devil attitude of drunken persons driving on our highways is a constant menace to the most careful drivers. In a study of the alcoholics admitted to one of our large hospitals, it was found that of seventy per cent of those admitted who were married most of them were unhappy in marriage, and were inclined to quarrel and bicker with their wives and to be indifferent toward their children. In the United States there are approximately forty times as many deaths from alcoholism as from chronic poisoning from all other substances. The damage to the human family is comparable to that of syphilis. In 1935, of all of the new admissions to mental hospitals, 11.2 per cent were alcoholics who had drunk to such excess that they required institutional treatment.
The alcoholic persons have a rather typical personality picture. They resemble the descriptions of "psychopaths" usually found in psychiatry manuals. They are deficient in life ambitions and are affected more by social pressure than by personal goals. They are inclined to be more self-conscious than the average and to be deficient in independence. Persistent application to difficult tasks is usually lacking, and they choose easy tasks in which the goals are within reach. Frequently they show food idiosyncrasies and are inclined to be light eaters. Their histories show a persistence of thumb-sucking in childhood and a tendency to pathological jealousy. In cities 85 per cent of the alcoholics are males.
What significance do all of these facts have for women, since alcohol is seldom a problem with them? The psychological reasons which lead to drinking are fairly well known and can be controlled to some extent by mental hygiene. Alcohol affords a retreat from reality for the person whose life is distasteful. We often hear people speak of "drowning their sorrows," and we have already seen that under the influence of alcohol the victim has a feeling of well-being, a numbing to physical and mental pains. Persons afflicted with a sense of inadequacy in business life can be "king for a day" under the influence of liquor. Particularly conducive to "retreating into alcoholic dreams" are unpleasant relationships in the home. One case is reported of a young man with very promising talents who goes into a perpetual series of drunken orgies whenever his mother-in-law comes to live with them. After she leaves, he refrains until her next visit. Psychiatrists seem fairly well convinced that incompatible home conditions are among the most common contributing causes to chronic alcoholism. Often drinking is simply a symptom of a marriage which has gone sour. Failure of the husband and wife to construct an enduring companionship on common interests and unfolding purposes is often the starting point for drinking.
Thus, the problem of alcohol becomes a great one because it strikes right at the roots of the most basic life adjustments men and women make. Not all drinking, however, is of this nature. Much drinking does not come to such serious ends, but is simply one of the forms of social intercourse. However, many more serious cases of alcoholism begin in this more innocent way. Later on, should life become intolerable for any reason, the soothing effects of liquor are known and are likely to be resorted to as a defense against a disagreeable world. If this retreat is not known, a better adjustment may be made.
V. What is the Psychological Significance of the Use of Tobacco? When we turn to science to check LESSON DEPARTMENT the validity of the Word of Wisdom on tobacco, we do not find such satisfactory evidence as was the case for alcohol. We learn that mental functions do not uniformly show bad effects of smoking, although some unmistakably do. The unsatisfactoriness of evidence on the question of the psychological effects comes partly out of difficulties in setting up proper experiments to check the true influences. No critical studies have been made over a long period of time to show whether the effects are detrimental to general mental alertness. However, we do find many studies which seem to indicate that the use of tobacco is associated with poor scholarship. There are fewer tobacco users among the most scholarly students. Certain factors must be kept in mind, however, such as the kind of personalities possessed by the best scholars and the kind of habits they have. Thus, poorer scholars are more sociable and are therefore more likely to be induced to use tobacco for social reasons. They also belong to more social groups and attend more gatherings where smoking is a form of social recreation. The student with a better scholastic record spends a good share of his time studying rather than participating in social activities.
These studies say nothing about the effects upon the physical health of the young, which are unquestionably not good. Diseases of the lungs and heart are perhaps more common among smokers than among nonsmokers. Space will not permit a more thorough consideration of this phase of the problem here.
Perhaps more important than the physical effects and the effect on mental functions, are the social effects of using tobacco. The habit of smoking has come to have profound significance to the Latter-day Saint because of the social meaning of the act. Smoking of a cigarette may not destroy the brain of the young man or woman, but it is deeply indicative of an attitude toward the Church. Dr. George H. Brimhall frequently said that a cigarette in the mouth was a "flag of rebellion against the Church." The seriousness with which smoking is regarded has probably grown because the practice is so easily recognized as a sign of open objection to the restriction of Church teachings; it is more easily detected than use of tea or coffee, or excessive use of meat. Smoking is considered a sign of throwing over all of the Church ideals, which may not be true. Frequently, however, the use of tobacco does signify a lack of faith in the fundamentals of the Gospel. Baptism is significant, not in the good that comes from the act as such, but because it signifies that one has had faith enough to repent and has followed repentance with an act that signifies obedience to the commandments of God. To refrain from the use of tobacco has somewhat the same significance. It signifies respect for the revelations, and a willingness to conform to what is required, whether it happens to be convenient with the spirit of the times or not.
VI. Some Aspects of the Word of Wisdom Need More Emphasis. Because of the great prominence of the subject of tobacco and liquor in our teachings, the overt signs of conformity, we have often underemphasized certain other statements which are valuable in preserving health. Excessive use of meat is not recommended, and perhaps the habitual over-loading of our stomachs with meat and rich foods is as injurious as any of the items mentioned in the Word of Wisdom. Moderation seems to be the keynote of the revelation. The use of fresh fruits and vegetables in proper balance is as important to our health as to refrain from tobacco. No person's religious education is complete until he can work out for himself the proper amount and variety of foods for his best good. Personal physical needs based on occasional physical examinations should be considered in this connection. The Word of Wisdom was not intended to be a complete guide to health. Such obvious health measures as proper elimination habits; proper ventilation of the house and open air activity, proper clothing, habits of exercise, and regular habits of rest were probably taken for granted. Our health habits, however, are usually no more enlightened and perfected than our other habits; and we have seen in the lesson on habit that there is always much room for improvement, even in such well practiced activities as reading.
VII. Good Mental Outlook is the Best Safeguard of Health. Usually when our bodies feel exhilarated, our spirits are buoyant; and when our bodies are full of poisons or lingering pain we feel depressed. Likewise, when an especially good turn of affairs comes our way, we feel good even in our bodies and our appetites pick up. We experience this kind of interaction between our bodies and our minds every day, but the most significant relationship between mental states and health comes from the "long pull" influence they have upon our health habits. Thus, when we are discouraged and depressed, we are likely not to attend to our regular health routine so religiously. We get careless as to what and when we eat. We do not attend to our habits of elimination; we may become irregular in retiring and going to sleep. We have no zest RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for living and therefore no strong interest in keeping the body in the best of condition. Mental depression contributes to poor health habits, and they in turn contribute to the mental depression. This vicious circle may continue until we reach a breaking point and someone has to "shake" us out of it.
When you feel yourself becoming down-hearted, try hard to achieve a better state of health; and when you feel that your health is not quite up to par, do your best to create a happier frame of mind through doing a good turn to someone or entering into happy conversation and association with others. Falling ill may easily become a habit which becomes fixed in one's ways because it brings sympathy and attention. This is frequently a mark of emotional immaturity. Harboring thoughts of one's illness makes depressing conversation and actually exaggerates the ills one may have. Again we advocate the serenity of faith, the genuine desire to live and serve, as a mental condition conducive to good health. People with great purposes to drive them must keep well, they never play with the thought that to be ill might make life easier or more pleasant in some way. The desire to live to the fullest measure of one's creation makes one take every possible measure to keep well.
Problems for Discussion
1. Discuss the value of good health under the following heads: (1) as a religious duty, (2) as a personal duty, and (3) as a social responsibility.
2. Describe the personality most typical of the man who becomes alcoholic.
3. Why is the use of alcohol so LESSON DEPARTMENT particularly harmful, aside from the bad effects upon the body of the user?
4. Aside from the peculiar personality of alcoholics, show how life circumstances contribute to the habitual use of alcohol.
5. What do you consider is the most serious aspect of the use of tobacco? Do you consider the use of tobacco sinful, and why?
6. Discuss the wisdom of closing the doors of the Church to tobacco users.
7. Show why a good mental outlook is the most important condition for good health.
8. Make a thoughtful survey of your own health habits. Jot down a few ways in which you can improve them.
References for Further Study
1. Crane, G. W. Psychology Applied, pp. 97-104. Chicago: Northwestern Univ. Press, 1932.
2. Fisher, Irving, and Fisk, E. L. How To Live. New York: Funk Wagnalls.
3. Higginson, G. D. Fields of Psychology, pp. 407-416. New York: Henry Holt, 1931.
4. Miles, Walter R. Psychological Factors in Alcoholism. Mental Hygiene, Oct., 1937, Vol. 21, pp. 529-548.
5. Poffenberger, A. T. Applied Psychology. New York: Appleton, 1928.
6. Rhodes, Winifred. A Broken Spirit Drieth Up the Bones. Readers Digest, Feb., 1937, p. 104. (For original article, see The Forum, January, 1937.)
7. Starch, D., et al. Controlling Human Behavior, pp. 222-228. New York: Macmillan, 1936.
Education for Family Life
Family Relationships
Lesson 2
Growth Through Family Relationships By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, Calif.)
GROWTH must be maintained steadily from infancy to old age. Absence of growth is stagnation. Family relationships must be so planned as to provide due opportunities for the growth of each member of the family. No one member of the family should grow at the expense of the others.
I. Parents must not get their opportunities for growth at the expense of their children, as sometimes happens when the latter are neglected or turned over to a servant in order that the mother may "go out" more. In extreme cases, children are even deprived of proper education in order that they may relieve the parents of work which the latter are perfectly well able to do, or to get done otherwise. A commoner form of parasitism is illustrated by the parent who "moves in" on a young couple unnecessarily.
II. Children must not get their opportunities for growth at the expense of their parents. Every parent worth the name is prepared to make sacrifices to promote the welfare of his children, but in the normal case these sacrifices are really to the advantage of all concerned. It is not easy to draw the line between such a normal situation, and the abnormal one in which a parent goes without needed comforts in order, for instance, to give a child a snobbish type of so-called education which will really unfit him for life in the future, while it teaches him to be unappreciative of his parents in the present.
III. One child must not be allowed to grow at the expense of another. A daughter, for instance, is sometimes sacrificed to a son; she is forced to leave school and take a job below her natural level, in order that her brother may get an extravagant or inappropriate education, may travel, or may be aided to set himself up in business. Being thus forced into a blind alley, the girl jeopardizes her own future economically, loses the friends and associates that she ought to have, perhaps drops out of church activities, and spoils her chances of a satisfactory marriage. Sometimes, of course, the shoe is on the other foot: the boys may be sacrificed to allow a daughter with musical or dramatic pretensions to waste time and money as poser and loafer. The rule of "One for all and all for one" must be applied evenly.
Growth is favored by: (1) New experiences. No member of a family should be allowed to get into a rut. A young couple must not "settle down" after marriage. Marriage is a dynamic affair,—a continuous interplay of two continually growing and expanding personalities. Young mothers are most likely to get into a rut, because of their home responsibilities. (2) Fair division of the family income. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE (3) Absence of over-possessive and over-dominant patterns in either partner. The two factors last mentioned will be considered again in Lesson No. 7.
It is well to check up from time to time and make sure that each member of the family is getting due opportunities for growth in: (1) Intelligence. Good books and magazines, association with the world's activities, and contact with superior people,—these priceless things are accessible to everyone, virtually without other expense than a little imagination and enterprise. (2) Physical health. Sunshine, fresh air, water, exercise, sleep, wholesome food, avoidance of dissipation,—these essentials are as vital to the parent himself as to the child. (3) Mental health. This likewise involves continuous growth, and many troubles of daily life are due to the fact that emotional development has not kept pace with intellectual and physical development. A man may be six feet tall, weigh 200 pounds, be considered highly intelligent; yet his emotional life may be about like that of a normal six-months-old baby,—self-centered, recognizing no rights of others, ready to have a tantrum whenever he fails to get his own way. The "baby doll" type of young woman is equally well known; later she becomes a "40-year-old Shirley Temple," and finally a "flapper grandmother." Indeed, failure to grow up emotionally is probably commoner in women, though more offensive in men: a woman who is cute and kittenish may be admired by some people who do not have to live with her, whereas a man who is cute and kittenish will be admired by no one except himself.
This process of growing up emotionally, which is the basis of sound mental hygiene, is so important that a whole lesson (No. 4) will LESSON DEPARTMENT be devoted to one special phase of it. More generally, the child must make progress in three lines: (a) Self-knowledge. The infant knows neither his own capacities nor his own limitations. When he has really grown up he will have a fairly accurate idea of both. (b) Self-control. At the outset, the infant can not even control his own bodily functions. Gradually he brings these under control, learns to make his muscles do what he wants, and more slowly, learns to get his emotions in hand,—to control his temper and his tears. (c) Unselfishness. The infant is 100 per cent selfish. He is concerned solely with the satisfaction of his own needs or the gratification of his own whims, no matter how much everyone around him suffers in the meantime. His parents may be badly in need of sleep, but he will not hesitate to keep them awake all night if he wants a little nourishment, or even merely a little sociability. "He wants what he wants when he wants it." The progress toward altruism, the gradual recognition of the fact that each of us is a part of society and that each of us prospers as others prosper,—all this is an important part of the process of growing up. Parents must provide their young people with the conditions that favor such growth and, in so doing, may well take the opportunity occasionally to give themselves the same chance.
(4) Acceptance of responsibility. This is an absolute prerequisite to successful family life. Many a parent is himself a spoiled child. The child who learns the lesson of responsibility in his parents' home will be able to make a better home of his own, a few years later. Modern city life seems to be unfavorable to the learning of this lesson; but acceptance of responsibility underlies all parenthood, all citizenship, all mental hygiene, and all religion.
(5) Religious growth. Everyone understands that religion is not something to be put on, like a costume, or to be learned, as one might learn to speak Spanish; but that it is a way of living,—which means, a way of growing. Nevertheless, parents often fail in actual practice to take into account some of the implications of this fact. Needless to say, parents will bring up their children with a fundamental faith in God, in the power of prayer, and in other essentials; they will discuss these subjects freely in the home and will help to answer the childish questions and solve the childish doubts as they arise. But they must not be impatient as to details, for the following reasons: (a) The child's religion is naturally childish. It may be on a par with his scale of vocational values, which leads him to be sure that he wants to become a policeman or fireman, an Indian fighter or a pirate chieftain. We are not worried when he outgrows these infantile aspirations. But if his parents have never outgrown their own infantile religious views, if they still unconsciously think of religion as a means of getting a selfish advantage or having their problems solved for them without having to make an effort on their own behalf, then they may be alarmed when the child outgrows them, and mistake his attainment to a religious maturity which they themselves lack, for an apostasy, a falling away from the truth. (b) Since religion is a process of growth, it will do no good, but only harm, to try to force on the child adult patterns for which he is not ready. If a child is just learning to walk, it would be absurd to put him on a bicycle and try to make him go through the motions of riding it through traffic. It is important for him to see others riding bicycles, so that he will be ready to try when his time comes. Similarly it is important to let children see patterns of adult religious behavior around them; but if these are forced on them they will not fit, and are more likely to cause conflict and abandonment later in life. (c) It is not the talk of adults about religion that promotes the child's own growth, so much as the way they live their religion. If a man is truly religious, everything he thinks and feels and says and does partakes of this way of living which he has learned by experience to be the heart of life. That is the sort of atmosphere in which the child can work out a sound scale of values and loyalties.
In short, if a child is given a chance, he will grow to be religious just as if he is given a chance, he will grow to walk, will grow to talk, will grow to love. He gets his chance if he lives in a "growing atmosphere," and if he has continually wider and wider opportunities to experience the realities of the spiritual life for himself. In that case, he will have a religion of his own when he reaches maturity, and he will find that period the richest of his life, religiously. If, on the other hand, he RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE has had no opportunity to grow in this way, but has been started off with someone else's religious experience (that of his parents, for instance) handed to him in a package, he may decide when he reaches mature years that the package does not belong to him; then there will be another complaint of a young person "leaving the church."
Questions and Problems
1. Is a young woman ever justified in giving up marriage in order to take care of her parents?
2. A young mother has three small children and no help in the home. How can she get out enough to have a fair opportunity for social and church activities, recreation, and self-improvement?
3. In a city home, there are relatively few chores for children, such as help the farm boy or girl to grow up and learn to take responsibility. How can the parents of a city child best help in this direction?
4. A recent writer says that one of the habits most favorable to religious growth is that of seeking association with deeply religious persons whether they agree or differ religiously. In what ways would one's own religious growth be likely to be increased by associating with those who differ?
Literature for the Missions
Typical Women of the Church
Lesson 5
Elizabeth Hoagland Cannon A Worthy Descendant of Sturdy Stock
EARLY in the 19th century, a New Jersey youth, Abraham Hoagland, answered the call of the West for new settlers. The West in those days scarcely extended beyond the Mississippi River and was peopled largely by Indians. A group from New Jersey settled in the territory which became the state of Michigan. Such ventures require high courage, muscular strength and strong hearts. Young Abraham possessed these qualities. He was descended from the early Dutch who crossed the seas in 1614 and settled along the Atlantic coast, founders of the states of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Delaware. He had in his veins the brawn and the courage of those ancestors, also caution and wisdom. At home he left his betrothed, Margaret Quick, a charming girl, who like himself was of Dutch descent. Her family was of equal courage. Abraham promised to return for her in a year should the new country prove as they hoped. This promise he kept, and in a rude cabin in the Michigan clearing these two began their married life. It was here November 3, 1835, Elizabeth was born. She was the third child of a family of six, three sons and three daughters.
Elizabeth grew tall and lithe and fair. She loved nothing more than to join groups of young people to gather hickory nuts or go into the marshes in search of red, crisp cranberries. In the Hoagland home a simple faith in divine guidance prevailed, and here elders of the restored Gospel found a welcome, for here dwelt those known as "the honest in heart." They heard the testimony of the elders and accepted their teachings. Baptism almost immediately followed and soon the family migrated to Nauvoo, the gathering place of the Saints. In Nauvoo Abraham Hoagland became a bishop, a position held with honor all the years of his life. Through the dark days of Nauvoo following the martyrdom of the Prophet the Hoagland family like others endured heroically the hardships and the persecutions. They were among the first to leave in that memorable exodus from Nauvoo and wended their way over the Iowa prairies to the Missouri where Winter Quarters was established for a temporary resting and outfitting post. Elizabeth was at this time eleven years old, large for her age and of great help to her mother in the care of her brothers and sisters. She walked nearly all the way across the plains and helped her father drive the ox teams.
Traveling in the same company as the Hoagland family was George Q. Cannon, a young man of nineteen. A strong friendship was awakened between him and Elizabeth. Years after she would tell of the gatherings around the camp fires at night, of the songs and the dances, of the games they played and the plans they made for a time when the journey would be ended. They arrived in the Salt Lake valley in September, 1847, the first company following the original pioneers. Her father built a log and mud cabin in the "Old Fort" but early moved to his allotted acre and a half on the corner of Second South and First West streets, where he built a more commodious log and adobe house. In days of scarcity when nearly every one lived on rations, Elizabeth proved her resourcefulness by hunting along the banks of the Jordan river for cresses, or weeds and roots, out of which she made a sort of vegetable greens which was palatable and nourishing.
The romance begun on the plains proved to be a real love affair, and the young couple became engaged. But the marriage was delayed four years, due to the prospective groom, George Q. Cannon, being called on a mission to the Hawaiian Islands. During these waiting years Elizabeth taught a school in the Fourteenth Ward and engaged, as other young pioneer maidens, in the many homely domestic arts—drying fruits, soap making, spinning, carding and weaving; also taking part in popular amusements, dances, amateur theatricals, sleigh riding, skating, candy pulls, spelling bees, etc. At length on December 11, 1854, Elizabeth Hoagland became the wife of George Q. Cannon. The marriage occurred very shortly after his return from this long mission. In later and more prosperous years they would relate the simplicity and absence of all outward display of the usual adornment on such occasions, and with much laughter describe the grotesque figure of the bridegroom at the wedding supper in an ill-fitting costume borrowed from friends. Notwithstanding absence of worldly wealth, they were young, strong, industrious and not afraid to face the future whatever it might portend.
Nearly all of the first ten years of their married life were spent in missionary work, sometimes parted, sometimes together. Early in 1855 the young people set out on a mission to California, where George Q. Cannon was to assist Elder Charles C. Rich in the presidency of that mission, establish a newspaper in San Francisco, The Western Standard, in the interest of the much maligned Mormon people, and publish his translation of The Book of Mormon into the Hawaiian language. The small company for this mission, in which Elizabeth Cannon was making her wedding tour, took the southern route. This journey was far more perilous than crossing the plains. On the Nevada desert they almost perished for want of water, and a long delay caused by the illness of both men and their animals seemed as foreboding as the fate of the Donner party, but faith and administrations gave them hope and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE courage. Elizabeth stood this ordeal better than the men.
The two-year mission in San Francisco was fraught with hardship, inconvenience and sorrow. Poor, as all Latter-day Saints were in those days, Elizabeth had many heartaches. She knew scarcely anyone; she was preparing for the arrival of her first child, and she had the upkeep and care of the mission home on her hands. Two of the printers of the newspaper, poor as themselves, lived with them. Here again her resourcefulness was manifest. Her husband often told of those days, that when he left for work in the morning with comparatively nothing in the house to eat and no money, he returned at evening time to find her smiling and happy with a tempting dinner awaiting him. Perhaps it was the training through this necessity that made her so efficient in household arts, for never in all the years of their married life did he have cause for embarrassment over inviting friends or strangers home to share a meal with him. The excellence of her housekeeping and cookery was proverbial and a matter of great family pride.
During this mission two children were born to them, but the first, George Q. Jr., died when but a few weeks old; the second, John Q., born in the spring of 1857. In September of this year the news of the invasion of President Buchanan's army upon the people of Utah caused the calling in of all the scattered outposts of the Church. Brother Cannon remained to dispose of his printing plant, but his wife and little son, in charge of his brother David, also taking the metal casket containing the body of George Q. Jr., started on the homeward journey. It was winter time and the baby's feet were so frosted on the way that for many years of childhood, it was necessary for him to wear fur-lined shoes during the cold weather.
Almost immediately following the reunion of the family in Salt Lake City, the people were called upon to move south awaiting the result of the entrance of Johnston's army into the city. The Cannon family moved to Fillmore, Brother Cannon taking with him the Deseret News printing press, and he published the paper there. On his return northward from the "move" while at Payson unhitching the teams for noon, a messenger from President Young drove up bearing a letter. The contents of this letter was a call to a mission to the Eastern States with the word that the company with which he was to travel was waiting his arrival. In the eyes of George Q. Cannon a request from President Young was a divine call, and when an hour later the messenger returned he was ready to start on another mission, bidding his family farewell on the roadside. A few weeks later, March 12, 1859, a third son, Abraham H., was born while the father was in Philadelphia on this mission. For these two years Elizabeth supported herself and little ones with such work as was available.
Shortly after the end of this mission her husband was ordained an apostle and became a member of the Council of the Twelve. It now seemed that the home life for which Elizabeth Cannon had so longed was to be her blessing and reward. This, however, was not yet to be. In a few weeks she bade goodbye to her two little boys and departed with her husband for England where he had been called to preside over the European Mission and edit the Millennial Star. She remained there three years, from 1860 to 1863, during which time she traveled with her husband visiting the branches of the Church in England, on the continent and in the Scandinavian countries. She was much beloved by the elders and Saints for her kindness and benevolence, her efficient care of the mission home and her sympathetic assistance wherever there was sickness or sorrow. She had two children born in England. With these and an adopted daughter, a little English orphan named Rosina, aged 10, she left England for home with a party of Mormon emigrants. On the ship (there were no floating palaces in those days) there were many inconveniences. This proved another long and weary journey. The party was detained six weeks at Florence, Nebraska, where there was an epidemic of whooping cough. Her beautiful little girl, Georgianna, died on the plains at Sweetwater. The mother refused to bury the child there and so a crude casket was made from such material as they had with them. Soon after arriving home the little boy George H., the other child born in England, succumbed to the dread disease. Only from the letters interchanged at this painful period can one learn the agony of these days to both parents. Two other little girls, Elizabeth and Lillian, died in infancy; both were born and one died while the father was far from home engaged in missionary service. These sorrowful events were borne with her customary fortitude. President Joseph F. Smith spoke of Elizabeth Cannon as a woman of patience, faithful endurance and unquestionable integrity. The main desire and ambition of Elizabeth Cannon's life was to build: a real home and make it the most desirable place in all the world for her husband and children to enjoy. The return of her husband from this 790 four-year mission brought the beginning of this longed-for opportunity. With the passing of the years she was permitted to satisfy her desires; but, whether in the old log house of her father's or in the more pretentious habitation she was always the same—"The perfect lady to the manor born." Never at any time was she unequal to the occasion, whether at official dinners and receptions in the nation's capital, at homes of distinguished people in the large cities or entertaining some of the most noted people in the world, her dignified and easy manner gave one in her presence a feeling of ease and security. The quiet family life, however, was not to be entirely her lot. Her husband's active career compelled her to accompany him on many of his journeys. Naturally when he represented the Territory as Utah's delegate to Congress, it was imperative for her to set up a temporary home in Washington. So home-loving a woman naturally shrank from the publicity of political life, but she sustained her husband and in her quiet, steadfast way was a support and comfort all through his marvelous career, as long as she lived. When at last it seemed as though there might be years of unmolested, prosperous home life, her health began to fail. Her two eldest sons, John Q. And Abraham, were married and performing missions in foreign lands when the last call came for her, January 25, 1882. Characteristic of her courage to the end, with these two sons thousands of miles away and her devoted husband in Washington making a desperate defense for his people against the passage of the Edmund's Bill, she dictated the following telegram to him: "Remain at your post, God can raise me up, if itis His will, in answer to your prayers there, as well as if you were here." Later in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the day she had her four little children brought to her bedside—Mary Alice, 14; David H., 10; Emily, 7; and Sylvester 4--kissed and blessed them, then to Mary Alice consigned the special care of her baby brother Sylvester. Six of the eleven children survived their mother. One son, Abraham H., became a member of the Council of the Twelve. Two are now living: Sylvester Q., an apostle of the Church, formerly Presiding Bishop, and Mrs. Emily Cannon Willey. A fitting proverb for Elizabeth Hoagland Cannon is the following: "Give her of the fruits of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates." Items for Consideration 1. What qualities of body, heart and mind did Elizabeth Hoagland early exhibit and under what circumstances? 2. What was the occasion of the Exodus from Nauvoo in 1846? °3. Why did this Exodus cause so much suffering among the exiles? 4. Apparently Elizabeth had a good time crossing thé plains. Explain how she could do this. 5. Elizabeth married one of the most capable and active men found in the Church during his adult lifetime. Who was George Q. Cannon and what positions did he hold? 6. What reasons do you have for believing that Eizabeth was in every way worthy of her honored husband? 7. Name some of the trials and sorrows she -experienced. 8. State why you think she was a true and faithful wife. 9. Tell why you think she was one of God's noble women. 10. Point out incidents that indicate she had unfailing faith in our Heavenly Father. 11. What helpful lessons can we learn from her life? "L. D. S. Training Doesn't Cost—It Pays!" BUSINESS TRAINING INCREASES EMPLOYABILITY Shorthand (Stenotype or Gregg) Typewriting Bookkeeping Accounting Penmanship Character Education English Commercial Law Arithmetic Machine Calculation... And others Day and Evening Classes throughout the year. Low Rates—High Standards of Instruction. Information gladly furnished on request. L D. SS. BUSINESS COLLEGE Do You Value The Friendships You Hold? Enrich Them With Selected Christmas Greetings _ d Choose from the most Attractive Assortment in Town Printed with your own personal sentiment and name Now on display at ~ The Deseret News Press 33 Richards Street When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE COLLEGE 70 North Main Street THE COURSES Salt Lake City, Utah BENEFICIAL INCOME Home OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING, SALT LAKE City. UTAH HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT Pure, Extra Fine Granulated SUGAR For table, cooking, canning, fine pastries and candy, you'll find Beet Sugar Superb... A sweet, extra-fine granulated, quick-dissolving sugar. Home grown. Home refined. Insist on beet sugar at your grocers! Intermountain Beet Sugar Companies When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine USE BEET SUGAR PATRONIZE HOME INDUSTRY Christmas Foods— Santa Claus Prices Yes, your O. P. Skaggs System Store has "The Sugar and Spice and everything nice'' for your Christmas cooking, baking and feast table. We are so anxious for you to have a Merry Christmas that we have arranged a lot of Santa Claus Prices. With our reverence for that noble historic gentleman, you may be sure they are right. O.P. Skaggs. Efficient Service System STORES "A Surity of Purity” BOOK and GIFT Headquarters to yourself that Fisher's vitamin "D" Bread is better by just trying Whatever your book or gift needs, and whatever the occasion, make quarters. It. People everywhere cheer its We have on display a wide variety mas or any other occasion. Our stock of Books is the largest in the Intermountain region. Can shop by mail. Write for further information. Fisher’s Vitamin “D” Bread THE AMERICAN LADY BAKING co. The Big Home-Owned Bakery 1844 South State Deseret Book Company Salt Lake City, Utah Blue Blaze... UTAH'S SOOTLESS COAL Burns with a LONG FLAME. CLEAN—HOT—ECONOMICAL ASK YOUR DEALER Jewkes Coal Sales Company When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine toric Gentleman, you may be sure they this store your shopping head of pleasing Gifts suitable for Christ If you cannot come to our store, you Order your Christmas Greeting Cards 44 East South Temple 514 Judge Building ' fine quality and rare flavor. VITAMIN "D” BREAD A Product of Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vou. XXV DECEMBER, 1938 No. 12 CONTENTS Joseph......Alice Morrey Bailey 791 Frontispiece (Church of the Nativity) 792 A Visit to Bethlehem On Christmas Eve...................4. Sidney B. Sperry 793 A Thought For The Season.........Anna B. Hart 797 Spande Bowen 800 Ministry and Authority of the Early Apostles........ President David O. McKay 806 Santa With a High Hand............Mabel S. Harmer 814 Richard Marba C. Josephson 819 December......821 Christmas Is For Happiness................. 00000 e eeeBernice Fagg Pond 822 Who Seeks The King.............La Rene King Bleecker 823 Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd................... Dorothy Clapp Robinson 824 Happenings.......... Ccc cece tent e eee esRe innAnnie Wells Cannon 828 Notes from the Field...........Julia A. F. Lund 829 Editorial: The Greatest Gift..........832 Music Department (A More Cultural Radio)................ Wade N. Stephens 833 Lesson Department.......... 834 Magazine Honor Roll......  853 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 980 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. I "Everything to Furnish the Home"' THE GREATEST VARIETY AND LARGEST STOCK OF Living Room, Dining Room and Bedroom Furniture in the Intermountain Territory 400 Suites to Choose From GRANITE FURNITURE CO. The home of THE ROUND OAK RANGE, AMERICAN BEAUTY WASHERS KELVINATOR, FRIGIDAIRE AND STEWART-WARNER REFRIGERATORS Quality and Service Come First—We' Deliver Everywhere MURRAY SUGAR HOUSE RROVO No Doctor Advises Home Washing as A Health Exercise'' Peerless Laundry 1184 E. 21st South Complete Laundry Service Hyland 2182 Heres a Suggestion! You can solve that Christmas gift problem by deciding to give ~ Useful Electric Appliances Waffle Irons, Toasters, Heating Pads, Mixers, Grills, Razors, Clocks and Approved I. E. S. Floor and Study Lamps. Make your selection today. Easy terms can be arranged. See Your Dealer or Utah Power & Light Co. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Out of the High Rent District: TOO HOT, FOR ME! BE SURE YOU RECEIVE THE ONE AND ONLY GENUINE UTAH KNIGHT'S SPRING CANYON COAL —Starts Quicker. 2—Burns Longer. 3—Less Soot. 4—Less Ash "ASK YOUR DEALER" Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Salt Lake City, Utah LOW COST PER MILE STATIONS EVERYWHERE IN UTAH AND IDAHO  When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Telephone Wasatch 3286 "FOUR WAYS BETTER" 29 Bishop's Building RSA SR SS, SL, NO SD. SA, SD, SDR JOSEPHA By Alice Morrey Bailey "Rather would I doubt the stars, the sunshine, The seasons, or that I myself am sane Than Mary—righteous, sweet, she-whom I love. If she be wrong then all of life is vain."  And then enfolding clouds of doubt assailed him, Etched in pain each thought. With kingly tread He paced the night until, confused and weary Of heart and mind and soul, he sought his bed. "But if the evil tongues of her speak truly And I must deal according to the law, Then I will do so privately, and kindly, And not in public shame or point her flaw." Still anguished, Joseph sank to restless slumber, Fitful dreams, from which an angel spoke, Bringing him the long awaited herald Of great events. He instantly awoke. ' "Fear not to take for wife unto thee Mary, For she was chosen of all Israel To be the precious mother of the Savior. That which she has is God's. All is well!' Thus Joseph proudly took unto him Mary, But knew her not before the Holy night In Bethlehem, when travel-weary, hungry, Mary rode the donkey—silent, white— While Joseph sought in vain at Inn and Tavern For food and lodging—offering any sum. Long before he found the sheltered stable He knew, with fearful heart, her hour had come. Joseph watched her pain in silent anguish, And mutely smoothed the robes where Mary lay Until the miracle of birth—and sorrowed That the Son of God must have a bed of hay. And, though the new-born cry exulted Joseph, In whose veins the blood of David ran; Though in awe, and awkwardly, but tender, He took into his arms the Son of Man; Though angels sang and glory filled the stable The ears of Joseph echoed Mary's cries. His heart yet trembled fearfully—and lifted Only when she smiled into his eyes. BETHLEHEM (At left, Church of the Nativity) The Relief Society? Magazine Vol XXV DECEMBER, 1938 No. 12 A Visit to Bethlehem On Christmas Eve By Sidney B. Sperry T this season of the year our thoughts turn more than customarily to the Holy Land. We associate the birth of the Christ Child with the place of his nativity, Bethlehem. The reader may therefore be interested in following an account of the experiences and observations of the writer who spent Christmas Eve in that little city a few years ago. There was no particular glamor or allurement attached toa visit to Bethlehem—I had been there a number of times before—but there was a thrill at the prospect of spending a few pleasant evening hours in the open fields outside the city. Not only this, but the trip was to be made in the company of archaeologists and Bible scholars who had planned to rejoice in a way befitting the announcement of "good tidings of great joy." Our party left the American School of Oriental Research in Jerusalem late in the afternoon. The weather was cool and pleasant and the sky clear. Our Arab chauffeurs drove at a very leisurely pace, for Bethlehem is only a short distance south and west of the Holy City— about five and a half miles as I recall. We left Jerusalem by the Jaffa gate, descended the Valley of Hinnom and then in succession passed many interesting historical spots: the supposed country house of Caiaphas the High Priest, the tree on which Judas hanged himself (so tradition), and the Valley of Rephaim where David defeated the Philistines (2 Sam. 23: 12, 13). The interesting little Jewish settlement of Talpioth is located on the Plain of Rephaim and here lives the celebrated Hebrew scholar Joseph Klausner. A short distance beyond Talpioth, on the left-hand side of the road, there is a cistern known as the Well of the Magi. According to tradition the three wise men, after leaving King Herod, stopped at this spot and stooped to draw water. While doing so they saw a star reflected in the well. They followed the star which led them to the place where the Christ was born. There are other traditions to the effect that the well never dries up and that the Virgin Mary stopped near it on her journey to Bethlehem. Soon we came tothe Tomb of Rachel, a relatively modern building with a dome on top. The present structure dates back only to 1841 when Sir Joseph Montefiore made certain additions to the old monument. The tomb was revered in Christ's time and when the traveler Arculf visited it in 670 A. D. He described it as an unadorned "Pyramid” 794  Many eminent scholars believe that the "tomb" does not represent the burial place of Rachel at all. Dr. Gustaf Dalman holds that the original burial place was near Rama, north of Jerusalem, and that later the "tomb" was erroneously transferred to the present spot. He says, "One can understand that when the original place of Rachel's grave, the Benjaminite Ephrat, disappeared, the Ephrata of Judah could not refrain from appropriating to herself the grave of Jacob's favorite wife, especially since all the other wives of the Patriarchs rested in Judah." If one will take the trouble to read and compare Gen. 35:19 with I Sam. 10:2 there will be found certain difficulties to reconcile respecting the location of Rachel's tomb. The apocryphal gospels assume that the spot of Christ's birth was in the neighborhood of the present sepulchre. Here, about one mile from Bethlehem, the Virgin is said to have been surprised by the birth of her Son, and a cave had to be found. At this place the shepherds and the Magi reputedly discovered the infant. Other varying accounts as to the whereabouts of the ChristChild's birth are in existence and it will be apparent to any critically minded person that the exact spot is unknown. CONTINUING a short distance along the pleasant highway we came to the place where the road to Bethlehem forks off the main road to the left. From this point it is only. Three-quarters of a mile to where the solidly built and closely massed houses of the present city begin to cluster. Bethlehem is built on a ridge which is terraced and planted with olive trees. Just a few years ago the population of the place was under RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ten thousand; the present figures are not at hand. To the Westerner the city is quaint, but not unpleasing in appearance. The population is— or was—chiefly Christian and works the soil in the valley below the city or manufactures trinkets of various kinds for the tourist trade. Dr. Dalman, one of the chief authorities on the city, says, ""The exact spot occupied by the old city has not yet been ascertained. It was without doubt a smaller city than that of today. If we disregarded all traces of the past, we should place it either at the top of the watershed to the west, or on its eastern spur, outside of what is now considered to be old Bethlehem. Our decision in the matter is not without importance in connection with the traditional 'site of the Nativity. In the first case it was far from the old city; in the other case it was at its western end, that is to say, at its most important approach. The present Bethlehem occupies almost the whole of the long ridge which branches off from the summit, and in the south it stretches even beyond it. Its real ancient site, however, lies undoubtedly in the centre, i. E. On the lowest of the three elevations, and extends from west to east 500 metres (about 547 yards) long and half as broad, on a plain about equal in extent to that of ancient Etam and Mizpah. Bethlehem in olden times was, as now, situated not on a spur but on a saddle." We proceeded into the city and made a short stay, after which our cars took us by an old and somewhat unfrequented road to a plain, where Arab shepherds were watching their sheep. It was now dusk and as I descended from the right side of the car and faced the west I was startled by the size of the Evening star. Through the clear balmy air of Palestine A VISIT TO BETHLEHEM ON CHRISTMAS EVE it resembled a large incandescent crystal globe. My mind reverted to the words of the Magi as reported by Matthew 2:2: 'Where is the king of the Jews that has been born? For we saw his star in the east country, and came to do him homage." Our situation was truly charming and romantic. The undulating hills of Judah stretched before us in every direction. On our right they appeared in dim relief against the afterglow on the western horizon. Through the clear air came faint cries of the hyena and jackal from the desert, the answering barks of village dogs, the soft tinkling of little bells on nearby sheep, and the plaintive notes from some distant shepherd's pipe—breaking the otherwise solemn stillness of the Palestinian night. The gathering darkness, the clear sky, the presence of the shepherds, combined with the psychological effect of the holiness of the night made a never to be forgotten impression upon our minds. The evening was cool and light topcoats were welcomed. Sprinkled over the plain were the fires of shepherds and visiting pilgrims. HE members of our party were met by some Jewish friends, according to a pre-arranged plan, and we were conducted into a cave underground where hot native bread was being cooked and also a large amount of meat. The smoke at the entrance of the cave almost smothered us, but a little distance back we made ourselves very comfortable. The native Palestinians seemed not to mind the smoke at all. Large flat "loaves" of the bread, about twenty inches in diameter and almost paper-thin were offered to us. Since we were not inexperienced in Palestinian customs each proceeded to tear off a large piece of bread, folded it over portions of beef and goat-meat, and thus made a kind of sandwich. The meat had been well cooked and was very tender. The ride and the cool air had made us hungry, and our repast was not at all unpalatable. After satisfying our hunger we went once more into the open air, gathered in a circle, built a fire and sang carols. Some English friends joined our party and I thoroughly enjoyed the way they sang the old holiday airs. While we were singing, the Arab shepherds ventured closer and closer until we could see their dark eyes gleaming in the firelight. The natives are a very curious lot and like to watch the actions of the queer Americans and Europeans. After singing, we discussed the historical significance of the district. Somewhere not far from here Samuel had prepared the sacrificial meal at which David, the son of Jesse, was anointed king over Israel (1 Sam. 16:13). Then, too, we recalled that somewhere not far away, "the shepherds were in the same country lodging in the open field and keeping night-watches over their flock: and, lo, an angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were afraid with great fear. And the angel said to them, Fear not; for, lo, I bring you good tidings of a great joy which will be to all the people, that there has been born for you today a Savior, who is the Lord Christ, in the town of David." (Luke 2:8-11). There is an old tradition that three shepherds were the favored ones to whom the angel appeared. The traveler, Arculf, in 670 speaks of "the three shepherds who, just in this neighborhood, were surrounded with the glory of the Lord." A certain Petrus Diaconus also makes mention of a large garden, having walls around it, that contained a cave in which there was an altar that was supposed to mark the spot where the angel appeared to the shepherds. Other similar statements have been made, but they can all be classed as mere guesses. No one knows exactly where the shepherds were when the heavenly messenger appeared.
WE were scheduled to visit the famous church of the Nativity at about midnight. The church of the Nativity is jointly owned by the Latin, Greek Orthodox and Armenian Churches whose convents are built contiguous to it. Unfortunately, there has been much bickering between these churches over the use of the venerated edifice. The fighting and quarrels between so-called "Christian" churches in the land called "Holy" is one of the anomalies of our generation. The grim humor of the situation is intensified by the presence of Arab soldiers, Mohammedans, at the "holy" places to keep the good Christians from flying at each other's throats. The church of the Nativity is one of the most ancient in the world. Eusebius, one of the early church historians, makes mention of the fact that the emperor Constantine, or rather his mother Helena, ordered a church built here in the year 326 A. D. The pilgrim of Bordeaux visited it in the year 333. Even before a church was built on the spot, Origen wrote, about the year 248: "Should anyone desire still other proofs for the birth of Jesus in Bethlehem according to Micah's prophecy (5:2) and the history described by the disciples in the Gospels, let him consider that, in harmony with the Gospel story of His Birth, a cave is shown in Bethlehem, where He was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE born, and the manger in the cave where He lay wrapped in swaddling clothes. And this is well known in those parts even by strangers to the Faith, namely that Jesus who is revered and adored by Christians was born in this cave" (As quoted by Dalman). Anciently there may have been several caves in or near Bethlehem, but the fact that the one mentioned by Origen contained a manger has been considered significant. It is probably the very one over which the present church has been erected. Some authorities believe Constantine's basilica underwent considerable remodeling in the days of Justinian (527-565), others believe the original structure still stands. Since the days of Justinian the building has, however, received changes at the hands of different authorities.
I SHALL not weary the reader with a long description of the church service we attended on Christmas Eve. The place was jammed with oriental worshippers and excessively warm. The pomp and ceremony, the monotonous chanting of the priests, the smell of incense and the stale odors that arose from perspiring bodies anciently or recently perfumed, added little to my spiritual fervor. At the midnight hour, bells rang out and the sound of them was transmitted by short wave radio to all parts of the Western world. The clean, cool, sweet air that greeted us as we left the church was like a copious draught of cold spring water to a thirsty man. We all inhaled deeply of the exhilarating Palestinian breeze that played over the plains and hills where the shepherds still kept silent watch over their flocks. Then we went back to Jerusalem.
A Thought for the Season
By Anna B. Hart
NOW we are near the glad season when we commemorate the birth of Jesus of Nazareth. The streets and shop windows have taken on a festive air. The windows are fairylands of toys—anticipations keen. But how different are the reactions to Christmas; to one a time of joyous anticipation, to another a time of memories, of heart aches, to one the culmination of a year to another the beginning of life, to one an emphasis of poverty, to another a lavishing of gifts. In spite of all the varied meanings which Christmas holds for us, this is a time of year when our lives touch on a common ground. At Christmas our world of present-day bewilderment becomes unified. As our thoughts turn toward the One whom we are honoring at this season, we are at once impressed by the fulness with which He lived. Many were the experiences He gained in the bustling Galilee of His day. He knew the work of the people and their customs. He knew the shepherds, the tillers of the soil, the wealthy merchants, and the joy-makers at the wedding festival. In the midst of this life of varied activities and service to others, Jesus did not omit cultivating friendships. His friends included people of all classes and all ages. His affection for little children is among the tenderest chapters in the history of our race. The little group of His closest friends represented sufficient variety of background and experience to enable Him to appreciate the problems of life as they appear to people of all groups. Jesus took long hours for intimate conversations even with people little known to him. He was always ready to talk with people about the law, their souls, their troubles, or even their physical ills. It is not strange that many of the teachings of Jesus in those leisurely conversations have come to us as an impressive part of his life's achievement.
CHRIST touched life in varied ways but all his experiences enriched and rounded him for his one ultimate interest—the Kingdom of God. He has given us his gift of eternal principles. He is our master guide who takes us through what would be a life of meaningless bewilderment and brings us to the journey's end in safety. It is by living as He did that we can live abundantly. Christ knew the real values of life, and guided his life toward them. These values to him were not considered in terms of years or even of a lifetime but in relation to eternity. Each deed took its proper place in his life's activities. Perhaps Jesus would not approve of the material goal which many of us set up as an ideal. He would have us round out our lives with more enjoyment of the companionship of our friends and of the reflections which come from a better understanding of ourselves. Few of the experiences that come to us possess adequate form, for we have neither the leisure nor the opportunity to undertake them, or fully to "understand" them when undertaken, much less the desire or the ability to communicate them. Far too much of our lives is spent in purposeless activities which have no real significance for us and which bring no true enjoyment. We spend our lives in routine work interspersed by a hectic chase after fruitless pleasures and a happiness which disintegrates when we touch it. Our way is marked by piecemeal fragments of experiences, experiences which might have been valuable had we allowed them to take their course. How was it that Christ made his life meaningful and significant? He is frequently described as hastening from the multitudes and even from the companionship of his disciples to enjoy the solitude and indulge in the reflection he seems to have loved so much. In quiet contemplation, away from the pressing cares of Galilee, he was able to see life in perspective and gain a clearer vision. And yet it is true that Jesus accomplished more in this leisure than other men have ever done by applying themselves however strenuously to a life filled only with toil.
THE abundant life is in harmony with eternal forces because it is one guided by eternal principles. In the midst of the press of everyday existence, it is difficult to keep clearly before us that which we wish to make of our lives. We all wish to live abundantly, but in our attempt to do so, we often find ourselves rushing frenziedly about, engaging in pursuits which prove to be merely time-wasters, and which bring us no closer to a realization RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of our ultimate aims. Let us pause occasionally in our mad haste and evaluate our activities at their true worth. Christ taught that true greatness consisted in service. He did not serve mankind by giving of money or this world's goods. He devoted much time to hearing and comforting the bodily ills and the mental distresses of all who would place their confidence in him. What prized gifts—these gifts of service! How much more of lasting value do we find in an occasional rare hour of real companionship than in the most expensive (and most useless) gift. Jesus expected no gifts in return—no more than did the wise men and shepherds that first Christmas. The real joy comes from sharing what we have with others. In ancient times it had been taken for granted that the superior should be served by the inferior. Into this world Jesus came—a world where most of the menial tasks were performed by women and slaves. He declared that true greatness consisted in using his greater strength to serve them; that the one who sought a lowly place where he might serve others was the God-like man.
I LIKE to remember that Christ taught women the secret of abundant living nineteen centuries ago. Woman's life is filled with the many activities of the day. Christ recognized her capacity and he also recognized her faith. When necessary he defended her and was always courteous and considerate of her. It was to a woman he spoke these words of immortal significance to which past ages have A THOUGHT FOR THE SEASON listened and future ages will listen: "But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life." (John 4:14.) How the conversation of Jesus and Martha of Bethany at the grave of Lazarus might show that Jesus considered Martha capable of the brightest spiritual illumination when he said: (John 11:25-26) "I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die." Jesus recognized a woman's faith. There was the woman who touched his garment in the crowd, to whom he said, "Thy faith hath made thee whole". (Mark 5:34.) And again he recognized an unusual faith in woman. This time her disease was of the soul for she was a sinner. "Thy faith hath saved thee" (Luke 7:50) indicates that complete moral and spiritual renewing had taken place within her. Our records show Jesus dealing with the poor, the sick, the bereaved, the sinful and the outcast among women, and always thoughtful and courteous toward them all. But was it only when women were in need and he could serve them that he gave them his attention? Jesus was willing not only to minister unto women but to be ministered unto by them. He healed the mother of Peter's wife "and she arose and ministered unto them". (Matthew 8:15.) Again (Luke 8:1-3): "And it came to pass afterward that he went throughout every city, and village preaching, and showing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him; and certain women, which had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene, out of whom went seven devils, and Joanna the wife of Chuza, Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many others, which ministered unto him of their substance." We must remember that Jesus took with him on his preaching campaigns a company of women as he took a company of men: that having given them health of body and enlightenment of mind he did not hesitate to accept their ministry in material things. He recognized the ability of women to serve the world.
CHRIST gave us more than abundantly lived hours of leisure or contemplation. He doubtless felt the peace that also comes from communion with nature. He observed many overtones of life—the bleat of a lost lamb, a lily in the field, and reeds in the river shaken by the wind. Will there be time this year in the rush of festive preparation for reflection—for acquaintance with our own lives, for companionship of friends and relatives? The voices of the angels were not heard through confusion but in the peaceful hours. May we forswear all enmities and the distinctions that divide, that we may commit ourselves to living abundantly and building up peace on Earth and Good Will among men!
Giver's Gold
By Sibyl Spande Bowen
MYRA paused at the door of the ballroom with the ecstatic gasp of a surprised child. "Now aren't you glad I made you come? Did you ever see anything so perfectly gorgeous? Just like fairyland. They do make Christmas look so luscious these days—all this silver and blue. Come on, I want to dance and dance and dance." Ned was not sharing her mood. He looked tired and a little worried. "I'll dance till I drop—and I'll probably do just that—if it will please you," he said, trying to meet her gaiety. "You look as though you belonged, at that. A gold fairy in a silver fairyland. Yes, you do look like a fairy—a brown-eyed, yellow-haired one, all done up in gold—er—" "Tulle. I thought you'd trip yourself on all those words." Myra's eyes were already roaming about the hall, cataloging prospects for an exciting evening. "Tulle, then. I see I'm going to have to fight off the stag line. Here comes the first one." The young man touched Ned's arm. "Dr. Marshall?" Ned nodded. "They want you at the hospital at once, sir. There's been an accident—a woman run down and seriously hurt, they said to tell you." "Tell them I'll leave immediately. Myra, you understand, of course. I'm sorry. Oh, here comes North. Clem, I'll leave Myra in your willing hands." Myra's face puckered like a slapped child's. "Ned! You promised you wouldn't let them bother you tonight." Ned half turned. Already he was looking far past her, his boredom and tiredness burnt away by some inner flame of energy. "I know, Honey, but they wouldn't call unless they needed me. I'll take a taxi—leave you the car, just in case—" He was gone. And Myra was dancing in the arms of Clem North, her eyes bright with anger. "Well, here I am, dumped unceremoniously on you. Do you mind?" Clem North's experienced gray eyes, about even with the top of her smooth yellow head, caressed her. "Do I mind! Lady, when a glass of champagne is handed to a thirsty soul—does he mind? Myra, you're perfect tonight." This was pleasant, like ointment on a bruise. But that didn't excuse Ned. She coddled her grievance warmly. "Here I'd planned on this club dance for weeks. Ned knew about it. I'd warned him I'd expect him to stay it out, and he promised. Now look at me! Don't I rate any consideration?" Clem laughed maliciously. "You're a lovely little person, Myra, and you rate the whole world on a silk cushion. But you asked for this, now you've got it. You had a chance to take on a perfectly good lawyer—one of the best in town, if I do say it who shouldn't—and you engaged yourself to a doctor. You deliberately let yourself in for a life of spoiled dinners, canceled bridge dates, and telephone answering. Aren't you being just a bit inconsistent, kicking about it?"
GIVER'S GOLD This was quite unanswerable. Myra was sulkily silent. They danced into a dim arc of shaded blue lights. The air was heady with the mixed perfumes of Christmas spruce, expensive cosmetics and the high odor of gardenias. Clem bent his sleek head. "You're not married yet, you know, Darling. The offer still stands, for a limited time."
BEFORE the end of many dances Myra was well up the lower slopes of a high mountain of righteous indignation and self-pity. She glared at the modest diamond on her left hand. A link in a chain, a prison chain! That's all it was. Clem was right, oh, so right! And it wasn't too late. There was still something she could do about it—right now, while her anger gave her courage. Ned had asked for it, with his total indifference to her rights. She found her coat, golden velvet, like the gold of her gown, and slipped out of the room. In the crowd, nobody noticed her. "Dr. Marshall's car, please," she told the doorman, shivering in her excitement. She brought the car to a defiant stop in the parking strip sacred to the doctors. She gathered her long golden skirts about her and ran into the hospital. She knew where to go. The accident ward was on the first floor, right. Her gilt heels tapped the hard tiles insolently as Myra clicked down to the door of the receiving room and stopped, panting a little. The door of the receiving room opened, and Ned came out. He looked strangely out of place in this stark, barren place, in his evening clothes. At any other time Myra would have felt a thrill of proprietary admiration for his dark good looks, the bony, tired distinction of his face, but now she thought of nothing on earth but the party he had walked out on, the one he had promised solemnly to let nothing interrupt. It stood like a tall symbol of the mountain of difference between them. All the girl's indignation rose to aid her. "Myra! What on earth are you doing here?" Ned stared at her, as if he didn't quite recognize her. That was the final touch. "This is what I'm doing here!" She twisted the ring from her finger with violent hands. "You can have this back. I'm not something to pick up and throw down again as your job happens to dictate. I'm a woman—a pretty woman—who wants to live a little while she's young." He scarcely glanced at her. "Some other time, Myra, some other time," he said impatiently. Certainly his mind wasn't on what she was saying; but, even so, he accepted the ring mechanically and tucked it into his vest pocket just as the others followed him out of the room. A crisp nurse managed to conceal most of an amused smile as her alert glance went from the ring to the enraged girl! Standing by was a tall, bewildered, youngish man, his shabby hat still clutched in his thin hands. A very young interne, white-garbed, tried to look as important as possible. Myra hadn't expected an audience. She was annoyed, but too completely possessed of herself to be ashamed. She was certainly not sorry. Ned spoke to the shabby young man. "We'll have to operate at once, Mr. Carlson. It's her only chance." He turned to the nurse, "Get my things ready. Call Dr. Morgan. We'll operate immediately—the quicker the better." He remembered Myra again, briefly. "You're just in time, Myra, to take the Carlson children home. They came up with their father, but he must stay while we operate. It may be—" he broke off, in consideration for the thin man who was near collapse.
A NURSE brought the children from a waiting room: a boy and a girl, perhaps ten and eight, with shaggy hair, big, wistful eyes, and thin faces. The drab, nondescript clothes were those worn by children of the poor. The nurse murmured with her impersonal brightness, "Run along now, children. Your mother is going to be all right. Miss—er—Miss— will take good care of you," and dismissed them entirely from her mind as she hurried to join Dr. Marshall down the hall. Myra looked after them, quite literally speechless. Tears of enraged humiliation started to her eyes. Of all the—why, he hadn't said a word. He hadn't even looked at her. Oh, she was well rid of that ring, of that man, who could look at her and not see her. She became aware of the two children beside her. Here she was with them foisted upon her without so much as a by-your-leave. Just another example of Ned's utter callousness where she was concerned. The children stared up at her fearfully, looking as utterly wretched as only frightened children can. Myra felt a pang of pity for them. After all, they were not responsible for Ned's high-handedness. Grudgingly, she imitated RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the nurse's false brightness of manner. "Come on, children, this is no place for us. We'll go home and wait for your daddy." Then she remembered she didn't even know where "home" was. But Jimmy, the ten-year-old, knew. Across the city to the other side of the tracks he guided Myra, to a humble, down-trodden little house. A tiny fire burning in the sitting room stove was putting up a losing fight to the cold that sifted in around the window frames, through the thin walls. Myra shivered. So she was to freeze in addition to the rest. "You'd best get to bed at once, then," she advised, trying not to be short with the pathetic little things. "I'll stay right here until Dr. Marshall and your daddy come." Then added to herself, crossly, "Which, heaven permitting, will be soon." Between unbuttoning dresses, fastening night clothes, reminding about toothbrushes, she learned the story. Common enough, she knew—but still, when you met it face to face— The father had been ill. The mother had found work behind the Christmas counters of a huge department store. Not much, but enough to see the family through the worst of the winter. Coming home tonight the road had been slippery. A hurrying truck driver, impatient to get home and start his holiday, a woman in the street, too tired to be watchful! And now she was in the hospital fighting for the life that meant so much to these wide-eyed, anxious children. They were in bed, finally. Tucked under insufficient blankets in their icy bedroom. Myra returned to the but faintly warmer sitting room, her temper not at all improved by her discomfort. She glanced at her watch. At the club they would be pairing off for supper now. It wouldn't help her with Clem to be missing when he looked for her. Another score against Ned. Myra's impatient glance roved around the dimly-lit room, and riveted blankly on the worn settee. There, fastened to each end of the couch with a large safety pin was a pair of limp, dangling stockings. Christmas Eve! Two stockings, waiting for a visit from Santa Claus!
MYRA shook her head impatiently. What of it? She needn't take over all the family's problems just because she had been accidentally marooned here with the two youngsters. After all, she had more than done her duty by them. She thought hungrily of the turkey supper—Cesare's incomparable trimmings—that she was missing. But even as she did, she was turning in her mind the possible places to look for the Christmas cache. It was irritating, but Mr. Carlson might be away all night. She waited for a time, huddling near the feeble heat of the little stove. When she was quite sure the children were in that first heavy sleep, she opened the door of the other bedroom cautiously. Closet shelves were the time-honored hiding places of Santa Claus. Resolutely she began her search. There was a box containing a doll, cheap, but bright enough with its pink face and crisp, blue dress. This for Susan, the girl, and a pair of roller skates for Jimmy. Lay-away tickets, with the tiny sums paid against them over a long period, were still attached. Myra's face burned as she noted them. Both poor little toys cost about as much as a pair of her own carelessly regarded silk stockings. She found a further package, some cotton handkerchiefs. Two for Jimmy, two for Susan. Search as she might, not another thing came to light. Myra arranged these offerings in the stockings and stood back to look at them. Pretty meagre! Nothing much here to excite the shouts of joy that are every child's right on Christmas morning. But there was nothing more. Reluctantly she returned to the post by the stove. The faint excitement of playing Santa Claus subsided, and her own bored discomfort possessed her again. Myra closed her eyes, but closing her eyes did not shut out her thoughts. Suppose the mother didn't come back—ever. Suppose that in the cold gray of Christmas morning the man should come back to tell them—that! She pictured the children in their grief, looking out on this drab exhibition of Christmas. Her thoughts ran on. They ought to have their minds diverted by a tree, a perfectly lovely tree simply glittering with tinsel and lights, and little, half-hidden surprises of candy and small toys! They ought to have a tree like the one Mrs. James, the office manager at Uncle Robert's factory, had had just that afternoon for the girls. Why couldn't she—but no, that was the height of ridiculousness. One just didn't barge out on a freezing midnight and pluck Christmas trees out of dark, closed factories, even if the factory were just a couple of blocks away. There was no sense in getting all emotional and soggy over this affair. The sensible thing to do would be to stay here as close to this miserable little fire as possible and try to ward off pneumonia till Ned or Mr. Carlson got back. Yes, that would be the sensible thing to do. If only those children, dreaming shining visions behind that closed door could sensibly realize they couldn't possibly expect a lovely Christmas. If only they could sensibly face the morning and their mother's probable death, quite resigned to the doll, the roller skates—and nothing else. If only—tears blurred Myra's eyes. Quite wrathfully she hitched the collar of her coat around her chin and sneaked out of the house. She closed the door softly, and headed Ned's car toward the tall night outline of the factory.
SHE knocked at the big glass door of the place. Silent and dark, the big building towered above her. Myra's teeth chattered in the still cold. If only she could get in. Gus must be sleeping, to be away so long. She must get in, or freeze to death. Like a flashback in a movie she had a momentary remembrance of Uncle Robert talking to Gus that very afternoon when she had come to pick him up in the car. "Gus, the hasp of that third basement window is weak. Attend to it." Gus had promised, but Gus was old and forgetful. Myra ran down the loading alley and dropped to her knees at the third basement window. Good old careless Gus! The hasp gave easily. Gilt slippers first, she slipped over the grimy sill—and bedlam and confusion broke loose in a thousand whirrs, burrs, bells and gongs. Myra clung to the sill, quite unable to move. Then she remembered. The burglar RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE alarms, of course! She had set them off. She dropped to the floor and raced for the stairs. Half way up strong arms hurtled themselves around her, pinning her to the spot. Suddenly the alarm bells stopped, lights went on all over the place. "Why, Miss Myra!" Old Gus was struggling to take in the situation, "what you doin' here, this time of night?" "Never mind about that," Myra implored, "I've got to get that tree and get back—before those children wake up." In a rush of words she told him about the Carlsons. She led him to where the tree stood, in all its shining perfection. "Look," she pointed out, "still some of the candy canes and the toys the girls amused themselves with!" It didn't take long to dismantle the tree and like virtue triumphant Myra drove away a few minutes later, practically immersed in Christmas.
THE old clock in the Carlson kitchen struck two as she was hanging the last silver bauble on the tree. "Good heavens," she thought, "the party's over!" She had spent the top of her evening on the tree. And quite curiously, the fact of the missed party passed from her mind at once, as something entirely negligible, while she stood back to gaze at her creation with the fond expression of a mother contemplating her only child. Ned and Mr. Carlson came in and stood near her. "Is she—?" They both smiled. "I'm so glad," Myra murmured, and then demanded, "Isn't it lovely?" The tall man's lips moved, the muscles of his throat convulsed. "He's going to cry," Myra thought, horrified. "Think nothing of it," she cried hastily, gaily, "it's more fun than I've had in years, and really, it was no trouble at all—" "No?" Ned remarked dryly, and his glance traveled over her, up and down. Myra's followed it, with consternation. Her gilt shoes were scuffed and blackened. The gold tulle of her skirt was in shreds. One long smudge of soot, about the length of a window sill, blackened the beauty of the velvet coat. "And there's soot on your nose," Ned informed her. "Oh, dear," Myra said in a small voice, "I was so hungry, I was going to ask you to take me to a hamburger stand." She looked down at herself in naive surprise. "How could I forget to look at myself for that long!" "How, indeed," Ned murmured. Then, "Come on. We'll get the sandwiches with, or without, the dirt. I could do with a couple myself." He was carefully impersonal, a trifle too much on the courteous side. "He doesn't care how I look any more," Myra thought miserably, but kept her silence until they reached the stand and were waiting for their meat cakes to brown. Then she looked at him. His eyes were ringed with black fatigue, there was weariness in every line of his face, but back of this was a curious light of peace, of satisfaction in a job well done, that made you know that after all, here was a soul refreshed. "You've got it, too," she whispered. "Got what? Not a dirty face, I hope," Ned countered lightly, refusing to be serious. Myra disregarded this. "That feeling. You look just the way I feel—all warm and exalted inside. As if you'd given a little bit of the clay of yourself—and it came back to you pure gold. Giver's gold!" Ned glanced away, determined not to see her eager, luminous face. "Now you're going poetic on me," he said casually. Suddenly his voice was harsh. "Don't let the emotion of this thing sway you, Myra. It isn't all Christmas trees and sugar plums and nice warm feelings. It's hard work, most of it—and precious little thanks. You're overwrought, excited. Tomorrow you'll see things differently." Myra smiled slightly. She had her share of blue shadows under tired eyes. She spread out her gown. "Do I look particularly excited, or sugar-plumy? And as for nice warm feelings, I'm just as frozen and tired as you ever were, Ned Marshall." Then she pleaded, "I've found something tonight, Ned, that you can help me keep. Will you—give it back?" "That's right. I remember now. I'm a jilted man," he said coldly, and plucked the ring from his pocket to turn it on his palm. Myra swallowed all her pride and held out her hand for it. "Oh, no, you're not. You're all engaged again. I'm going to make a marvelous doctor's wife, Darling." Her tone was light, but her brown eyes were deadly serious. Jerry, the sandwich man, set two smoking plates before them. "Nice Christmas out, eh, folks?" Beneath the counter Ned sought Myra's other hand and held it tightly. "A remarkable Christmas, Jerry, perfectly remarkable," he agreed fervently.
Ministry and Authority of the Early Apostles
President David O. McKay (Address, Relief Society Conference, Oct. 4, 1938.)
IT is always a joy to me to meet with Relief Society Sisters on such an occasion as this, but when the assembly is thrilled with such beautiful music as that to which we have listened this morning, to be with you is truly an inspiration. I congratulate these musicians upon the excellent service they have rendered. I do not know that I have ever heard anything that seemed to impress me more deeply than the quartette and this string trio—it is good to be here. When I accepted Sister Cannon's invitation to speak to the workers in the Theological Department of Relief Society, I had in mind meeting a group of officers and teachers especially engaged in that department work. I did not anticipate meeting such a large audience as this on the first day of conference. I congratulate you workers upon your response to the invitation of your leaders to study the ways and means of carrying on this great Relief Society work. As announced my subject is: "The Ministry and Authority of the Ancient Apostles". The sisters of the Church are fortunate in having the privilege this year of studying the lives and teachings of these men. I can think of no subject that will bear greater fruit in interest and profit than the course which you have outlined. This morning I am going to invite you first to become acquainted with these twelve men personally to such a limited extent as lies within our power to become acquainted with them, and, second, to consider their message as it was given to them by the Savior.
Chosen by Inspiration The first important point to note is the prayerfulness with which Christ approached the choosing of His Twelve. If you will read in the sixth chapter of Luke from the twelfth to the sixteenth verses you will find there a very brief account of Christ's choosing the Twelve. The first verse, especially, is significant: "And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a mountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God." (There is a very clear exposition at once of two divine personages in the Godhead—God the Father to whom Christ prayed, God the Son who had the responsibility of establishing the gospel in the Meridian of Times and throughout all ages.) "And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples; and of them he chose Twelve, whom also he named apostles."
Significance of the Number Twelve Some have asked whether the number twelve had any significance. Well, it has. The people to whom Jesus first came were the descendants of the twelve tribes of Israel. They were looking forward to an earthly king, as well as one who would stand at the head of these twelve tribes. Now it is not clearly stated anywhere in the scriptures whether Jesus chose the Twelve because there were twelve tribes of Israel, but the implication is that He did. We find in secular literature the following: MINISTRY OF THE EARLY APOSTLES "The apostles were twelve in number. The number was intended to be significant. Its import could not have been lost on the Twelve themselves when they were first called, or on the multitude who witnessed their election. Our Lord was evidently thinking of the twelve tribes of Israel. Though ten of the tribes had largely disappeared, the mission of the Messiah was to be to all the tribes of the nation. Hence the fitness of the number chosen by our Lord. There was one apostle for each Tribe. Nor should it be overlooked that the employment of this number was a fresh claim on the part of Jesus to be the Messiah. His disciples would argue this: 'Who but the Messiah could venture to create a body or group of twelve disciples only? Nobody had done so before, no prophet, not even the Baptist. Jesus then must be the Messiah.'"
Again we read: "Their number, corresponding to that of the Twelve tribes, shows that they are destined primarily to work among the children of Israel, to whom, accordingly, they made their first appeal in Jerusalem." Now, if that were all we had, I would hesitate about even mentioning this, associating the number twelve with the twelve tribes, but if you will turn to the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 29, verse 12, you will find the following: "Again, verily, verily, I say unto you, and it hath gone forth in a firm decree, by the will of the Father, that mine apostles, the Twelve which were with me in my ministry at Jerusalem, shall stand at my right hand at the day of my coming in a pillar of fire, being clothed with robes of righteousness, with crowns upon their heads, in glory even as I am, to judge the whole house of Israel, even as many as have loved me and kept my commandments, and none else." I think we need not pause longer on the significance of the number. It is a fact that that number was chosen, the group consisted of twelve, that it was so during Christ's ministry among men. As far as we can find in the Acts of the Apostles it continued to be so. It is very difficult to find out whether every vacancy that occurred was filled, thus continuing the exact number of twelve, but we do know that the first vacancy made by Judas Iscariot was filled before the work was taken up, and we can readily infer that that policy was continued throughout the ministry of the Twelve, at any rate in this dispensation the Lord again chose twelve, and He also chose twelve from among the Nephites; so it would seem that there is some significance to the number as it relates to the Council.
Names of Twelve First Chosen Now, as you are going to study about them, it is well to get acquainted with them as best we can. If you read one account, you will find certain names; you read another and you find other names; you read a third, and you will have still a different list. Follow me now, just for a moment. Luke tells us that the first apostle the Savior chose was Simon, the son of Jona.. Simon, son of Jona, was the name by which he was best known among his associates, but Christ called him Cephas, which in the Hebrew means rock or stone, and in the Greek the meaning of stone or rock is Petras, or Peter. It is significant that the Savior recognized in Peter that rock-like, granitelike quality, and his ''wavering"' later did not believe that character. 808 Andrew was his brother. These men were fishermen. James and John were sons of Zebedee; their mother's name was Salome, and she was proud of her boys. James and John were known as the "Sons of Thunder". One illustration in the Bible tells us that when Jesus and the Twelve came through Samaria at one time, they were treated with disrespect to such an extent that James and John rebelled against the treatment and said, "Lord give us power to call down fire from Heaven and destroy them." Not the loving nature usually attributed to John, is it? As a matter of fact, he was a fearless man, unyielding for the right. James became the first martyr of the Church, and there he showed his magnificent character. Old Herod set his enmity and revenge upon James. James was betrayed by one of the soldiers, who; as he looked upon James and saw his character, repented, so tradition tells us, asked forgiveness and died with the first great martyr. There are several James names, so keep this one in mind—James the son of Zebedee, brother of John the Beloved. He was James the Great, chosen as one of the first Twelve. Philip is next. Philip was a native of Bethsaida of whom little is known. Tradition says he preached in Phrygia and died in Hierapolis. He is not the Philip who preached the gospel in Samaria (Acts 8:5). Bartholomew is next. Bartholomew undoubtedly is the same as Nathanael, whom Philip sought when Philip first became acquainted with the Savior, and Bartholomew is undoubtedly the Nathaniel, in referring to whom Jesus said. "Behold an Israelite indeed in whom there is no guile." Matthew the Publican, as he styles himself, was the son of Alphaeus. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE We do not know whether that Alphaeus was the father of James or not. If so, they were brothers, but we cannot determine. Matthew was the son of Alphaeus, and as a Collector of Customs at Capernaum on the Sea of Galilee became known as "The Publican". He associated with the common people, who were looked down upon by the Jews. He was also known as Levi. Thomas, surnamed '"Didymus" which means a twin, was also chosen at this time. Now we come to those whose identity it is a little difficult to determine. Another James, known as "James the Less" to distinguish him from James the son of Zebedee, was also a son of Alphaeus. Alphaeus was a common name, so he might not be the same as Matthew's father. James "the Less" must not be confused, however, with James the brother of the Lord. You cannot find anywhere that James "the brother of the Lord" was sustained as one of the Twelve. It cannot be proved, but he might have been chosen to succeed James the Great, I do not know. If he did not believe at first in the divine mission of his brother, he did accept Him after the resurrection, and that is one of the points I wish to mention later. "James the Less" is not the author of the "Epistle according to James". The author of this Epistle was the Lord's brother who sat in the council in Jerusalem when the primitive church was threatened with destruction over some question about Jews and Gentiles. Following "James the Less" we have Simon the Zelotes, or Simon the Canaanite, both are the same; in fact, the Canaanite is the Aramaic word for Zealot, so Simon the Zealot was probably, before he met Jesus, a member of the sect of the Zealots, a sort of voluntary ecclesiastical po- MINISTRY OF THE EARLY APOSTLES lice to see that the law was not broken with impunity. We know very little about him, he is the least known of the Twelve Apostles. Then we come to Judas, or Jude. Do not confuse him with another Judas, for we have two in the Twelve. Judas was the brother of James. Now this man was called Lebbaeus and also Thaddaeus. Authorities are not agreed whether he is the same as our Lord's brother Judas, author of the Epistle of Jude. Then finally we come to Judas Iscariot—Judas of Kerioth. Great Men Profitable Company It is said "Great men" (and I will add great women also) "taken up in any way are profitable company. We cannot look, however, imperfectly upon a great man without gaining something by him. He is the living light-fountain which it is good and pleasant to be near. The light which enlightens, which has enlightened the darkness of the world; and this not as a kindled lamp only, but rather as a natural luminary shining by the gift of Heaven; a flowing light-fountain, as I say, of native, original insight, of manhood and heroic nobleness; in whose radiance all souls feel that it is well with them." I am congratulating you upon the opportunity that is yours during the coming year to be in the radiance of these living light-fountains. Peter was a fisherman, so was Andrew, so were James and John, I believe Nathanael was; Judas Iscariot was not. I think Simon the Zealot was not, but they were humble men. Matthew was a Collector of Customs. Why call these men great? Few men in our community are more humble than these men were, and yet here, face to face, we are talking about the benefit of mingling 809 with great men. I will tell you why they were great—simply because they accepted the teachings and ideals of Jesus Christ. They were not great in the realm of finance; they were not great politically; they were not great authors, but in the realm of character they were supremely great, and that is encouraging to me, and to you and to your husbands and your sons. No occupation is so humble, no labor so common as to prevent a man from entering into that realm of true greatness. The only reason the apostles are known to the world today is because of their loyalty to Christ and His Gospel. If it had not been for that they would have been unknown, submerged in the great sea of humanity, just as a rock thrown into the sea is gone forever. Apostles Ordained and Qualified Now what about the ministry of the Twelve? We are told that they were ordained and set apart. The inference in Matthew is that the Savior not only ordained them, or authorized them, but He qualified them—note that—He qualified them to have power over unclean spirits. Over diseases, over those spirits which were troubling the people, and sent them forth authoritatively commissioned to represent Him, the Author of Life. Two great objectives He set clearly before these Twelve. If you will read in Matthew, chapter — ten, you will find there the instructions given to the Twelve when Christ first sent them out. Specific and General Commissions Now here you will have to study carefully, and it might not be so interesting to you, but you who would like to follow it, I would suggest this: that you will note the first commission Christ gave related to 810 a temporary mission, and that will be covered from the fifth to the fifteenth verses. 'Go not into the way of the Gentiles, and into any city of the Samaritans enter ye not: But go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel." See how he circumscribed them! In effect He said: That is your mission now, only to the lost sheep of the House of Israel, not to the Samaritans who are looked upon with distrust by the Jews because they turned away from the teachings of Judah. No Samaritan was to receive the gospel under the first commission. The second part is found from the sixteenth to twenty-third verses. This relates more to the gospel ministry of that time. Here Jesus refers to some of the principles general in application—one of them is "lose yourself for the good of others." Then the third part from verses twenty-four to forty-two, Christ gave the wider application, anticipating the call that is given to you by Sister Cannon this morning, "Go ye and teach all nations." This was given after His death and after His resurrection. Note the difference. First an immediate mission, second a gospel of general application, and third a universal assignment with a promise. Upon them he placed the responsibility of carrying the gospel to the world. These instructions the Twelve carried out specifically, and at first held strictly to their calling that they must go only to the Jews and not to the Gentiles. First Commission to Proclaim the Gospel After Christ was crucified, Peter and the others carried on the work, and they refrained, even then, from going to the Samaritans or to the Gentiles. You remember that God RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sent to Peter a vision of a sheet that came down from heaven, and on it was forbidden meat. In the vision the angel said: "Rise; Peter, Kill and eat," and he said: "I have not eaten anything that is unclean," and while he had the vision there were knocking at the door two messengers from Cornelius, a leader of 'a. Roman band (not a brass band, as one Sunday School teacher said), ~ a leader of the Centurians—one hundred soldiers. Note that ths came to Peter, who was head of the Twelve, and not to Pau!. Paul was the apostle of the Gentiles, but when the gospel went to the Gentiles it was given through the organized authority of the church. So Peter, guided by the messengers, went into the house of a Gentile, a Roman Centurian, contrary to the Jewish practice. Now that was not easy for a Jew to do, and he sat down and ate with them, and do you know how he became convinced that he was doing right? He perceived that Cornelius had the Holy Ghost as well as he, the one exception in the New Testament where the Hoiy Ghost is given before baptism. Seeing this, Peter said: "Can any one deny baptism to these who have rece: ved the Holy Ghost as well as we." That first commission of Christ's when Peter was chosen, remained with him even up to that day. Then it began to dawn on him, and it dawned on Paul and others, that there was significance in the commission of Christ to them: "Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.... And lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world." That was their ministry—to bear witness to the divinity of the Gcspel of Jesus Christ, to Jews first, then to MINISTRY OF THE EARLY APOSTLES Samaritans and Gentiles and to everyone; and here let me say, sisters, that as sure as you are sitting here contemplating the beautiful things of the Gospel, and your work in the Relief Society, so sure is it that there will be no other plan in this world that will bring peace and happiness to mankind, only through obedience to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. With all my soul I bear you that witness. Special Witnesses of the Resurrection The second duty of the apostles was to bear witness to the reality of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. That seems simple to you and me, because we have accepted it since babyhood, but it is not simple to the world today. Millions reject it. There are professors here in our midst who are implanting in the minds of our boys and girls that the resurrection was not a reality. I know whereof I speak, and so do you mothers know. Today we are discussing the ministry of the Apostles, and one of the chief duties of these Twelve was to bear witness to the reality of Christ's resurrection from the dead. I would like to apply that to Relief Society work a little later. Now just a sentence or two to prove that. Note what Peter said when the eleven met after Judas had killed himself. They had passed through some of the most trying experiences, discouragement and doubt. "Wherefore of these men", said Peter "which have companied with us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, Beginning from the baptism of John, unto that same day that he was taken up from us, must one be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection.' "The man whom 811 you choose to take Judas' place must be one who will be a witness with us of the resurrection." There is a commission! There is no theory about it, it is a reality. Shortly after that Peter and John passed a lame man sitting at the temple gate. He had been carried there from babyhood, and day after day from boyhood to manhood had begged alms from those who went into the temple. Holding out his hand he asked Peter and John for alms. Peter answered: "Silver and gold have I none; but such as I have give I thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise 'up and walk." And the man, lame from his mother's womb, so the Bible tells us, sprang to his feet and walked with them into the temple. This was known throughout Jerusalem. For this act, and for preaching "resurrection from the dead," Peter and John were arrested and placed in prison. Next day they were brought before the High Priests, who asked, "By what power, or by what name, have ye done this?' That is one of the most magnificent scenes in all history. Picture Peter and John, prisoners, facing dignified, robe-bedecked, prejudiced judges some of whom perhaps had participated in sending Christ to his death, and-who might not hesitate to sentence, if possible, Peter and John to the same fate. There stood the man healed though he had been lame from birth. The apostles were commanded to tell by what power this miracle had been wrought, and in an atmosphere impregnated with prejudice, Peter boldly declared: "Be it known unto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth 812 this man stand here before you whole. "This is the stone which was set at naught of you builders, which is become the head of the corner. "Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. "Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marvelled; and they took knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus. "And beholding the man which was healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it. "But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council, they conferred among themselves, "Saying, What shall we do to these men? For that indeed a notable miracle hath been done by them is manifest to all them that dwell in Jerusalem; and we cannot deny it. "But that it spread no further among the people, let us straitly threaten them, that they speak henceforth to no man in this name. "And they called them, and commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus. "But Peter and John answered and said unto them: Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye. IH "For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard." (Acts 4:10-18). Paul's Testimony I want to bring to your attention another testimony concerning the reality of the Resurrection. It is given by Paul. He, too, was an apostle, though you cannot find that he was ever sustained as one of the council. By the way, there are aposRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tles who are not members of the council. I think there were in that day, at least they were considered to be apostles. In one instance, for example, Paul and Barnabas are referred to as "these apostles". As far as we know Barnabas was never an apostle. The point I am making is that a man may be an apostle but not one of the Council of the Twelve. We have had that in our day. John W. Young was ordained an apostle February 4, 1864, but he was never a member of the Council of the Twelve from that time to the day of his death. Daniel H. Wells was sustained as a counselor to the Twelve Apostles, and I have heard President Grant say no wiser counselor ever lived in this Church or in the United States than Daniel H. Wells. He was not, however, sustained as a member of the quorum, nor as an apostle, but just counselor to the Twelve. Brigham Young, Jr., was ordained as an apostle by his father on February 4, 1864, but he did not become a member of the Council of the Twelve until October 1868, when he was chosen to fill the vaeancy caused by George A. Smith. Today Brother Sylvester Q. Cannon has been ordained an apostle, but is not sustained as a member of the Council of the Twelve. Now, whether Paul was a member or whether he was not, we are not going to say, but he was an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, and a witness of His resurrection. This is what he wrote deliberately to a group of saints known as Corinthians: "For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures; And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures: And that he was seen of Cephas (Peter) then of the twelve; MINISTRY OF THE EARLY APOSTLES after that, he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once; of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some are fallen asleep. After that, he was seen of James; then of all the apostles. And last of all he was seen of me also, as of one born out of due time. For I am the least of the apostles, that am not meet to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God." Christ's Message Applied Sisters, an apostle's duty as. Commissioned is to be a special witness of the Lord Jesus Christ, to bear witness to His doctrine, of its effect upon mankind. How will a study of such men and their mission apply to you? By applying their teachings in your lives. One of these was to feed the hungry, to clothe the naked, to visit the sick, to comfort those who mourn—to lose yourself for the comfort of others. Do you remember that beautiful lesson when Christ said: "And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. "Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit' the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: "For I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I 'was a stranger, and ye took me in: "Naked and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. "Then shall the righteous answer 813 him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungered, and fed thee? Or thirsty, and gave thee drink? "When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? Or naked and clothed thee? "Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? "And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." Sisters, what greater comfort can you give to the mother who stands at the side of a little baby dying than the realization that Christ died to bring to mankind the knowledge that death is but the doorway to eternal life. If you feel that in your hearts, I cannot think of any greater comfort. You can make soft the pillow, you can dry the tears, but you comfort the heart when you radiate the testimony that there is no death. Mothers might cry out, as one did to me, "Oh, if I only knew that." Well, it is our duty to know it, and these apostles about whom you are going to study gave their lives in testimony of that great truth. God bless you—you who are going out to comfort the needy, to bless those who are discouraged, to give succor to those who are in distress. God help you that you may know that everlasting truth which Christ gave to these apostles and to the world, that, "In my Father's house are many mansions, I go to prepare a place for you, that where I am ye may be also." I humbly pray that this testimony may be ours. Santa With a High Hand By Mabel S. Harmer STEPHEN, overcoated and mufflered to meet the challenge of the brisk December morning, had all but reached the front door when the telephone rang. He glanced back at it with a look of annoyance on his face and half decided to ignore it. But the telephone refused to be ignored so Stephen went over, jerked it up and called "Hello" in an almost resentful voice. His tone and facial expression underwent a remarkable change, however, when he heard the answering voice. Had Elinor Fabian called him from his first meal after a ten day hunger strike, he still would have been delighted to talk with her. "How are you?" he called cheerily. "I was just going to give you a ring to see if you would lunch with me today." "Never mind," came the answer in tones that bordered on the depths of woe. "Those children have come." "What children? I didn't know that you had ordered any children." "T didn't order them," she replied coldly, "and if you have to be facetious about it, I'll hang up." "Oh, no, don't do that," he cried in alarm. "Tell me all about it. No, wait a minute—I'll run over. Five minutes later he was being ushered into Elinor's apartment. He found her in the throes of trying to fasten an apparently unlimited number of leggings, caps and galoshes onto two, small, wriggling children. "David and Nancy," she said, "Mr. Stephen is our neighbor and perhaps if you are very good you may go over and play in his yard for a while." "How do you do," said David, putting out a small mittened fist. Nancy only stared with wide, brown eyes. "How do you do," Stephen answered smiling. "I hope you'll like my yard and will come often." "May we build a snowman?" David asked with sudden interest. "A dozen if you like." "Run along now," Elinor interrupted, starting them toward the door, "and be sure that you don't go far away." She closed the door behind them and leaned against it as if for support. "May I suggest a chair?" said Stephen dryly. "It isn't funny," answered Elinor, throwing him a withering look. "They're Helen's children and I'm afraid they've come to stay." "Who might Helen be?" "My cousin. I thought perhaps you remembered her. She used to come here asachild. She and her husband were killed in an automobile accident a year ago. The children have been with the grandmother since then but it seems that she has developed a cough or something and has gone to Arizona. The cough is bound to be permanent and I’ll have them here for good." She threw out her hands in a gesture of despair. "She's lovely—even now," thought Stephen irrelevantly. The slightly flushed cheeks and blue-grey eyes, darkened by emotion, only added to her beauty. Her fair hair, drawn back into a SANTA WITH A HIGH HAND classical knot, was as smooth and shining as if it had just been arranged for an evening party. Aloud he said, "Poor little tykes. It's rather hard for them to lose both father and mother and not be wanted by anyone in particular now." "It isn't that I don't want them," Elinor answered quickly. "They're adorable children and I would love to have them, but I don't think it's fair that I should have to be burdened with them now when I have given up everything else for my career. I have just now reached a point where they are giving me important roles on the radio. I may have a chance at national broadcasting soon, but how can I practice if I have to spend all my time running around with bowls of milk and cod liver oil!' STEPHEN walked over and sat down beside her on the couch. "Do you love me, Elinor?" he asked gravely, taking one of her slim white hands in his own. "Why, yes. Of course I do," she answered in a rather matterof-fact tone. "Then why don't you chuck the broadcasting and marry me, and you and the children live in my big house. There has hardly been a time in a hundred years when there haven't been children sliding down the banisters and tumbling about in the old garden." "Don't be ridiculous," Elinor cried, snatching her hand away. "Why in the name of reason should I throw away the thing that I have been working for years to obtain in order that children might be kept sliding up and down your banisters?" It was Stephen's turn now to flush with anger. "I wasn't aware 815 that you regarded my love as ridiculous," he cried standing up. Elinor stood up too, the flash from her grey eyes matching the fire from his darker ones. "It is ridiculous for you to insist upon hanging on to that big house in this day and age and to suppose that I could spend all of my time keeping up its silly antiquated traditions. If you would be reasonable and give it up I might think differently about marrying you." Stephen seized his hat. "Do you realize that my, great-grandmother came to that house as a bride?" he asked in a tense voice. "Four generations of Trents have lived in that house. Every room is full of cherished memories for me." "If you would rather live in that old house with your great-grandmother's ghost than in a smart modern apartment with me, there is nothing more to say," Elinor replied stonily. Stephen had one more thing to say, however, and pausing at the door he flung back the words, "You are an utterly selfish and self-centered woman." S° he and Elinor had quarreled at last with complete and terrible finality. For twenty years now they had been quarreling off and on about trivialities that were usually forgotten overnight. He had called her selfish and self-centered, and so she was—filled with indignation because she had two orphan children to give her time to instead of giving it to her everlasting radio work. He hunched up his shoulders to draw his coat collar closer about his neck and hurried down the last block before he reached the office. During the next two weeks he saw nothing whatever of Elinor which hurt him more than he 816 would ever have imagined. He made it a point to become very friendly with the children, however, who played about in the snow daily, coming into the house at frequent intervals to warm their feet at the great fireplace in the living room and to be fed cinnamon toast by Mrs. Jennings, the housekeeper. Stephen refrained scrupulously from asking them anything about Elinor, but he gained from their chatter that she "studied most of the time." Physically they were being well taken' care of, but Stephen thought that he saw a wistful look about their faces which bothered him. Elinor had no business letting mites of four and five grow wistful even if she was by way of becoming a celebrity in the radio world. After a time they stopped playing on his lot altogether, and he suspected that she had given orders to that effect, and he grew more resentful than ever toward her. AS Christmas time drew near Stephen's only attempt toward creating an atmosphere of festivity was the hanging of wreaths in the windows. He would have liked to trim a Christmas tree. The corner in the living room where one had stood during his childhood seemed to shriek its barrenness, but he decided that a bachelor of 27, living alone in a house with a couple of servants, would probably be considered feeble-minded if he went about hanging tinsel on a tree without some sort of a legitimate excuse. If only Elinor—but Elinor was completely out of the picture. He read in the papers that she was taking the leading role in the drama to' be broadcast Christmas Eve over a national network. So RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her ambitions were to be realized at last. She was to be heard over a national system and would probably get the kind of contract she wanted, for Elinor was exceptionally good. He told himself a dozen times that he would not listen to the broadcast which was scheduled for nine o'clock and would have left the house in order to make sure that his decision held good if there had been any place for him to go. He took a book and sat down by the fireplace in the living room with his back turned resolutely to the radio. The book was strangely uninteresting. He jumped to his feet in a hurry when the bell rang and gave a gasp of surprise when. He found small David and Nancy standing outside, their wraps donned in a _ haphazard manner. "Hello, young people," he said in tones of hospitality. "Won't you come in?" and Stephen ushered them into the living room where they sat down and began looking about intently. "You haven't a tree either," said David, gazing hard at Stephen with accusing brown eyes. - Stephen looked properly guilty. "Well, no—that's right, I have- "To tell the truth I have been very busy and—" "So has Aunt Elinor,' David interrupted. "She has been too busy to get a tree or to help us write a letter to Santa Claus or anything. Last year we had a big tree at Granny's and went right down town and told Santa Claus what we wanted and he bringed every bit, but now he doesn't even know where we are." David seemed very close to tears as he SANTA WITH detailed the desperateness of their situation. "By the way," Stephen asked, "did Aunt Elinor say that you might come over here tonight?" "No," Nancy answered. "She was busy and said 'on no account to 'sturb her.' So we put on our things and commed alone." David added, "We thought that maybe you would have a tree." - "We can get a tree;" said Stephen suddenly. "There are lots of them down town yet. And I have all kinds of red balls and things in a box upin my attic. Shall we go find one?" "Oh, yes!" both children cried in tones of such joy mingled with relief that Stephen felt his throat tighten. As he was putting on his overcoat he glanced at the hall telephone and then at the clock. A quarter of nine. There was no use phoning Elinor now. She would already be on her way to the studio. Besides "on no account must she be disturbed." Stephen's lips curled as he thought of her words. He would call her later when the broadcast was over and the tension relieved. PILING both children into the front seat of the car with him he started out to look for a tree. They selected one in a hurry and laid it on the fender of the car. "And now shall we go home and trim it?" Stephen asked gaily. "If we could find Santa Claus first," Nancy said, "I'd like to tell him that I want a doll with a pink dress this year." "And I need a new train," David added. "We didn't even bring the old one along." "You sit tight here in the car and I'll run in that store and telephone," Stephen said quickly. A HIGH HAND 817 "T'm pretty sure to catch the old gent if I hurry." Stephen reached the door just as it was about to be locked. "Sorry, sir, we're just closing," said the proprietor. "Not yet, you aren't," Stephen said, stepping aside. "I've got to get some toys if I have to get them at the point of a gun." "Well you needn't be so highhanded about it," was the weary retort. "Sorry," smiled Stephen. He could afford to smile now that he was safely inside. "But in an emergency Santa has to use a high hand. I want a doll with a pink dress, and a train and a bunch of these things over here." He walked over to a table filled with mechanical toys and picked up several at random. A few minutes later he stowed the bundles in the rear of the car unnoticed by the children who were very much engrossed in staring wide eyed at the myriad lights and holiday decorations. "TI fixed it up all right with Santa," he said as he climbed in beside them once more. The children beamed happily, seeming to feel that their problems were now in capable hands. When they arrived home, the tree was set up and trimmings were hung upon it plentifully if not too artistically. "You must go home now," said Stephen, catching Nancy in the middle of a huge yawn. "T'll finish the tree and you can come over early in the morning to see it." "We're not going home," said David briefly but decisively. "Oh, I say!" exclaimed Stephen, "What would Aunt Elinor think about that?" "She wouldn't care. Besides there isn't any tree there and 818 Santa Claus has to leave presents - under a tree. We're going to stay here. Maybe we'll always stay here," he concluded. "Well, on second thought maybe that wouldn't be a bad idea," Stephen conceded, "only you must go to bed right now or Santa Claus will think you are staying up all night and won't stop at all." This was sufficient to start them off and they scampered upstairs ahead of Stephen where they were soon undressed and tucked beneath covers. MILING to himself, Stephen was about to finish trimming the tree when the door was suddenly flung open and Elinor stepped inside, white-faced and distraught. "They're gone," she gasped. "T've searched all over for them. [ve even called the police. You must help me find them." Stephen looked at her in silence for a moment. So she did~have a heart after all. She wasn't entirely centered in the career of the beautiful and talented Elinor Fabian. Then to relieve her distress he said simply, "They're here." For an instant relief flooded her face and then she turned on him furiously. "Oh, why didn't you call me?" she cried. "I've been half frantic all evening." "Well to tell the truth," Stephen answered, half amused at her anger, which he realized was only the result of the relief she felt, "I was going to, but it was nearly nine when I learned that my guests were runaways, and I thought that you would have left for the studio by then," RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "T didn't go." Elinor, exhausted, sank down onto the stairway. "You didn't go to the studio tonight?' Stephen stared at her incredulously. "No, of course I didn't go. I discovered the children were missing just as I was about to leave and I have been searching ever since. I didn't think that they would come here. I—I had told them not to any more," she confessed, looking away from his earnest dark eyes. "But what about the play?" he persisted, sitting down beside her. Elinor shrugged. "There's always an understudy and the play didn't really matter." She looked up at him again. ''Where are they? I must get them home and hang up the stockings. I have stacks of presents for them. I really hadn't forgotten them entirely," she finished with a wistful smile. "They're in bed and probably asleep by now," said Stephen, "but you can bring your offerings over here and if you come over real early in the morning you can see them get their presents... They'll probably be so excited that they'll slide down the banisters. You know there's something very fascinating about children sliding down banisters." "I'm sure there is,' Elinor conceded with a sigh of complete satisfaction as Stephen gathered her close in his arms. ''Wasn't I a fool to turn away from the real thing for the make-believe?" "Terribly foolish,' Stephen agreed happily, "but terribly sweet," Richard L. Evans By Marba C. Josephson RICHARD L. EVANS' appointment to the First Council of the Seventy at the semi-annual conference, October, 1938, comes as a tribute to his adherence to the principles which his mother, Florence Neslen Evans, implanted in his heart and mind. Without an understanding of the mother who held her family together in love and truth after her husband, John Alldridge Evans, was killed when Richard, the youngest, was only ten weeks old, we cannot fully appreciate the accomplishments of this young man. In his own words when he was called to this position, he bore testimony to her qualities when he said: "Tf I had been of a mind to turn back I should have done it at my mother's knee. I should have done it before she taught me to pay out my first few pennies in tithing. I should have done it before her firm and gentle hand directed my steps into the ways of truth... "My own father died as the result of an accident when I was ten weeks old. My mother reared a family of nine children, all of whom at that time were under eighteen. With a meager and unreliable income, she immediately sent my eldest brother on a mission. Such faith as that, in the home in which I was reared, could produce only one result, and the result is that all of my nine brothers and sisters have come up through the program of the Church to be a credit to my mother and to all that the Church stands for." Further tribute comes to her in a letter which was written by one of her daughters-in-law from which the following excerpts are quoted: "I want you to know how much I have always enjoyed the rich hospitality of your home—a place where young people, frequently from homes of greater luxury, have always loved to congregate. "I appreciate the delicate, respectful consideration you extend to the privacy of your married children's affairs. And thank you, too, for those deep religious principles and convictions which you made so naturally a part of your children's lives. "I thought pleasantly of you and your family recently when a 'modern' woman was telling critically of a mother she knew who had actually paid tithing on her meager income. I imagine your children will outlive this sacrifice. But how irreparable the loss if you had not sacrificed for the molding of their immortal souls. But your children felt that they gave up nothing to pay tithing. They were merely stewards of God's holy tenth when it came into their hands. It belonged to them no more than it did after they had returned it to Him. And they had the strength of being partners with Him in a great and powerful work. "There were thoughts I would like to have made audible to you on the night. Of your golden wedding anniversary— but as usual I didn't say them. I think that the newspaper picture of you and your husband was the only Golden Wedding anniversary picture I ever saw published when one of the two was dead. It seemed to me that there was a particular fitness about it. I think no one ever kept alive in a home more perfectly the spirit of her mate. Your certainty and ever present conscious conviction seems to have grown right into every one of your children; so, again, I have you to thank that such faith touches my life and goes before my children. "From the priceless foundation for a happy home and marriage given through being reared in the radiant glow of your beautiful romance with its never-failing devotion, each child has carried with him a torch of living fire which kindles the hearthstone of each new home." JN this home, Richard L. Evans with his four brothers and five sisters, was taught devotion to the Gospel, a devotion that has borne fruit in continued service to the ° Church, beginning with ward activities as an auxiliary and Priesthood member and continuing as Sunday School teacher, a member of the Y. M. M. I. A. Superintendency, a missionary to Great Britain, and as a 820 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE RICHARD L, EVANS member of the General Board of the Y. M. M. I. A. While Elder Evans was on his mission to Great Britain, he was called to serve as associate editor of the Millennial Star under both Dr. James E. Talmage and Dr. John A. Widtsoe. He also served as secretary of the European Mission and as such traveled extensively in Europe from the northernmost countries in the Arctic circle to the southernmost on the Mediterranean Sea. In his home, he was taught industry, an industry which meant he would work at such diverse occupations as newspaper boy, soda fountain RICHARD tain clerk, truck driver, traveling salesman, and surveyor. This industry taught him the value of time and effort, indispensable qualities for those who would achieve. His industry was to be rewarded by his rapid rise from an announcer at KSL radio station to production manager, supervisor of announcers, and director of publicity. He also organized the continuity and production departments of KSL. At the present time he is Director of Special Features and is identified with such notable events as. The speed runs on the Bonneville salt flats, as the introducer of special guests, and as the continuity writer and announcer for the weekly Sunday morning broadcasts of the Tabernacle choir, a program which is listened to eagerly by tens of thousands of coast-to-coast listeners. Into his own home he has carried the same ideals which he learned L. EVANS 821 from his mother. He chose his wife carefully, Alice Thornley, a woman who has the same standards and the same fine purpose which has prompted her husband in his endeavors, whose home life paralleled his. To them have been born two sons, Richard L. Evans, Jr., three and one-half years old, and John Thornley Evans, eight months old. Although Richard L. Evans is young in years, having been born March 23, 1906, he is seasoned in his outlook on life because of his wide and varied experiences; he is trained to cope intelligently with situations, having been graduated from the University of Utah with a Bachelor's degree in English and a Master's degree in Economics; he is able to meet unusual and unforeseen conditions which arise because of his exceptional sense of humor, which combined with his idealism, his realism, makes for real wisdom. DECEMBER By Della Adams Leitner The transient year is ending, joy and grief Tied in the sheaf which time has bound secure. All that it gave of value shall endure, Love, hope, incentive, effort and belief. Beneath its snowy mantle lies concealed Abundant life quiescent. Who can know The alchemy transpiring there below The crust that covers meadow, hill and field? December, you are kind; your bleak, chill days Are but a mask to hide your glowing heart. You bring to us that season set apart For self-forgetting, as the Christ we praise Through loving gifts and deeds and so fulfill The angels song of "Peace on earth, good will." Christmas Is For Happiness By Bernice Fagg Pond bustle of the Christmas season is upon us. If we haven't yet a collection of knobby, tissue-wrapped packages hidden under unmentionables in the chiffonier drawer, we at least have a mental picture of the contentsto-be of the packages, and are doing the planning and budget manipulating necessary to make the dream picture a reality. Our planning, of course, goes beyond a few tinsel-tied bundles in a drawer, to include all the -festive things that bring the holiday spirit into our homes. No stage director has a more delightful job than have homemakers during this season, for just how much -of the real spirit of Christmas the family is going to get out of the celebration depends largely upon how the stage is set. Just as soon as possible, choose the stage for your Christmas drama. Should you have a large house, make one room the Christmas room for a few weeks. It is gay to remove from your Christmas room everything that possibly can be moved which is associated with the regular routine of your lives. Let the children help you move things, as well as select a tree that is right for the space available. SHOULD the youngsters think they are tired of the green tree and vari-colored decorations and lights, let them experiment a little this year. The silver tree that is decorated with bright blue baubles and blue lights has been in favor for several years. A golden tree decorated with green lights and green baubles is lovely, and is that "something different" for which you may be looking. The green tree with lightly frosted branches gives a pleasing effect. And, silvering, gilding, and frosting are very easily done at home. For the gilding, or silvering, you will need the regular radiator paint, in gold or silver, and a good spray gun. Do a little experimental spraying until you get the knack of it. Then be sure to start spraying the trunk of the tree and inside branches first, if you want a complete job. The white frosting for the Christmas tree is made with white hot water kalsomine mixed according to directions on the package, and applied by slapping lightly onto the branches with a brush. As you realize, a drying period is necessary for any one of these processes, so it is well to get your materials together early. But, lovely as these gilded trees are, we must remember that a gilded tree ordinarily does not hold up as well as an ungilded one. If you do the work too long ahead, you may be dismayed by falling needles. The tree, glittering with baubles, shining with tinsel, bound with silver icicles, will have the center of the stage in your Christmas room, but you will want holly garlands, and mistletoe, and fat red candles there, also. These are symbols of Christmas, and add to the spirit of celebration. The star, the sheep and shepherds, the wise men and their camels, the stable with the cradleinanger, and a picture of our Savior, should have important places in our Christmas room, because they lead our thoughts to the real meaning of Christmas. CHRISTMAS IS FOR HAPPINESS SYMBOLIZING that early time when three wise men, guided by a star, came from Chaldea and brought gifts of gold and frankincense and myrrh and laid them at the feet of the Babe born in the manger, we exchange gifts at Christmas time. Some of the most treasured gifts received are things you cannot hold in your hands. One of the richest gifts a chil can receive, is a love for good books, for reading. The Christmas season furnishes a worthwhile opportunity for the family, as a group, to go-over each member's favorite Christmas stories. A Christmas scrapbook, in which the best Christmas stories and poems clipped from magazines are pasted, can be added to and referred to each year with delight. Some of the most popular stories in our family have come from the pages of old, bound volumes of the Church magazines. Charles Dickens, Kate Douglas Wiggin, and Henry Van Dyke have given us some unforgettable Christmas scenes. But there is always one 823 story that is best on Christmas Eve, no matter how many times before or after Christmas we read it. That is the story of the birth of a Child who showed the way for Peace on Earth, and good will toward all men. The visit of Jesus Christ to the Nephites, as described in the Book of Mormon, also deserves a place on the Christmas reading list. Christmas is for happiness. All of our plans and activities are slated toward the greatest enjoyment for everyone. It is impossible to be happy if we let gift giving become a burden, both mentally and financially. It is a pity to undertake more shopping and partying than we are physi-. Cally able for, so that we become too exhausted to participate on Christmas day in the family pleasure. Christmas is for happiness. A deeper, sweeter Christmas is ours when we also include humble acknowledgment of God's greatest gift to mankind, His Son. —— WHO SEEKS THE KING By La Rene King Bleecker No darkness fell in all the world that night; The soft light shown as though it were mid-day, When angels ushered in the Prince of Light, While shepherds heard the chimes of heaven play. The Star with steadfast light held deep amaze, And mystic wise men rode with steadfast gaze. Lo, all the wistful air and earth and sky Held pause to hear a baby's destined cry. Not they alone, but all have seen the Star Wherever weary ones of earth have trod, Wherever souls are groping from afar; Whenever heavenly longing cries to God His love illumines life and death's abyss; Who seeks the King shall need no light but this! Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd By Dorothy Clapp Robinson CHAPTER NINE I looked down into the eager faces that waited breathlessly. What fun it was to do something for mother. "Can you really?" "Oh, yes, really, Mother." "Oh, yes, weally, Muvver." Little Tim echoed his sister's confidence. Why not? Timothy had gone out of town and now was as good a time as any to let them try their little wings. "Very well, then. I shall lie here with Robbie and rest. When you are ready call us." "Don't peek, will you?" "I promise you I will not." With shouts of glee the two little youngsters ran excitedly toward the kitchen. To keep my thoughts from what the children might be doing to my clean kitchen I went over some problems that had recently risen in Relief Society. The mercury in the penny thermometer had risen to a satisfying degree but now the ones who usually subscribed had almost filled their envelopes and those who were left could not be depended upon. But we would achieve our goal some way. If one method did not work there were always others. Visiting teaching was gradually being worked to a solution, but our percent of attendance was falling a little. "It always drops in the spring," Irene had told me, "and this drop isn't anything. Last year at our final meeting there were only nine present." L" us get dinner, Mother." "There must be forty-nine this year," I determined. "It's ready, Mother." "It's weady,' Muvver." I sat up with a start. Had I fallen asleep? The children, with little Rob, were standing beside me, their hands and faces suspiciously clean. "I shall get up immediately. Um-m-m. Am I hungry." Denise's enthusiasm took a sudden drop. "You see, Mother," she began hesitantly, "You may not like our dinner so well. We could not find anything to begin on." There was an overflowing dish of their favorite jam. Fruit juices from the ice-box had been mixed to make punch. Hopeless stains of it stared accusingly from the linen. But the piece de resistance was an incredibly elaborate cake. Denise caught my glance. "It is the one you made for Daddy, Mama. We just put more frosting on it." "I scwaped the dish," Tim announced and little Rob made definite remarks about it in his own language. "Do you like it?" "Very much. It is marvelous. But as you say there isn't much to begin on. You and I might get by nicely on dessert, but babies like Robbie must have their milk and vegetables. Suppose I fix some for you." She sighed with relief. "It is so nice to have you to depend on, Mother." "THE last dish had been wiped and put away and the bedtime DEAR TO THE HEART OF THE SHEPHERD story told and still Tim had not come. I had been uneasy about him all evening and realized with a shock that I did not know where he had gone. When the telephone shrilled I jumped to answer it. "Mrs. Maylord? Nettie Grow speaking. Can you come over to my place right away?" "Just as soon as I can get someone to stay with the children." The urgency in her voice was all the reason I needed. When I reached the Grow home it was dark save for one room upstairs where Hght gleamed from behind closed curtains. I knocked, but there was no response. I tried the door and it opened to my touch. I found myself in a small hall where a dim light burned. "Who-o-o," I called softly. Almost at once a door opened and Mrs. Grow appeared at the head of the stairs. In the dim light her eyes looked wild and terrified. "Turn the night lock, will you?" she asked, "and come up." After turning the lock I ran up the carpeted steps. Just inside the lighted room I stopped short. One glance told me it had been furnished in exquisite taste, not in keeping with my idea of Mrs. Grow. Then on the bed I saw the reason for my coming. A young girl lay there, a beautiful girl, and it was obvious that she was dying. "What is it?" For answer Mrs. Grow pointed through an open door to a bassinet in the next room. "It was born this morning." Then in an aside, "She just took a turn and I was alone." "Have you called a doctor?" "Yes. He will be here again sonn." 825 "T'll do what I can." But I knew that would be exactly nothing. I had been called to comfort the living not to help the one on the bed. The girl was beyond help. We could only watch and walt. It was a beautiful face that was inexorably taking on a death pallor. Dark curls clung damply about her waxen features. Only once did she arouse and that was when a faint wail came from the adjoining reom. Then her eyes opened suddenly and looked in terror at us. Mrs. Grow leaned toward her. "She is all right," she said clearly in a voice that was infinitely kind through its matter-of-factness. "You will take care of her?' "You know I will." I was sure this was no ordinary wayward girl. The look from her eyes, the inflection of her voice told of breeding and refinement. Later the doctor came again but there was nothing he could do. In less than an hour it was over and we stood beside the crib looking down at the sweetest baby girl IT had ever seen. Her tiny head was covered with bright red curls and her eyes, when she opened them, showed unmistakable signs of being brown like the mother's. "What shall I do with her?" Mrs. Grow sat down and passed her hand wearily over her eyes. "You heard me say I would take care of her, but I couldn't do it personally. It would not be fair." "That decision will not rest with you," I told her. "She is now a ward of the state, unless you are a near relative." "What do you mean?" eyes challenged mine. Her 826 "Are the girl's parents or grandparents alive?" "No, but—she should have been my daughter. Her father was the only man I ever loved, but I was not his kind and his folks interfered. Later he married, but they. Were both killed in an accident when Diane was a small girl. Her grandmother was hard and uncompromising with her as she had been with her son. Diane had his dislike for control so her life has been a series of clashes. When I saw how things were going I sort of—took her under my wing." "Do her grandparents know of this?" "They are both dead. She had an Aunt and Uncle, but the baby isn't going back to them. It would break my heart if they found out about it. Why can't we do something about it now?" INTO my mind there flashed a daring idea. It might not work out but why not try it? I dashed downstairs to the telephone and called Gloria Holsinger. They had just come in. "Don't go to bed. I will be over there soon. Turn your front light off." When I went back upstairs I told Mrs. Grow my plan. "Legally we have no right to do anything with the child, but neither do the Aunt or Uncle. You would like her to be adopted into, a good home wouldn't you?" "Yes, a good one. The best we can find. There is no trashy blood here. If the child could be placed tonight no one would be the wiser. Only Don, Salle and your husband knew about Diane." She paused, doubtless at the look that flashed into my eyes. Then she went on. "I cannot tell you what RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a lot of help your husband has been. I appealed to him because through my dealings with him in the store I had found him to be what he pretended to be. He untangled Diane's financial affairs and helped me with mine. He has helped in so many other ways, too, and through it all has kept his mouth shut. It has meant a great deal to us. Diane made him executor of her estate. She was of legal age and could do that." "Will you take her back to her relatives?" "Oh, yes. I must notify them. I shall get Dr. Putman to give them a reason for her death. But what shall we do about the baby?" "She must be taken care of for the time being so if you do not mind I shall take her to a home I know about. Tomorrow we can notify the proper authorities." I could see it all so clearly now. Tim, Salle, Mrs. Grow, all defying gossip to do what they could for this girl. Mrs. Grow told me she had persuaded Salle to come there because of Diane's need for companionship. I waited until the undertaker had come and gone, and then with the baby in a basket in my arms I paused in the hall. There were deep lines in the woman's face. The last few hours had made her an old woman. In her eyes was great weariness. "T—I think you are grand," I whispered. "I am coming back to stay with you until Don comes." She flung open the outer door. "Go quickly while I have control of myself." So I went out into the kindly enveloping darkness leaving behind a broken woman in an DEAR TO THE HEART OF THE SHEPHERD empty house. When I reached the Holsinger's the house was dark so no One saw me approach. I placed the basket in the shadows beside the door and rang the bell. Immediately the light flashed on inside, and the door was flung open. Dave Holsinger faced me looking puzzled and concerned. Behind him stood his wife. "Do come in and tell us what this is all about." It was the first time I had seen Dave act nervous. As I closed the door behind me Gloria said, "For goodness sake, Donna, why all the mystery?" I looked from one excited face to another. The air of the room hung tense, expectant about them. "I have something I would like you to keep for the night. Something very precious and helpless. Will you do it?" Dave nodded assent. In his eyes was already the light of understanding. "Will you, Gloria?" "Yes, but—" I had been standing with my back to the door. Now I slipped out and lifting the baby from the basket returned to the lighted room and closed the door. Gloria gave a gasp of dismay when she saw the blankets. "Hold out your arms." "No. No. I won't take it. I will not have it. I don't want it." "You promised." Reluctantly she held out her hands. Removing the blanket I laid the baby in her arms. It had been well wrapped and the bright curls clung damply about its tiny head. "Take it. Take it, someone." Gloria looked about terrified. I moved back, but Dave stepped to her side and put an arm about her shoulders. For an instant thev 827 both watched; then as the baby's cries fought their way into her heart Gloria lifted it gingerly to her face. Instantly the sobs ceased and it gurgled in satisfaction as only a baby can. Its tiny lips searched her face. "Oh, you helpless, helpless darling.' The baby was suddenly snatched against her in an infinitely possessive gesture. David breathed with relief and nodded to me. It was almost more than I could do to break the spell. "It is just for tonight, Gloria," I reminded her. "Its basket is in the shadows outside." Then I slipped out. It would have been a cruel thing to do had I not been certain the authorities would eventually give her the child. They might even leave it with her while they were conducting the necessary investigations. Of one thing I was certain the baby would soon belong to them. Going back to Mrs. Grow's I realized I was weary in mind and body. This had been a hard evening. To participate in such things was not easy. I wanted to lay my head on Tim's shoulder and cry. With the thought my despondency lifted a little. I knew now why Salle and Tim had been such frequent visitors at this place. I knew why they persistently defended Mrs. Grow. I understood why Don had been attracted to Salle. I wanted to get to Tim as soon as possible and ask his forgiveness for doubting him. But Mrs. Grow was waiting at the door for me. As she saw me coming up the walk she ran to meet me. "We must go to the hospital at once. There has been an accident. They are all there." Happenings By Annie W ells Cannon DECEMBER—With Christmas near, an infinitude of tendernes hovers over the world. AN Allegory: Once there was a man of power and honor who directed the distribution of great wealth. This he did wisely and well and received much praise. For praise he cared not. He said the Savior's way is best, "Let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth." From his own means he gave to the poor in spirit, the afflicted, the sick at heart, and such as these. Happy in giving happiness! Not in large figures are these things recorded; but in the golden book of memory from the hearts of grateful men and women is written, "God bless Heber J. Grant." ALMA GLUCK, famous Metropolitan opera singer of yesteryear, died last month. Fortunately her incomparable voice is preserved to posterity on phonographic records. PRINCESS FREDERICA of Greece in October gave birth to a daughter. The advent of the young princess was an occasion of rejoicing and brought the release of all prisoners of minor offenses and the return home of 400 deported persons. FARIDA, 17 year-old Queen of Egypt, has her baby princess, for whom a $15,000 layette was prepared. In celebration of the event thousands of poor were given new clothes and free meals and 20,000 school children suits and dresses. MADAM SUN YAT-SEN still pleads for no surrender to the Japanese forces. She is a magnificent leader and inspires resistance. VIRGINIA LLOYD-SMITH, accompanied her father, of the American Museum of Natural History, on his last hunting trip to Alaska. Virginia is 13 years old and on this trip killed three caribou and a bear. CATHERINE D. BLAKE, 80, now lecturing in the United States, recently returned from Europe where she attended, as delegate, the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom. ELZABETH SIEFERT, of Missouri, won the $10,000 prize from Dodd, Mead and Company for the best novel of 1938. The book is titled "Young Doctor Galahad." FRANCES WINWAR'S new book "Farewell The Banner," the story of Coleridge, the Wordsworths—William and Dorothy— is as interesting as her story of the Rosettis, "Poor Splendid Wings." MARGUERITE CAMERON has written a juvenile book "This Is The Place," a story of early Utah. BLANCHE K. McKEY, of Ogden, has had a poem accepted by the National Magazine of Poetry—'Pioneer Graveyard." BDH WHARTON'S | novel "The Buccaneers," published after her death, is described by the critics as all-absorbing and a fine addition to American literature. Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary WIth the close of 1938 the Relief Society in all the stakes and missions of the Church may look back over the achievements of the year with satisfaction. The General Presidency and Board acknowledge with deep gratitude the fine spirit of cooperation everywhere evidenced. There are many pictures and interesting reports of work accomplished that must of necessity be held for future publication in Notes From The Field. Sincere thanks are expressed to all who have sent material to the office. Idaho Falls THE stake has been very active in all lines of work. Special attention has been given to the preparation of Visiting Teachers for their duties. The following is a good summary: 1. Thoroughly and prayerfully prepare the message given in the Magazine. Prayerfully prepare before going into the homes. 2. Fully understand the origin and organization of Relief Society; its aims and purposes. 3. Seek the Spirit of God. Keep the Word of Wisdom. 4, Cultivate the spirit of discernment. 5. Make it a duty to bring sunshine into the homes. 6. Make duty a pleasure, leave your troubles at home. 7. Hold sacred all confidences; avoid gossip. 8. Pay annual dues; be a subscriber to the Relief Society Magazine. 9. Carefully observe conditions within homes, and confidentially report needs, both material and spiritual, to ward Relief Society president. 10. Receive voluntary donations. The charity fund is a sacred trust fund and is largely made up of voluntary contributions given through Visiting Teachers when visiting the districts. 11. Extend an invitation to all women visited to attend Relief Society meetings. Be informed upon the lesson programs and Work and Business day programs; be able to acquaint those visited with these. 12. A spiritual message as outlined by the General Board should be delivered in each home. Teaching is not drudgery, but is missionary work. Qualifications of a teacher: "A true Latter-day Saint; this embraces everything noble and good." Another fine project was the scrapbooks which each ward prepared. An exhibition of these brought to the General office, served during Conference, as a sample for others to copy. They were a demonstration of what can be accomplished when each member of an organization makes her contribution. The materials, beautiful pictures, poems, etc., chosen for the books covered subjects of importance in Theology, Visiting Teachers' Message, and the Home Reading Project. Deseret Stake THE following picture was recently taken of the first Relief Society officers in the Delta Ward, Deseret Stake. The organization was effected June 17, 1909. The women beginning at left, are: Ruth C. Maxfield, first counselor; Julia Peterson, treasurer; Annie M. Bishop, president; Sarah J. Rigby, secretary, and Almeda Lewis, second counselor. These women are all living in Delta at the present time and are ac- 830 tive or honorary members of the Relief Society. 1 On August 30, a successful Visiting Teachers' Convention was held in Delta under the supervision of the stake board with an attendance of 192.. SS RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE calls which may be made of the stake board. This program printed in attractive booklet form contains names of stake officers and their special calling, the committees for ward conferences, summer Union meetings, FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS, DELTA WARD The Singing Mothers under the direction of the stake chorister rendered some delightful musical numbers. A Visiting Teacher Message was presented, applying the principles of correct teaching. A talk on the "do's and don'ts" for visiting teachers was enlightening. A demonstration of a proper way to deliver the spiritual message in the homes was presented. The theme song "A Hundred Thousand Strong" added enthusiasm to the meeting, which concluded with a social hour and refreshments. President Vera Hilton, with other members of the Stake Board, has worked out in detail a program extending from October 1, 1938, to October 1, 1939, which includes all events to take place, except special conventions, and visits to wards. It specifies when all executive, stake board, and Union meetings, conference conventions, ward conferences and other events are to be held. The booklet contains the Relief Society motto, its aims and a fitting quotation from the Prophet Joseph Smith as follows: 'All difficulties which might and would cross our way must be surmounted though the soul be tired, the heart faint, and hands hang down." California Mission HIS mission is remarkable for many things. A picture and description of the fine group of Singing Mothers who furnished the music NOTES FROM THE FIELD for one General Session of Relief Society Conference is promised for an early issue of the Magazine. The picture below presents another phase of Relief Society influence in the building of a home and rearing of a family firmly 831 grounded in the standards of the Church. Sister Annie B. Leavitt in addition to the duties as mother of a family of fifteen living children has successfully carried the responsibility of president of the Relief Society of Mesquite Ward. LEAVITT FAMLY, MESQUITE WARD A Harrison R. Merrill Memorial Volume RECENTLY the Church lost one of its best known, most friendly and talented personalities. A lover of the great out-of-doors, a lover of life, he interpreted life's beauties in poetry, prose articles and fiction, teaching thousands to enjoy life more, and to live on better terms with it. To honor Professor Merrill and to preserve something of his best work, a memorial volume titled Leave My Spirit Here has been prepared and will be off the press on or before December 15. In the volume is embodied something of the great spirit of the writer. Coming from the press at this particular season we recommend it to our readers as a Christmas gift of genuine worth. Copies may be purchased for $1 plus postage. We call your attention to the advertisement appearing. In this issue of the Magazine, THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS LOUISE YATES AMY BROWN LYMAN KATE M BARKER' - JULIA A. F. LUND - Jennie B. Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannakh C, Irvine Ida P. Beal Motto—Charity Never Faileth 'THE GENERAL BOARD Nettie D. Bradford Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford - - President -: - -: First Counselor - Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jengen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow Editor Manager - Assistant Manager RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Belle S. Spafford Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vou. XXV DECEMBER, 1938 No. 12 Editorial The Greatest Gift EARLY two thousand years ago in Bethlehem of Judea a stable offered refuge to a mother and her babe. Humble shepherds watching their flocks by night were shaken by the light and the words of the angel, "Fear not for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy.... Glory to God in the highest and on 'earth peace, good will toward men." And wise men came from Chaldea and knelt before the Babe. Thirty-three years intervened between the birth and death of Christ. His life was a continual and uninterrupted life of sacrifice, perfected by a supreme sacrifice on Calvary. It gave to mankind the greatest of all gifts, the promise of eternal life. Yet even as He made the supreme sacrifice "the people stood beholding, and the rulers also with them derided Him.... "And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him and offering him vinegar." Eighteen hundred and five years. After the birth of the babe in Bethlehem another babe was born in Sharon, Windsor County, Vermont, to Lucy Mack Smith, under circumstances and surroundings of the most humble. This babe was destined to be the Prophet of the Last Dispensation, to be an instrument in the hands of God to restore again in all its purity that same Gospel, giving promise of eternal life, for which Christ was sacrificed. Like Christ Joseph Smith's life was short— thirty-nine years. It was one of self-denial and unselfish zeal for the salvation of mankind. Yet his life culminated in a supreme sacrifice at Carthage. A record of the Martyrdom says, "It seems unaccountable that any generation of men could have been so utterly cruel and barbarous to one preaching so pure a doctrine and laboring with such self denial for the good of all mankind." The Christmas season brings to Latter-day Saints a remembrance of the lives of these chosen ones of the Father. It brings an appreciation of the Gospel for which both made the supreme sacrifice in order that men might have the greatest of all gifts. The Gospel is the source of all that is best in the world. It is the influence that turns men to one another with a spirit of love and good will. It is not strange, therefore, that the Christmas season is a season when people forget self, and sacrifice that others may have joy, Music Department A More CULTURAL RADIO By Wade N. Stephens are largely for advertising purposes. Therefore the sponsors of the programs, since they are spending fabulous sums of money in this way, present the type of program that appears to attract the most listeners. But how can they tell who listens? Obviously, only by the number of letters, telegrams and phone calls they receive complimenting or disparaging the programs. Mr. Lennox D. Murdoch, Director of Station Operations at KSL, estimates that less than one out of every thousand listeners writes to the station or sponsor about a program. This means that if thirty letters are received, all complimenting a program, the sponsor thinks that thirty thousand listeners like his presentation. This assumption is often untrue. There may be many among that thirty thousand listeners who would prefer a program of an entirely different type. The desires of these people are not considered, because they are not known by those who make up the programs.
Now, all Singing Mothers must like good music—otherwise they would not be members of our organization. The only way we can increase the amount of good music on the radio is to write to our radio station, condemning the bad and praising the good. If a large number of our Singing Mothers were to write in, saying, "The chant of the auctioneer gets on my nerves, and so does the jazz music that usually accompanies it. Why aren't there more radio programs in this country like the Ford Sunday Evening Hour?" we might be instrumental in raising the standard of radio music throughout the country. Let us do this. Not once, but regularly, every time we hear something of which we particularly approve or disapprove. Keep a little pile of penny postcards on your radio and send several each week, praising a good program or objecting to a bad one. It is little trouble, and over a period of time will raise the cultural value of radio entertainment.
MANY have asked for a reprint of the list of numbers for next April Conference. Here it is: Religious numbers: "Sanctus," (Gounod); "O Morn of Beauty," (Sibelius); "O Bread of Life," (Franck); "The Lord's Prayer," (Gates); "Silent Night," (arranged by Epperson). All these except "Silent Night," have already been sung by the Singing Mothers. We must have two or three new numbers for April, so that we do not repeat so much. One will be taken from the new hymn book soon to be issued by the Relief Society. At the end of the "Sanctus" (Gounod) you will find a short piece called "Benedictus." This will be the second. Another may be announced later. Secular numbers: "Dedication," (Franz); "By the Bend of the River," (Edwards); "Annie Laurie;" "In the Time of Roses," (Reichardt); "Song of May," (Asper).
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
Lesson VI. The Anointing of the Spirit
Helpful References Edwin F. Parry, Joseph Smith's Teachings, pp. 69-81. Pres. Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 72-75, 81 f. James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 702-707, 720. James E. Talmage, The Articles of Faith, pp. 157-170. A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve, Chapter XXX. ("Power From On High.")
The Apostles of Our Lord Had a Very Imperfect Understanding of His Mission—It seems strange to many readers of the Gospels that the ancient Twelve should be so devoid of understanding of the true mission and work of the Christ. This lack of understanding was displayed on many occasions. Witness the Savior's rebuke of Philip. "Am I so long time with you, and dost thou not know me, Philip? He that has seen me has seen the Father: how sayest thou, Show us the Father" (John 14:9). Note the Master's test of the disciples at the feeding of the five thousand. "But he said to them, Do ye give them to eat. And they said, We have no more than five loaves and two fishes; unless we ourselves should go and buy meat for all this people" (Luke 9:13). It seemingly did not occur to the members of the Twelve that the Christ could provide for the wants of the multitude. When the Savior pointed out that he should be put to death and on the third day rise again (Matt. 16:21) there was again marked unbelief and lack of spiritual insight. "And Peter, drawing him to him, began to chide him, saying, Far be it from thee, Lord: this shall never befall thee. But he turned and said to Peter, Begone behind me Satan: thou art a stumbling-block to me, for thy mind is not on the things of God, but those of men" (Matt. 16:22, 23). One of the Syriac versions adds to Matthew 16:22 the words "as though pitying him." As Professor A. T. Robertson says, "That pictures Peter patronizing Jesus. This tone Jesus would not endure from anyone." The incident would seem to reveal the fact that Peter still held to the Pharisaic conception of a political Messiah. The idea of a Messiah who should face the Cross apparently never thoroughly penetrated his mind until after the resurrection. The scattering of the apostles at Christ's crucifixion and the unbelief of some of them in his resurrection sufficiently attests the fact that his work and mission were but faintly understood by them. "Afterwards he manifested himself to the eleven themselves while at table, and upbraided their unbelief and hardheartedness, because they did not believe those who had seen him risen" (Mark 16:14).
A Modern Analogy.—In the course of events leading up to the death of the Prophet Joseph LESSON DEPARTMENT Smith we have a modern case that somewhat parallels the above. As long as the Prophet was present in person with the apostles and other members of the Church it was almost impossible for them to understand that he would have to seal his testimony with his blood. Hints dropped by Joseph Smith that the Lord would not spare his life after a certain time went by unheeded or were misunderstood.
Christ's Mission not Completely Understood by the Twelve Until After His Resurrection—The ancient Twelve realized the true nature of the Savior's mission only after his resurrection. When the apostles received the Holy Ghost there came to them the activating principle of pure intelligence enlightening their souls and testifying that Jesus was the Christ. They were no longer left in doubt as to what the inner meaning of their Master's deepest teachings had been while he was with them in mortality. Things that they had forgotten were moreover brought to their remembrance. We may ask, "Why were not the apostles able at the first to as easily comprehend the principles taught them in the very presence of our Lord as they were later on with the help of the Holy Ghost?" It is quite probable that in the presence of or during the mission of the Christ (a higher authority) the Holy Ghost never operated unless specially directed to do so. For that reason the apostles never received the baptism of spirit necessary to real and thorough conversion until the Day of Pentecost (Acts 2). The Holy Ghost has a special mission to perform in testifying concerning Christ, in teaching, and in general revealing to man's eternal spirit the things of God. As a personage of spirit he can do this with apparently much more efficiency than beings of flesh and bone. For that reason the apostles more easily comprehended their Master's teachings and mission under the influence of the Holy Ghost than they did at first in his very presence. The question may be asked, "Why did not the Savior let the Holy Ghost operate upon the Twelve for the purpose of converting and teaching them completely while he was yet with them?" This is a question that has its difficulties but may be tentatively answered as follows: Had the Twelve received the full quickening influence of the Holy Spirit at the time of baptism, or shortly thereafter, the Savior's purposes in selecting them would have been thwarted. Their complete conversion and absolute knowledge of the high mission of their Master would probably have given them courage to stand with him before the murderous mob that took his life. Such a course would probably have been fatal to most of them. Our Lord needed men of their caliber far too much to permit their lives to be taken at that time. They were needed to direct the activities of the young Church and to be special witnesses of His name in the world. Hence the reason He delayed sending the Holy Ghost to them until after his resurrection.
The Reception of Power From On High—Luke records a command of the risen Christ to the Eleven assembled in Jerusalem. He says, "But do ye tarry in the city, until ye are clothed with power from on high" (Luke 24:49). The same author quotes other words of the Savior to his apostles in a letter to a certain Theophilus as follows: "But ye shall receive power, when the Holy Spirit has come on you; and ye shall be my witnesses both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and Samaria, and to the utmost part of the earth" (Acts 1:8). The Twelve (Matthias had been added in the meantime) did as our Lord requested and waited for the anointing of the Spirit. It came in the course of a few days—with power. "And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all together in one place. And suddenly there came a sound out of heaven, as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting. And there appeared to them tongues as of fire, distributed among them; and it sat upon each of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance" (Acts 2:1-4). This day of Pentecost was one to be long remembered in New Testament times. Thousands were baptized into the Church (Acts 2:41) whose hearts had been touched by the words of the apostles and the mighty power of the Holy Ghost. Other events of the day of Pentecost will be considered in one of the lessons on the apostle Peter. The apostles themselves were literally "born again". From this time forth they were no longer timid and half-converted followers of what some thought was a national messiah, but were "lions of the Lord". The spiritual spark that had been missing in them before was now supplied in the presence of the Holy Ghost. They now realized the responsibility and the necessity of laboring with all their might to carry the Gospel to the ends of the known earth. Where great privilege is extended responsibility follows. Few men of this generation realize the weight of responsibility of the ancient Twelve or realize their tremendous labors.
A Modern Day of Pentecost.—The ancient day of Pentecost has been paralleled in this dispensation by a wonderful display of power from on high. The occasion was the dedication of the Kirtland Temple on March 27, 1836. The Prophet Joseph Smith mentions many spiritual manifestations that took place that day, among them the following: "Brother George A. Smith arose and began to prophesy, when a noise was heard like the sound of a rushing mighty wind, which filled the Temple, and all the congregation simultaneously arose, being moved upon by an invisible power; many began to speak in tongues and prophesy; others saw glorious visions; and I beheld the Temple was filled with angels, which fact I declared to the congregation. The people of the neighborhood came running together (hearing an unusual sound within, and seeing a bright light like a pillar of fire resting upon the Temple), and were astonished at what was taking place" (Hist. of the Church, Vol. II, p. 428). The blessings of the Holy Ghost upon the apostles and other members of the Church were about the same whether in ancient or modern times. Members of the Church in this dispensation can be thankful for their intimate understanding of certain events in the ancient Church which the Holy Spirit gives them.
Questions and Problems (Deal only with as many as time permits.)
1. Why does labor in the mission field so generally aid our people to LESSON DEPARTMENT receive a testimony from the Holy Ghost?
2. Name all the functions of the Holy Ghost that you can. What is the difference between the Holy Ghost and the gift of the Holy Ghost? (Note: See Parry, Joseph Smith's Teachings, pp. 69-81.)
3. Explain the difference in the apostle Peter's courage before and after the resurrection. (Compare Matt. 26:69-75 with Acts 4:1-20.)
4. Let some one in the class present the Prophet Joseph Smith's discussion of the effect of the first Comforter or Holy Ghost upon a person. (See Parry, Joseph Smith's Teachings, pp. 21 f.)
The Desert Book Company have on hand a few copies of "The Apostles of Jesus Christ," by the late Edward H. Anderson, and "Ancient Apostles," by David O. McKay, specially priced at seventy-nine cents per copy with ten cents additional cost for postage, and in the state of Utah, the sales tax also additional. These two books, published locally and written by our Church leaders, work nicely into the Theology course of study.
Visiting Teacher Department
Messages to the Home
No. VI—Sources of Power
Paul, an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, said, "For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power." I Cor. 4:19-20.
IS there some relation between strength of personality and true worship? Jesus points to three expressions of worship as sources of spiritual power: almsgiving, fasting, and prayer. He teaches how these principles can be real forces in developing personality. Mere observance of ritual will not increase our capacities. Quietly, out of the depths of the heart, these principles must be lived. To give to mankind with the same interest as a father gives to his son will certainly strengthen and improve the quality of love. The apostle Paul reflecting the teachings of Jesus said that though we bestow all our goods to feed the poor and have not charity (love) it profiteth nothing. Fasting brings us near our Heavenly Father; it shows sincerity of heart and brings great spiritual strength. The Master fasted that He might have spiritual power. If He had need to fast, how much more have we! In fasting for the purpose of administering to the needs of others one must have a genuine, heart-felt desire to aid. Thus our power to sympathize intelligently is expanded and fasting becomes truly ennobling. We pray to our Heavenly Father because we have faith in Him. Various needs cause us to pray. If prayer is to be a source of power we must know how to pray, and for what to pray. Jesus' guide is found by searching the depths of meaning in the Lord's Prayer, the perfect prayer. The rewards of true prayer are peace of soul, courage to meet life's problems, and clearer insight into the spiritual laws, which, if applied, will help solve problems. Prayer brings growth in faith and love. Surely, here is power. Psychology has recognized the value of faith and love in human personality.
Questions
1. What characterizes intelligent giving?
2. Does depriving one's self of food adequately express the principle of fasting?
3. Can one reasonably expect RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE power to follow knowing but not doing?
References: Matthew 6:1-18; 9:13-15; 21:22.
Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs planned by your ward.
Literature
The Advance of the Novel
Lesson VI
The Greatest Age of the Novel
SCOTT'S last novel was published in 1831 and Queen Victoria began her glorious reign in 1837. The Victorian Age had dawned, and that age was to be one of the most memorable in the history of mankind as well as in the history of the English novel. At the time of Sir Walter Scott's death, two of England's greatest novelists were approximately twenty years of age and Mary Ann Evans—George Eliot—was thirteen. Those three people, assisted by a few lesser lights, were to carry the novel on from where the Scotchman had left it to new heights of glory. Phelps opens his fifth chapter in his book The Advance of the English Novel, with these words: "Perhaps the greatest decade in the history of the English novel was the period between 1850 and 1860 inclusive." He then proceeds to name a number of novels whose names are household words the world around and whose characters are as well known as the greatest men and women who ever actually lived. During that period, too, Americans had begun to make their presence felt in the world of letters. Nathaniel Hawthorne, Edgar Allan Poe, Harriet Beecher Stowe, and others were producing some of their great books, some of which rank among the best ever produced anywhere. Furthermore, during the same period, several of the greatest poets of all time were writing their epics, their odes, and their dramatic poems. The Victorian Age was one of the most important literary periods in the history of this earth. Youthful science was beginning to show strength; new America was being built, and it seemed that literary men and women were fired by the spirit of the age. It was truly a period of conquest, but the conquests of war were infinitesimally insignificant compared with the conquests of peace during the life-time of the great queen of England.
Sir Walter Scott had prepared a reading public for the historical novel, and along came William Makepeace Thackeray to begin where Scott left off. As a novelist Thackeray was much greater than Scott. He was more careful as a writer and keener as an analyst. Thackeray's three novels—Henry LESSON DEPARTMENT Esmond, The Virginians, and Vanity Fair—are classics among the classics of our language. Phelps pays this man this tribute: "It remained for Thackeray to write the best historical romance in our language, Esmond." He continues: "He wrote Esmond at white heat in a short time, and the manuscript showed few corrections. I like it best because it contains the best of Thackeray—and the best of Thackeray has not been surpassed in English fiction." Esmond has often been referred to as the best novel in the English language. Those who haven't done so should read it, and especially after reading Scott. They will find how much more subtle Thackeray is and how much more carefully he builds every detail pertaining to his story.
Thackeray's greatest and almost exact contemporary was Charles Dickens. Cross says that as Sir Walter Scott took the Gothic romance and transformed it into Waverly and his other historical novels, Dickens took the sentimental novel of the eighteenth century and made of it a new and dignified creation of his own. His novels are often referred to as humanitarian. In a time when children needed a champion one was born in Dickens. His novels, it is said, did more to bring about reforms in England than all the law makers. Be that as it may, the pictures he has painted of suffering childhood have become priceless possessions of the race. "In the history of British fiction," says Phelps, "Dickens fills the biggest place, contributed the largest number of permanently interesting characters, owed less to other authors than any other novelist and would be the one I should keep if all but one had to perish. No other writer has made so great a contribution to the greatest happiness of the greatest number; and while it is possible to contemplate the history of the novel minus any other author, we simply cannot get along without Dickens." Professor Phelps may seem a bit over-enthusiastic about Dickens, but certainly he is one of the best-known and best-loved writers the world has yet produced.
It might be interesting to quote some things which the French critic Chevalley has to say of Dickens and Thackeray. It may assist a bit in the discussion of the novel in general. "All his (Dickens') gifts led him into excess: excess of imagination, that led to caricature; excess of humor that led to crude effects of tears and laughter; excess of colour, excess of verve, and a Grub-street romanticism well suited to his public while shocking to the exquisites. But behind all these excesses which compromise the value of Dickens' novels, the mysterious gift of life—which is never excessive—renders them unforgettable. His was an imagination at once so realistic and so powerful that he did not copy but created types. His work is a fair of strange people. Let us not demand of Dickens what he had not to give." Chevalley says further: "He has made mankind tremble in his books, but it is the trembling of movement against atmosphere, of life against death. One may discuss Dickens; it is impossible to forget him."
Let us now turn to what the same critic has to say of Thackeray. "It is a commonplace to oppose Dickens to his great contemporary Thackeray. Everything invites comparison. They were writing at the same time, but Thackeray achieved success more tardily. He was reserved, delicate; he had taste and style. He does not drive home truths, he unfolds them. In his work comedy is as measured, but as penetrating, as pathos is discreet and effective. His characters do not move all in a piece. He comments on them, but they reveal themselves and have no need of labels. They are people of fashion and good breeding, excepting the servants, who never lapse into vulgarity. Thackeray's psychology is acute and profound. There are real women in his books. He observes an instructive restraint in the presence of grief and death, the mystery of love and the mystery of religion. His emotion is marked by neither gesture nor cries. He touches the heart without gripping it, life without trepidation. In these divers respects the contrast is natural, inevitable, between the two greatest novelists of the first half of the nineteenth century. But how much more instructive, as regards the development of the novel, is what they shared in common!"
Another contemporary of Thackeray should be mentioned before we turn to the novel which we are to treat next. That person is Mary Ann Evans—George Eliot. Born in 1819, George Eliot published her first long novel—Adam Bede—in 1859 when she was forty years old. It was a great success and was soon followed by two others of her most famous books—The Mill on the Floss and Silas Marner. Both of these books were gratifying successes and established the author among the great novelists of England and certainly among the first few of the greatest women writers who have ever lived. Because much of the story in these books depends upon the mental processes—the thinking that went on in the minds of the characters—they are called psychological novels.
During the period that these three RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE titans of the novel were producing their best works, of course there were other lesser writers who wrote good books. Among these was Richard Doddridge Blackmore (1825-1900) whose greatest novel is Lorna Doone, a romance of the time of Charles II, James II, and Queen Anne. This novel was written seventeen years after Thackeray wrote his Henry Esmond. Blackmore was a lesser writer, but in his novel he has shown a strength that marks him as a really important story teller. He is not so spectacular as Dickens and not so convincing as Thackeray, but for sheer story telling, in this one book of his, he has really equalled the masters. William Long says of Lorna Doone: "Altogether it would be hard to find a more delightful romance in any language, and it well deserves the place it has won as one of the classics of our literature." Because Lorna Doone is a splendid romance dealing with a picturesque age in English history and because Mr. Blackmore, in it, has shown his mastery of rhythmical prose, it has been selected for review and study. Told in the first person, it takes its place along side of such noble novels as Henry Esmond and David Copperfield, although not quite so important or well known as either. Thackeray or Dickens probably might have been used, but since their novels are so well known and since Lorna Doone is a book that should be in every well-read person's repertoire, so to speak, it was thought best to use it. George Eliot's works were not selected because in recent years they have been used for literary lessons. It would be well for the reader of Lorna Doone to spend a few minutes on the history of England during the reign of Charles II and LESSON DEPARTMENT James II, as it is found in any modern or English school history, for then he will be able just a little better to understand some of the troubles of big John Ridd.
Suggestions The following are merely suggestive:
1. Read from any good school history or encyclopedia the story of the reigns of Charles II and James II of England.
2. Read Chapter 5 The Advance of the English Novel.
3. Class members could read scenes from the novels of Dickens, Thackeray, George Eliot.
4. If all but one novelist had to perish, which would you keep? Which of the novelist's books would you keep? Why?
Social Service
Lesson 6
How to Get Along with People
I. The Kernel of the Lesson. Of all the achievements a person may have, nothing contributes quite so much to his happiness and general success as the ability to live cooperatively and peaceably with other people. This capacity depends largely upon the ability to forget one's self and, for the moment at least, to see out of the other person's eyes. We must be able not only to see things as he does, but we must be willing to let his valuation of himself grow by his contacts with us. To be a good subordinate or follower, one must not know more than his leader, or appear to know more. Rather one should cater to the whims of his superior, and show respect for his authority. To be a good leader, one must give credit to followers where it is due and give other evidence that the point of view of the followers is known and appreciated. Finally, the art of friendship grows out of community of interests, sympathy with each other's enthusiasms, and other relationships which permit one another to feel bigger and better in some respect.
II. Why the Ability to Get Along with People Is Important. In recent years, science has made enormous progress in controlling the physical universe. We have made strides in conquering time and space through the telephone, telegraph and radio, and the railroad, automobile and airplane. We have learned much about prolonging life through modern medicine. But all of the great scientific advances have not enlightened us sufficiently in the art of human management to prevent wars and internal national disorders. Today two major wars are raging because nations cannot forget self long enough to see and appreciate the point of view of one another. Most of the unhappy people are those who have not learned to share the joys and sorrows of others. The man who frequently loses his job is he who cannot work in an organization without friction, the touchy person, the grumbler, and the one who is directly absorbed with what he will "get out of the job," rather than what he can put into it. But the ability to get along with others makes the greatest difference to our happiness. As it pertains to our relationships in the home, where human contacts are so intimate and the wearing qualities of a personality are most severely tested. Disagreeable relationships in the home have more to do with producing delinquency and school failure than any other social cause. In industry one of the highest priced qualities in an executive is his ability to manage men so as to make them productive, by making them like their work. Many of our high Church officials owe their great usefulness to this ability, the ability to organize and manage people. Recently a great contractor with a meager education and only average technical knowledge was asked the secret of his success. His answer was that he had what it took to get men with brains and education to do what he wanted them to do. No ability, then, means more to our success and happiness than this knack of understanding our fellow men and living cooperatively with them.
III. Ability to See the Other Person's Point of View Is the Basis of Getting Along With People. Jesus once said, "Judge not that ye be not judged," "and why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?" (Matthew 7:1, 4). "He that is without sin, let him cast the first stone." (John 8:7, see also verses 1 to 11). In these statements, He spoke of a most common human failing: the inability to see the other person's point of view. Speaking positively, Jesus gave us the secret of getting along with people in the following words: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "But whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister, and whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant, even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many." (Matt. 20:26-28.) This spirit is indeed that of modern business, the secret of its success. Henry Ford is great financially because he has rendered a service to the people they have been willing to pay for; Franklin D. Roosevelt is great politically and socially because he came in an hour of dire need and aimed his program toward satisfying the needs of the people. Great men are those who see out of other people's eyes, who are more directly interested in the problems of others than in their own immediate needs. Jesus came not to do His own will but the will of the Father; He sacrificed His life that we might have everlasting life. A poor salesman makes speeches centered about the fine qualities of his products; a good salesman talks about you and your needs. A person applying for a position has a far better chance if he studies the needs of his prospective employer and thinks mainly about how well his qualifications will meet those needs. Most employers are interested in operating their business efficiently and care very little about our personal needs in applying for a job. Again, "whosoever would be chief among you let him be your servant." If we would advance in the Church, let us look for opportunities to be of the greatest possible service, and think little of personal glory.
LESSON DEPARTMENT In the home, the ability of a mother to see a child's problem as he sees it is essential for successful guidance. Children frequently make life miserable for each other because they lack this ability, because their immaturity prevents this sharing of points of view. A wife who understands the particular interests and enthusiasms of her husband, and the husband who appreciates those interests that are feminine—they are likely to be a happy couple. Their interests need not coincide so long as there is mutual understanding and toleration of each other's point of view. This personality quality is often expressed by such simple acts as a wife purchasing Christmas or birthday presents that give expression to her husband's hobbies and enthusiasms, for example, fishing tackle or hunting equipment if his enthusiasms run along this line. He in turn will not express his own wants or interests in what he presents to his wife, such as giving her a set of camping utensils when she is really enthusiastic about fine tapestry or Venetian vases.
IV. Give the Other Person a Chance to Express Himself, or Expand His Ego, if You Would Get Along With Him. Most often this means to praise the person we would get along with whenever a legitimate occasion arises. It does not mean to flatter, for flattery is a kind of pseudo-praise where your real motives are too obviously selfish. Genuine praise springs from the heart; it is a genuine appreciation for the good in others. To talk freely of our own successes tends to deflate the other person's ego, and to inflate our own. Ego striving is the motivation underlying boasting. Naturally it is unpopular, though very common, and one of the surest ways to make people dislike us. Let the other person do the talking, if you would get along with him; and when you do talk, let it be about either purely impersonal subjects or those that are related to his enthusiasms. Talk about the other person's children, about her boy away at college or on a mission, about her grandchildren, or about her part in the Relief Society program. When we tell a joke on ourselves, it permits the other person's ego to expand; but when we tell one on him, the opposite effect follows and he is likely to dislike us. The habit of telling jokes which are intended to discount someone else is often a symptom of insecure conceptions of the value of oneself, of inferiority feelings at heart. The apparent "daring" of this kind of humor frequently serves only to cover up one's inner recognition of the insecurity of his own status. The person in good command of his self-feelings can mention his own faults without losing prestige. In fact, frankness about one's faults, so long as one does not become too apologetic and boresome, helps to create respect in others and certainly promotes friendly feelings, just as boasting operates to the contrary.
V. How To Be a Good Follower. People vary widely in temperament; some are by past experience and original nature inclined to be leaders, others are likewise predisposed to be good followers. The quality of leadership or "follower-ship" is frequently a life pattern which varies according to circumstances: some people are leaders in every relationship, others are as truly followers. But most of us are likely to lead out under one circumstance and follow under another where we are not so sure of our ascendance over the other person involved, although we may still have a general tendency to either lead or follow as a general habit. That leadership is not desired by everyone, is borne out by the fact that faithful followers sometimes refuse advancement to positions of more responsibility with more prestige or better pay. They say they would rather have less prestige or pay than make the adjustment. They would rather do a routine job they know well than a more variable one where more thinking is required. The art of being a good follower or subordinate is therefore of value to most of us. Good Church followers are those who respect the authority of the leaders. As long as we are confident they have better judgment and insight than we, to follow is easy. We are good followers when we do not openly question our leaders' judgment. We show our respect by prompt and enthusiastic response to their wishes. The poorest kind of followers are those who countermand the orders of their superior officers and use their own judgment as opposed to theirs. This we call insubordination; it is one of the most common reasons for people losing their positions in the Church and in industry. If we think we have better ideas than our superior officers we need not smother them necessarily, but much tact is required to get them adopted. Argument accomplishes only one thing: bad RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE feelings. Let your superior accidentally find your ideas for himself so that he doesn't "lose any face" by having you tell him what to do. To tell someone openly how to do his business simply builds up resistance to your ideas, when actually the leader might like to adopt them if he could without losing his pride. To follow when the leader lacks insight or is weak is very difficult. But argument and over-aggressiveness on the part of the follower does not make the latter into a leader. Insight and consideration of the personalities of others are the most important qualifications of a leader, and an aspiring one must learn to manage people, including his leader, before he can become a leader.
VI. How To Get the Most Out of Your Followers. The way to influence your followers is to appreciate first of all what was said about being a good follower. Give your subordinates credit for what they do. Only recognition of their "place in the sun" makes them want to give their best to the work at hand. Nagging and finding fault are as fatal in other personal relations as they are in rearing a family. Destructive criticism naturally undermines the pride or value the follower puts on himself. When a person becomes resentful of criticism, he is attempting to "save his face." Backbiting and resentment are contagious and undermine the morale of everyone who listens to the complaints of the disgruntled. It therefore behooves the leader to avoid arousing bitterness in the followers by harsh criticism improperly administered. (See problem 4 at the end of the lesson.) When criticising a subordinate, LESSON DEPARTMENT first praise his work where it rightfully deserves it; then let him answer questions to himself about how he can improve; let him find the criticism as though it is partly his own idea. It makes him feel better when you appear to respect his ability to find what is wrong. An effective method in some cases is to disarm him by pointing out in a kindly way and admitting as far as possible beforehand the alibis he is likely to make. This approach avoids an open affront to the worker's ego and thereby prevents building up resistance to new ideas and criticism. For the leader to admit a similar mistake or fault saves the follower's pride and establishes friendly feeling between tke leader and follower. Enthusiasm is contagious and one of the most valuable assets of the leader. This is no more true anywhere than in Church work. Someone has said that there are no good or poor groups of workers—only good or poor leaders. Leadership depends much upon the enthusiasm the leader has for his cause. Joseph Smith and Brigham Young had great enthusiasm for their work—and the ability to pass it on to their followers. They, like Jesus, were great because through their leadership they imbued their followers with great enthusiasm for the cause they espoused. VII. Concerning the Art of Friendship. A friendship grows when there is a community of interests between two people, when they mutually satisfy certain needs for recognition, sharing of joys and sorrows, and expression to one's inner feelings and aspirations. Friends must be good listeners on occasion. Sometimes, 845 one party of the friendship is docile and submissive, the other domineering. The submissive party gains recognition through the fact that the other one cares to dominate him, and the dominating one finds in the friendship a "kingdom to rule” which he may not find anywhere else. However, most friendships rest on common interests and enthusiasms, or enjoyment of the same things,—and sometimes even through sharing the same enemies. Most joys are made more intense by mutual participation of others. Laird made a study of the reasons why people are not liked. A few of the reasons found are expressed in the following questions. They are presented here to show some of the obstacles to forming and maintaining friendly relations. The questions are only each fifth question in Laird's inventory (quoted by Starch, et al. Page 272): | 1. Can you always be depended upon to do what you say you will? 5. Do you refrain from showing off how much you know? 10. Do you keep from domineering others? °15. Do you avoid finding fault with everyday things? 20. Do you always control your temper? 25. Do you have patience with modern ideas? 30. Do you avoid asking favors of others? 35. Are you conservative in politics? 40. Do you avoid borrowing things? 45. Do you avoid making fun of people to their faces? (Laird, 846 D. A. Why We Don't Like People, pages 300-31. New York; Glaser, 1933 second edition). The answers to these questions give a picture of one's ability to make friends. Notice that the questions are directed to specific habits of dealing with people. VIII. Hew to Get Along With Yourself. If you are really interested in other people for their own sakes, not for the personal gain you may derive from them, you will be able to praise others without strain or effort. If, however, you have sensitive feelings, if you are always concerned with defending your own ego—which is to say that you have inferiority feelings or an inferiority complex —praise requires the greatest of effort and even embarrassment. In this case, to praise means to you that you admit your own inferiority. But the best medicine for feelings of inferiority is to get your thoughts off your own shortcomings. What better antidote for inferiority feelings is there than to receive praise, and praise freely and sincerely given paves the way for others to praise you. Bitter rivalries often arouse feelings of inferiority and an absorption in one's own inner thoughts. The thought stream flows inward. Psychologists call this tutroversion. Introverts are more interested in their own thoughts than in the outside world, and more interested in inanimate things than in people' They would rather read a book than see a ball game, and often they "feel just miserable." Their feelings are easily hurt. In extreme degrees introversion means much the same thing as emotional instability, and is often associated with inferiority feelings. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Introversion is opposed to sociability. Introverts find it difficult to praise others, and therefore they have few friends and are seldom praised. Because they have few friends, they are not much interested in social things, and their personalities become warped so that free communion with others is difficult—just as one has difficulty speaking a foreign language after a few years of disuse. This inefficiency in social relations is unpleasant to the introvert and drives him farther into his shell, "to walk unhappily alone." (In this connection, for those who care to pursue this line of thought further, see H. C. Link's Return to Religion, New York; Macmillan, 1936.) Extreme introversion is an unhealthful condition. Only. By living with others can we gain the praise and recognition upon which our egos are nourished. If you would get along with yourself, learn to get along with others. He who loses his life in the service of others shall truly find it. Problems for Discussion 1. Discuss the practical value of the Golden Rule as a guide to getting along with people, in the home, in business, and in Church work. "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them," (Matthew 7:12). 2. Show how practice of the second great commandment contributes to mental health: "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself," (Matthew 22:36-40). 3. What is the significance of the ability to give genuine praise, as related to good personality adjustment? 4, Read Doctrine and Covenants LESSON DEPARTMENT 121:34-46. Show why the Priesthood does become an ineffective kind of leadership if based upon '"'unrighteous dominion." Show why reproof "betimes with sharpness," is doubly effective when followed by expressions of love and appreciation. (See v. 43) 5. Why do people who are selfcentered seldom make good leaders?. 6. What would you say is the best formula for getting along with people? The best formula for getting along with yourself? 7. Interpret in the light of what you have learned from this lesson about leadership, the following statement: "A sales manager, speaking to his subordinates who in turn were district managers 847 with men working under them, said, "As the boss is, so is the gang." How does this same principle apply to the organization units of the Relief Society? Reference for Further Study 1. Bennett, M. E., Building Your Life, pages 240-251, New York: Whittlesey House, 1935. 2. Starch, D., et al., Controlling Human Behavior, pages 258-299 New York; Macmillan, 1936. 3. Morgan, J. J. B., Keeping a Sound Mind, pages 385-414; New York; Macmillan, 1934. 4. Webb, E. T., & Morgan, J. J. B., Strategy In Handling People, pages 7-59 especially, but see the table of contents; Chicago; Boulton, Pierce & Co., 1931. Education for Family Life FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS LESSON THREE SECURITY THROUGH FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, Calif.) EACH member of the family has somewhat different needs, in respect to security, because: I. The' home means something different to each one. Women value companionability in a husband. A man may be a "good provider," may be a community leader, may be a person of fine character in other ways; but if he always acts as if his wife were an inferior person, if he ridicules her Opinions and acts as if it were not worth while to talk over any serious subject with her, she is not likely to be satisfied with him as a husband. She will lack that feeling of security which is essentional to self-respect and efficiency. The average man, on the other hand, values a wife not because she is intellectually satisfying,— intellectual comradeship is rarely the prime motive in his choice of a spouse,—but because she is emotionally satisfying and a good home-maker. Each partner must therefore recognize the other's special needs and meet them. II. People differ greatly by nature in their degree of self-sufficiency. People high in this trait 848 do not ask advice, perhaps do not take it if given unasked. A valuable trait in business, it may be a handicap in marriage. Women are likely to be less self-sufficient than men; they are more anxious to talk things over, to get the husband's advice on even trivial matters. Sometimes a husband who does not understand this, and who is himself high in self-sufficiency, is irked by his wife's frequent requests that he express an opinion on some matter which he thinks she should decide for herself. Far from expressing resentment in such a case, the husband must recognize it as part of his job, and go out of his way to help his wife. She wants, more than almost anything else, to please him; she can have no feeling of security if he refuses to give her the help that she thinks she needs. On the other hand, of course, many a wife needs to develop more self-reliance. III. The children's feeling of security is closely bound up with the need for harmony between their parents. <A long series of studies reveals how much the child's behavior may be affected if he feels that he cannot depend on the stability and permanence of his home. Beyond this, the children must develop a feeling of emotional security on their own account by gradually getting some understanding (proportionate to their age and grasp) of: (a) themselves, their own capacities and limitations; (b) sex; (c) God, religion, and death (these three ideas overlap greatly in the mind of the little child); (d) wealth, power, and authority (ideas which overlap similarly). Naturally, the child is not going to solve all these problems, but if RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE he is to feel secure he must at least feel that they do not represent something about which he is being deliberately misled, or that some important fact of which he has an inkling is being withheld deliberately from him. There are two general areas of security which are most critical for the average family: 1, Financial. This goes without saying. There are few indeed who have not had to struggle with this phase of security. All studies agree that it is not so much the amount of money available, as the attitude toward it, which decides the family's success. The depression has brought some hardship for almost everyone; yet it has probably strengthened just as many families as it has weakened. Many a couple have had to cooperate more closely, have had to give up extravagances and harmful luxuries, have had to develop the resources of the home for entertainment instead of spending money "downtown," and have been spiritually strengthened as a consequence. Fair division of the family income, whether it be large or small, is necessary to a feeling of security on the part of all. 2. Emotional. Every experienced person knows that the feeling of emotional security in a successful marriage is one of its most valuable elements, and one which can hardly be found outside of marriage. It is recognized as so precious, that any threat to it brings serious disturbances, usually described as jealousy. Jealousy is popularly supposed to be an evil thing. This perhaps results from a failure to think through the problem. One is said to be jealous of one's LESSON DEPARTMENT good name, of the honor of one's country, etc.; similarly one should be jealous of the success of one's marriage,—which means _ that jealousy, properly speaking, is a recognition that one legitimately possesses something of great value and is determined to defend the possession. It is one of the cements that holds the home together on a firm foundation. It is not a feeling of jealousy that should be reprobated, but an infantile way of expressing it by tantrums, by making life miserable for the partner,—as. If a husband would treasure his wife because of her high nuisance value! If the security of the home is threatened, each partner should recognize the fact and make a determined effort to improve the situation, not by violence, threats, or hysterics but by making the home and the self more attractive; by studying the partner to find what he wants and legitimately should expect out of the marriage and then seeing that he gets it. 3. For women, there is a third area of security half-way between the two just mentioned. Many women find their feeling of security is closely associated with their ability to dress properly. Men need more understanding of the legitimate place of clothes in a woman's life. Studies show (though probably the average man will be incredulous) that the average husband spends more money on his clothes than his wife spends on her clothes. MoreOver, as a woman grows older, she tends to spend less on her wardrobe-—w hich may sometimes mean that she is slipping into a rut and "going to seed," though it may also mean that she has learned to buy more wisely. In 849 any event, it is hard for a woman to have a feeling of emotional security if her husband or her budget obliges her to wear the same hat three years in succession. As a convenient means for analysing the amount of security present, one may check up by reference to the "three areas of human desire" that have often been described: (1) Every woman wants to feel that she is a member in good standing of some social group; that she "belongs"; that she is not an outcast but that she has a feeling of solidarity with the world around her; in a word, her social needs must be satisfied. This means a normal recreational life, n o r m al associations through the church and community agencies. (2) In addition to this feeling that she is approved by the world in general, she wants to be particularly approved by some one man,—to mean something to him that no other woman can mean, and vice versa. In a word, she must satisfy the needs of her lovelife. (3) But in addition to being a member in good standing of the Great Society, and Mr. Soandso's wife, she also wants to amount to something on her own account, to have an individual reason for existence, to be or do something different from anyone else. This means self-expression through some creative outlet and, technically, results in "satisfaction of the ego". Religious experience is part of this; so is motherhood. For one reason or another, some women will be shut off from one of these three areas of satisfaction (which apply also, in principle, to men). They must develop 850 the others more fully to compensate as far as possible for the one that is missed. But the average married woman should have a normal life in these three respects, and her feeling of security will be ensured by a balance between her satisfactions in these three areas. Questions and Problems 1. A woman who is seeking a divorce says, "Ideally every child ought to have two parents; but I believe it is better for my boy to be brought up by his mother alone, in an atmosphere of peace, than to be brought up by two parents who are continually quarreling before him." What would be your comment on this? 2. A highly self-sufficient and capable woman who had been a successful teacher married a man who is emotionally quite dependent on her,—he acts in many ways like a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE child toward a mother, expecting her to solve all his problems. With such a husband she lacks a feeling of security; while the slightest indication of weaning him emotionally makes him feel insecure. How shall she proceed to improve this situation? 3. Dr. G. V. Hamilton asked two hundred married persons (half men and half women) what they found most objectionable in their partners. Most of the men said their wives talked too much; most of the women said their husbands did not talk enough. What changes in the education of young people would be likely to result in greater harmony in marriage, at this point? 4, Apart from those mentioned in this lesson, name three things you think husbands can do to give their wives a greater feeling of security in the home, and three things a wife can do to increase the husband's feeling of security. Literature for the Missions TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH LESSON 6 JOSEPHINE NADIN LAMBERT A Worthy Daughter of Belgium OSEPHINE NADIN LAMJ BERT was the tenth child of Henry Joseph Nadin and Elizabeth Damard, there being five girls and five boys in the family. She was born June 18, 1860, in St. Severen Province of Liege, Belgium. Her parents being Catholics, she was reared in the Catholic faith. She attended public school only a few years, as children were required to help with the livelihood when very young. At the age of thirteen years she began to work ina bakery. At this early age she was keeping company with a young man by the name of Joseph Hawkens and continued to do so for four years. He was drafted into the army for two years. When he returned his mother insisted that he marry a girl with money. Mention is made of this courtship because of the bearing it had on her life later. She then met Alexander Lambert whom she married at the LESSON DEPARTMENT Catholic Church, December 14, 1888. They lived in the farming community of St. Severen though her husband worked some ten miles away in an iron factory, leaving Monday morning and returning Saturday night. He boarded during the week with a family who belonged to the Baptist Church. While there he came in contact with a Mormon missionary, Elder Replenger. Great was his joy when he came home and informed his wife of the Mormon doctrine, but she was not interested. At this time there were two boys in the family, Henry and Leo, who were almost old enough to receive the Catholic instructions. But the husband and father believing the Catholic principles were in error forbade the sons to take any part in that church. This hurt Mrs. Lambert very much, as their friends and relatives ridiculed them. Living in a Catholic neighborhood, ridiculed, and the children picked on and tormented at school, it became necessary for the family to move to the community where the husband was working. There they were visited by the Elders of the Church. Mrs. Lambert finally accepted their teachings after much persuading on the part of her husband and was baptized on November 12, 1896, but not without a battle with herself and not without much praying. We can understand it was a great undertaking on their part, as they were the first converts in Belgium. All of their relatives had given them up as spiritually lost and wanted no more to do with them. The desire to go to Zion now became uppermost in their minds and this they finally arranged to do. A Mormon _ missionary, 851 Charles Beus, laboring in that mission at the time, advised the family to go to his home town, Hooper, Utah. This they decided to do and set sail for Utah April 25, 1902. The boys were thirteen and fifteen years of age and the baby girl nine months old. Sister Lambert was sick all the Way, even on the train. Naturally this made the baby sick and the parents were very much worried about the child. They arrived at their destination safely in May, 1902. Elder Beus' father met them and took them to his home, also helped them to get located. The family arrived without means in a strange country, speaking a language they did not understand. But these circumstances did not crush them. They set to work with a will. Sister Lambert was always very saving and hard working. She was faithful in the Church, always doing her duty, always paying her tithing and fast offerings. Through this the Lord has blessed her with good health and the ability to learn the language and to live comfortably financially. They went through the House of the Lord on January 22, 1904, and were sealed together and to their three children. After being here a few years Sister Lambert dreamed of her former suitor, Joseph Hawkens; in fact she dreamed of him several nights in succession. She could not understand this so she asked the opinion of her husband. They came to the conclusion that they should do the temple work for this man. This they did and she has not dreamed of him since. They also did the temple work for a great many dead relatives. They took up farming and have 852 become very well known in this part of the country. In 1924 Sister Lambert and her husband left Utah and spent two years in the French Mission laboring in the part of Belgium from which they had originally come. They had the pleasure of converting and baptizing several relatives. While there Sister Lambert helped in Relief Society and preached from house to house. She assisted the Relief Society and other organizations to put on socials and bazaars to raise money to help build a new chapel at Seraing, which was erected shortly after the Lamberts left for home. The people of Belgium were very bitter when these good people were back there, because of the hardships they had gone through during the World War, and it was very hard to make them understand. In one instance Sister Lambert was talking to an old gentleman about our religion and our God. He said if there had been a God, surely He would not have let the people suffer like they had during the war. When the Lamberts arrived in Belgium on their mission there were about twenty members and when they left there were one hundred members in the Seraing Branch. Brother Lambert baptized thirteen members. Sister Lambert's pleasing personality and kind ways made her welcome wherever she went. The Lamberts enjoyed their missionary labors a great deal. It was much harder to say farewell to their friends when their mission was completed than it had been when they left the first time. The last meeting they attended in the branch was more like a funeral than a sacrament meeting. The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE members seemed to feel as badly as did Elder and Sister Lambert. About two years after they had returned to their home their oldest son, Henry, left a wife to care for five children while he labored in the same mission that his parents had worked in. Sister Josephine Lambert has a firm testimony of the divinity of the Church of Jesus Christ and thanks God that He has let her live on this earth to a ripe old age, and for the opportunity she has had to do her bit for the improvement and advancement of the Church. Items for Consideration 1. A generation ago the missionaries and members of the Church met persecution in every mission of the Church. Now there is little or no persecution anywhere. How do you explain this?; 2. Did it take more courage to join the Church then than now? Explain. 3. Were members more devoted and faithful then than now? Explain. 4. What reasons have you for believing that Sister Lambert became a sincerely converted Latter-day Saint? 5. What sacrifices did she make for her new religion?, 6. What answer have you to the assertion that "if there had been a God He would not have let the people suffer as many did during the World War"? 7. To what extent are you benefited by the life of a fine, true woman like Josephine N. Lambert? 8. How could temple work benefit Joseph Hawkens? Magazine Drive SUCCESS is measured in many ways. Sometimes the attainment of certain goals means success; other times the spirit with which work is carried forward. Sometimes the amount of good resulting from an activity is the determining factor, while again an activity may be called successful if it only provides stimuli for increased effort in the future. Judged by any standard the 1938 Magazine Drive has been a success. A large majority of the wards and many stakes have gone over the top.. The spirit with which the Drive has been conducted has been one of enthusiasm, cooperation and devotion to service. We feel confident that good will result from this activity, and as past experience qualifies us for future achievement, the Magazine looks ahead to a great future. We most sincerely thank those who have contributed to the success of the 1938 Magazine Drive: the faithful, energetic Magazine Agents, the executive officers who have given such unusual cooperation, our many thousands of subscribers living in all parts of the world. It is our desire to make the Magazine as informative, inspirational, and enjoyable as possible; to have it render genuine service to the Relief Society organization and to the homes into which it goes. FOUR HIGHEST PERCENTAGES GROUP A Ward Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pet. Magazine Agent Mesa Second Maricopa 100 160 160 Lula R. Stewart Provo Fourth Utah 127 190 150 Flora Buggart Springville First Kolob 101 130 129 Eugene Bird Richards Granite 107 128 120 Irene Irvine GROUP B. Twelfth Ensign 53 90 170 Sarah Jerrell McGill Nevada 70 111 160 Louisa Johnson Dimond Oakland 71 112 158 Ida Torgerson Long Beach Long Beach 62 91 147 Ermina Joseph GROUP C Hurstville Australian Mission 10 31 310 Rit Wilson Worland Big Horn 19 ay 300 Clara Gheen Galesburg Northern States Mis. 9 27 300 Rena Custer Vernon St. Johns 10 26 260 Ella L. Grau HONOR ROLL HE above receive high honors and will be presented with a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine at the Relief Society General Conference, April 1939. WARDS 100% AND OVER GROUP A Blanding San Juan 131 139 106 Doris Shumway Pocatello Fifth Pocatello 105 110 105 Jean Henderson Lovell Big Horn 113 117 104. LeGene Asay Eighteenth Ensign 141 141 100 Iverne Wallace Lincoln Granite 134 134 100 Mable Flandro Ogden Twelfth Mount Ogden 124 124 100 Esther H. Porter Adams Hollywood 103 103 100 Carrie Ainge Salem Palmyra 102 102 100 Lettie Peterson 854 Ward Phoenix First Twentieth Fourteenth Phoenix Second Roy Phoenix Third Malad First Huntington Park Ogden Second Hooper Idaho Falls First Ogden Thirteenth Mesa First Grace First Burley Third Hillcrest Washington Raymond First | Ogden Nineteenth Twenty-seventh Antimony Grandview Raymond Second Afton North Brighton Second Elmhurst Idaho Falls Second Springville Second Ogden Twentieth South Gate Central Park Heber Third Ogden Eighteenth Harvard Twenty-first Malad Second Walnut Park Nibley Park Ogden Seventeenth Eagar Wilshire Berkeley Logan Eleventh Santa Monica Bountiful First Tremonton First Eleventh Franklin Ogden Eleventh Sparks, Nevada Burley First Magna West Bountiful Hollywood Vernal First Bountiful Third University Logan Second RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE GROUP B (Enrollment 50 to 99 Inclusive) Enroll. No. Sub. Pet. Stake Phoenix Ensign Salt Lake Phoenix Weber Phoenix Malad Los Angeles Weber Weber. North Idaho Falls Ogden Maricopa Bannock Burley Grant Eastern States Mis. Taylor Weber Ensign Garfield Grant Taylor Star Valley Box Elder Oakland Idaho Falls Kolob Ogden Los Angeles Grant Wasatch Mount Ogden Liberty Ensign Malad Los Angeles Granite Mount Ogden St. Johns Hollywood Oakland Logan Hollywood South Davis Bear River Ensign Franklin Weber California Mission Burley Oquirrh South Davis Pasadena Uintah South Davis Ensign Logan 65 93 60 87 54 51 50 62 84 72 61 82 93 131 81 143 141 135 134 133 133 128 126 125 124 123 118 116 116 115 114 114 114 114 113 112 111 111 111 110 110 110 109 109 109 109 108 108 108 107 107 107 106 106 106 105 106 105 105 105 103 103 103 103 103 103 102 102 102 101 101 101 101 Magazine Agent Lilly A. Harris Louise Mullett Bashua Chapman Davis Mary J. Cosby Jane Hyden Lillian Keller Esther Hess Lenore Merrills Ethel McCarty Florence Naisbitt Una McDonald Edith 'Wilson Esther H. Miller Esther Ashbacker Nettie D. Parker Gwen Mecham Ruth B. Young Fanny C. Litchfield Toss W. Kersch Jeannette McArthur Mary K. Riddle Mae B. Glazier Ruth Salmon Melba Erickson Sarah Horsley Lavina Smithen Hazel Goodwin Florence Simkins Mattie Manning Naomi Whale Hedy Davies Annie K. Moulton Netta Burton Irene C. Brain Mary H. Jordan Violet Condie Mellie Cook Emma Armstrong Mary Bertagnoli Lurana Eagar Hilda Jorgensen Norma G. Davis Amy W. Affleck Cora J. Hodges Zara Sabin Dorma Brough D. Montgomery Blanche Cook Ella Burt Merlyn Lampman Nettie T. Oliverson Emily Petterson Cristie E. Wood Charlotte S. O'Connor Katie Horrocks Emma Riley Emma Teudt Inez Thain Ward Ogden First Emigration Ensign Mesa Third Richfield Second Thirteenth Grantsville Second Chevy Chase Draper First San Francisco Lincoln Cody Clinton Glendale Mound Valley Rapid City, S. D. Elko Geneva Heber Arlington Grand Island, Neb. Sublett Milo Ten Sleep Buffalo Pacheco La Grande First Charleston Wells Alpine Montebello Basin Wendover Beaver Creek Hilliard Queensland Cincinnati Pine Pomona Vallejo Palo Alto Ruth Philadelphia Arcadia Pella Rosette Eastmont Manchester Balboa Chester Auburn Tempe San Rafael Duchesne Baker Juarez North Hollywood Center MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL 855 GROUP B—Continued Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Magazine Agent Weber 86 86 100 Margaret Verniew Bonneville 82 82 100 Ida von Nordeck Ensign 80 80 100 Ellen Smith Maricopa 79 79 100 Zelma Huffaker Sevier 76 76 100 Elizabeth Magleby Ensign 72 72 100 Alma Erickson Tooele 71 71 100 Glenna Millward Eastern States Mis. 70 70 100 Betty Benson East Jordan 59 59 100 Florence Sjoblom San Francisco 56 56 100 Sarah L. Pomeroy Idaho Falls 55 55 100 Elsie T. Lee GROUP C (Enrollment up to 49 Inclusive) Big Horn, 22 49 223 Ethel Brailsford Weber 34 71 209 Angeline Child Phoenix 14 29 207 Julia S. Kremer Bannock 19 38 200 Ida B. Condie N. Cent. States Mis. 8 15 187. Melba Thomas Nevada 29 54 186 Fawn S. Noren Montpelier 18 33 183 Rosetta Teuscher Snowflake 16 28 175 Elva Shelley Hollywood 4] 71 173. Edith Cowan N. Cent. States Mis. 15 26 173 Maude O. West Raft River 7 12 171 Sylvia Olsen North Idaho Falls 15 25 167 Mary Wilding Big Horn 11 18 164 Annie Duncan Eastern States Mis. 8 13 163 Naomi Joy Juarez 8 13 163 Margaret B. Cluft Union 36 57 158 Emma Stringham Wasatch 43 66 153 Mary Casper Nevada 21 32 152 Nellie Hyde St. Johns 24 36 150 Jessie Jepson Los Angeles 16 23 144 Grace Davenport Big Horn 21 30 143. Lova Kinghorn Tooele 19 27 142 Florence Howell North Idaho Falls 12 17 142 Wanda Wieles Woodruff 12 17 142 Naomi Lym Australian Mission 27 38 141 Nell Jeffs Brown Northern States Mis. 20 28 140 Lula Snell Maricopa 18 25 139 Ina P. Hunt San Bernardino 18 25 139 Mary Snell Oakland 18 25 139 Ida Fullen San Francisco 32 44 138 Charlotte Showers Nevada 35 48 137 Lucy Benson Eastern States Mis. 25 34 136 Claire S. Abbott Duchesne 26 35 135 Rose D. Gilbert Burley 38 51 134 Alice Freer Curlew 9 12 133. Jennie Hirschi Los Angeles 30 39 130 Vera Wanlass Los Angeles 42 54 129 Gladys Silberstein San Francisco 40 51 128 Fredrikka Duffner Yellowstone 36 46 128 Julia Worrell Eastern States Mis. 7 9 128 Jessie Wiggins Phoenix 22 28 127 Lola Turley San Francisco 11 14 127 Louise Bernard Duchesne 42 53 126 Minnie Wheeler Union 34 43 126 Nettie Shurtliff Juarez 34 43 126 Mildred Farnsworth Pasadena 40 50 125 Louise Phippen Wasatch 24 30 125 Bertha Sweat 856 Ward Montello Imbler Lyndhurst Bundaberg Boise Third San Jose Linrose - Sharon Groveland Herriman Claremont Tyrell's Lake Perry Thatcher Roseville Firestone Park Hatch Lansing Battle Creek Burnham Grant Harlem Dublan Slaterville Pleasant Grove 2nd Maywood Altoona Canandaigua Ogden Twenty-first Burlingame Gilbert Queen Anne Basin Lund Torrence Lehi Alameda Flagstaff Central Bellingham Tracy Baldwin Park Richie Powell Twin Groves Stockton Luna Burbank Houston Mountain View Storrs Sunset Olympia Fish Haven Leland Unity Star Pioche Hayward Redcliff RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE GROUP C—Continued Stake Mount Ogden Union Northern States Mis. Australian Mission Boise San Francisco Franklin Bear Lake Blackfoot West Jordan Oakland Taylor Box Elder Bannock Sacramento Los Angeles Idaho Northern States Mis. Northern States Mis. Young E. Jordan N. Cent. States Mis. Juarez North Weber Timpanogos Los Angeles Eastern States Mis. Eastern States Mis. Ogden San Francisco Maricopa Seattle Cassia Nevada Long Beach Maricopa Oakland Snowflake Bannock Seattle Sacramento San Bernardino Idaho Falls Big Horn Yellowstone Sacramento St. Johns Pasadena Texas Mission Alberta Carbon San Francisco Seattle ~ Bear Lake Palmyra Burley Burley Moapa Oakland Duchesne 16 12 8 4 40 35 18 Enroll. No. Sub. Pet. 125 125 125 125 123 123 122 122 121 121 121 121 120 120 120 120 120 120 120 119 119 119 118 118 117 117 117 117 115 115 115 114 114 113 113 111 111 111 111 i1l 111 110 110 110 109 109 109 108 108 107 107 107 107 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 Magazine Agent Gertrude Jordan Jessie Perry Mary Wilson Florence Pruett Eliza J. Horsfield Olga Taylor Mrs. Rill Long Zella W. Wixom Agnes Dansie Clara S. Gleason Clara E. Selk Selma Thorne Wilda Rasmussen Nellie Boller Elizabeth Winkler Valeria Johnson Emma L. Smith Esther Williams Harriet D. Foutz Emma -Beckstead Lois Haycock Bernice Coon Sylvia S. Knight Effa Williams Rose Millard Ida Sandrus Nellie Lodge Elizabeth Jacobs Ruth Bentley Jennie Lamb Etta Eskelson Nellie Martin Ellen F. Fawcett Hortense Smith Lola Williams MaRee Meuter Martha W. Thomas Pearl Christensen Ella M. Petrie Sarah Dana Lilly A. Wilcox Bertha Cooper Bertha Cozzens Selina Richards Olive Sattler Clara Snyder Nessel Thomson Viola Stone Winnefred Smith Josephine McPhie Millie Johnson Mary Anderson Harriet G. Jensen Mary Marcussen Julina Nielson Ethel O. Hanks Ora Price Eva Loomis Emily H. Moon Ward Burlington Oakland Union Chandler Acequia Farmington Utahn Bingham Kanesville San Pedro Mapleton Springdale Butler Centerville Second Woodruff Pleasant View Matthews Vermont Belvedere Bancroft Mission University Rupert First Grant Wanship Holbrook Richmond Grace Second Kimberly Marion Pittsburg Tonia Pittsburgh Huntington Beach Martinez Hartley Mud Lake Evans Cleveland Cedron Leslie Woodland Whittier Kelly Bankstown Fort Wayne Arlington Perth Renton Marsh Center Uintah } Beaumont Hobart Clinton Bloomington Des Moines Fairbanks, Alaska Oyster Bay MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL GROUP C—Continued Stake Big Horn Oakland Union Maricopa Minidoka Young Duchesne West Jordan Weber Long Beach Franklin Burley East Jordan South Davis Snowflake Ogden Los Angeles Los Angeles Los Angeles Idaho San Francisco Chicago Minidoka Los Angeles Summit Curlew Oakland Bannock Twin Falls Cassia Oakland Big Horn Eastern States Mis. Long Beach Oakland Alberta North Idaho Falls Box Elder Bannock Teton Lost River Portneuf Los Angeles Idaho Australian Mission Northern States Mis. Eastern States Mis. Australian Mission Seattle Portneuf Mount Ogden Texas Mission Australian Mission Northern States Mis. Northern States Mis. Northern States Mis. Northw, States Mis. Australian Mission Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 43 43 43 40 on 19 18 46 a7 26 24 24 39 31 31 44 71 46 70 4g 47 37 36 34 32 28 28 27 25 25 25 23 23 21 20 20 19 19 18 17 17 14 18 13 13 12 11 11 10 10 8 8 7 6 6 6 5 45 45 45 42 32% 20 19 48 28 27 25 25 40 32 32 45 72 46% 70 48 47 37 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 104 104 104 104 104 103 103 103 102 101 101 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 857 Magazine Agent Dorothy Yorgensen Elizabeth Bergman Rose Kofford Helen Cluff Winnie Osterhout Margaret Dustin Matilda Wright Salina Nerdin Arlene Hansen Olive Johnson Afton Long Hattie H. Marchant Eva Boyce LaVaun Duncan Missouri B. Smithson Alice McLane Elizabeth Bowen Rea K. Cross Oral Hales Louie Call Margurite Kenison Anna V. Anderson Adeline Simpson Fredricka Williams Bessie Hixson Letitia T. Willie Mrs. A. Morley Mildred Ray Melvina McEwen Lera Matthews Undine Kutsch Lois Bassett Elisa Bohler Edna Allred Lillian Abbott Annie Orr Florence Peterson Alice Buxton Nina Jensen Leatha Kunz Anna Fullmer May Cotrell Minerva Moshier Fern Cooper Rose Foot Margarete S. Berthold Beth Bowen Marie Marlow Martha Treasure May Bybee Minnie J. Quinne Maratha Cooley Cornelia S. Peterson Mira McInerney 858 Ward Stake Seventeenth Salt Lake 160 Cowley Big Horn 105 Ogden Eighth Ogden 111 Wells Wells 136 Waterloo Wells 126 Logan Fourth Cache 152 Hawthorne Granite 131 Rexburg Second Rexburg 105 Lovell West Big Horn 121 Whittier Wells 107 Manavu Utah 104 North Ogden Ogden 119 Forest Dale Granite 115 Preston First Franklin 109 GROUP B (Enrollment 50 to 99 Inclusive) Ogden Third North Weber 72 Burley Second Burley 95 Milwaukee Chicago 54 La Grande Second Union 51 Lehi First Lehi 82 Sutter Sacramento 57 Mesa Fourth Maricopa 78 Capitol Hill Salt Lake 59 Gunnison Gunnison 58 Queens New York 53 Edgehill Highland 97 Ririe Rigby 63 Heber Second Wasatch 84 Twenty-ninth Salt Lake 72 Fielding Bear River 65 Rexburg Fourth Rexburg 65 Idaho Falls Sixth Idaho Falls 54 Yale Bonneville 90 Shelley First Shelley 80 Rigby Second Rigby 76 Ucon North Idaho Falls 72 Park View Long Beach 71 Evanston Second Woodruff 68 Lindon Timpanogos 58 Monticello San Juan 56 Elwood Bear River 51 Menan Rigby 87 Riverdale Weber be Snowflake Snowflake 99 Ogden Seventh Ogden 78 Highland Park Highland 76 Gilmer Park Bonneville 74 Midway Second Wasatch 55 Logan Square Chicago 56 Cedar Second Parowan 95 Bonneville Utah 83 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE WARDS 75% TO 99% GROUP A INCLUSIVE (Enrollment 100 and Over) Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 145% 95 91 91 86 83 83 82 82 Magazine Agent Julia G. Miller Sarah M. Simmons Miriam Farr Annie B. Ackroyd Ada C. Nisbet Janet M. Smith Julia Carver Alice M. Howard Mildred Despain Thelma Houghton Elsie Moffitt Louise Ellis May Jenson Annabel C. Larson Isabelle Hill Mary Casper Elise B. Schuette Gertie Hibbert Mary Monk Lenore T. Jones Lucile Beck Grace Burton Anna Allcock Orilla Wilkinsen Louise Greenwood Gail Clayton Eliza Durrant Agnes Cummings Hillevi Daniels Nora Roundy Isabelle Blunck Phoebe Peterson Chloe M. Jacob Esther Christensen Dora Poole Millie Hill Lydia Curtis Edith Davis Nettie Mecham Adelia Perkins Mrs. Carl Romer Hannah Poole Belva Vance Tina Gardner and Emma Hill Jessie M. Woods Effie Chipman Rachel Watts Susanna Probst Grace Meiling Margaret Kerr Zella B. Matheson Mrs. W. H. Prusse Spanish Fork Second Palmyra Spanish Fork First Palmyra 89 69 Ward Ely Byron Ogden 22nd Ogden Sixth Thirty-third Emerson St. Johns Idaho Falls Third Rexburg Third Rigby First Heber First Windsor Hyrum First Fairview Downey Archer Le Grand Burton Yalecrest Vernal Second Montpelier Fourth Twenty-fourth Hurricane South American Fork 4th Moreland Provo Sixth Price Second Centerville First - Clearfield Ammon Paris Second Joseph City East Mill Creek Idaho Falls Fifth Hyrum Third San Bernardino Holden Twenty-second Kanosh Richfield Third Providence First Fillmore Second Springdale Garden City Egin West Seattle Indianapolis, Ind. Spencer Globe Conda Harper Carlin Veyo Firth Banida Nounan MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL GROUP B—Continued Stake Nevada 66 Big Horn 70 Weber 54 Ogden 98 Bonneville 96 Highland 79 St. Johns 76 Idaho Falls Sy Rexburg 50 Rigby 88 Wasatch 83 Timpanogos 64 Hyrum 68 Star Valley 54 Portneuf 48 Rexburg 37 Bonneville 94 Wells 82 Bonneville 81 Uintah 67 Montpelier 51 Salt Lake 76 Zion Park 64 Alpine 63 Blackfoot 63 Utah 78 Carbon 85 South Davis 77 North Davis 77 Idaho Falls. 76 Bear Lake 72 Snowflake 55 Grant 84 Idaho Falls 56 Hyrum 83 San Bernardino 78 Millard 77 Salt Lake 67 Millard 85 Sevier 67 Logan 66 Millard 65 Zion Park 59 GROUP C (Enrollment up to 49 Inclusive) Bear Lake 38 Yellowstone 33 Seattle 29 Northern States Mis. 45 Oquirrh 48 St. Joseph 4] Idaho 22 Box Elder 22 Nevada 21 Shelley 35 Oneida 18 Montpelier 17 Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 55 58 45 80 78 65% 63 47 41 71 67 52 55 83 83 83 859 Magazine Agent Leone Garrett Sally Griffin Martha Van Braak Maude Ferris and Gertrude Hayes Mary Haycock Agnes Kirk Maude Mangum Laura Hops Margaret Pearson Elizabeth West Vera Epperson Mary B. Hales Marie Christiansen Izora Hoopes Jean Georgeson Annie A. Briggs Malinda C. Hicken Nora Yeager Mrs. O. A. Carstensen - Sarah Lyon Clara Smith Mrs. C. Thompson Martha Hasting Grace Coates Annie Morrell Jane Evans Jennie Allred Ella* Evans Phyllis King Christie Heath Hannah Humphreys Stella Cummins Hattie S. Woods Ila Sams Luella J. Birch Naomi Larsen Elva Johnson Lucy W. Holmes Cora Turner Everdiena Winkel Luella Jensen Manilla Brunson Nora C. Jolley Virginia Whittington Eva P. Cruser Lila Gulbransen Ruby B. Graham Florence Reid Blanche Gale Ruth Lewis Frewtrilla B. Yates Charlotte Ferguson Mildred Bowler Daveen Dye Mira Miles Florence Bartschi St. George 19 860 Ward Oakley Third Greenbelt Copperton Showlow Penrose Palmyra, N. Y. Winslow Sacramento Detroit East Springfield Farnum Wrentham Ovid Woolford River Heights Riverside Bridgeland Chuichupa Croyden Hamer Bloomfield Columbus Liberty Roberts Holbrook North Las Vegas Adamsville Marriott Albany, La. Riverton First Redondo Lark Reynolds Bates Glendale Laketown Homestead Grant Eureka Marysville Leota Pocatello Sixth Grass Valley Montwel Sutherland Irvington Caliente Center Manhattan Welling Lebanon Racine Woodruff Topaz Toponce College Palmyra Oakley First Omaha, Neb. Jameston RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE GROUP C—Continued Stake Cassia Eastern States Mis. West Jordan Snowflake Big Horn Eastern States Mis. Snowflake Sacramento Northern States Mis. Blackfoot Yellowstone Taylor Bear Lake Alberta Logan Blackfoot Duchesne Juarez Morgan North Idaho Falls Young Northern States Mis. Ogden Rigby Snowflake Moapa Beaver North Weber Texas Mission West Jordan Long Beach West Jordan Malad Teton Oneida Bear Lake Sacramento Portneuf Nevada Yellowstone Roosevelt Pocatello Gridley Roosevelt Deseret Portland Moapa Salt Lake New York Taylor St. Joseph Chicago Malad Portneuf Idaho Logan Palmyra Cassia Western States Mis. Shelley 30 14 45 30 12 11 42 39 21 29 13 41% 274% 11 10 38 35 19 19 18 9 25 16 30 29 22 22 14 Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. 93 93 Magazine Agent Lavina Critchfield Eunice S. Manning Gwen Knudsen Sarah M. Willis Delilah Mae Wasden Maude A. Collins Violet 'Willey Mary J. Winkel Minnie Thurston LeVera Hendricksen Vera Erickson Eva M. Johnson Twilla Stead Violet Weiderhauser Christene Kirwan Pearl Meacham Cora Judd Hilda Stevens Paulie Landon Fullin Reed Irma Holmes Hilda Foster Ann Thomas Hannah Tomsick Sarah A. Jones Sarah Parry Edith Davis Cleo Page Linnie Evans Elizabeth Thomas Mabel J. Smith Zuma Murdock Rachel Webster Verne Orvin Ruby Altop Rachel Anderson Geneva R. Bay Lorena Martindale Cora Exund Frieda Meyers Sylvia Jensen Etta Bacon Millie Jones Neida Bradshaw Leah Williams Eva Gledhill Mrs. C. S. Schindler Elizabeth Bullock Vermel Lee Martha Hubert Eunice Harris Marie Hegstrom Rita Boller Edith Albiston Lois Roach Helen Lee Ida H. Higham Nora Fielding MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL 861 GROUP C—Continued Ward Stake Enroll. No. Sub. Pct. Magazine Agent Eden Ogden 31 24 78 Janet Ferron Beazer Alberta 27 21 78 Sarah A. Broadhead Flowell Millard 19 15 78 Ruth Allen Anaheim Long Beach 18 14 78 Erthel Thatcher Challis Lost River 18 14 78 Mabel Howell Gridley Gridley 48 37 77 Florence Jensen Wilford Yellowstone 42 33% 77 Margaret Willyerd Swan Lake Portneuf 30 23 77 Marie Henderson Picture Butte Lethbridge 22 17 77 Luella Hague University Seattle 22 17 77 Vera Leishman Adelaide, So. A. Australian Mission 13 10 77 Gertrude Latter Fruita, Colorado Western States Mis. 9 7 77 Emma Assay Lakeside | Snowflake 38 29 76 Anna H. Jackson Reno, Nevada California Mission 35 26% 76 Viola Jenson Lago. Bannock, 25 19 76 Levera Swensen Oakley Second Cassia 49 35 75 Mary Stowers Riverdale Oneida 44 33 75 Barbara Swenson View Burley 40 30 75 Anna W. Larsen Pasadena Pasadena 28 22 75 Jane Gottfredson Ballard Roosevelt 24 18 75 Jennie Collins Lost River Lost River 20 15 75 Alice Noble Tabiona Duchesne 20 15 75 Edna Sizemore STAKES 75% AND OVER Stake Enr. No. Sub. Pct. Magazine Agent Phoenix 239 333 139 Zina Dana Oakland 396 466 120 Adrian Gee Maricopa 463 550 119 Sarah Shumway Weber 597 * 686 115 Mabel C. Ellis Ensign 749 843 113 Camilla W. Halliday Los Angeles 559 62414 112 Zilla Major San Francisco 312 348 112 Naomi S. Mac Cabe St. Johns 248 268 108 Sarah A. Wiltbank Big Horn 607 629 104 Ann E, Gwynn Union 218 226% 104 Hazel Sirrine Seattle 138 149 104 Josephine Taylor Granite 585 562% 96 Pearl H. Crockett Burley. 470 442 94 Nellie R. Barlow Sacramento 253 223 88 Marie Gibby Wasatch 513 446 87 Lillie L. Duke Bonneville 517 443 86 Christina V. Wilson Taylor 415 351 85 Alvira D. Bridge Cassia 159 136 85 Jennie R. Hale Idaho Falls 462 390% 84 Della Rowberry Long Beach 426 349% 82 Ethel Spongberg Duchesne 203 167 82 Eliza J. Gilbert Ogden 908 737 81 Lois D. Smith Mt. Ogden 582 472 81 Laurel M. Dickson Snowflake 527 419 80 Coral Peterson San Juan 280 221% 80 Caroline N. Redd Palmyra 644 502 78 Lenora Gull Salt Lake 920 697 76 Clara B. Wright N. Idaho Falls 454. 339 75 Mrs. Jacob Judd MISSIONS 75% AND OVER Australian 92 122 133 Violet Cook Eastern States 360 345 06 Helen Hirschi How to keep a husband HAPPIER "Oh, boy! This is the life! No furnace to worry about—no fuel to shovel—no ashes to carry—no clinkers to fish out! There's no place like home—since we _installed gas heat!' How to keep your family HEALTHIER Children, and grown-ups, too, don't catch so many colds due to fluctuating temperatures, when the home is kept uniformly warm with automatic gas heat. How to keep your house CLEANER Smoke, soot, ashes and grime are things of the past in homes heated with gas. It saves a lot of cleaning labor—and prolongs the life of home furnishings. Join The Swing To AUTOMATIC Natural Gas HEAT You can easily have this modern heat in your home now. Remember, gas is the only house-heating fuel that's fully automatic. Come in or phone for complete details on the economical operating cost, and on prices and terms for installing a new, modern gas furnace in your home. MOUNTAIN FUEL _ SUPPLY COMPANY Salt Lake — Ogden — Provo Serving 21 Utah Communities MEMORIAL VOLUME of writings of HARRISON R. MERRILL "Leave My Spirit Here" + $] 00 fifty poems, articles, stories Name Address MAIN Street A delightful Book of Verse on early pioneer life by RACHEL BARNEY TAFT An appropriate Gift for any member of the Family. $1.00 a Deseret Book Co. 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine v. You Can Make This ==!) Winter Count! Success comes to those who are willing to pay the price—and the down payment Is preparation. May we tell you about our courses, rates of tuition, employment service, etc.? Just send us a card, or call Wasatch 1812. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Do You Value The Friendships You Hold? Enrich Them With Selected Christmas Greetings Choose from the most Attractive Assortment in Town Printed with your own personal sentiment and name Now on display at The Deseret News Press 33 Richards Street When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 70 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah  GOOD CHEER AT CHRISTMAS The Outcome of a Beneficial Income BENEFICIAL LIFE listen to our musical Program over KSL Every Monday Evening at 10:00pm. M.S.T. Home OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT
