The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Volume XXII JANUARY, 1935
WE HEARTILY RECOMMEND
KNIGHT ROYAL Spring Canyon Coal
ROYAL COAL for Clean
These coals maintain clean, cheery warm homes at lowest cost.
ASK YOUR FRIEND THE COAL DEALER
KNIGHT FUEL CO., ROYAL COAL COMPANY General Offices—8th Floor Newhouse Building—Salt Lake City, Utah Leonard E. Adams, General Sales Agent
What the Future Holds—
More happiness from day to day—more care-free hours can be yours year after year by making use of the many electrical labor-saving appliances within your grasp.
Electricity Is The Biggest Bargain In The Home
Utah Power & Light Co.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

Clean, Hard—Burns Longer Quick-starting—Utah's Purest Coal
1184 E. 21 So.
HAPPY NEW YEAR
Peerless Laundry COMPLETE LAUNDRY SERVICE Phone Hy. 2182-2183

Interesting Radio Broadcasts
We call our readers' attention to the following worthwhile broadcasts:
The International Federation of Business and Professional Women is inaugurating a radio forum in which we hope you will be keenly interested. The broadcasts are entitled "Women and World Peace." They are to be given on successive Fridays between December 14th and March 1st, as a part of the program of the Woman's Radio Review, Mrs. Claudine MacDonald, director, and will be relayed through Station WEAF, New York, to a National Broadcasting Company network. The time is 3:30 to 4:00 P.M.
Below is the schedule:
THE BROADCAST SCHEDULE
December 14th—Lena Madesin Phillips, President of the International Federation of Business and Professional Women.
December 21st—Mrs. Mary R. Beard.
December 28th—Jane Addams, President of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom.
January 4th—Mrs. Geline MacDonald Bowman, President of the National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs.
January 11th—Josephine Schain, Chairman of the Peace Committee of the International Alliance of Suffrage and Equal Citizenship.
January 18th—Mrs. Arthur Brin, President of the National Council of Jewish Women.
January 25th—Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Honorary Chairman of the National Committee on the Cause and Cure of War.
February 1st—Mrs. Estelle M. Sternberger, Executive Director of World Peaceways.
February 8th—Mrs. Florence Brewer Boeckel, Education Director of the National Council for the Prevention of War.
February 15th—Mrs. Ella A. Boole, President of the World's Woman's Christian Temperance Union.
February 22nd—Mrs. Grace Morrison Poole, President of the General Federation of Women's Clubs.
March 1st—Lena Madesin Phillips, President of the International Federation of Business and Professional Women.

BLUE BLAZE the coal that is Dependable and Economical
BLUE BLAZE COAL CO. Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXII JANUARY, 1935 No. 1
CONTENTS
The New Frontier .................................................. Avard Fairbanks — Frontispiece A New Year's Prayer ................................................ Elsie E. Barrett 1 Greeting .................................................. General Presidency of the Relief Society 3 Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley ................................................ Willis E. Robison 4 Christ and the Present Crisis ................................................ Judge Nephi Jensen 8 A New Year Resolution ................................................ Elsie Rich Williams 12 Obituary ................................................ Miranda Walton 16 Eliza Roxey Snow ................................................ Annie Wells Cannon 17 Drought (Prize Poem) ................................................ Vesta Pierce Crawford 18 Lesson Preview ................................................ Dr. Frederick J. Pack 20 His Father's Son ................................................ Ivy W. Stone 24 Happy Mothers ................................................ Marba C. Josephson 28 If Ye Do It Unto the Least of These ................................................ Ida R. Alldridge 30 The Old and the New ................................................ C. J. Jensen 35 Bon Mot ................................................ Sarah A. Farr 36 Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life ................................................ Lella Marler Hoggan 39 Happenings ................................................ Annie Wells Cannon 41 Notes from the Field ................................................ 42 Report on Magazine Drive ................................................ 45 Editorial—Our Wish for You ................................................ 47 Good News for Older Women ................................................ 47 Why Not Give Training for Courtship and Marriage ................................................ 48 Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest ................................................ 49 Three New Stakes ................................................ 49 Index for Magazine ................................................ 49 Lesson Department ................................................ 50 The Stove ................................................ Carlton Culmsee 68
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

A New Year's Prayer
By Elsie E. Barrett
We are thankful, dear Lord for the hope That is precious in hearts weak or strong; For that something that lifts souls above Always helping us choose right from wrong.
May this year with its problems unknown— With its mysteries ever ahead Find us walking the wise narrow path With assurance Thy shield is o'erspread.
May we realize long cherished dreams— Hold Thy Spirit eternally bright; May good fellowship ever abide With a graciousness always contrite.
May our rulers be nobly inspired, All Thy purposes roughly fulfilled; In this year may humanity find Light and truth, then submit to Thy Will
May the service we give worthy be, May our reverence increase Lord for Thee.
Avard Fairbanks THE NEW FRONTIER

The Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XXII JANUARY, 1935 No. 1
Greeting
At the beginning of another year we extend congratulations, greetings and good wishes to Relief Society Women throughout the world—to those in the Islands of the Pacific, in South Africa, in Asia Minor and in Europe, as well as to those in the Stakes and Wards in the United States, Canada and Mexico. With the gradual growth and development of our organization we now encircle the globe.
We are appreciative of the unselfish and devoted service of the 1772 stake and ward presidencies and secretaries; of the stake and local social service aids who have assisted the stake and ward presidents in their comprehensive welfare program; of the efficient and effective work of the 6648 class leaders who have helped by their ability and diligence to raise and maintain our unusually high standards of class work; of the army of 23,322 visiting teachers who give so freely of their time and energy; of the work of our magazine agents who have been one of the important factors in securing the largest subscription list ever reached by the organization; and finally of the loyalty and support of the members themselves who make such an organization and such efficiency possible.
We are also appreciative and mindful of the support of the general and local Priesthood who have given guidance and support to the women of the organization; and to the General Board members who meet weekly in executive session, and who so willingly travel throughout the organization to attend conferences and conventions.
To all of these we extend appreciation and our blessings with a hope that our organization will have even greater success during the year of 1935. We wish for our multitude of faithful workers, the hearing and answering of their prayers so that in their lives, in their homes, in their families, they may be blessed of the Lord with that personal success which their unselfish devotion to our great cause so much deserves.
Louise Y. Robison, Amy Brown Lyman, Julia A. Child, General Presidency of the Relief Society.

Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley
By Willis E. Robison
From his childhood days, Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley, who was chosen at the October conference as an Apostle of our Lord Jesus Christ, has been very appreciative of those who taught him in Primary, Sunday Schools, Mutuals, and lesser Priesthood Quorums, and of the Bishops, and other good men who labored under the presidency of his father. He views them all as contributory factors that have led him along the chosen lines the Lord has selected and that have enabled him to harmonize his life with the Gospel, and the purity of its teachings. He regards his missions, and missionary companions, and associates as of intrinsic value to him.
Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley, the son of Ira Nathaniel, and Angeline Noble Hinckley, was born at Cove Creek Fort, Millard Co., Utah, April 23, 1870. This Fort was built of lava rock laid in lime mortar which made it a safe and durable structure. Its dimensions were about sixty feet square, with small dwelling rooms built within the walls on the North and South sides. Large heavy wooden gates gave entrance on the East, and West. It was built on the State Highway about midway between Fillmore and Beaver cities, some sixty miles apart. This was a lonely road through Indian territory in those pioneer days, and that was one reason President Young had it built. Under these environments did the new-born babe make his appearance. Might he not, therefore, with propriety be classed as a Utah Pioneer?
The lad's childhood and youthful days were mostly spent in Fillmore, his father was called by President Young to preside over the Millard Stake of Zion. It was in Fillmore Apostle Hinckley received his first ordination in the Priesthood, that of deacon, and he was made President of his quorum. However, for about four years he lived away from his home, part of the time attending school in Provo under the wise tuition of Karl G. Maeser, and the balance of the time in the little mining camp of Frisco, Beaver County, where he clerked in a store for his brother-in-law, Lafayette Holbrook. There he may have gained the basic training in merchandise that led to his becoming the pioneer merchant in Hinckley at a later date.
When he was about twenty-one years of age he taught school in Deseret, Utah, and worked for another brother-in-law, W. A. Ray, in his store during the summer. These experiences led to his gaining an understanding of human nature which caused him to write to a friend, "I appreciate having been a merchant and knowing the needs of the people and finding the honesty, the down right honesty, of many who struggle."
In 1892 Apostle Hinckley married Miss Rose May Robison of Fillmore, and the young couple made their first home in Deseret where he assisted Joshua Greenwood, Superintendent of the Stake Sunday Schools in looking after interests of that institution, in the Stake. They moved to the town of Hinckley some five miles away, where they made their home for many years. While here he engaged in merchandising for himself, and organized the Hinckley Cooperative Store, which was successfully run until July 15, 1915, when it was destroyed by fire and not rebuilt. In the meantime he purchased an eighty acre farm and began buying and selling baled hay which he shipped to the mining camps in Nevada, where it found ready sale. He was elected county collector for the years 1896-7, during this time he was ordained a Seventy, and was called by the Church to fill a mission to the Netherlands. He resigned his county position and filled the Church call, remaining there until 1900.
In 1901 he was ordained a High Priest by Elder Rudger Clawson and set apart as Counselor to Bishop Wm. H. Pratt of the Hinckley Ward. During his residence in Hinckley he was appointed Postmaster which position he filled for a number of years, and then resigned because he could no longer give it his personal attention.
Prominent in church and civil affairs in Millard County, he was chosen in 1902 and set apart as President of the Millard Stake of Zion, to succeed his father who was growing aged. In a few years there was a marvelous growth in the northern part of Millard County, occasioned by reservoiring the Sevier River some miles up the stream, and impounding its waters sufficiently to irrigate thousands of acres of land that was then unproductive, and where new towns were being built. It was decided to divide the Millard Stake, and create a new one on the northwestern part. This was done, and Apostle Hinckley was released from the Millard Stake, and set apart to preside over the new Deseret Stake, which retained the old towns of Oak City, Leamington, Lynndyl, Oasis, Deseret, Hinckley, and Abraham, and the newer towns of Delta, Sutherland, and Sugarville were included in the new stake. He presided until 1929 when he was honorably released after twenty-seven years as the chief religious leader in two stakes of Zion.
In 1916 he represented Millard County in the State Legislature. There his ability as floor leader was widely recognized. In 1930 Elder Hinckley was ordained a Patriarch by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith. In 1932 he was called to succeed President Joseph McMurrin as head of the California mission, with headquarters at Los Angeles, where he was laboring at the time he was called to the apostleship.
Elder Hinckley counts his greatest blessings to have been well born, of parents who had implicit faith in the Gospel as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, who impressed that faith in the hearts of their children, so it was made manifest in their lives. And then to have been well married, all of the successes that may have come to him he feels have centered around, and been fostered by these two important events. The needful training and induction into the Church, and the services therein rendered, among which was a recent short term mission in the Southern States under President Charles A. Callis, the instruction of true parents, and the proper encouragement along the lines of righteous effort by a noble wife have contributed to make his useful life one that will long be remembered.
Doubtless his close associations with the pioneers who were struggling to develop the resources of a new country, and their frequent disappointments, and crop failures, may have contributed largely to the good and enduring traits in his character, for he has had to fight along lines that develop faith, courage, and brotherly kindness, and good will towards all men.
In 1921 he was appointed State Commissioner of Agriculture by Governor Charles R. Mabey, and four years later when the political party changed, Governor Dern retained him for some time before being able to fill his place, which incident was a tribute to his fair mindedness. We must not underestimate the faith of his childhood, or his youth spent among its friends, for these are great and choice experiences that mellow the hearts and souls of men. There is another factor that has been of great value to Elder Hinckley and that is his association with legislators, State officials, judges, politicians, and lawmakers, for they have trained him along lines where he could better defend the innocent, and support the right with greater strength than he might otherwise have done.
President Hinckley has not been conspicuous along religious lines only, but in business and farming he has won many honors. While his pay rolls for help have not been large, they have been constant, and many of his less fortunate neighbors have had cause to rejoice because of the aid thus rendered by this employment. For many years while living in Hinckley he owned and operated two large farms that were well looked after, either on the share basis, or by hired help, and his large stacks of hay, or alfalfa seed, caused general comment by the passer-by. After his release from the presidency of the stake he moved to Salt Lake City, and purchased another farm, larger than either of the others, which he still retains. On the Salt Lake farm he is now conducting a dairy herd. While fate sometimes seemed to rule against him, he was not easily discouraged, but waited the turn of the tide and the relief came, though sometimes in an unexpected manner.
Apostle Hinckley is pleasant in his manner, and genteel in his deportment, with a personality so winning that it has been said of him, "If you once shake hands with Lon Hinckley, you will want to meet him, and shake again." In discussing problems where a difference of opinion exists, he will listen attentively to the objections raised, and then in a pleasing voice and manner, will explain his views and when through if no conversion is made, there will be a real conviction that something has been learned which was not understood before, and all will part friends. Through long experiences in public affairs, and because of faithful service rendered, it could not be otherwise.
In the multiplicity of his labors, Apostle Hinckley has ever regarded his good wife and their children as his greatest assets. This splendid woman, now far past life's meridian, has been the mother of fourteen children, twelve of whom have reached maturity, and can gather around her and call her blessed. The eldest son, Harold, filled a mission for the Church in New Zealand, and is now practicing medicine in California, having graduated from Utah University, and the Denver school of medicine. Rulon, the second son, is a graduate of the Brigham Young University, has filled a Church mission in Switzerland, and is now a seminary teacher in the Hinckley High School. The youngest son, Arza, is now a traveling Elder in the Northwestern states Mission. Of the daughters, Afton Badger, holds a Master's degree in domestic arts from the Brigham Young University. The other daughters have all received High School Diplomas. All of which bear a mute testimony of a generous father's persevering efforts and a loving mother's sincere devotion.

Christ and the Present Crisis
By Judge Nephi Jensen
On a marrow chilling day in January, 1077, a tall blonde handsome man with the vigor of years, yet few beyond a score. Clad in a white linen penitential shirt, was seen with bowed head trudging slowly, barefooted, in snow. Knee deep, toward a castle near the foot of the towering majestic Alps. Within this warm comfortable castle resided temporarily Gregory VII, Pope of Rome. The pilgrim outside, in the thin, penitential shirt, in the wind-swirled snow was the emperor of Germany and Italy, the most powerful political monarch of that time. He had been excommunicated from the church; and his subjects had been released from allegiance to him by the edict of the supreme sovereign of the church. The emperor had left Germany and come to this forbidding place to make his confession to the Holy Father and seek absolution in order to avoid being humiliated in his own realm towards which the Pope was traveling. The emperor knelt in the deep snow at the gate of the castle and plead humbly with the keeper for an audience with the Pope; but was denied entrance. A second day he came fasting and in deep humility to beg for permission to come into the august presence of Gregory VII, to make a confession of his sins. Again he was coldly turned from the gates. The third day he repeated the humiliating pilgrimage and failed to obtain entrance. The fourth day the gate screeched on its frozen hinges, and swung open to admit the dejected half-frozen pilgrim. As he came into the presence of the little dark insignificant appearing Gregory, the tall handsome emperor fell on the floor and wept violently. And amid sobs he pleaded, "Have pity upon me, spare me holy Father." That hour the Church of Rome reached the zenith of its temporal power. That day witnessed the most heartless exemplification of ecclesiastical oppression in all the annals of time. This supremacy of the church lasted for centuries. The curtailment of thought and its expression was the characteristic tyranny of this age. We of this day look back upon those cruel times with the comforting thought that we live in a much better age. But is our conclusion altogether well founded?
To a large extent, the Reformation extirpated ecclesiastical despotism. But in the meantime a new type of oppression was developing. The feudal system gave rise to the political despot. The treatment of the English colonists in America, by the mother country furnishes a touching exemplification of the ruthlessness of this type of tyranny. In the last quarter of the eighteenth century there was a narrow fringe of settlements along the Atlantic Coast from Florida to Maine. These settlers had come to these shores in quest of that priceless thing called liberty. They commenced to build homes, till the soil and reclaim a forbidding wilderness. A modest prosperity commenced to smile upon their persistent industry and simple frugality. Then scheming politicians on the other side of the Atlantic commenced to look upon the humble accumulations of these struggling exiles with greedy eyes. Their greed fathered the idea of replenishing the depleted coffers of the mother country from the meagre wealth these struggling colonists had wrung from their newly cultivated farms. One scheme after another for taxing these colonists were incubated in the British parliament. At first the tax burdened colonists did not complain. Soon the load became intolerable. Their English sense of justice became outraged. They had been brought up on the political philosophy that no one should be taxed without having a voice in the legislative body that made the levies. This intolerable injustice precipitated the American revolution. This revolution together with the French Revolution and other struggles, largely put an end to political despotism.
But in the meantime we witness the stirrings of a new development in human affairs. In 1767, the Spinning Jenney was invented. A little later came the power loom; and the manufacture of cloth by machinery became an accomplished fact. The machine age was now inaugurated. The making of things by machines, instead of by hand, is the most distinctive phase of our modern civilization. Ours is a mechanistic age. The thousand new tools, machines and devices that science and inventive genius have given us in the last one hundred years have made it possible for one set of hands to do what it took a hundred hands to do a century ago. This is one of the most tremendous facts in economic history. Before the advent of the machine age one blacksmith, for example, could make a wagon or a plow just as fast as another. As a consequence wagon makers, or makers of plows were on a par from an economic point of view. But this condition changed when wagons commenced to be made by machinery. Then the man who could buy the machines gained the economic ascendency over his neighbor who was without capital. Machine production gave rise to capitalism. Capitalism gave rise to mass production. And mass production is the most marvelous fact in the history of the human struggle to escape drudgery and to obtain the conveniences and comforts of life that make for the highest physical human well being.
Mass production is the best contribution of capitalism to the welfare of mankind. But mass production gave rise to mass distribution. Mass distribution made possible concentrated control of prices. Mass production is an infinite blessing. But mass distribution and resultant concentrated control of prices has become an instrumentality of oppression which may be more destructive of life and liberty than the ecclesiastical and political oppression of the past. Under ecclesiastical despotism people were denied the right of freedom of thought and speech. People can live without thinking. Many of us do. They can survive without holding office or voting. But they cannot live without something to eat and drink and wear. It is these very absolute necessaries of life that concentrated control of distribution and price fixing has taken from the masses of humanity. One raw day in the autumn of 1932, a hard working frugal farmer who resides in Salt Lake County hauled some wheat to the mill to have it ground into wholewheat flour. When he unloaded his wheat at the back door of the mill it was worth thirty cents a bushel. When it had been crushed, by a process as simple as grinding coffee in a coffee mill, it was immediately worth one dollar a bushel, or three and a third times as much as the farmer got for raising it. About the same time this farmer's daughter, wearing overalls, put up milk for six cents a gallon which was sold by the milk trust to widows and orphans for ten cents a quart. At the same time beef for which the farmer received one cent a pound was being sold by the meat trust for eighteen to thirty cents a pound. These types of prohibitive costs of getting things to eat and drink, from the basic producers to the ultimate consumers, inspired a genius with the cartoonist's crayon to dash off with unparalleled skill a picture of our present dislocated economic order. This cartoon appeared on the editorial page of the Deseret News, January 1, 1933. In the background there is an immense group of towering sky-scrapers. Heaped up against this uplifted mass of steel and concrete is a limitless pile of food. In the foreground, and running around these marvels of modern architectural skill, is a wide spreading river. It is the river of "Obsolete Economics." Across the river and closer in the foreground, huddled together, are millions of shivering, starving human beings, looking wistfully at the inexhaustible supply of food which they cannot obtain. Near them stands old Father Time, grim of visage, with his scythe hung across his shoulders. At his left stands little "1933". He is not looking hopefully ahead. Shuddering fear he turns his head aside and covers his eyes with his hands. You cannot blame little "1933" for turning his eyes from the grim picture ahead. The cartoon portrays accurately and graphically the distorted world in which we are living today. It is a world of mechanistic efficiency and technological expertness, harnessed to organized greed. Ours is a science-made civilization. These three bits of history furnish graphic exemplification of the pathetic fact that no type of social structure has yet been devised by the ingenuity of man that can safeguard the weak against the aggression of the strong. The extirpation of ecclesiastical tyranny did not put an end to human oppression. The political autocrat followed in the wake of the priestly ruler; and the economic autocrat succeeded the political tyrant.
Our present cruel inequality is almost intolerable. Millions of Americans walk the streets in rags, shiver in the cold, and open their unfed mouths and cry for bread in the presence of limitless stores of everything man needs to eat, drink and wear. It is no wonder that men and women of strong convictions and deep feelings are profoundly moved; and utter bitter complaints against the existing order. But it is most unfortunate that some of these well-meaning critics should entertain the thought that mere radical changes in our system of government and economic processes can give permanent relief. If history teaches anything with unerring exactitude it is the stern solemn fact that no form of government, or economic order, or type of social control can curb human greed, suppress selfish rapacity and put an end to strife-engendering hate. Something more fundamental than a change in social mechanics is needed to put an end to human suffering and misery. A complete change of attitude is the one thing that can save our tottering civilization.
Hate, lust and greed, the arch trinity of human despoilers, have enacted their fiendish roles under all forms of government and in every age of the world. A complete change of thought and aspiration is the only effectual cure for our devastating ills. The divine Master was the first great moralist to cut to the core of all human ills. "Make the tree good"; he cried, "repent and be converted" was the ringing keynote of all his moralizing. There is more of saving efficacy for our hate-torn and greed-stricken world, in this homely keynote of the Master's message than in volumes of fine spun distinctions of right and wrong. All our perplexing problems would be solved in a few hours if everybody really believed what Jesus believed, that service is the only greatness, and helpfulness is the only nobility. When we repent of our pagan notions of worldly grandeur and become converted as Jesus was to the idea that a fine life is the finest of all things; and that the highest success consists of making other lives happy, we shall be well on the road towards an enduring civilization.
Only the gentle spirit of him who said, "Love thy neighbor as thyself," can save our world. When his gracious spirit of helpfulness, service, and blessing becomes enshrined in every human heart; and the Savior's divine law becomes the settled rule of conduct of men and nations, good will and concord will take the place of strife; generosity will supplant greed; and loving service instead of inordinate conquest and aggression will become the controlling ideal of aspiring souls. Then warfare both international and industrial will cease. Intolerable burdens will be lifted from the backs of underpaid and underfed laborers. The usurer and extortionist will no longer sap the lifeblood from borrowers in dire distress. Gnawing hunger will never again cry for bread in the midst of rotting plenty. Well fed and comfortably clad children will know the joyous thrill of real play, and the gladsome meaning of the Christmas Spirit. No political revolution nor disrupting change in economic process can sweep from the earth the cankering greed, distracting hate, and devastating lust, which is the deep-rooted cause of all our political, economic, social and moral ills. Science with all its vaunted mechanistic skill and technological expertness is utterly powerless to tame the fierce tiger in man. The philosopher with all his accumulated wisdom of uncounted ages is helpless in the presence of the stern problem of transforming selfish human nature from bad to good. There is no hope for the future of humanity in ruthless revolution, in a mere sudden re-distribution of wealth, in increased technological efficiency, nor in the development of a more accurate appraisal of moral values and definitions of right and wrong. Only a complete change of heart can salvage our civilization. Only a conscience-quickening sense of the reality of the God of justice and love can bring about this soul transformation. There is only One who has the power to bring this saving grace to our greed torn and hate distorted world. His coming into the world was fittingly heralded by the angel chorus, that sang on that night of nights. "Peace on earth good will to man!"

A New Year's Resolution
By Elsie Rich Williams
Patricia Dean intended to enter college when the fall term opened. She had never considered anything else. Her parents, of course, would have to pay the expenses, how?—well, that was their problem, and but a mere detail to Pat.
Pat, checking over her clothes, set some aside to remodel, and discarded the rest. Mrs. Dean gazed reflectively at her daughter. This slim, vital miss, so hungry for life, and with such an insatiable thirst for knowledge, was her baby daughter, her plump, cuddly baby of so few short years ago. Now she was eager for more fields to conquer, enthusiastic and confident of her powers, ruthless in her desires.
"Look, mother," said Pat, "only these three dresses are worth fixing. I'll need a new dark evening dress, either satin or a slinky velvet. I'd better get a new suit, an extra skirt and a twin sweater set, too."
Mrs. Dean sank dejectedly on the bed. Softly humming, Pat rhythmically tapped her slim feet on the hardwood floor. As Mrs. Dean made no reply, Pat faced her abruptly.
"Why the serious air, mom?"
"Pat, I know you'll be disappointed, but your father and I can't possibly send you to college this year."
The girl's eyes flashed indignantly. "Mother! After all I've planned! Why, everyone is going! What was the use of passing high school with a straight 'A' record, if I can't go to the 'U'? Let Viola stay home!"
Mrs. Dean shook her head sorrowfully. "Viola only needs another year to get her degree. She should have that chance."
"Yes, and sacrifice me!" Pat exploded. "Why can't we both go? Dad has plenty of work and makes good money."
"Don't forget he has plenty of ways to spend it, too. There were the doctor bills from his broken hip, the expense of having Bruce home out of work for several months, our bank losses, and then my trip to California when Mary was sick. Your father isn't so vigorous as he was and it's too much to expect him to send two girls to college."
"You've sent all the others, why deprive me? You always said I was the most brilliant."
"You may have a fine mind, Pat, but your heart needs a little education, too. Sometimes a kind heart means more than all the brilliancy in the world."
"I don't care!" Pat tossed her head defiantly. "If you don't let me go—I'll run away—get married—to anyone who will marry me!"
"Oh, Pat, you wouldn't do that!" her mother begged. "It's only for this one year I'm asking you."
"Please, mom! You'll have to let me go this year! Promise, please!"
Wailing, with a heart rending quiver in her voice, Pat flung herself on her bed, peering slyly at her mother to watch its effect.
Mrs. Dean sighed, "I'll try to persuade your father—."
"Hurrah, mom, you're a darling!" Pat threw her arms around her mother, kissed her exuberantly, and dashed to the door. "I'll be back soon, I want to see Ruth."
"But your room—?"
"I'll clean it later. 'Bye. And don't forget the velvet dress, will you, mom?"
"Pat, please, not any more now. Hurry back to help with dinner."
The girl immediately disappeared. Mrs. Dean wiped her glasses, then gathering the dresses from the floor, attempted to give the room some order.
Ruth Lyons was a round, little person, half a head shorter than Pat, and of a vague, undecided coloring. There was nothing undecided, however, about her reply to Pat's recital.
"That's just like parents, trying to deprive us of our rights! Last year several sororities were rushing Belle and me. Father said we had better forget such nonsense, that he couldn't afford to have us join. Ever since John brought his family home to live after losing his job, father has been crying 'wolf' continuously. We joined the Gammas, anyway. Imagine not belonging to a sorority!"
Pat laughed, "Viola refused several bids. She's so serious, she just wants to study."
A car honked furiously, and pulled over to the side of the quiet, poplar-shaded street. Recognizing some of their admirers, the two girls scrambled in. It was much later when they returned home, with barely enough time to bathe and dress for the dance.
After the hustle and confusion of registration and enrollment for the fall quarter at the University were over, and as days passed into weeks, students gradually swung into the routine of trying to keep up with their lessons and assignments. Pat won much admiration and many new friends around the campus. The evenings she usually spent gracing the ballroom at the Union Building or some fraternity or house party.
As she was exempt from English 1, she registered for a class of Appreciation of English Literature, without the necessary prerequisites. By taking a seat at the front of the room and appearing very fascinated in the professor and his lectures, she managed to retain a place and soon had him rating her as an "A" student.
Richard Elliott, the dark haired, well dressed young man beside her, hoped that some time she would become less absorbed in the lesson and thus enable him to make her acquaintance. When the closing period bell rang, as Pat arose, several papers fell from her notebook. Quickly, Dick recovered them. Pat thanked him. How handsome he was! As she replaced them, he noticed their contents.
"You certainly are ambitious to type all that play we're studying."
"No," Pat replied, ironically, "I couldn't find a second hand book, and as my parents are too stupid to allow me a miserly six dollars for a new textbook—what else could I do?"
"I see," Dick said slowly, "have you ever earned any money, Miss Dean?"
"Certainly not."
"Last summer I worked two whole days in a blazing sun for a mere six dollars."
"Oh?"
Dick wanted to shake her. "Your parents probably have to feed and clothe several other members in your family. Many people may go hungry this winter for the lack of a measly six dollars."
Pat was furious. "I don't care to discuss the matter further. What affair is it of yours, anyway?"
"O—Only—." Dick could not finish. Perhaps he had been too hasty in his judgment. He really had been presumptuous.
"I'm sorry if I've offended you," he apologized, flushing, "I should like to share my book with you, in class. You could take it afterwards to prepare the assignment and then return it to me."
Then Pat flushed, "I'm sorry, too. Thank you. But I couldn't let you do that."
"Why not?" Her inconsistency was amazing. How could she demand so much from her parents, yet be so unwilling to be under obligations to others?
"Let's make a bargain. I often have more assignments to type and turn in than I have time available. You do excellent typing. You help me with some of that typing in return for the use of the book."
Pat consented then. They were frequently together after that. Dick was Senior Class President and belonged to both a large national engineering fraternity and a prominent social fraternity. His father was Dean of the English Department. Thus Dick was in great demand but he always made plans that included Pat. He often tried to analyze why she intrigued him so much. Although she was highly intelligent and efficient, extremely attractive to her friends of both sexes, it was hard for Dick to reconcile these splendid attributes with her decided selfishness and carelessness toward her parents. If only her heart could be penetrated with some realization of their great responsibility!
One noon, near the Christmas holiday season, Ruth failed to meet Pat at luncheon. After classes, Pat hurried through the dreary cold to Ruth's home, filled with an ever increasing dread. A tear swollen, grief stricken Ruth answered the door. Enjoining silence, she led Pat to her room, past her mother's tightly closed door. Then she fell on the bed, crying hysterically.
"Ruth! What has happened?" Pat choked with fright.
Ruth gasped, "It's father! —oh—oh—!"
"An accident? Was he hurt or killed? Oh Ruth, please tell me!"
"It's worse than that! Mother collapsed when she heard. The doctor is still with her. But poor dad, sitting in the rocking chair, with those vacant staring eyes and that awful resignation, talking to himself!"
"Whatever did he do?"
"His company found a shortage of several thousand dollars in his books and he confessed taking it, intending to replace" it some time. Now it means prison for him, the finest, kindest man that lives!" "At first I hated dad. Now I know we are all guilty, Belle, John and his wife, mother and I! We demanded everything, more than he had. He was desperate to meet our greed. We took no heed of his pleas, sacrificed his ideals, his honor, his lifetime of striving, all he held sacred! For what? Money—money for clothes, shows, an education he couldn't afford, sororities, good times! A miserable exchange! We drove him too far. Oh, why couldn't we have realized before it was too late?" Pat was stunned, "How sorry I am, Ruth!" "I don't want your sympathy, Pat. He's A NEW YEAR'S RESOLUTION 15 I don't deserve any." She pointed an accusing finger, "You're as bad as we are! Be thankful it wasn't your father. You've been just as selfish! Now go away! I can't bear the sight of another selfish person!" Pat arose, dazed. "Can't I do anything to help?" "No one can do anything now. It's too late, too late, I tell you!" Ruth's voice rose to a shrill scream, "Go away! I hate you, I despise you!" AT stumbled home, her mind whirling. She sat in her room, terror wracked, staring out at the large fluffy snowflakes and the blurry expanse of white covered lawns and garages. Her mother called anxiously, "Pat! Why are you in the dark?" "Mother," she sobbed, strangling with emotion, "please don't ask me any questions! Just leave me alone." Pat was facing the greatest crisis of her life. Henry Lyons should 'have been firmer against his family's demands, resisting that ruinous impulse. How many of his critics, however, would have been able to stand against the combined forces of temptation and overwhelming despair? Despite any excuse, though, he had committed an ineradicable wrong. For the first time Pat remorsefully recalled the numerous occasions of her selfishness and thoughtless behavior toward her parents. She, too, had demanded everything. This tragedy might easily have happened to her own father. What could she have done, had she seen him, crushed and broken, dragged off to 'prison, knowing the responsibility had been hers? A resolution began forming in her heart that would rebuild her entire future relationship with her family. Dick arrived. Pat, in her newly found courage and resolve, told the group of the Lyon's disaster. Dick, astonished at the change in Pat, listened thoughtfully. "It must have hurt to have Ruth reject your friendship now, when they will need every friend they have. Perhaps you can help, anyway. Father is one of the largest stockholders in that company. If you told him that story, the same way you told it to us, he might be moved to use his influence with other stockholders. I'll take you to see him, immediately." In her warm fur coat and snug little hat, Pat was soon pleading with Dean Elliott in her friend's behalf. NEW YEAR'S DAY arrived, full of cheer and festivity. Dick was invited for dinner, which Pat helped to prepare. After the juicy, luscious turkey, the tasty dressing, steaming vegetables and delicious plum pudding had been consumed, the family gathered in the living room. Pat, feeling the moment propitious, addressed her parents. "Dad and mother, may I tell you about the New Year's Resolution I have made? In the past, I've been so busy thinking about my own wants, I forgot how dear you both were, and how much I owe you. I have resolved that from this day I will do everything possible to honor and assist you and show my appreciation—."' Her voice broke, then she continued, "First, I will not let you pay any more college expenses for me. With the beginning of the winter quarter I shall discontinue school. Maybe I can find some work and help out with the family expenses. Failing that, 1 can economize on my clothes, stay home, and share part of the work and responsibility." Mrs. Dean enfolded Pat in her 16 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE arms. ''We shall long remember this day for having opened your heart. But you won't need to sacrifice your school, we've managed thus far and—." "No, mother," Pat's father interrupted, his deep eyes suspiciously wet, 'Patricia has at last faced reality and knows that the individual's only true rights are those that are earned. It is but fair to leave the decision as she has made it. We thank you, Patricia." THE afternoon darkened into evening. The others went out to make several calls, leaving Dick and Pat alone. Dick presented her with a lavishly decorated box, which she opened hesitantly. She discovered a leather bound copy of the literary gems they had studied together, that she had longed for. "Thank you, Dick," she said humbly, thrilled to the core. "Wait until you've heard my good news. Father has persuaded the company not to prosecute Mr. Lyons on condition that he repay them as soon as he can. Father was so impressed with you he told several professors about you. One of them is writing a book. When he learned of the fine typing you had done for me, he asked if you would do several hours work a day on his book. You would earn enough to pay your winter quarter's expenses, and your parents would not feel you had gone back on your word." Pat was ecstatically happy. Dick drew her close. " I always knew you would find your heart, Pat," he murmured. "It's so lovely, won't you share some of it with me?" He unclasped a pin from his vest and fastened it upon her dress, his arm encircling her. She glanced lovingly down at the pearl-studded Greek letters, then wondrously up into his eyes. Outside, the snow lay crisp and glistening, long pointed icicles hung from the eaves. Inside, the windows were decorated with their holiday wreaths. The twinkling, multi-colored Christmas tree lights and the flickering firelight cast a warm hospitable glow among the deepening shadows in the room. Clouds By Miranda Walton The angels washed their clothes today, And hung them out to dry Upon a golden clothesline Stretched across the sky. Spilled water down the side; All the fleecy soap suds Scattered far and wide.  Eliza Roxey" Snow BY Annie Wells Cannon Saint, poet, priestess, prophetess! Upon the altar of a faith supreme You laid ambition's golden dream A sacrifice for righteousness. Nor felt the cost. Your recompense The angel's call; you saw the light. You followed in Truth's armor bright Like Miriam to the wilderness. *Twas yours to comfort and to bless. In dignity and grace you stood The epitome of womanhood, Bestowing gifts of kindliness. Through rugged paths in scarred distress You found the vale serene, and sweet Where pastures green rest tired feet, And bathed your soul in holiness. (Drought By Vesta P. Crawford Awarded First Prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest Have you seen a billowed wheat field die And wither slowly with the heads still green Until the curled leaves clatter in the wind And all the unripe seeds in furrows lie? Or the short grass all aquiver in the sun, In waves along a hillside arid brown Where some hot sickle from the burnished sky Moves and mows the blades down one by one? So it was this year with our homestead land; No sound of water rippled from the rocks, Or glimmered ever in the barren rows Where stems long dead lay drifted by the sand. I grew to be as withered as the field And hollow like the dry and wrinkled fruit, Beholding the desert that leered untamed After its ancient way and gave no yield. I should have been patient beyond all fear, For now this Autumn day the clouds roll down To lash my eager upturned face with storm, And lo, the earth shall bloom another year! Oh, long upon my soul the searing drought has lain, But now I stand renewed before the miracle of rain. VESTA P. CRAWFORD Lesson Preview, 1934-1935 (Address delivered at the Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1934 By Dr. Frederick J. Pack, University of Utah AM particularly well pleased with the opportunity of talking with you. It is a well known fact that many young men and young women who attend college find difficulty in making their religion and their scientific discoveries agree. I have been at the University for more than twenty-five years, and during that period something like ten thousand of your sons and daughters have passed through my hands. For some reason that I do not attempt to explain, large numbers of your children who encounter what they regard as incompatibility between science and religion, find their way to my office. Now I wish to say to you—you who are in a large measure responsible for the teaching of our young men and our young women—that the one outstanding factor that causes "Mormon" boys and girls to doubt their religion in connection with scientific training, 1 that they do not understand "Mormonism." I desire to make this point very clear. As recently as a week ago a returned missionary came to me and wanted to know how it is possible to harmonize certain doctrines of "Mormonism" with those of science. Almost without exception I have found that troubles such as those experienced by this young man may be traced to erroneous teachings, received either at home or in the auxiliary organizations. Every teacher of the Gospel should have a testimony of the truth of "Mormonism." Not all things, however, that are sometimes taught under the guise of "Mormonism" are true. My own mother—and I speak of her with the greatest of deference—was a convert from the Church of England. I am fully satisfied that she taught me a lot of the doctrines of the Episcopal Church thinking that they were "Mormonism," and until this day I have not rid myself of some of these erroneous ideas. Sometimes teachers take too many things for granted, and accordingly teach them in a lazy sort of way as if they were true. There are many things in "Mormonism" that we know to be true, and there are many private interpretations that are not true, and which often have a disturbing effect upon the minds of young people. For example, it is widely taught by teachers in ""Mormon" organizations that the earth was created some six thousand years ago in six days of twenty-four hours each. This notion dates from the period of the Reformation. The time-chronology which appears in many Bibles, and often 'accepted as authoritative, was adopted by the compilers of the King James translation without the consent or knowledge of the author. This particular chronology was devised by a Bishop of the Episcopal Church, and is no more a part of the Bible than the cover of the Bible. My appeal to you people is merely this, "Mormonism" is true. Do not contaminate it with a lot of private interpretations that will necessarily throw young men and young women into confusion. When once a doctrine is taught and accepted as LESSON PREVIEW 21 true, the individual comes to think of it as part of his religion. Then when he discovers that the doctrine is untrue, he is naturally led to believe that his religion is likewise untrue. A large percentage of young men and young women who have thought it necessary to separate themselves from the Church have done so because of erroneous conceptions which they thought were "Mormonism." I plead with you teachers, therefore, to teach the truths of ""Mormonism," and to leave out of consideration private interpretations. "Mormonism" is true, and when properly understood it can be tested in the most intimate manner, always, of course, to its advantage. YOUR work for the coming year deals with certain phases of' the revelations that appear in the Doctrine and Covenants. If I were you I would not question the statements made in this book, for they are true. They come from the Lord; they are our safety. And our guidance. For that reason Latter-day Saint teachers have an advantage over all other teachers in the world. You are teaching plain, simple, unadulterated truth, revealed directly from God. As heretofore, you will have nine lessons for the year, one each month. The subjects of these nine lessons are as follows: 1. Christ's Coming and the Millennium. 2. Allegiance to the Church. 3. The Power of Prayer. 4. Jesus, Creator and Overseer of the Earth. 5. The Agency of Man. 6. Gems of Truth. 7. Gems of Truth. 8. The Kirtland Temple. 9. Zion's Camp. Each of these lessons is full of material. The outstanding thing that we should have in mind in teaching the lessons on Christ's second coming is its literality, its reality. Many religious organizations accept the coming of Christ in doctrine, but fail to accept it in truth. Moreover, when you and I become sufficiently trained in interpreting the promptings of the Spirit, the signs of the coming of Christ will not be without meaning to us. Most remarkable statements are made in the Doctrine and Covenants with respect to the conditions that will exist upon the earth during the time of Christ's Millennial reign. The earth will be changed and its waste places will be reclaimed. Incidentally let me assure you that scientific or other discovery will never disprove the truths revealed in the Doctrine and Covenants. At first thought it may appear largely theoretical that the mountains will disappear, that the valleys will be filled, and that the seas will be driven off until they occupy a single place, but permit me to say that, from a scientific point of view, this is not at all improbable. I urge you to have faith in the word of God. I am impressed to stress the necessity of Latter-day Saints being loyal to the Church and its leaders. Our leaders are divinely called, and God has said that we should accept the word of our Prophet as if He Himself had spoken it. It is not the prerogative of Latter-day Saints to question the wisdom of the acts of our Church leaders; it is our duty to support them in all that they have for us. God has given us the frequent opportunity of raising our hands in support of their support, and when we accept them God expects that it will be whole-hearted. Let us remember that our present day Prophet occupies the same position in the sight of God that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Joseph Smith, the first leader of the Church, occupied. If I were you, in the lesson dealing with the power of prayer, I should teach it as though I meant it. I would teach prayer as a reality, but I would, not expect the Lord to grant requests that are unreasonable. It has been argued by some unbelievers that prayer cannot be answered because natural law must take its course. This criticism, however, is without foundation. Let me illustrate: A few days ago I had occasion to be taken to a railroad station. I called the office of a downtown taxicab. Company. The clerk at the central office called a station close to my, home, and in the course of a few minutes an automobile was at my door. Everything in the entire process was in conformity with natural law. Likewise, when God answers our prayers He may work in precisely the same way. Please also bear in mind that an insincere petition to God will not be answered. The Lord has made the requirements of prayer extremely rigid. He has said, for example, that we must ask in faith, without wavering. Iam willing to grant that this is a difficult prescription, but a half-hearted prayer, a prayer for something that is unwise, cannot be answered. In lesson number four, which has to do with "Jesus, the Creator and Overseer of the Earth," please attempt to discourage the thought that there are two sets of laws in the universe, one by which nature operates and one by which God operates. Let it be understood, once and for all, that there is only one set of laws in the universe, and these laws are God's laws. Do you remember the story told of the boy who accidentally slid down the roof of a house. As he neared the edge, going at full speed, he called upon Deity for help. But just as he was about to be plunged over the eaves, his trousers caught on a nail, and he said aloud: "Never mind, God, I have caught on a nail." The Lord God is Omnipotent; He is in control of all law. Sometimes He answers our prayers in a way that can be easily understood, 'and sometimes in a way that is difficult to understand. There is no such thing as natural law set off against God's laws. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is the author of all law. IN the two lessons dealing with Gems of Truth I have attempted to discuss a few things that are particularly characteristic of our people. I think there is no more beautiful passage in the Doctrine and Covenants than that so frequently quoted by President Grant, to the effect that every blessing which we receive is predicated upon the compliance with law. 'Teachers, do not fail to make it plain to your students that in order to receive a blessing at the hands of God, the law that governs that blessing must be complied with. You remember the widespread notion among certain sectarians that God distributes His blessings wheresoever He chooses, irrespective of merit. One of the solid foundations upon which our religion stands, likewise the strength of its people, is the fact that you and I must obey if we wish to obtain the blessing. HURRY on to the closing lesson, number nine, the one entitled "Zion's Camp." You will recall that the people in Missouri had suffered seriously at the hands of their enemies. When the word was sent to the Prophet his heart went out to the suffering saints. He received LESSON PREVIEW 23 a revelation from the Father to gather together a group of volunteers to go to the relief of the stricken people. Zion's Camp was the result. More than one hundred individuals marched five hundred miles, but before its apparent purpose had been completed the camp was disbanded, and the individuals were told that they might go home. There was much complaint and dissatisfaction, since it was felt by many that the purpose for which Zion's Camp had been created had failed. A little later, however, God told His Prophet to gather together those who went with Zion's Camp, and to select from their number the twelve apostles. He was told to likewise select from that number the first quorum of seventy. Little did the members of. Zion's Camp know when they were trudging through the swamps of Illinois and Iowa that they were being tested for their endurance and strength of character. They saw only the possibility of material relief for their brethren and sisters who had suffered at the hands of mobs. The great purpose of God was thus obscured from their view and it was not until after the test had been made that' His purpose was revealed. Teachers, carry that thought home to your people and give it local application. I bear you my testimony that "Mormonism" is true, and I pray God to bless your efforts to teach it to others. Photo by W. D. Green PRIMROSES His Father's Son By Ivy Williams Stone CHAPTER V THE new cloth, a strong tough cotton, was called khaki. An officer named Roosevelt had introduced it for his "Rough Riders." His men did not suffer intolerable heat with woolen uniforms, and the drab color made the soldiers inconspicuous. Esther spread the bolt of cloth out on her bed, measuring and calculating the number of masks that could be fashioned from it. Quilt making was laid aside; the deft needle of Esther made fine smooth seams, and button-holed two small breathing holes in each mask. In addition she rose extra early each morning to serve Oliver a special breakfast which he ate alone before the rest of the family came to eat. The mask had to be removed and even Esther, after her loving service, left the room leaving Oliver alone with his affliction. He never deviated from this custom—always his meals were served to him alone. "You ought to go out more Esther and get to care for someone else," he admonished. "You ought to marry soon." "I'm waiting for you, Oliver," Esther would answer simply, her eyes welling with unshed tears. Then Oliver would squeeze her hand tenderly or kiss the little ringlets on the nape of her neck, where she might not catch even a glimpse of his disfigurement. "Someday there will come a doctor who knows how to do that operation," he prophesied, "and I'll work and save against that day. It will cost a lot, but it will be worth it. Then we can be married. I'm going to plant tomatoes this year. We've got the right kind of soil to make them grow. Burbank says so, and they are a fancy thing and bring a big price in the city stores." THE care free, unrestrained Kareen had entered the room in which the boy child was born. But a month later, when the doctor had permitted the nurse to leave, a woman emerged. A woman of determination, of will power, of one set purpose. Her husband had had the baby christened Richard Haven the III, in spite of her protests, but a name could not alter her intentions. The curling blonde hair, the deep blue eyes, the long tapering fingers, made him her child. She would train him; he would learn music, live music, breathe music! First it would be the piano, as far as Kareen could guide him, then it would be better teachers. Then the violin; then concerts, then study in Europe; then concert tours! Maybe, oh, beautiful dream, he might become a composer! To this one end she reared, cared for and guided the child. The daily bath, even after he was long past baby days, seemed an effeminate gesture to Richard Haven; he argued a little dirt was good for a farmer's son. For her own music, Kareen seemed to have ceased to care. Only that the boy could practice—that he might have leisure! When Richard announced that a boy of six could bring up the cows at night, if he had a small, gentle pony, Kareen rushed out to perform this task, and ever after took the cows to pasture and brought them home at night. When Richard announced that a boy of THIS FATHER'S SON 25 nine could ride the derrick horse for the haying, Kareen put on overalls, and straddled the horse before the eyes of the astonished hay hands. She was water boy to the threshers; she learned to cook; her cakes became palatable and her pies not too tough. For an hour every morning and an hour every evening she stood beside the piano while the boy, with tiny hands that could hardly reach over four keys, learned the rhythm she felt. One-two-three-four—one-two-three-four," she chanted, while little Richard the third made answer falteringly. "That was the music your father marched to, when he went to war,' she boasted, "and three-four time is more beautiful— like dance music." And every night when she tucked him into bed she told a bed time story of some famous musician. "Once upon a time a boy learned to make violins. Not the short, thick violins like those then in use, but a longer, thinner model, with a beautiful arch in the middle. And he had a secret method of preparing the varnish. He used a strange new varnish, colored an orange red. His violins vibrated more than any others made up to that time. He became very famous, and put his name inside five hundred forty violins. He gave each one a special name, and the one named "MESSIE" later sold for a hundred thousand dollars! His name was Antonio Stradivari! Someday you will own one of his wonderful violins!"' "Mr. Burbank made a potato that was so good people call it the mortgage lifter," answered the boy, "I'd rather have some of that potato seed!" And again, nothing daunted, Kareen would tell another story. "Once there was a man who learned to play the piano better than anyone else in all this world! His name is Paderewski. He is still alive, and someday we will take you to hear him. He practices six hours every day." "Father is going to raise some fancy horses," replied Richard Haven III. "He is going to send all the way to Kentucky to get them. They are racers or trotters, anyway they go awful fast. He's going to put them in the south pasture, which has tall, meadow hay and lots of running water. I'm going to have a colt." [™ going to breed thoroughbreds, father," announced Richard the second, "There's money in those beautiful fellows. Don't see why Kentucky has to have the corner on them." "T don't know that such a course would be wisdom, son," counseled father Haven. "This new horseless carriage that people made so much fun of at first, seems to be getting somewhere. If it is a success, it means the passing of the horse." "Maybe so," admitted Richard Haven, "but there will always be people to buy beautiful horses for the love of them. Besides it won't cost much to keep them in the south meadow. And I'll build a special barn to keep them warm in winter!" When the car of registered thoroughbreds arrived, all the men of the village came to see the beautiful, thin legged animals. They were so different from the heavy draft horses that drew the plows! The glossy coats, the fine manes, the nervous tension of the lithe bodies was a never ending source of joy to the villagers. The Havens were prospering indeed, when they could import such fine stock! KAREEN was not satisfied with the boy's musical progress. Some 26 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE country boarders came across the street, and Kareen soon learned that the lady was a music teacher. Richard scoffed at the idea of spending money to teach a boy to play the piano, and refused to pay for such effeminate service. “But his fingers," pleaded Kareen, "do you not see that his fingers are not Haven fingers? That he will never be a farmer? That his hands are too delicate?" "Richard Haven the III will be a farmer like his father and grandfather before him," replied Richard in, maddening: calm. However the lady across the way gave the child lessons, and-she was a faithful teacher. She taught the boy the technique which Kareen's unskilled fingers did not master, and Kareen gave the Haven family the inference that out of the kindness of her heart, the visitor was teaching the child for nothing. But Esther was aware of'a sudden falling off in the daily supply of eggs, and the fresh cream jar had stains on it every morning as though cream had been dipped out! "Franz Schubert was a wonderful musician," chanted Kareen as the boy laid in bed, "and had a terribly hard time in his youth. He died very young, and over thirty-five years after his death, people discovered the most wonderful music he had written! It is called the Unfinished Symphony in B Minor." "Father has a book that says Mr. Burbank made over forty thousand slips of prunes before he got one that suited him," answered the boy. "It has no stone. He gave it a name, just like the violin maker gave to all his violins. It's called "Abundance." THE next spring Richard sold one of the new born thoroughbred colts for a fancy price. '"That's almost clear profit," he cried gleefully. "I'm certainly going to raise lots of those beauties. I'll give one to sonny, and teach him to ride. He's played that piano about long enough. He's almost a man now." "O Richard," cried Kareen, all agitation and eagerness, "now that you have that money, won't you please, please, buy us a piano? One to have in our own home? I know that so much practicing worries Mother Haven, although she never complains." "I'm going to buy a cemetery lot," replied Richard. "I am going to buy a nice marble tombstone; a triangle shaped one. With spaces for three names—yours, the boy's, and mine." "Oh," cried Kareen, in despair, "What good is a cemetery lot? What does it matter what becomes of us after we are dead? It is now—while he is young, while he can be taught, that the boy must have a piano. His fingers, Richard! Have you noticed his fingers? They are tapering and thin and delicate. He can reach an octave now, but he could never handle those nervous, high-strung horses. I am afraid of them." "I will not buy a piano," reiterated Richard. Poor Kareen always had to learn over again, each time, that the Havens were men of their word. "I have already picked out the cemetery lot. I have planted three little evergreen trees on it already." THAT evening while Richard sauntered in prideful possession down to the pasture and the boy practiced in his grandmother's parlor, Kareen slipped out to the barns. She had timed her visit when she knew the three members of the older family were at supper. It never varied, always at the same hour. The lady from the city taught Richard HIS FATHER'S SON 27 to play, and in return Kareen furnished fresh eggs and thick, sweet cream. Kareen never permitted the thought of deception or theft to deter her. All was fair, so long as the boy learned to play! Richard Haven would soon be bringing the stallion up to the special stall for the night. She had to hurry. She hastened from nest to nest, taking an egg here, one there; then seeing the moving figures of a man and horse in the pasture lane, Kareen hurried out of the older barn through the new barn, leaving the bars unfastened. "No matter," she thought, "Richard will see them down and put them up." Later Esther went: out to turn the incubator, as was her custom every night. The eggs must be carefully turned, a task which she trusted to no one. Coming out of the cop into the corral, she was frightened by, and herself frightened, the thoroughbred stallion, that had broken his halter and was running wildly about the corral, the trailing end of the halter enraging him as he ran. Esther sensed the danger and, insensible to the risk she incurred for herself, crept after him, trying vainly to snatch the rope end. With a wild snort the horse turned suddenly, knocking Esther against the unplaned paling of the corral. For a brief moment Esther was blinded and faint from the pain in her right eye; a sharp jagged sliver protruded from her eyelid! A sliver had penetrated her eyeball! Her screams soon brought Richard; Oliver had been eating his late supper alone in the kitchen. Richard Haven jumped into the corral, and angered by the sight of the injured Esther, sprang after the horse with no thought of safety or wisdom. The now thoroughly angered animal ran wildly about, rearing and snorting; and in a panic as uncontrolled as that of the man who tried to catch him, the beautiful stallion brought his thin sharp hoofs down upon the head of the man who had so loved him. Skilled doctors were summoned; good neighbors rendered aid, but by morning all knew that Esther had permanently lost the sight of one eye, and that Richard Haven would have need of the cemetery lot which he had provided for his family. In the silence which precedes dawn one sharp, echoing shot rang out; Oliver Haven had used the trophy Mauser gun in a gesture of uncontrollable revenge. The beautiful stallion and the man who had so loved him were only memories on the Haven Farms. (To be Continued) Happy Mothers By Marba C. Josephson F the old saying, "Man is a social animal" be true, how much more true it ls for children who have not reached man's estate. Very seldom is a child content to play by himself or with grown-ups. Mothers help their children immeasurably, and they with the fathers remain the pivots for the children's world. However, children are children and adults are adults. Borrowing from Kipling we might say, "and never the twain shall meet;" and that is as it should be. Friendships are the fragrance of life. Yet how few people have the ability to gather the perfume or to retain the blossom when once the friendships have begun to blossom. Mothers too frequently injure the delicate friendship plants when as a matter of fact they ought to nurture the helpful ones into a growth which by their very hardihood will crowd out the less desirable ones. Not all children are alike, any more than all adults resemble one another. Some children develop traits and tendencies of which we as mothers disapprove. How often do we stop to realize that other mothers object to some of the habits of our own children? Even though there are marked differences between children, there are many similarities. Children respond alike and naturally to given stimuli. If Mary and John see a pretty flower, spontaneously they reach for it. We forgive Mary and John, because they are our own. On the other hand we are quick to chastise our neighbor's Tom and Dick when they have responded in the same way. OTHERS need constantly to remind themselves that their children as well as their neighbor's children have faults and that they must cooperate in the neighborhood to bring out the best possible reaction in the whole group. Mothers need to encourage friendships so that the children will learn the good and bad traits to be emulated and avoided. It is a dangerous responsibility to tell children that they must not play with certain children. Of course, sometimes that very statement has to be made. Parents should determine in joint council and in all justice tempered by mercy when such a decision is reached. Then the children of the family should be talked to in all seriousness and asked whether they agree. Often the children will acquiesce without a protest and will accept the restriction with the remark that they believe the parents are right. WHEN those rare persons are found who are congenial to both parents and children, the relationship should be maintained and fostered. Mother should welcome these desirables into the homes and invite them occasionally to take part in the little surprise affairs which they plan. On special occasions mother can easily bake a few more cookies and send them to the little neighbors. On Christmas, for instance, she could make cup cakes for the stands and Christmas trees which stand up in the center. She can make the design from stiff paper and cut around it in the cookie dough. The Christmas tree can be decorated with little balls, stars, and ropes of various colored frosting. (Be it mentioned here that the grown-ups enjoy these treats). On Easter, a cookie chicken with the friends’ HAPPY MOTHERS 29 names or initials written with the colored frosting proves a most interesting surprise. Thus throughout the year mother and children work to root firmly the friendships. HILDREN should early learn the true meaning of friendship: loyalty, forgiveness, helpfulness, truthfulness, happiness. Loyalty and truthfulness will have to be taught with much care. Children should learn that their responsibility to their friends is to help them to grow into respectable people. The children should be taught that when someone does wrong, the matter is of vital importance to the one doing the wrong and should be corrected. If the person is allowed to continue his wrong-doing, he usually begins to brag about it. As he grows older, he stays on the wrong path and steadily does worse things. AMERICA has built a wrong attitude towards reporting those who break the laws. "Tattletales" is the uninviting epithet thrown at them. Children should be taught to go directly to the proper authority— in this case, their own parents—and give the information. Then they should learn not to repeat the information anywhere else. This safeguard would destroy a tendency which grows maliciously enough into what we call gossip. If mothers would imbue their youngsters with a thorough-going respect for the law and a sense of responsibility in seeing that the law is upheld, America probably would begin to get more policemen and judges who would enforce the law, rather than wink at it. Forgiveness is a relatively easy thing for children to develop since their memory for injuries is short-lived. Witness how patient and long-suffering they are with parents. Mothers are the ones who need to curb their own tendencies and try to learn from the children. Mothers interfere too much in children's squabbles. Never would a mother think of taking sides in her own home when disputes arise. Her only desire is to re-establish just and equitable peace and good fellowship. She should realize that the same desire should impel her in her neighborhood relationships. There are right and wrong on both sides in the children's quarrels. So long as it isn't a matter of serious wrong the children should be left to work out the solution for themselves. Often by interfering in children's affairs, grown-ups are led into unpleasant relationships. Children fuss and make up within a few minutes' time. They forget quarrels and never harbor hard feelings. Older people, however, cannot forget so easily and they harbor grudges. Children should learn how to play well with other children. The games of childhood foster friendship and at the same time teach the valuable lesson of sportsmanship. Learning to be a good member of the group is of equal importance with being a leader. Children in their games should take turn and turn about of being leader and follower. They must learn to take orders as well as to give them. All too frequently, parents foist their own biased ideas on their children. Because mother reads into a neighbor's action an intended slight, she refuses to permit her children to enjoy a party or a hike which would be of tremendous joy and benefit to them. Because Dad is sensitive of some omission in courtesy on the part of a neighbor, he speaks before his children of his supposed injury and thereby harms (Turn to page 38) If You Do It Unto the Least of These By Ida R. Stage setting—three comfortable chairs, a small table with gaily colored cloth; artificial flowers in vase on stand, etc.; arranged so that characters may be seen on back of stage when back curtain is raised during course of play. Characters—Edith, Billy, Janet, Dorothy, and Theda. Edith sits reading while two little children sit playing at her feet— JANET (looking up into her face): Mother, is today Relief Society? Epitu: Not today, Janet, why? JANET: Oh, I wish it was. We have the most fun when we go. I wish they had it oftener. I just love that lady that takes care of us. She tells us the most pretty stories and we build houses in the sand, too. Bitty: Say, Janet, wasn't that fun when she told us about the Indians? And didn't that little girl get scared when that big old Indian chief, all painted up, took hold of her hand and said, "Come, me big Indian chief. Be Papoose." I wouldn't have been afraid, no siree! But of course she was just a girl, and girls are fraidie cats. J wish I was an Indian. Wouldn't I have fun? Epiru: I guess we all have fun at Relief Society, don't we, children? I get just about as anxious as you do for it to come. (knock interrupts conversation) Edith: Billy, you go and answer the door for mother, will you? BILLY (opening door): Come in, Mrs. Dean and Mrs. Brown. (mother rises to go and greet them) EpitH: Well, if it isn't Dorothy and Theda! I'm so glad you've come. Here, Dorothy, take this chair, and Theda, you sit there.; Dorothy: Say, Edith, where do you keep yourself? We don't see you Alldredge half as often as we used to. You didn't even come to the bridge party Tuesday afternoon. Gee! But we missed you. You've always been so keen for bridge. Were you sick? Edith (laughing): Oh, no, Dorothy, I wasn't sick, but you see it interferred with Relief Society meeting and I would have missed more by not attending that and in addition to the pleasure we get there is always something worth while. THEDA: You mean to tell me that you missed Grace's party to go to Relief Society meeting? Can you beat that, Dorothy? Edieth: Perhaps you don't understand just what we do at Relief Society meeting, girls. Dorothy: Perhaps not, Edith, but it's just for old grandmothers who come home and tell their grandchildren how to raise their babies on catnip tea, sugar plums, and so on. It certainly isn't for young modern mothers like you. What do you care about the making of quilts that nobody will use, the training of children grandmother's way and so on. There's time enough for those old fogie ideas when you can't do anything else. (Dorothy sees gaily colored cloth on stand) Dorothy: Oh, isn't that beautiful! (picks up corner of cloth and examines it) That's something new. Where did you pick it up? And that vase! Isn't it artistic? I wish I had the taste you have. Edith: They are pretty, aren't they? That's what I learned to do at Relief Society. And that isn't half of it, (goes into other room and IF YE DO IT UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE ol gets quilt and holds up for inspection) How do you like this? Girls (in chorus): Edith! Where did you get that? It's gorgeous! Where did you get such an exquisite pattern? Edith (laughing): In the same place and from those same old fogies that you were telling us about, only they're not all grandmothers. Our art instructor is as young as I am and just as modern as either of you. You both remember Helen? THEDA: Helen Summers'? She was a wonder in high school and they say she specialized: in college on the same subject and was going to make it her career until Jack came along and captured her. I'd like to study art from her. Edith: Then why don't you go with me? Dorothy: But, what would we do with our children? Edith: What did you do with them during the bridge party? THEDA: We hired them taken care of, but we couldn't afford to do that for a meeting. I wonder if she would give private lessons? Edith: And pay for lessons you could just as well have free? Now listen, girls: The babies are taken care of by a lady who is wonderful with children. She needs the money as she has seven children of her own and she is the only one to support them. Her husband is dead so the bishop hires her, and two things are done at once. I'd trust any child with her. Mine love to go and can hardly wait for the day to come. We were just talking about it when you came in. They were wishing meeting came every day.; THEDA: How often do they have lessons like that, Edith? Evita: That comes once a month but the other lessons are equally as interesting. If you want me to tell you the names of some of the officers I will, and maybe you will be more interested. There's Mrs. Jensen, our president. You both remember her. She used to teach us when we were in the eighth grade in school. Don't you remember how we used to love to take flowers to her? Dorothy: I’ll say I remember her! She was the best teacher we ever had. She could wrap me around her little finger and she enjoyed teaching us, too. She was only about eighteen then. I wonder if she is as attractive now as she was then. Epitu: She surely is and makes a splendid leader. Then as pianist there is Jane Worth. Ruth Fields is the secretary and Velma Brown the chorister. You used to go to school with every one of them and you'd feel right at home. The first Tuesday (we) I say we because I am a visiting teacher— THEDA: You a visiting teacher? Do you mean to tell me that you go around and pry into other peoples business by seeing if they keep the lint from under their beds, the dishes clean, and the children properly clothed; and if they are in good standing in the church? Do you find out whether Mr. And Mrs. So and so smoke, and why they don't pay their tithing? Why, Edith, I'm ashamed of you. (they all laugh) You don't need to come snooping around me or I'll turn the hose on you. Edith: You've got this visiting teaching all wrong. We don't go to find fault but just to carry a message of cheer. I love every person in my district. We keep in touch with them and let them know that they are not forgotten. We don't go and ask about family affairs but we Carry a suggestion or two to them that will put them to thinking and maybe lift a little of their burden of care. (For instance) one of our subjects a while back was, "Blessed 32 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE are they that mourn for they shall be comforted." We don't preach but talk it over together. I get more benefit than anyone else. I've learned that I can't expect everything to be pleasant, or I wouldn't develop properly. I couldn't broaden. Sorrow makes us understand others who suffer and then one knows better how to help them. The greatest joy comes from overcoming difficulties. It is sorrow which builds up our faith if we take it in the right way. Sister Jorgensen is an inspiration to me. You know how sad her life has been. She lost her only daughter a few weeks ago, but when we knocked she met us with her usual smile. Now she has lost her husband and four of her grown children but she is the bravest old soul I ever saw in my life. I just dreaded to call on her, but felt it wouldn't do to pass her by and I am so glad that I didn't. She looks on the bright side and says: "The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away." That's faith for you, isn't it? I’d be ashamed if I complained after such an example as that. But I forgot, I was telling you what we study. The first Tuesday is theology and testimony meeting. Last winter the Doctrine and Covenants was our guide. I am telling you what it was last year as this winter's lessons are a continuation of the same subject. Hundred and thirty-six revelations given for the guidance of the church. The first revelation contains the words of the angel Moroni, spoken to Joseph Smith on the night of September 1st, 1821. (Back curtain rises to music "The Seer, The Seer,' showing angel Moroni with uplifted hand and Joseph kneeling as if in prayer). ANGEL Moroni: Behold, I will reveal unto you the priesthood by There are one the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. And He shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers and the hearts of the children shall turn to the fathers. If it were not so the whole earth would be wasted at His coming. (Curtain falls). EDITH: Later messages and commandments were given that tell us just how to live and what is to happen in the future. For instance there was a vision manifest to Joseph Smith the Seer, and Oliver Cowdery, in the Kirtland temple April 3rd, 1836. (Curtain rises on Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery). Joseph Smith: After this vision closed another great and glorious vision burst upon us, for Elijah the prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us and said, "Behold, the time has fully come which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi, testifying that he, Elijah, should be sent before the great and dreadful day of the Lord to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the hearts of the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse. Therefore the keys of this dispensation are in your hands and this ye may know, that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near even at the door. (Curtain). EDITH: There is one more that is given to the prophet which impresses me very much. It seems to me that one could not help believing every word of it. It thrills me and yet it makes me tremble to think of what is in the future for us. (Curtain rises showing Joseph Smith). Joseph Smith: Abide ye in the liberty wherewith ye are made free. IF YE DO TT UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE 33 Entangle not yourselves in sin, but let your hands be clean, until the Lord come. For not many days hence and the earth shall reel and tremble to and fro as a drunken man and the sun shall hide His face and shall refuse to give light. And the moon shall be bathed in blood, and the stars shall become exceeding angry and shall cast themselves down as a fig leaf falleth from a fig tree. And after your testimony cometh wrath and indignation upon the people. For after your testimony cometh the testimony of earthquakes that shall cause groanings in the midst of her and men shall fall upon the ground and not be able to stand. And also cometh the testimony of thunderings and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the sea, heaving themselves beyond their bounds. And all things shall be in commotion and surely men's hearts shall fail them for fear shall come upon all people. An angel shall fly through the midst of heaven crying with a loud voice, sounding the trump of God, saying, "Prepare ye, Prepare ye, oh inhabitants of the earth for the judgments of our God is come. Behold and lo, the bridegroom cometh. Go ye out to meet Him." And immediately there shall appear a great sign in heaven and all people shall see it together. And there shall another angel sound the trump. Then there shall be silence in heaven for the space of half an hour and immediately after shall the curtain of heaven be unfolded as a scroll is unfolded after it is rolled up and the face of the Lord shall be unveiled and the saints that are upon the earth that are alive shall be quickened and shall be caught up to meet Him. And they who have slept in their graves shall come forth, for their graves shall be opened, and they also shall be caught up to meet Him, in the midst of the pillar of heaven. And after this another trump shall sound, and another trump shall sound which is the fifth trump. And this shall be the sound of His trump, saying to all people, both in heaven and in the earth, and that are under the earth, for everyone shall hear it, and every knee shall bow and every tongue confess while they hear the sound of the trump saying, "Fear God and give glory to Him who sitteth upon the throne, for ever and ever, for the hour of his judgment is come. (Curtain slowly falls). Dorothy: Say, that frightens me. Doesn't it you? I never think about those things but when you know of all that is happening now it seems to me that that time is not so very far off. I'd almost forgotten what the Doctrine and Covenants was. But come, Edith, what else do you study? Edith: Well, girls, that was last year's work. This year's theology takes up where last year's closes and the first lesson is Christ's coming and the Millennium. The exact time of His coming no man knoweth, not even the angels of heaven, but we are told of the signs to expect preceding His arrival. There shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars, and upon the earth distress of nations, and men's hearts shall fail them, for the powers of heaven shall shake them. Immediately prior to the coming of Christ, all things shall be in commotion and fear shall come upon the people. The time is at our very doors. All you have to do is to glance at the papers and see the terrible unrest and know that the hour is near at hand. And then following this lesson we are taught how to live in order to be prepared for the great and glorious day. One lesson is, "Allegiance to the 34 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Church," and another "The Power of Prayer," and the concluding one is the law of tithing. If one ever needed to pray to keep free from temptation it is now, and the church needs loyal followers more than it ever did. THEDA: It almost makes me feel creepy but just the same I believe it is true, every word of it. I wish I were better prepared to live in that day than I am. But come, Edith, what else have you for us? Edith: Literature comes next. We study books of fiction, history, poetry, etc. The general officers realize the value of good books and so they help suggest the proper ones to read. This is next in importance to the kind of company one keeps. One of the books of fiction for this year is "Silas Marner," written by George Eliott. Another is the "Scarlet Letter,' by Hawthorne. Both books are literary gems, portraying characters true to life of that early day. Then we have the books of poetry and fiction. We all love to read them. THEDA: Your pictures have been so vivid, Edith, that I think I'll go home and begin reading right now and fill my mind with something worth retaining. But go on with your story and excuse me for breaking into it. EpitH: Well, there isn't much more, but I think the last lesson is just as wonderful and perhaps even more practical. It is called Social Service. This year we will become acquainted with some of the men and women who have been outstanding in their contributions to human welfare. Jesus Christ is the greatest teacher of the brotherhood of man, whole life and spirit inspired such men and women as Elizabeth Fry, Robert Owen, Octavia Hill, Jane Addams, Samuel G. Howe, Louis Pasteur, and Florence Nightingale in their great reform work. That's all of the lesson work and I hope I haven't tired you. But there is one more phase of our work that I haven't touched upon. It isn't lesson work but last week the Welfare worker asked me to go with her to visit some of the people in our district who were sick. The first place we went to would have touched a heart of stone. (Curtain rises showing sick mother with children kneeling around bed in prayer). There knelt three children round their mother's bed praying for food. Imagine it in a land of plenty! We waited until they finished. As we stepped onto the porch they arose and the mother feebly answered our knock. We found them in destitute circumstances. And that noble little mother was teaching them to pray for food yet too proud to appeal to her neighbors. An hour later we left her smiling and happy though her eyes were swimming in tears. And those little children were properly fed and clothed. No mother could recover while her children were crying for food. We also called upon a young mother (curtain rises showing 'young mother rocking babe and singing lullaby) with her first baby. Our welfare worker told her just how to feed her baby and gave her other helpful instructions. She seemed very grateful for she was so young and inexperienced. You see it's a mission of love. But Relief Society isn't all work. We have our fun as well. Go with me next time to our work meeting and take your first lesson in art and after the lesson we are going to have a real up to date party. Mrs. Jones is going to bring a sample of her famous cake and Velma some homemade candy, They give the written recipes to us too. Mrs. Taylor has charge of the entertainment and you know how full of fun she is. She'll wake you up all right and you'll forget all your worries for a little while at least. THEDA: Come, Dorothy, let's be on our way. We'll have to make preparations to attend the party with Edith. I think I'll join Relief Society if it's like she says it is. How about you? Dorothy: It sounds almost too good to be true. Let's go and try it. (Curtain) (Sing new Relief Society Song)The Old and the New By C. J. Jensen Good bye, Old Year! You're old and sere; But what a Friend you've been! Good cheer you've brought And blessings wrought To friend and kith and kin, Good bye, Old Year! Hello, New Year! You're welcome dear; We're loving you a lot. Your smiling face Our sorrows chase From act and deed and thought, Hello, New Year! I hope today In every way To start a life's reform; And only ask For harder task, And strength to carry on, Welcome, New Year! I don't require Nor yet desire Life's labors hard to shirk; But strength and skill With right good will To love and smile and work. All hail, New Year! So now, New Year, As you are here, I'm thankful as can be; The Old is past, You've come at last Success to you and me; Shake hands, New Year! IF YE DO IT UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE 35 Bon Abu By Sarah A. Farr ON ABU was a descendant of Abraham by his wife Katurah, whom he married after the death of Sarah. He was an Arab and seemed possessed of the wanderlust, leaving all his tribal kindred, who were idol worshipers, he roamed the desert alone. He was not an idol worshiper but was seeking for some supreme being that he had failed to comprehend. My story will begin as Fairy Tales do. Once upon a time, nineteen hundred and thirty-four years ago, Bon Abu sat in the door of his tent listening to the breeze, as it sang its evening vespers through the palm trees, and watching the shifting, drifting sands of the desert. As he gazed he saw the last glinting of the sun rays on the far distant hills. He said, "Such is my life, drifting as the restless sands and when the sun kisses the highest peaks and sinks to rest, so I, too, lie down to sleep and dream. When the sun rises again, and starts on its eternal round, I rise from my bed of sand and again am drifting, pitching my tent when the sun goes down, drifting, watching, waiting, for what? Alas! Who knows? Who can read the destiny of man when he knoweth it not himself. Like Abraham of old, the spark of faith has been handed down from generation to generation for hundreds of years and still lives and glows and burns in my heart. I am searching and never finding peace, nor rest, nor joy." His camel, his only companion, standing near the tent, sottly mooed. Bon Abu, answering said, 'Lie down and rest and sleep, for the night is nigh and tomorrow cometh as all other days have come." To himself he said, "Will it go as all other days have gone? Yet will I put my trust in Abraham's God this night and trust and wait."' He, looked up into the blue vault above dotted with its bright twinkling stars, then entered his tent and closed it. He arose from his slumber just as the coming of day smiled on departing night. Parting the door of his tent he stood with hands shading his eager, expectant eyes, as if striving to pierce farther and farther the dim purple distance of the eastern horizon, and as the sun sent its first greetings heavenward, the mist melted away, he stood transfixed, for lo, three tiny specks appeared and as they nearer and nearer came, it seemed as if the sun itself had fled from the heavens and was coming to greet him. He recognized at last. That they were camels clothed with all the glitter of gold and silver tinsel with which the wealthier class were wont to deck them. Their riders were men of noble mien and as they approached, Bon Abu, thinking they were kings from some foreign lands, bowed himself to the earth. Then rising, he said reverently, "Whom art thou? Whence cometh thou and whither dost thou go?" They answered, "We are men from the far east. We go to Jerusalem, for unto us is born a Savior. See, we are taking him gifts of gold and frankincense and myrrh. Hast thou not seen his star in the east?' I have not seen His star, neither have I gold nor precious gifts, but all I have is His. I will follow thee." And he bowed himself to the earth once more and the men from the East passed on. BON ABU 37 HASTILY he seized his water bottle and a small cake of unleavened bread, mounted his camel and quickly followed. As the mid-day drew near he bethought himself that neither he nor his camel had tasted food or drink since the evening of the day before. In his eager haste he had forgotten but his parched lips and the hunger cry of his camel reminded him that nature must be provided for. | Dismounting he loosed his camel to browse upon the scant shrubs the desert provided and sat down to partake of his scanty meal. Before aught had passed his lips he saw a woman approaching and as she drew near unto him she cried out, "Master, give me food or I perish," and she fell to the earth before him. Ed with pity, he said, "Woman, arise and eat,' and he gave her of his unleavened bread, and a part of the water from the bottle he, in his haste, had forgotten to fill. Then said, "Woman, whom art thou and what bringeth thee hither." She said, "Master, lama widow. I am going to my kindred. Yesternight my camel strayed and was lost. I am alone. Oh! Master, have pity and the blessings of the gods I worship shall be thine." Bon Abu looked into the distance for the men from the East who were fast disappearing, then brought his camel, made it kneel, placed the woman upon it and said, "Go thy way in peace and may thy gods protect thee. I have none but Abraham's God and Him I knoweth not." She kissed his hand and a tear fell upon it and crystallized and sparkled in the sun light. The camel arose and was gone. ON ABU looked at his hand and said, "The widow's tear, I will cherish it." He looked at his small piece of bread and the little water Bon Abu's left in his bottle and said, "I must not eat nor drink for the hour may come when my needs will be greater than now." Being lithe of limb, he sped on and on till darkness came. Long, long before the men from the East had been lost to his vision, and the faintly discernible footprints of the camels were his only guide. Tired and weary he lay down to rest for the night between two sand dunes to protect him from the chilly night winds. With the first morning rays he arose, stretched his tired and aching limbs. The ever shifting sands had obliterated the last foot prints of the camels but like Abraham of old, he resolutely turned his face eastward and went blindly on, his faith that he should find that which he sought still planted in his soul. He ran with the fleetness of the camel, caring neither for food nor drink, with his eyes fixed on the far distant hills he pressed on and on and nearer and nearer the hills seemed to approach. Noon day once more and once more he hears the cry for human aid. This time a child. 'Master, master, come quickly for my mother hath fallen and dieth." Bon Abu hastened with the child to its mother, and found her lying unconscious with a cruel wound across her head. He carried her into her little mud house, laid her on the bed and tenderly bound up the wound with snow white linen the child brought him, moistened her lips with the few remaining drops of water from his bottle and slowly restored her to consciousness. She looked at him wonderingly and said, "Thou art a stranger, rest thee awhile, my son will soon return from the City of David with food and drink. I know thou art hungry and thirsty. See, thy bottle is empty and thou hast 38 no food. Tarry awhile until he cometh for we have neither bread nor water this day." The child murmured and Bon Abu bethought himself of his morsel of bread and gave it to her and she eagerly ate it. "Woman, I cannot tarry. I have neither tasted food nor drink these two days but I must away. How far is it to the City of David?" "If thou hasteneth thou canst reach it before the night cometh on. God be gracious unto thee as thou hast been merciful and kind unto me." Bon Abu replied, "Peace be unto thee."' And as he turned to depart the child caught his hand and a tear drop fell upon it and crystallized but it did not sparkle for it was a pearl. He looked at his hand and said, '"The orphan's tear, I will treasure it also." Then he sped onward toward the City of David. As he drew near he saw the three men from the East approaching, and he cried out, "Oh! Ye men of the East, didst thou see the Star again? And hast thou found the Savior whom ye seek?" They answered, "Yea, we have found Him and He sleepeth upon His mother's breast in yonder cave in a manger. Go find Him quickly for the night falleth and God be with thee." Abu put new energy in his tired and trembling limbs and reached the gate, then fell exhausted. He felt a gentle touch and raised his head and lo! An angel stood beside him. Bon. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The, angel spoke, "Bon Abu, arise!" And he arose and stood beside him. Again the angel spoke, "What seeketh thou?" Bon Abu answered, "I seek my Savior whose star in the East proclaimed His birth." "And hast thou seen His star?" "No lord, I have not seen, yet I believe.' And straightway the star shone over the place where the young child lay. The angel spoke once more, "The wise men from the East brought him gold and frankinecense and myrrh, hast thou aught to give?" "Nothing lord, but my soul and my service and the widow's and orphan's tears." And he placed his hand in his bosom and drew them forth. The angel looked and smiled and straightway a mist arose from his hand, heavenward, and the jewels were as naught. The angel said, "Bon Abu, thy faith and thy service hath redeemed thee, follow me." And he led him to the mouth of the cave and into the manger where the young babe lay. The child smiled and the glory of God shone around it. Bon Abu fell upon his face and cried aloud. "I have found that which I sought. I know now that my Redeemer liveth for I have seen His face, and beheld His glory, and rest and peace and joy are mine, and love, faith, charity and service T will freely give, He arose, left the cave and went out into the city to seek for food and shelter. Happy Mothers (Concluded from page 29) the children, making them a party to the grown-up's bickerings. In the world where the wise use of leisure is becoming a serious problem, mothers need to aid their youngsters in learning how to play fairly with any class of children who are honorable. If mothers will make the most of this opportunity to encourage their children in the wise selection and in the careful preservation of friendships, they will find that the next generation will be much nearer the ideal of world peace toward which all mothers are looking forward eagerly. KeepSakes for the Treasure Chest Of life By Lella Marler Hoggan "May you have joy enough to start The New Year with a singing heart, And granted hopes, and blessings true To make joy last the whole year through." —Author unknown FROM year to year you are stowing away keep-sakes in the treasure-chest of life. It is a magic chest for it grows with the years. Are you choosing wisely what shall go into this precious receptacle? Why burden yourselves with a load of fears, and hates, and worries? You may as well select little priceless treasures, worth-while gifts, magic memories, that will brighten your peaceful hours when the shadows lengthen: lovely experiences and golden deeds, that will comfort you at the close of the day: spiritual blessings, that will fortify you against all fear, when you tread the sunny slope that leads into the valley of happy rewards. You do not want to be forever looking backward with regret and longing on the things you meant to achieve. When you reach the end of the sun-lit trail and prepare to evaluate the contents of your chest you do not want to find a clutter of broken promises, unfinished tasks, shattered plans, and lost dreams. If you would avoid these disappointments, then do not embark on the journey of life in a haphazard manner, without charting your time or effort, or knowing to what port you are bound. As you come to the afternoon of life, you will find fewer tasks and greater leisure, shorter experiences and longer memories. Will those memories be sweet and wholesome? Will they bring peace and comfort to your heart? There are memories sweet, And memories sad, Memories tender, And memories glad. All stowed away for a distant day When the shadows lengthen along life's way. As Joseph of old, garnered during the years of plenty for the lean years that were to follow: so may you in the fulness of life, gather treasures for the autumnal days that will come after. The bee does not find his honey potted and waiting for him. He 40 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE has to collect it drop by drop, from a thousand flowers. You, too, May search out the fragrant sweetness of life and take it into your possession, Not to be hidden away in a dark attic to gather dust and cob-webs; but to be guarded in the treasure-chest of life, and to be daily used and enlarged and glorified. And make sure that your Precious store is secured from all intrusion by the sacred key of prayer. Anna R. Brown in her delightful little book, "What Is Worth While," says, "With time we may purchase every lovely thing life has. God can do great things with our lives if we but give them to him in sincerity. He can make them useful, uplifting, heroic."; Choose wisely, then, and well, the store that is to be put by for the twilight of life. What will render unto you the richest values? What will bring you the most permanent satisfactions? Your little chests are waiting For the coming happy year, To be packed with priceless treasure. Let only glad sweet memories, And deeds of golden worth, Fill up the precious measure. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon EVEN the after glow on Alpine hills is no lovelier than a winter day warmed by friendly greetings and kindly deeds. ARINA, Duchess of Kent, unconsciously rendered great service to the world. She lightened the shadows, when the details of her royal marriage replaced the gloomy "front page stuff" of crime, disaster, and depression. ARIE of Rumania wrote Marina "not merely an English prince but Troy itself would have fallen for your beauty."It would seem not only Troy, but all the world has done that. GRACE MOORE, operatic star and cinema favorite has three homes where she divides her time according to the seasons. In each one she is equally busy. Hollywood in the spring, Cannes, France, in the summer and New York in the winter. From a choir singer in Jellicoe, Tenn., to the Metropolitan Opera in New York indicates hard work and persistent effort. ALICE LIDDELL HARGRAVES, the original Alice of Lewis Carroll's "Alice in Wonderland" died this winter at the age of 82. Her reflected greatness gave her much attention and many honors. ALICE SHANNON MONROE has recently published another charming book "Walk With Me, Lad." The book in the essay theme contains 17 essays of inspiring and homely philosophy. ELEANOR HOLGATE LATTIMORE has written a delightful book "Turkestan Reunion" in which she details her adventures on a strange journey, part of which was a wedding trip, from Peking to India. She was the first white woman to make this trip overland. MRS. GEORGE H. DERN was much admired in her costume of Utah pioneer days, which she wore at Mrs. Roosevelt's masque ball at the White House. The blue silk gown was the "party dress" of the late Mary Van Cott Young, beautiful wife of President Brigham Young, and was loaned to Mrs. Dern by Mrs. Fanny Young Clayton, youngest daughter of President Young. QUEENA MARIO, the first singer to broadcast from the Metropolitan Opera House does not confine her talents to music, she is also a successful newspaper correspondent and novelist. CARMELA PONSELLE, sister of the popular Rosa, makes her bow as a star this season at the Metropolitan. ANNA TURKEL, this winter made her debut as Santuzza in Cavalleria Rusticana with the Chicago Grand Opera Company. She was a protege of Antonio Scotti. She paid for music lessons by selling candy at matinees. CATHERINE LENROOT'S appointment as head of the Children's Bureau was a pleasing recognition of her capability and experience in that line of work. FRANCES PERKINS, Grace Abbott and Josephine Roche are appointed on the advisory council of the National Council of Economic Security. Unemployment insurance and old age pensions are listed on the program for study. SMARTLY dressed women have again taken to black stockings for evening wear. They should be very fine and sheer. Notes from the Field Lyman Stake: THE accompanying picture is taken of the Superior Ward Relief Society, Lyman Stake. This little ward is on the border of the Western States Mission, and has a membership of only 160 people, but from this there is an average of more we think it offers many excellent constructive suggestions: "The Magazine representatives of the wards in Ensign Stake meet regularly at the monthly union meeting. Under the direction of Sister Rose Neeley, the stake representative, regular class work: is conducted. SUPERIOR WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, LYMAN STAKE than 20 women at each Relief Society meeting. The members are intensely interested in the work of the Relief Society, and find great encouragement and inspiration in the excellent educational program which is offered through the columns of the Relief Society Magazine. Ensign Stake: HERE have been so many excellent reports come in of the activities of the Magazine Agents in all our stakes and wards that it would take many issues of the Magazine to give all the fine suggestions which have been offered. The following comes from the Ensign Stake, and This begins with the roll call to which each person responds with a sentiment taken from the Magazine. The ward representatives give their reports listing new subscribers, renewals, etc., and present problems relating to solicitation as may have arisen. Once during the season each representative is given time to present something from the Magazine —poems, stories, home-making hints, etc..—that has specially appealed to her. Time is allotted for discussion of points that have furnished spiritual uplift and help outside of the fine lesson work outlined. Many suggestions are offered for the Magazine campaign—little banks or containers wherein the members may put away small amounts until the NOTES FROM THE FIELD subscription fee is secured, dividing wards into districts for house-to-house visiting, etc. Each ward, however, is permitted to carry out the plan which seems best suited to its condition. Tahitian Mission: Space for Picture THE following delightful report comes from Sister Murial R. Mallory, President of the Tahitian Mission Relief Society: "I read with deep interest the "Notes from the Field, and thought the sisters in other parts of the world may be interested in what we are doing in far off Tahiti. I say-'far off' because I believe this has the distinction of being the most isolated mission in the world. We only have one mail boat a month to our main island, which is Tahiti. On account of the strikes both in America and Australia, we had no regular service' from April 24 until July 19. There is no regular service on the other islands, which number some fifty or more, and are scattered from twen43 ty-five to seven and eight hundred miles apart. Travel between these islands is done on small trading schooners. We have sixteen branches each with a Relief Society organization presided over by a native presidency. These sisters are very diligent and strive to do the work to the best of their ability. It is impossible to carry on the work just as outlined in the Magazine, as the people here have had very little chance for education, the older members and a good share of the younger ones as well, never having been to school. There are French schools now on Tahiti and some few of the other islands, and the people are glad of the chance to send their children. There is very little literature printed in the native language, as what there is is printed by the different churches. Our work is outlined under the direction of the Mission President to meet our particular needs. I recently accompanied my husband on a tour of the Lower Tuamotu Islands, the trip was made on a small ship, which RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 44 RELIEF SOCIETY lacked most of the comforts of modern-day travel. We visited eight islands and were very pleased to find the work going ahead so well. When we arrived at Takaroa, one of our largest branches, we found the people had prepared a big 'Tamaaraa', or native feast, and celebration in our honor, which was participated in by every member on the Island regardless of religious creed. We spent five weeks there, and were the only white people on the island. It would be impossible, in this short article, to tell of the acts of kindness shown us. There is no food at all raised on these low coral islands, except cocoanuts, and rain caught in barrels furnishes the water supply. Despite the lack of luxuries we enjoyed ourselves very much. The sisters there seemed very much interested in their work and all are striving diligently to live the Gospel as they understand it." Timpanogos Stake: HE following interesting report comes from the Timpanogos Stake. The sixth anniversary of the organization of the stake came on Sunday, July 15, 1934. At this time the stake had 735 L. D. S. Families, and the Relief Society membership was 345. On Tuesday, July 17, a most extensive and beautiful exhibition of work done by the women of the Relief Society of this stake was held in the Second Ward Chapel at Pleasant Grove. It represented the work of the past two years, and was held in connection with an anniversary meeting. The work leaders of the stake cooperated with the officers and gathered material for the exhibition. More than one thousand articles were collected. These represented almost every kind of handwork done by the sisters. The entire basement of the Church was used, but even this did not give space enough to show' fully all the articles. There were any number of beautiful quilts, bed-spreads, rugs, fine needlework, articles of clothing that had been remodeled, dyed or cleaned, the "self-help" clothing for small children, a complete layette for baby, etc. This phase of the work was certainly a credit to any organization. There was also a nutrition department where charts of foods were displayed. Distinct from the needlework was the art department where things of purely an ornamental nature formed an interesting part. One room contained work done by women past 70 years of age. It has been the aim of this stake to make things that will be of use, and made at as little expense as possible. Back of the movement has been the beautification of the homes and pleasure to the members in developing new ideas, and cultivating the social hour where women of kindred ideals may meet and discuss their problems. In the meeting which was held at one o'clock, there were representatives from the General Presidency and General Board of Relief Society. The program consisted of talks from the visiting sisters and members of the original stake (Alpine). Fine music was a feature of the meeting, after which delicious refreshments were served to more than four hundred people. German-Austrian Mission: ANOTHER indication of the wide extent of appeal that the women of the world find in Relief Society, is in evidence in the following which comes from the German-Austrian Mission. Sister Elizabeth H. Welker sent us the delightful picture of the Singing Mothers of Stettin, Germany, with the following brief account of what is: going on in that Mission: "We held conferences in more than half of our Mission, while NOTES BROM. THE 45 SINGING MOTHERS OF STETTEN, GERMANY the Relief Society sisters are not meeting in these conferences, but will hold their meetings in the Spring, still they have furnished the singing for the afternoon sessions. I have been delighted with the groups of Singing Mothers in this Mission. They memorize the words of all their songs and their singing is much above the average chorus group. The German people all understand and love good music, and the Singing Mothers are no exception. I am sure you would be pleased to hear them and would be proud of them, too. They compare very favorably with any group I have heard at home, though, of course, the number in any chorus is not so great. We suggested to them that they work on a Relief Society Song, one that might be used for the, Mission at any rate. They seemed pleased with the idea, and said: 'We would like a song of our own.' I hope they will be able to develop something real good. Reports on Magazine Drive In making their reports, most of the Stake Magazine agents are delighted with the efficient way in which the Magazine Campaign has been carried on. The use of the penny boxes has been very extensive and most Stakes feel that it has helped them very materially in getting large subscription lists. A house to house campaign has been very general, socials have been given, and the Magazine play used extensively. Blackfoot Stake reports that one of their wards bought magazines and sold them to the Sisters for ten cents each. Two Wards held socials and with the profits paid half of the subscription price of each Magazine taken. Pacheco, in Juarez Stake, heads their list with 105% subscriptions. 46 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Fanny Gilbert is the Magazine agent. In Nebo Stake President Harding presented the Genoa Ward with a jar containing two hundred pennies in appreciation for their success in the Magazine Drive. Birdseye Branch organized in November with only thirteen members reports fourteen subscriptions. President Hazel B. Tingey of the Australian Mission sent in thirty-nine subscriptions for various parts of her Mission, a larger list than they have ever sent in before. Malta Ward of Raft River Stake has 42 members and 43 subscriptions. The Moapa Stake reports that at each meeting in October a short talk was given or article read calling attention to the Magazine, and each ward was asked to put on one public program including something on the WARDS 100% OR OVER Enrollment No. Sub. Percent Magazine and to make a canvass among non-subscribers. Sister Mattie Vogel, agent in the 17th Ward of Mt. Ogden Stake, has done some outstanding work. She increased the membership of her ward very materially through her visits and then got subscriptions from every member, securing ninety-one. She has interested-some who have been inactive for years. The Second Ward of Brigham City, Box Elder Stake, with 77 members, has sent in 85 subscriptions. Elsie S. Miller, agent for 4th Ward, Provo, Utah Stake, with an enrollment of 111 secured 112 subscriptions, so anxious was she to have every woman have the magazine that she took $7 worth of fruit and vegetables from those who could not pay cash. Name of Agent 14 107 Rachel Spencer 43 100 7 140 100 43 102 13 119 20 105 Fanny Gilbert 13 130 28 100 Clara Leebenow 50 100 Etta F. Telford 85 110 107 111 Ina Johnson 112 101 Elsie Miller WARDS 75% OR UP TO 100% Enrollment No. Sub. Percent Ward Stake Birdseye Nebo 13 Genola Nebo 43 Ibapah Nevada 5 Littlefield Moapa Malta Raft River 4? Montello Nevada 11 Pacheco Juarez 19 Preston Nevada 10 Rose Blackfoot 28 West Bountiful South Davis ° 50 2nd Ward Box Elder 77 Manavu Utah 96 Provo 4th Utah 111 Ward Stake Alton Kanab 32 Bancroft Idaho Boulder City Moapa Emigration Liberty 85 Hiko Moapa Hurricane Zion Park 51 LeGrande Liberty 132 Logandale Moapa McGill Nevada 58 Springfield Blackfoot 22 Sterling Blackfoot 16 Yale Liberty 130 1st Ward Liberty 112 31st Ward Liberty 92 Provo 2nd Utah 136 Provo 6th Utah 106 Name of Agent 25 76 Viola C. Roundy 85 75 67 be Ida Von Nordeck 7 40 78 Martha Hastings 106 80 Christina V. Wilson 75 46 79 20 91 Minnie Thurstcn 14 88 Bell Partridge 97 75 Chloe M. Jacob 88 78 Helen Evans 74 80 Elsie Jack 106 78 Cloe Thatcher 83 78 Zina Seamount THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD MRS, JULIA A. F. LUND President First Counselor:: Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs, Elise B. Alder Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Manager Assistant Manager Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vou. XXII JANUARY, 1935 No. 1 EDITORIAL Our Wish For You MAY 1935 brings to all of our readers blessings unnumbered. May peace abound in their hearts and homes. May their: spirituality increase and may they seize and profit by the many opportunities offered for intellectual growth. May they merit the continued blessings of our Father. Good News for WE have heard so oft repeated that this is the age of young people, that old people have no chance, etc., that it is refreshing to learn from the findings of a survey conducted under grants from the Older Women Carnegie Corporation of New York and the Daniel and Florence Guggenheim Foundation that women over forty have weathered the economic depression better than their younger sisters. 48 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE This announcement is based on answers from 1,350 members of the American Woman's Association that were made in reply to a questionnaire sent to them. The survey covers a five-year period from 1929 to 1934. The women who made replies worked with their heads rather than with their hands. The survey reports "women over forty made more, lost fewer jobs and remained more stable during the The salaries of women over forty averaged about $600.00 a year more than those of younger ones. Fifteen per cent of those under forty experienced unemployment during the five-year period, while only nine per cent of those over forty lost their jobs. The older women kept jobs more consistently, eighty per cent of them making only one change of position during the surveyed time, while only half the younger women held to that record. The part of the survey conducted in 1931 shows that women whose average age was fifty years have the top salaries, $6,000 to $10,000 and over. The report draws these deductions: "the better condition of the older women can be attributed partly to the tradition of responsibility for older employees and partly to the fact that the machine is not replacing mental workers in business and the professions in the same way it is toilers who work chiefly with their hands, but most of all this advantage is due to the plain and simple fact that where the work must be done with the head, the experience, sound judgment, steadiness and reliability of the mature workers are of even greater serviceability to the employer than the pep and go, the enthusiasm, energy and enterprise of the new recruits." Why Not Give Training for Courtship and Marriage? NY reader of the daily papers is appalled at the number of divorces. Various reasons are advanced for the instability of marriage at the present time, but so far there seems to be no return to the old conditions where it was the exception for divorce to take place. The University of Washington (Washington) is considering placing in its curricula a course in marriage, its purpose being to instruct men students how to avoid unhappy unions. Dr. Hayner, Associate Professor of Sociology in this institution, says two-thirds of the marriages of the university's graduates are successful and the suggested course in problems of courtship, engagements, the wedding, adjustments in personalities, child training, divorce and the problems of the unmarried should tend to make more of them successful. The course will be open only to senior men. It will foster frank discussion of marriage problems. Dr. Hayner says similar courses are offered at the University of North Carolina and at the Universities of Wisconsin and Michigan. Dr. Jesse F. Steiner, head of the Sociology Department, said the suggested course is much needed in our modern cultural world. It seems a strange thing that universities have not for many years past had courses that would train young men and women for proper courtship and marriage. The information that could be imparted in such classes we think would lessen to some extent at least the number of unfortunate marriages that lead to the divorce court. Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest ACH succeeding year there seems an increased interest in this poem contest. This year 96 poems were submitted, many of them of outstanding merit. It was not an easy task to select from this number two for first and second prize, respectively and three for honorable mention. The General Board of the Relief Society, who sponsor this memorial are most grateful to all who entered the contest. There must be an inward satisfaction in the thought one has created anything as beautiful as a poem even though the prize is not won. It is to be regretted that some poems could not be considered owing to the fact that the authors did not conform to the rules of the contest which are published each year in the August Relief Society magazine, The judges this year were Dr. Joshua H. Paul, former professor at the Utah University, Mrs. Maud B. Jacobs, instructor in literature, and Mrs. Inez Knight Allen of the General Board of the Relief Society. The first prize was awarded to Vesta P. Crawford of Salt Lake City, for her poem "Drought." The second prize to Alberta Huish Christensen of Long Island, N. Y., for her poem "To The Lean Years." For honorable mention, "My Missingness," by Mrs. Henry Raile, Salt Lake City. "Ruins," by Mrs. Mary D. Martineau of Tucson, Arizona and "Sanctuary," by Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor of Salt Lake City. Readers of the Magazine are sure to enjoy these excellent poems and we congratulate the successful authors. Annie Wells Cannon, Julia A. F. Lund, Rosannah C. Irvine, Lottie Paul Baxter, Mary C. Kimball, Poem Contest Committee. Three New Stakes E are glad to learn of the organization of two more Stakes in California, Gridley and Sacramento. Ruth B. Sampson is President of the Gridley Stake Relief Society and Olive Lindblad Stake Relief Society President of Sacramento. We rejoice also that the New York Stake, making the 110th Stake in the Church, was organized Sunday, December 11th. We have not yet received the name of their Relief Society President. We wish these Stakes every success and much joy in their work. Index for Magazine It Is a very desirable thing to have the Relief Society Magazines bound. The price of binding is: cloth $1.50, leather $2.00. We furnish the index free of charge but do not pay the postage. Those who desire to bind the Magazines themselves may secure an index by sending 2c for postage. EDITORIAL 49 Lesson Department (First Week in March) Theology and Testimony LESSON VI GEMS OF TRUTH 1. Introductory. This lesson, also the next, deals with gems of truth selected from the Doctrine and Covenants. Each selection is an epitomized statement of some distinctive phase of Latter-day Saint theology, and therefore lends itself to far more extensive treatment than is given herewith. Sufficient suggestions, however, are given in each case to enable the teacher to develop the topics as fully as time will permit. 2. Language of Modern Scriptures. In his introduction to the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord says: "These commandments are of me, and were given unto my servants in their weakness, after the manner of their language, that they might come to understanding." (D. And C. 1:24). The Lord then goes on to say that his commandments were given in this form that they who sin may be chastened, that they who repent may receive light, that they who are humble may be made strong, and that the Church may be brought out of obscurity and darkness for the salvation of the human race. Indeed, "I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh; for I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh when peace shall be taken from the earth. Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled." (D. And C. 1:34-37.) 3. The Lord's testimony is plain and easily understood. He has so worded the commandments that men cannot fail to understand them, since he is not only willing but anxious that all men should come unto him. The clarity of modern scriptures and the readiness with which they can be understood, even by the layman, form a bold contrast with the abstruseness attached to the Bible by some of the more populous Christian sects. 4. Endless and Eternal Punishment. "For, behold, the mystery of godliness, how great is it! For, behold, I am endless, and the punishment which is given from my hand is endless punishment, for Endless is my name. Wherefore — Eternal punishment is God's punishment. Endless punishment is God's punishment." (D. And C. 19:10-12.) This simple statement settles for all time a dispute that has rent the Christian world for ages, namely: Will certain transgressors be punished for their sins throughout all future time, without cessation and without end? The affirmative answer to this question—sponsored by numerous Christian professors—has made of Deity a monster devoid of even the fundamental elements of pity and forgiveness. Moreover it has deprived Christianity of the support of untold numbers of men and women who otherwise would have been its valiant adherents. Now, it is known that God's punishment, if endured even for an instant, is both Endless and Eternal. LESSON DEPARTMENT I 5. Importance of Prophetic Utterances. Speaking of Joseph Smith as prophet and leader of the Latterday Saints, the Lord says: “Wherefore, meaning the Church, thou shalt give heed unto all his words and commandments which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, walking in all holiness before me; For his word ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith." (D. And C. 21:4, 5.) 6. The foregoing declaration leaves no doubt of the binding importance of the words of Joseph Smith and his successors upon the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, for when the Prophet speaks in the name of God it carries the same importance as. If Deity himself had spoken. Latter-day Saints who understand this, never question the significance or propriety of the Prophet's utterances. On the other hand, those who fail to do so are not in full accord with the rule and teachings of the Church. 7. Authoritative Baptisms. Shortly after the Church was organized certain individuals who had previously been baptized into other faiths, desired to unite with the Church without re-baptism. The following statement was given of the Lord in answer to this request: "Behold, I say unto you that all old covenants have I caused to be done away in this thing; for this is a new and everlasting covenant, even that which was from the beginning. Wherefore, although a man should be baptized an hundred times it availeth him nothing." (D. And C. 22:1, 2.) The Latter-day Saints, therefore, are not able to accept ordinances performed by other Christian denominations. On the other hand, we can unite with them in the furtherance of all worthwhile endeavors. God himself has said, however, that all ordinances of the Church must be performed in the manner prescribed by him and by individuals vested with proper authority to do so. The world would profit almost immeasurably by understanding and embracing this basic truth. 8. Teachers, Attention: Having reference to those who are teachers within the Church, the Lord says: "The Spirit shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith; and if ye receive not, the Spirit ye shall not teach." (D. And C. 42:14.) The Doctrine and Covenants is replete with statements instructing teachers to familiarize themselves not only with the doctrines of the Church but with all other worthwhile things. (See D. And C. 26:1; 55:4; 88: 118). It is evident from the foregoing quotation that diligent preparation should be accompanied by an appeal to the Lord for his Spirit. Moreover, if this is not granted the teacher should not attempt to teach. The reasons for this are apparent:— Conversions to the Gospel of Jesus Christ are not made alone by facts and arguments, but by the Spirit of God. The following is a safe rule for every teacher: "Treasure up in your minds continually the words of life, and it shall be given you in the very hour that portion that shall be meted out unto every man." (D. And C. 84:85.) 9. Idleness Disapproved. Industry has ever characterized the teachings of the Latter-day Saints. Here is the word of the Lord: "Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer." Again, "Let every man be diligent in all things. And the idler shall not have place in the church, except he repent and mend his ways." (See D. And C. 42:42; 75:29.) Idleness is undesirable 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in many respects, but perhaps more particularly because of the injury and disintegration that it brings to those who indulge in it. Enforced idleness—such as that which is widespread at present among practically all civilized peoples—is quite another matter. And yet even in this case injury is likely to come to the persistent receiver if he is not required to put forth compensating effort. President Brigham Young recognized the insidious effects of idleness and accordingly kept his people busy at all times. If this had not been done his efforts to colonize the Intermountain West would have failed. 10. If a Brother or Sister Offend. Offenses are likely to arise. If they are encouraged and harbored, they become a canker to the soul, eating away its finer parts and leaving scarcely a semblance of its former beauty. Anger and hatred are as deadly to spiritual development as poison is to the body. Little wonder, then, that the Lord has said: "Ve ought to forgive one another; for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin. I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men. And ye ought to say in your hearts—Let God judge between me and thee, and reward thee according to thy deeds." (D. And C. 64:9-11.) The duty of the Latter-day Saints in this regard is thus perfectly clear. 11. Obedience to Civil Law. The Latter-day Saints are a peaceable law abiding people. One of their Articles of Faith reads, "We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law." Concerning these matters the Lord says: Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land. Wherefore, be subject to the powers that be, until he reigns whose right it is to reign, and subdues all enemies under his feet." (D. And C. 58:21, 22). Thus, in all nations of the world the Latter-day Saints are loyal both by precept and deed to the governments under which they live. They are not participants in uprisings and riots; nor do they take part in mobocracy or other forms of perfidious conduct. They believe in law and order, and are loyal both to law and to the officials entrusted with its administration. 12. The Sabbath Day. Touching this matter, the commandment of the Lord to ancient Israel reads: "Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work: but the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the Lord blessed the sabbath day and hallowed it." (Exodus 20:9-11.) 13. Of recent years much discussion has arisen concerning the identity of the seventh or sabbath day. It is generally agreed that at present Sunday is the first day, and Saturday, the seventh. For this reason, and others, certain religious sects, particularly the Jews and the Seventh Day Adventists, prefer to worship the Lord on Saturday. Since the time of the Savior, however, it has been necessary on several occasions to readjust the calendar because of earlier lack of knowledge of the precise number of days in a year. This has resulted in some uncertainty as to the exact identity of the original seventh day. Because of this, and because of the express LESSON DEPARTMENT 53 statement that "the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord," agreement does not exist among Christian people as to whether or not they are fulfilling the commandment of the Lord. 14. For themselves, however, the Latter-day Saints, do not share in this uncertainty. Listen to the word of the Lord to Joseph Smith: "But remember that on this, the Lord's day (Sunday), thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord." (Read D. And C. 59:9-f4.) 15. Whether Sunday—the Lord's Day—is identical with the original seventh day of old is thus of little importance to the Latter-day Saints. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Discuss the advantages to the Latter-day Saints of having the revelations written in language easily understood by them. 2. In what way has the doctrine of everlasting damnation injured the cause of Christianity? 3. Emphasize the importance of strict obedience to the counsel of the President of the Church. 4. Why is it necessary that teachers of the Gospel possess the Spirit of God? Give illustrations. 5. Cite illustration to show that the harboring of ill feelings is injurious to those who do so. 6. Why is idleness especially destructive of Latter-day Saint ideals? What is its effect upon progression? Teachers' Topic St. VALENTINE'S Day "All the world loves a lover." VALENTINE DAY, February fourteenth, has long been observed as a lover's festival. While not a serious holiday, many pretty customs and old superstitions are associated with its observance. Like many other customs that have originated far back in folk and village life, the valentine, with its lacy designs, with cupids and hearts galore, still holds the attention of youth for a message of love. The most accepted theory of the origin of the day is, that it was a Roman custom to celebrate the feasts of Lupercalia in the middle of February. A custom of this festival was for maiden's names to be placed in a box and men to, draw them out, the man to choose the maiden whose name he drew. In order to change the pagan elements of these feasts, the Christian pastors changed the maiden's names for saints, and named the day in honor of St. Valentine, who was martyred February 14, 270 A. D. Another theory is that the Norman word "galantin," which means a lover, was often spelled "'valatin." Both Chaucer and Shakespeare refer to the observance of the festival on the day in early spring, when birds first choose their mates. In England the custom long prevailed on that day of drawing lots to decide which young men and young women should be each other's valentines during the coming year. The couples thus drawn exchanged gifts and might be regarded as betrothed. The custom of sending written valentines in verse and anonymous was begun about the 15th century. To Charles, Duke of Orleans, who 54 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was taken prisoner at the Battle of Agincourt in 1415 and held for twenty-five years in the Tower of London, is attributed the credit of writing the first valentines. About sixty of these missives are now in the British Museum. In modern times the day is still observed more especially among the youth, by sending tokens of love or a small gift, and is remembered occasionally by older people who are especially fond of each other. The custom of sending the comic valentine, which at one time prevailed, has died out, or if there are those who persist in carrying out this idea, the Relief Society women should do what they can to discourage a habit so pernicious and unseemly. Literature (For Third Week in March) LIFE AND LITERATURE MODERN BIOGRAPHY "Many the things that strange and wondrous are, None stranger and more wonderful than man." LIFE is man's great adventure. In the conquest of his world he becomes a hero. In the Book of Literature is recorded the heroic experiences of mankind. Age-old is the worship of human achievements. As exploration, discovery, dominion, and invention have marked the path of man's progress through the ages, hero-worship has recorded the lives of the heroes in story, or song, or marble. As songs and stories are forgotten and as marble and monuments crumble man's heroism is not lost, it goes on in the experience of the race as a contribution to man's eternal destiny— happiness. Biography, The Art of Life Writing Biography is one of the oldest types of literature. Two thousand years ago Plutarch wrote his famous "Lives". From then until recent years only a few biographical works of excellence have found a place among the enduring works of literature. Today biography is one of —Sopheocles. The most popular forms of expression. It has become the art of lifewriting. The age-old interest in human achievement makes all men in all ages hero-worshipers. To this attitude in ancient peoples we owe the preservation of such individual lives, legendary or realities, as Joseph of Egypt, Prometheus, Job, Ruth, Socrates, Ulysses, Siegfried, and Arthur of Britain. The first great biographer—still considered by many to be the best—wrote as an explanation to his work "Lives", "My design is not to write histories but lives." Thus the real objective of biography becomes not merely a history of a life but a portrait of an individual. Dryden, the English Literary scholar, in 1685 gave to the life-story of an individual the title "Biography," and to the literary form the definition, "the history of particular men's lives." Thus the tradition of greatness became a standard for the selection of the materials of biography and history became the pattern of LESSON DEPARTMENT 55 writing. As a result many biographies are merely chronological records and records of achievement. Lives of rulers, statesmen, military leaders, poets, and artists became the biographical vogue. Later biography accepted the dictum expressed by Longfellow: "Lives of great men all remind us, We can make our lives sublime, And departing leave behind us, Footprints on the sands of time." Goodness as a quality directed biography to become eulogistic. Concerned with being monumental and inspirational writers stripped their subjects of human weaknesses making them heroic rather than human. Sainte Beuve (sant buv), the French critic, in his work "Eighteenth Century Portraits" brought a new conception to this literary form, that of a literary portrait. The French school of writers developed the idea so effectively that modern biography has accepted as its task "the truthful transmission of personality"—the portrait of the soul of man. Biography as a portrait sets down more than facts, achievement, and eulogy; it records the "why" of a life. This new art of life-writing is the most delicate and most human of all branches of modern literature because its basis is human life and human nature. The story of biography as a literary form includes the growth of a variety of self-expression—autobiography, memoirs, confessions, journals, diaries, and letters. The various forms of self-writing are motivated by a sense of individuality. To the "Recollections" of Xenephon and the "Dialogues" of Plato we are indebted for our understanding of the great Greek philosopher, Socrates. The famous Roman general Julius Cesar left a valuable record of his military career in his "Commentaries." Marcus Aurelius, the Latin philosopher recorded his intellectual and moral interests in his "Meditations." The confession is the most interesting form of autobiography. The tendency to extol, to monumentize, to forget, to rationalize are all evident as the author lays bare his inner life. 'The Confessions of St. Augustine" written 397 A. D. Was a definite influence towards subjectivity in self-expression. The world famous autobiography of Benvenuto Cellini (chel le ne) written early in the fifteenth century is a revealing picture of the Italian sculptor as libertine, braygart, and saint. The "Confessions''" of Rousseau (roos so) the French moralist, startled the eighteenth century with a frankness that bordered upon indelicacy. Of the minor forms of autobiography, the journal is usually a straight-forward record of events, while the letter is an initmate personal affair. The letter is the more revealing of the two forms, the life of George Eliot so ably constructed from her letters by her husband J. W. Cross, and the romance of the Brownings recorded in their letters mark the literary peak of the simplest form of self-writing. The diary is the unpretensious and sincere autobiographical form written generally for individual pleasure. This was the case with the world renowned Pepys' Diary (peps or pepys). Whatever the form selfwriting takes the fact remains "that there is neither picture nor image of marble, nor sumptuous sepulchre can match the durableness of an eloquent biography." Modern Biography In recent years biographers have endeavored to portray realities, not mere puppets stalking across a stage. 56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Hence the modern life-writer must be a student of human character as well as a chronicler; neither does he judge or criticize, he reveals and he exposes, but always walks behind his characters. The realistic movement in fiction coupled with the demand of the reader for "real life,” has given rise to the modern imaginative and impressionistic pattern. The modern biographer courageously gathers all the outward facts that can be obtained, these he tries to use to reveal accurately the hidden springs of character that motivated the life of his subject. He must at all times be objective and truthful— he must reveal not invent, never forgetting his obligation to his subject and to his art. It is to be regretted, however, that many of the new biographers have elected to over-emphasize the defects of their subjects rather than to truthfully reveal their lives. Amy Lowell, the author of the "Life of Keats," explains herself thus, "My object has been to make the reader feel as though he were living with Keats, subject to the same influences that surrounded him, watching the advent of poems as from day to day they sprang into being." To the reader who has sought to understand the enigma of Edgar Allen Poe, the life work "Israel" by Harvey Allen is most enlightening because "the shadows of the portrait are not left out nor are they too distorted." To read of Jane Carlyle, wife of the great historian from Froude's life we see a sensitive woman, unhappy and misunderstood, but to read Miss Drew's life of Jane Carlyle one sees an impatient garrulous woman the victim of self-pity, the wife of a patient and devoted husband. The explanation is simple, Froude loved Jane Carlyle; Miss Drew admired Thomas Carlyle. Few subjects have been as fortunate as Dr. Johnson to have a Boswell for a biographer, to associate with him during life and create the portrait from day to day out of conversations, moods, and actions. That it is the ideal way is true, but all biographers are not Boswells, and all subjects are not Samuel Johnsons. As the years go by, however, we are assured that the interest in human life will not wane, that the admiration of human courage will not cease, and that the understanding of human conflicts will not diminish, because biography will help to keep alive the torch of the spirit in man. Tradition says great people are fit subjects for biography but art does not accept this consideration. If the modern life-story conforms to the ideal of a literary portrait the basis of judgment is the portrayal not of the greatness of the subject. One is reminded that it is the smile of "Mona Lisa" that lingers in the memory not the name of the subject of the portrait. A human life is made up of a number of motifs around these the biographer weaves his story realizing that "there is no life of man faithfully recorded, but it is a heroic poem of its sort rhymed or unrhymed." Three Modern Biographers Among modern biographers we find three who have achieved fame as literary artists: Andre Maurois, French; Lytton Strachey, English; Gamaliel Bradford, American. Andre Maurois in his work "Aspects of Biography" has revealed the growth of his greatest works "Amiel, the life of Shelley" and "Disraeli". Of the writing of "Amiel" the author relates the reading of a life of Shelley gave him keen pleasure, because some of the poet's experiences he could understand. After careful research he wove the three characters, Shelley, Harriet, his wife, and Mary Godwin into a novel. Finding that this was the wrong approach, the author cast the materials into the form of a life-story, finding joy in his own expression because the romanticism of the poet was the romanticism of every young man. Of writing 'Disraeli' Maurois relates: "JT had no love for the young Disraeli with his gold chains, his elaborate waistcoats, and his ambitions. But I had immense sympathy for the Disraeli who discovered the opposition of a hostile world, for the Disraeli so grossly attacked by secondrate opponents; for the Disraeli who stuck to his guns and never accepted defeat, for the Disraeli who was the tender husband of Mary Ann and the faithful friend of John Manners I learned through him the meaning of old age and of the approach of death—a piece of hard and inevitable schooling." Always writing with enthusiasm, with understanding sincerity, with lucidity Andre Maurois is a great biographer. Lytton Strachey, eminent English biographer, set a new standard for writing in "Eminent Victorians" and "Queen Victoria." Educated at Cambridge he became a writer for periodicals. Using the method of the novelist, he presented the lives of the people whom he had studied so sympathetically and with such deep understanding that almost instantly fame was his. "Queen Victoria" is a portrait of awoman. It is not a record of English affairs or English life, always we see the little Victorian. We see "Dear Albert," we see Victoria not as a queen but as a woman, whether she is writing in her diary, or at an evening chess party at Windsor Castle. The work of Lytton Strachey has been the motivating force of the new school of modern biography. Gamaliel Bradford, American, is a prolific biographer. “Confederate Portraits" "portraits of women." "Damaged Souls" and "Biography and the Human Heart" are considered by many to be his best work. To write biography as a literary portrait has been his purpose. Because ''we live and move in a world of shadows, in which there is one intense reality, the reality called I, which perhaps is the vaguest shadow of all. Gamaliel Bradford has sought to understand human ntaure. As man's greatest interest is life, Gamaliel Bradford has abiding faith that to read biography will bring to man not only entertaniment, but some increase in patience, in sympathy, in tolerance and love. The Portrait of a Woman Emily Dickenson is one of the most interesting figures in American Literature. It has been said that her life could be told in three lines. "Born in Amherst. Lived in Amherst. Died in Amherst." When she died in 1886 seven hundred of her poems in manuscript were found in an old mahogany chest with certain old letters all marked to be burned. Since the publication of the poems a chorus of praise has acclaimed the work to be that of a genius. It has been characterized "as perhaps the finest by a woman in the English language." Other enthusiastic admirers consider her the greatest woman poet since Sappho. The poetry of Emily Dickenson has no parallel in the whole of literature. The chief subjects are—life, love, nature, time, eternity. The poems are short intense flashes of suggestiveness. Gamaliel Bradford calls them ''Clods of fire, shreds of heaven, snatches of eternity." Only two persons knew Emily Dickenson intimately, herself and her "Sister Sue," her brother's wife. For the last thirty years of her life she was a recluse. -Her devoted LESSON DEPARTMENT 57 58 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE biographer Martha Dickenson Bianchi, has described her thus: “Fascination was her element. She was not daily bread, she was star dust. Her solitude made her and was part of her." She lived spiritually within her own heart and mind. The facts of Emily Dickenson's life are simple to relate, yet fraught with tremendous significance. Her life was spent in the little town of Amherst, Massachusetts. Her father a prominent lawyer was also treasurer of Amherst College. At the age of fifteen she was a sensitive girl with a greedy mind reveling in nature and believing that it was a terrible thing to grow up. Everything interested her when she went to complete her education at Mt. Holyoke Seminary. During these days she wrote for fun, but encouraged by a tutor she began to write seriously. In the winter of 1853 came the experience which changed the course of her life. A carefree happy young woman went to spend the winter with her father, a member of congress at Washington. There she met a brilliant young engineer, Edward Hunt. Overwhelming was the mental and spiritual attraction between the two only to become a tragic force, because he was already married. After parting they never met again. For forty years Emily Dickenson kept her love story a secret from her family. She sang her love, however, in her poems. When Major Hunt was accidentally killed during a naval experiment, Emily Dickenson's creative life was stimulated. Her sensitive being seemed to be nurtured by this extreme suffering. Her withdrawal from the world was the natural thing for an individual of her sensitivity. Her poetry is not the expression of a saddened recluse; it is the expression of a great spiritual experience. We read her poems with reverent sympathy remembering that there is a divinity that is the birthright of a poet. It would seem that this gift was the endowment of Emily Dickenson. " Of the poems of Emily Dickenson the following are best known: "If I Can Stop One Heart From Breaking," "We Never Know How High We Are," "The Soul Selects Her Own Society," "A Word," "I Took One Draught of Life," "Renunciation," "I Read My Sentence Steadily." Her love poems merged into death poems as she approached eternity; "A Wife at Daybreak I Shall Be" concluded the series thus: "Eternity, I'm coming Master I've seen thy face before." Death but the drifts of Eastern Gray Dissolving in the East away Before the West begins." The immortal eight lines recording the tragedy of her life and indicative of her poetic power have given her the right to be considered among the finest of modern poets: "My life closed twice before its close; It yet remains to see If Immortality unveil A third event to me. "So huge, so hopeless to conceive, As these that twice befell Parting is all we know of heaven, And all we need of hell." A Modern Biography "Mary of Nazareth" by Mary Borden is a portrait of the mother of Jesus. The reader can do no other than approach the book in wonder at the courage and daring of the author. The biography is a recreation of the life of a woman of Palestine at the time of Christ. The creator, a careful student of historical, sociological and religious conditions of the Hebrews of this period, has drawn the picture sympathetically in quiet colors. Throughout LESSON DEPARTMENT the story we see Mary as she reveals herself at the Feast of the Passover when Jesus remained at the temple to question the elders— the spirit of anxiety but not of complete understanding. The narrative follows the activities of Jesus, dealing chiefly with Mary's concern for her son, at times following him to Capernaum, at others patiently waiting at Nazareth for any news, but always anxious over the growing antagonism of the Jews. Mary of Magdala understands the mission of Jesus and tries to help Mary in the understanding of her Son's divine mission. There are several scenes of poignant' beauty in the book:—Mary is teaching her little grandchildren a portion of Hebraic law. As they kneel at her feet they chant aloud to her question, "Of what shall the sabbath lamps be lighted?' They respond in desultory fashion as Mary's mind is wandering in anxiety to her son now performing miracles in Capernaum. The scene of the meeting of the mother of Jesus with Mary of Magdala is arresting in its significance. As the women follow Jesus during his trial and crucifixion the suffering is intense but delicately portrayed. In closing the book the reader admits that the task of the author is well done, and it is almost with the feeling of gratitude that the approach has been so gentle and has been so objective with so much respect for the religious beliefs of mankind. As the great masters painted Mary as the Maddona we accept their portraits. Mary Borden's work is a portrait of Mary of Nazareth, revealing not divinity but the mother of Jesus of Nazareth. Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature—Macy. 2. Portraits of Women—Bradford. 3. Aspects of Biography—Maurots. 4. Poems of Emily Dickenson. B. Program: 1. Discussion a. The Art of Life-writing. B. Aspects of Modern Biography. 2. Review a. A modern biography. B. An intimate biography of a woman either intimately known or sincerely admired by the group. 3. Readings a. Selections from the poems of Emily Dickenson accompanied by a brief sketch of her life. Objective: This lesson is planned to give an understanding of biography as a literary form because of its significant place in the literature of today. Social Service (Fourth Week in March) SAMUEL G. HowE AND THE PuysitcaLtty HANDICAPPED the history of human welfare work is the apparently accidental way in which great moveOi of the strangest things in ments began—a prison scene in the life of Mrs. Fry, the appointment of John Howard as sheriff, and the fainting of a poor woman in Octavia 60 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Hill's kitchen. It was the same in the case of the man who began the work for the blind. 1. A Scene in Paris, France In 1771 a fair was held in Paris. It was an annual event, and drew thousands into the city from all parts of the land. A certain innkeeper, hoping to make what profits he could from the fair, determined upon an unusual spectacle. Gathering all the blind men he could find, he dressed them in fantastic apparel and trained them for a burlesque play, a sort of comic opera. Most of them wore tall pointed hats, they had on pasteboard spectacles, and the head player was decorated with peacock feathers and the headdress of Midas. The play was repeated day after day. This degrading scene proved a great hit with those who had come to the city for the fair, as well as with the townspeople generally. They had never witnessed such a sight before; it brought many a small coin into the coffers of the tavern keeper. One of the spectators, however, had very different feelings from the rest of the onlookers. His heart was filled with pity that any one should think so lightly of these poor unfortunates as to make a jest of them. There may have been others who thought the same thing, but this particular man believed that something should be done about it. Herein lay the chief difference between him and them—a difference that was to mean so much to the blind in years to come. This man's name was Hauy (pronounced Hawee, with the accent on the second syllable). The brother of a celebrated physicist and mineralogist, he was then only twenty-seven years old. Always, in the countries, there had been blind men. A few of these became famous—Nicholas Saunderson, an Englishman, for instance, who, after taking a degree at Cambridge, became professor of mathematics there, and the Swiss naturalist, Francis Huber, who, with the assistance of his wife, actually wrote a book on The Habits of Ants. Homer and Milton, one remembers were also blind. But, for the most part, blind persons, men and women, had taken to begging on the streets, as the only means of obtaining a livelihood. They were uniformly objects of pity everywhere. Blind beggars were as common a sight on the streets of Paris as they were in other European cities of the same size. No sooner had Valentin Hauy conceived the idea that he ought to do something for the blind than he went about his self-imposed task. He began his work by teaching a blind boy in his neighborhood, who had been in the habit of begging at a church door. Encouraged by his success with this lad, Hauy collected other blind persons, and taught them in the same way. In 1784 he established in Paris a school for the blind, the first of its kind in the world. One day his first pupil, while sorting papers on his teacher's desk, came across a card strongly indented by type, some of the letters on which he was able to make out. When he reported this discovery to the master, Hauy got the idea of raised letters as a means of teaching the blind to read. Presently he gave a public exhibition of his pupils, one before King Louis XVI and his court, with the result that, as long as the novelty lasted, he received financial help from individuals, and later from the state. As time went on schools for the blind were established in Vienna, Berlin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and other continental and English cities —all growing out of the work of Valentin Hauy. LESSON DEPARTMENT 61 2. The Work Takes Hold in America. These schools for the blind in various parts of Europe resulted, as one might easily suppose, from visits to the Paris institution by interested persons—Klein from Vienna, Zeune from Berlin, Gall from Edinburgh, and Alston from Glasgow. As a matter of fact, one of the two first schools of the kind in America came from a similar visit to the French institution by Dr. John D. Fisher, of Boston. Although, as we are told, the best schools for the blind are to be found in Germany and Austria at the present time, yet Dr. Fisher established in Boston a better institution of the kind than was then to be found in any European country. This was probably due to the fact that in the Boston school there was at its head one of the most remarkable men who ever engaged in the work of teaching. This man was Dr. Samuel G. Howe. Dr. Howe was the husband of Julia Ward Howe, an American writer who, through her most famous poem, the Battle Hymn of the Republic, stirred the feelings of patriotism in her fellow citizens during the civil war days. He was born in Boston, Massachusetts, in 1810, and died in 1876. When he was twentyone, he was graduated from Brown University in the arts course, and three years later from Harvard University with a degree in medicine. Human welfare work was a passion with him. That is the reason, most likely, why he studied medicine in the first place. It furnishes the reason, too, for his war work among the Greeks across the ocean. For, at the age of twenty-three, he went to Greece to help in the cause of freedom. After he got there he found that he could best serve the cause by returning to America and raising money and provisions; and this he did, going back to Greece with sixty thousand dollars, which he had raised chiefly among his friends here. His native interest in human beings, also, supplied the urge in him for his opposition to slavery. His chief contribution, however, to human welfare lies in his extraordinary work for the blind, the deaf and dumb, and the feeble-mimded. Indeed, his work with these is outstanding. ° One day Dr. Fisher, with a friend, was walking on the street in Boston. Dr. Fisher, as already stated, had become interested in work for the blind through visiting the Hauy institution in Paris. He was now contemplating the establishment of such a school in Boston, and was in eager search of a suitable person to take charge of it. Suddenly he stopped and said to his friend, "There's the man we are looking for!" And he pointed to Dr. Howe. A bargain was struck there and then, and the adventurous Howe was made head of an institution that had an existence, for the moment, only in the minds of Dr. Fisher and his interested friends. No better choice could have been made, as the event was to prove. The first thing that Dr. Howe did was to make another journey to Europe, for the purpose of studying the best methods of dealing with, and teaching, the blind. With this end in view he visited the Hauy school in Paris and the institution for the blind in Edinburgh. An incident that happened before his return throws light on the character of Howe. He wrote home that "some matters of private interest" required that he get permission for a further absence, which was granted. The "matters of private interest" proved to be carrying funds and supplies to the disheartened Poles, in their struggle for freedom. A little 62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE after this he was imprisoned secretly by the German government, and his release secured with difficulty, through a happy coincidence. The first pupils in the new American school for the blind were Abby and Sophia Carter, "two pretty little girls, one about six, the other about eight years old, tidily dressed, and standing hand in hand hard by the toll-house." On receiving the consent of their parents, Dr. Howe took them to his father's house, where the first school was held. It was then, and has continued to be, a private school, although its first money ($1,500) was contributed by the state legislature. The year following the establishment of the Boston school for the blind, the legislature appropriated the sum of six thousand dollars for the support of the institution. This was after an exhibition of the pupils by Dr. Howe before this body. This exhibition before the legislature was followed by others, one in Salem and one in Boston. At a fair in the former town the women raised nearly three thousand dollars for the school, and in the latter city the women there, not to be outdone, raised more than eleven thousand dollars at a bazaar in Faneuil Hall. Presently a wealthy man in Boston, Thomas H. Perkins, gave his mansion on Pearl Street as a home for the school—provided that fifty thousand dollars was raised. With this new home and some money, the institution for the blind was now well established. 3. Laura Bridgman Dr. Howe's remarkable powers of observation, of patient waiting for results, and of his unusual resourcefulness are indicated in his work with Laura Bridgman. Laura Bridgman, when she came to the Boston institution, was seven years old. This was in 1837. She had had "fits" till she was about a year and a half old, and at two she had contracted scarlet fever, which left her without sight and hearing, and almost without the power to smell. In consequence, of course, she was also dumb. On recovering from her illness she was an invalid for two years. ''The storm of disease gradually abated, however," says Dr. Howe, "and the wreck at last floated peacefully upon the stream of life. But what a wreck! Blind, deaf, dumb, and, moreover, without that distinct consciousness of individual existence, which is developed by the exercise of the senses." In this condition Laura entered the school. Dr. Howe had for some time been deeply interested in the problem raised by the case of Laura Bridgman. He had followed with intense interest the experiments that had proved futile in the case of Julia Brace, at Hartford, Connecticut, in the American Asylum there. And so, when he read an account of Laura Bridgman, written by Dr. Mussey, he said to himself, as he tells us, "Here is an opportunity of assisting an unfortunate child, and, moreover, of deciding the question so often asked, whether a blind-mute can be taught to use an arbitrary language." In all of Dr. Howe's efforts to educate and train Laura the chief purpose, of course, was to get her to learn the language—"without which," as he truly says, 'she could never attain any considerable development of intellect, or of affections." This could be done, however, in only one of two ways. First, she might be taught a sign for everything. She was very fond, for instance, of figs, and she learned to make a sign which signified that she wanted a fig. But to have a separate sign for everything meant the multiplicity of signs LESSON DEPARTMENT 63 beyond the power of the mind to remember. So Dr. Howe quickly abandoned this plan. Second, she would have to be taught "a system of purely arbitrary signs, by combinations of which she could give names to anything and everything: that is, the letters of the alphabet." How this was accomplished is one of the most fascinating stories in teaching. First he put before her such articles as key, spoon, knife, together with the words "key", "spoon", and "knife" in raised letters. These she learned to associate in her mind. 'So keen was the sense of touch in her tiny fingers that she immediately perceived that the crooked lines in the word key differed as much in form from the crooked lines in the word spoon as one article differed from the other." Next "similar labels, on detached pieces of paper, were put into her hands, and she now observed that the raised letters on these labels resembled those pasted upon the articles. She showed her perception of this resemblance by placing the label with the word key upon the key, and the label spoon upon the spoon." Presently she was able to find the label for the article and to place it where it belonged. "The next step was to give a knowledge of the component parts of the complex sign, book, for instance. This was done by cutting up the label into four parts, each part having a letter upon it." At first she was puzzled, but gradually it began to dawn upon her that "here was a way by which she could herself make up a sign of anything that was in her own mind, and show it to another mind." Immediately her face lighted up with a human expression. She was no longer a parrot. She was an immortal spirit, eagerly seizing upon a new link of union with other spirits. It was a great, a dramatic moment. From now on progress was easier. This method of teaching the word first and then the letters anticipated by decades the present method of teaching beginners in the public schools. 4. Growth of the Work in the United States. Although, as already stated, the Boston institution was not actually the first school for the blind established in the United States, the one in New York preceding it by a few months, yet the Boston school may be said to be the parent of the movement in this country for the education of the physically handicapped here, and Dr. Samuel G. Howe the real pioneer in the movement. We have already seen that Dr. Howe gave an exhibition of his pupils before the legislature of Massachusetts. He did so, too, in other States, where it was desired to found institutions for the blind—in New York, in Pennsylvania, in the New England States generally. Thus, in 1833, a school was established in Philadelphia; in 1835, one in Delaware; in 1836, one in New Jersey: in 1837, one in Maryland; in 1837 also, one in Ohio. After this came the institutions for the blind in Virginia (1839), Kentucky (1842), Tennessee (1843), Illinois (1848). Wisconsin (1849), Georgia (1851). And so on till now almost every State in the Union makes some provision for its physically handicapped citizens. It should be noted here that the 'assumption respecting work for the blind-mutes is different in America and Europe. Whereas in this country we are willing to help these unfortunates, in Europe they take it for granted that they cannot make a living in the world, and must not be expected to do so. Accordingly in Europe instruction of the blind ends at fourteen years of age, after 64 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE which purely vocational work is given them—handicraft, piano-tuning, etc. Dr. Howe, in this respect, was beforehanded. "You may give the blind," he says, "the means of earning their own livelihood, or at least of doing much towards it; you may light the lamp of knowledge within them." And he went on to say that the object in the education of the blind is "to take from society so many dead weights, and enable them to get their own livelihood; society ought not to consider any capital so invested as a sinking fund for the redemption of its charitable debt." He believed that girls and boys ought to be kept separate in institutions for the blind, and at first he was opposed to the blind marrying, though he afterwards modified this view to the extent of allowing them to marry one who could see. Not only may Dr. Howe be regarded as the father of the movement for the education of the blindmute in America, but his home in Boston proved to be the center in this country of the interest in the work for the physically and mentally handicapped. "Here Dorothea Dix came to ask advice in her crusade in the aid of the insane; here Horace Mann discussed the questions of public education. Charles Sumner spent many a night here talking on the burning subjects of slavery and secession. Theodore Parker's voice rang through these rooms 'like a hammer which breaketh the rocks' of superstition and formality. Charles Dickens passed hours here, and carried away impressions which he never lost." When Dr. Howe passed away, the governor of Massachusetts sent a special mesasge to the legislature, which was then in session, calling attention to the State's loss "of a distinguished citizen." And at the funeral of Laura Bridgman, Edward Everett Hale gave an address, from which the following is taken: "Owing to the life of this woman, there has been taken a step forward and upward in the education of children in all civilized lands. God has so ordered it, in his providence and wisdom, that in the marvelous develpoment of her life a step was taken which has changed all education, in what it was, what it is, and what it promises to be. And that is the feeling which the world will have, as from nation to nation it comes to know that Laura Bridgmen has passed from life to life.". This was, of course, high praise of the work of Dr. Samuel G. Howe, for without him Laura Bridgman would have been nothing. Incidentally it should be added that Anna M. Sullivan, teacher of Hellen Keller, was a pupil-assistant of Dr. Howe in the Boston school. Class Discussion 1. What facilities has your community and State for the education and vocational training of the blind and deaf? Those who are familiar with what is done in the State institutions and what they have to offer, can be of great service to the handicapped in their community. For instance, the circulating library for the blind, the traveling teacher, the work shops and reading rooms, as well as the institutions and associations for the blind. We suggest that a class member be asked to report on all the resources for the betterment of the blind and the deaf. 2. Tell something about the Braille system of reading and how it originated. The associations of the blind are very much opposed to the blind begging. What do you think is the reason for this disapproval? 3. Tell something of the life of Hellen Keller. How was she indebted to Dr. Howe? LESSON DEPARTMENT 65 Mission Lessons LESSON VI. HEALTH AND HOME NURSING MEDICINE CABINET "Health and cheerfulness mutually beget each other.”—Addison. WE learn from a certain nursery rhyme that "for the want of a nail, a city was lost." It so happened only recently in a home, that a thumb was lost for want of a good antiseptic at the time of injury. Too often an emergency arises which requires some simple remedy that is to be handled properly and readily if the right materials are available, and many real tragedies may be averted by a little fore-thought. Preparedness in the home, to meet the minor emergencies and to treat the common ailments, requires a medicine chest. No home, especially one with growing children, is complete without one. True, the drug store may be just around the corner—but home accidents are apt to occur any time when the drug store doors are closed. It is most embarrassing, in the wee small hours of the morning to be compelled to borrow from a neighbor, a simple remedy which should be found in every well regulated household. In time of health prepare for sickness. Somewhere in every household, usually on a back shelf and covered with dust, are to be found a few indifferent remedies. These medicines may be scattered through the toilet articles; they may be cluttered up with shoe horns, hair grease, face creams, old razor blades, etc.,— so the family medicine chest actually becomes a family menace. The value of a medicine cabinet is in keeping the necessary articles in good condition. 'Check the medicines as they are used just as you do your groceries, and replenish as soon as possible." Get rid of the non-essentials. Most patent medicines and cure-alls are worthless. The value of many patent medicines is greatly exaggerated through advertising claims. Many of them are absolutely worthless and yet some have sold as high as twelve dollars per bottle. Old prescriptions should be thrown away. Drugs deteriorate with age and a prescription for one illness is not good for another. Do not buy drugs in large quantities. Some drugs become very concentrated with age, and tincture of iodine with evaporation of the alcohol, may become very caustic and its application produce a burn or a blister. Drugs are not as popular as they were fifty years ago. Modern treatment emphasizes the value of diet, baths, rest, and other corrective measures for the treatment of sickness. Prevention is still more important than cure, but the fact remains that in every home accidents do happen and sometimes sickness is present. It is important therefore that every home should have some first aid supplies, and a few remedies which have a definite use and value in common ailments. "Medicine can be helpful at the right time and harmful at the wrong time." It is not intended that we prescribe for ourselves and make a diagnosis always of our own ailment, this must be left to a physician. Someone has said that a sick person who prescribes and treats his own ailment has a fool for a patient. We may not all agree as to what remedies we should include in our 66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE medicine chest; but in most emergencies there are certain well known remedies, which have stood the test of time, and these should be found there. A medicine cabinet may be a very elaborate affair, or it may be a very simple, effective and useful addition to every home, giving a sense of comfort and security. It should hang on the wall of the bathroom, well out of the way of the children. It would be well to paint it white and a red cross, the symbol of relief the world over, could be painted in the door. Glass shelves are preferable, they show the dust and are easily cleaned. Keep the medicine cabinet clean. Keep toilet articles away from the medicines. Get rid of the old things and arrange the medicines so they can be found when needed. Keep the labels on bottles clean and readable. When you pour medicine from a bottle remember always to keep the label side up, and by doing so none of the contents will spoil the label. Wipe bottles off after using. Parents who are taking sugar coated pills and chocolate covered tablets often leave them carelessly about the bathroom shelves. Such tablets are a source of great danger to children. They often contain strychnine, and a child attracted by "the bright color and sweet flavor fails to notice the bitter underneath." Children have been poisoned by this negligence. Warning labels should be on all such remedies. They must be kept in the medicine cabinet away from children.. Never take medicine in the dark. If you are taking a liquid medicine always shake the bottle before pouring. Follow directions absolutely, giving just the amount ordered. Cork the bottle at once and replace it on the shelf. It is important that you read the label three times; first as you take the medicine from the chest, next after you have poured it out, and third as you replace the bottle back upon the shelf. Always do this before taking a dose of medicine, it is a good habit to acquire. A little water, a piece of cracker or cheese or a peppermint, immediately after taking medicine will make it more palatable. There are certain well established drugs and first aid supplies the value of which cannot be disputed and these should always be found in the medicine cabinet. The Contents of the Medicine Cabinet EXTERNAL USE TINCTURE OF IODINE, two ounces—ask the druggist to dilute the regular tincture of iodine with alcohol, making it just one-half strength, AS A DISINFECTANT —This is used on cuts and wounds. Allow it to dry before applying the dressing. TURPENTINE — three ounces —an excellent disinfectant for small fresh cuts, especially on the hand. Soak a small piece of gauze in the turpentine and bandage it over the cut. This remedy is also good to remove wood-ticks. HYDROGEN PEROXIDE— four ounces — a fine disinfectant for the more delicate structures. Excellent for stopping bleeding and when a piece of gauze is soaked with peroxide it makes an effective pack to stop nose-bleed. ABSORBENT COTTON—two one-ounce packages. Wash clean and scald a small one pint fruit jar, wet the large end of a tooth-pick, and wrap small pieces of cotton around it. This makes an excellent swab or applicator, and many of these can be kept in the jar and will always be ready for use. LESSON DEPARTMENT 67 GAUZE BANDAGES — two bandages each of the following sizes: one inch, two inches and three inches. All bandages to be left in original packages. STERILE GAUZE —two one yard packages. Keep the gauze in the original packages. Handle it only by the corners when applying a dressing. Always use gauze next to a wound and never cotton. A little cotton, however, placed on the outside of the gauze before bandage is applied will help keep the dressing in place. SPOOL OF ADHESIVE—one spool of adhesive one inch wide will meet most of the requirements. Useful sometimes in bringing the cut surfaces of a. Wound together, also to assist in keeping the dressings in place. WHITE VASELINE—one tube, can be used as a dressing for burns, also an excellent ointment for skin irritation and small abrasions. PICRIC ACID GAUZE—a very éffective dressing for burns. BORIC ACID POWDER—one three ounce tin. A teaspoonful of this powder to a cup of water makes a good eye lotion and can also be used as a mouth wash. Some SAFETY PINS and a blunt pair of SCISSORS complete the articles on the top shelf of the medicine cabinet. INTERNAL USE CASTOR OIL — four ounces. Dose, tablespoon for children. Adults about twice that much. Can be given in a little orange juice to which a pinch of soda has been added just before taking. MILK OF MAGNESIA—three ounces. An excellent laxative for infants and adults. An anti-acid and very palatable. EPSOM SALTS — four ounce tin. A cathartic, rapid and sure, and can be used in a solution for moist dressings on old wounds. AROMATIC CASCARA—three ounces. This is a mild stimulating laxative, pleasant to take—must be well diluted with water and the dose is one to two teaspoonfuls upon retiring. Laxatives are only to be used in case of emergency. Constipation must be corrected by diet and if it persists always consult a doctor. Never give a laxative in the presence of an inflammatory condition of the bowels. AROMATIC SPIRITS OF AMMONIA—one ounce bottle. An excellent stimulant for fainting or for the heart—the dose is_ one-half teaspoonful in one-half cup of cold water. It can be poured on a handkerchief and used for inhalations by holding over the nose of the patient. SYRUP OF IPECAC — two ounce bottle. Use to produce vomiting and for children with croup. SWEET SPIRITS OF NITRE —two ounces. The dose is a teaspoonful in a cup of water, good for fever and to increase the urinary output. LIME WATER—eight ounces. To be used as a stomach sedative— added to milk it prevents curdling, combined with linseed oil, equal parts, it makes an excellent dressing for burns. ESSENCE OF PEPPERMINT —one ounce. For colic in infants— the dose is five to ten drops in a tablespoon of water. MISCELLANEOUS ARTTICLES—a well equipped medicine cabinet should contain a fever thermometer, a medicine glass, a medicine dropper, a small jar of salt and another one of baking soda. A few 68 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE wooden tongue depressors and eight ounces of rubbing alcohol. Salt water makes a good throat gargle. EAR DROPS—an ounce bottle of carbolated glycerine, ten per cent solution. The ear drops should be warm before putting in the ear. Test heat by pouring a drop on the arm inside of the elbow. PAREGORIC AND ASPIRIN are two very fine remedies, but in America they have been very much abused. They have their uses and if properly used are a valuable addition to any medicine cabinet. OLIVE OIL, consecrated, should be found in every Latter-day Saint home. The Stove By Carlton Culmsee At first she thought the stove was big and black And ugly for the airy little room. Often, no doubt, when dusting, she would fume— This huge intruder. With its bric-a-brac In nickel would accuse her of a lack, Of taste. All she'd contrived of cheer and bloom Was shadowed by this monument of gloom; Her guests would say that homemaking's a knack Denied her. But the winter laid its strong Gray siege down, put its mouth to every chink And breathed upon us. And she came to think The stove was friendly, that it did belong, That the deep bed of coals was like the heart Of a great dog that stoutly took our part. This New Year What does it hold for your son or daughter? Must young people idly wait for "something to come along”? THERE IS A BETTER WAY! Prepare now to take advantage of the increasing opportunities that are coming to trained men and women. "The stone that is fitted for the wall will not be rejected by the builders."' You will be interested in our free booklet, "Planning Your Future." Send for a copy today. Business College Salt Lake City  A HAPPY 7 NEW YEAR and remember that we are equipped to handle your printing and binding needs economically and well. The Deseret News Press MUSIC PRINTERS—PRINTERS—BINDERS—RULERS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 29 Richards STREET SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH AMERICA'S FOREMOST INVESMENT OFFER MONTHLY INCOME TO WIFE IF YOU DO NOT LIVE A POSITIVE FUND FOR YOUR CHILDRENS’ EDUCATION BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CONTACT ONE OF OUR REPRESENTATIVES—YOU'LL SEE WHY IF IT'S A BENEFICIAL POLICY IT'S THE BEST INSURANCE YOU CAN BUY BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY E. T. RALPHS, Gen. MGR. HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT HOME OFFICE SALT LAKE CITY DIRECTORS HEBER J. GRANT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. GEO, J. CANNON E. T. RALPHS DIRECTORS Josf. SMITH B. F. GRANT DAVID O. MCKAY A. B. C. OHLSON THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Volume XXII FEBRUARY, 1935: No.2 WE HEARTILY RECOMMEND KNIGHT ROYAL Spring Canyon 5 Coal ROYAL COAL Hot'n Clean These coals maintain clean, cheery warm homes at lowest cost. ASK YOUR FRIEND THE COAL DEALER KNIGHT FUEL CO., ROYAL COAL COMPANY General Offices—8th Floor Newhouse Building—Salt Lake City, Utah Leonard E. Adams, General Sales Agent A Factor in Utah's Welfare More than $8,000,000 is circulated throughout the state each year by the Utah Oil Refining Company... An important factor in Utah's economic life. MOTOR OIL UTAH OIL REFINING CO. 400 Service Stations in Utah and Idaho When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Clean, Hard—Burns Longer Quick-starting—Utah's Purest Coal Thee coals maintain clean, cherry warm homes at lowest cost. ASK YOUR FRIEND THE COAL DEALER. KNIGHT FUEL CO., ROYAL COAL COMPANY General Offices—8th Floor Newhouse Building—Salt Lake City, Utah Leonard E. Adams, General Sales Agent A Factor in Utah’s Welfare. More than $8,000,000 is circulated throughout the state each year by the Utah Oil Refining Company…an important factor in Utah’s economic life. Utah Oil Refining Co. 400 Service Stations in Utah and Idaho. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine LOVELY ROSE-CRYSTAL SANDWICH TRAY FREE With Every 48 Lb. Bag of PIKE'S PEAK Flour A Product of HUSLER FLOUR MILLS of Salt Lake City BLUE BLAZE the coal that is Dependable and Economical BLUE BLAZE COAL CO. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 1111 Walker Bank Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints VOL XXII FEBRUARY, 1935 No, 2 CONTENTS The Rock Rainbow of Mother Nature, Bryce Canyon.................. Froutispiece RUINS 2... May D. Martineau 69 The Socialized Lesson......Dr. John T. Wahlquist 71 HOUSES 2. Harrison R. Merrill 76 His Father's Son…Ivy Williams Stone 80 The Friendly Road.......Isabel Ruby Owen 83 To the Lean Years (Prize Poem)............. Alberta Huish Christensen 84 The Underlying Principle of Women's Right. To Work.... Lena Madesen Phillips 86 And They Sang a Hymn....Adeline R. Ensign 90 Headlights.......Shirley Rei Gudmundsen 90 A Magazine Window Display........Cora Carver Richie 91 Bring No Flowers.......Nellie P. Elzenga 93 My Missingness..........Vilate S. Raile 94 Sanctuary…Rachel G. Taylor 94 A Quaint Gown......LaRene King Bleecker 95 The Kind of a Woman I'd Like To Be.................... Lettie B. H. Rich 95 Happy Mothers..........Marba C. Josephson 96 Masefield and His Message......C. Frank Steele 98 Channels of Love.....Nina Eckhart Kerrick 100 Keepsakes for the Treasure-Chest of Life.............. Lella Marler Hoggan 101 Happenings.....Annie Wells Cannon 102 Our Relief Society.....Amelia M. Barker 103 An Interesting Letter 110 Notes from the Field........... 111 Editorial—The Prophet's Admonition.......... 114 Cultivate the Power to Appreciate.......... 115 The Speed Mania...... 115 Lesson Department.......... 116 Teachers' Topic..... 134 Report on Magazine Subscriptions.......... 135 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine NORGE ELECTRIC REFRIGERATOR ROUND OAK RANGE "America's Finest" HOME of the DEXTER FURNITURE GRANITE company 1050 East 21st South NE W HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS FROM FACTORY TO YOU No. 88. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style $.65 No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style 22... 1.10 No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double Back 1. No. 81. Heavy Wt. Old Style Double Back… 1.50 We Solicit Your Mail Orders No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles 85 No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style ... 85 No. 85. Very Special Non-Run Garments—Guaranteed—Not To Run Rayon. New Style Only. Special 1.10 We Mark Garments for 10 cents Specify when ordering, your bust, trunk and length, whether new or old style, and if men's or ladies', We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. OUR MARKETS Many of our regular meat customers feel that more advantages (price and quality considered) are to be had in O. P. Skaggs System Markets than is possible to find elsewhere. Try us next. 48 So. Main St., Salt Lake City 502 So. Main St., Salt Lake City 1435 So. State, Salt Lake City 422 E. 3rd South, Salt Lake City 3250 So. State St., Salt Lake City Murray, Midvale, Bountiful 0. P SKAGGS "A Surety of Purity" CONSULT US about your investment problems EDWARD L. BURTON & COMPANY Established 1899 160 South Main Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine As beautiful as any piece of furniture—and a joy when it comes to baking. TRADE IN YOUR OLD RANGE FOOD $69. 50 Washing Machine STORES FREE Garden Book For 1935 This valuable book contains 100 pages fully illustrated in natural color. It is just brimful of information most vital to every planter of seeds, shrubs and trees, If you have even the smallest plot of ground to improve you'll need this book. Write for it Today Porter-Walton Co. Seed and Nursery Specialists A NEW PUREKA WITH MOTOR-DRIVEN BRUSH LIGHT—EASY TO HANDLE. AGREEABLY QUIET This sensational new Eureka with motordriven brush is designed to meet the requirements of those who desire a motordriven brush but recognize the necessity of "High Vacuum" (powerful suction) for the thorough removal of embedded dirt. Unnecessary weight and awkward size have been carefully avoided. It is quiet—agreeably quiet. The demonstration! It is spectacular — sensational — thrilling. Embedded soda fairly ''boils" from the rug. Sand dances— how it dances! Surface litter — lint, hair and threads — are instantly removed by its motordriven brush. This new Eureka cleans faster—cleans better. $5.00 Down-—Balance on Easy Terms Phone for Demonstration Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and, Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices ee General Board Relief Society Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 177 East Broadway Telephone Wasatch 3286 Phone Wasatch 4764 29 Bishop's Building 'Ruins By May D. Martineau Awarded Second Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest In the glare of the midday sun I came upon them; Adobe walls unpretentiously Crumbling to decay, Grim, ugly, desolate, forlorn. I turned away. Back on the morrow at the spot I stood enchanted; Old ruins these—an ancient fort, Glamor surrounds it. I see the thrilling battles fought; Enthralled I sit. I met upon the street one day A drab old man; Faltering of step all bent and slow, Marked for decay; Wrinkled, unsightly, decrepit, worn, I turned away. Eagerly another day I search Among the faces; Ah, here he comes—a pioneer! Such deeds heroic Are marked upon his countenance. It is magnetic. BRYCE Utah Photo Materials Co The Relief Society Magazine VOL. XXII FEBRUARY, 1935 No. 2 The Socialized Lesson (Address delivered at the Relief Society Conference, Oct. 3, 1934) By Dr. John T. Wahlquist, University of Utah MAY I preface my remarks by saying that I think the most important service in the Church is that of teaching. It may be of interest to you to know that when George Q. Cannon returned from one of his missions the thought occurred to him that probably greater than missionary service abroad was the responsibility of missionary work at home in teaching the gospel to the young people of the Church, and at that time he established The Juvenile Instructor, and for several years devoted himself to the Sunday School movement. Although you are dealing with a different age, I think you, too, sense your responsibility as teachers. I feel very humble in trying to tell you how to teach one another, or how to teach your groups, but I have prepared an outline which will indicate a forward movement in pedagogy. AS I look at you I think most of you probably attended the traditional day school, if so you will recall that the teacher assigned lessons in a book and you took the lessons home and made your preparation,-and the teacher then quizzed you to find out the degree of your preparation and awarded you for good preparation and penalized you for poor preparation. At any rate the actual learning, as far as you were concerned, was something carried on outside of the classroom. If I mistake not that practice is wrong. I am doubly sure that it is wrong in your situation where you teach adults. I question very much whether the sisters will prepare lessons arbitrarily thrust on them, whether they can prepare these lessons at home and carry the responsibilities of the home, and whether they feel that you, as a teacher, have any right to sit in judgment upon them, and penalize, or criticise, or ridicule them because their preparation is not adequate or award them in view of the adequacy of their preparation. I think if you have been teaching you agree that I am right. In the day school we are changing the nature of the class period. No longer does the teacher assign the lessons for the youngsters to prepare outside of school to recite back to the teacher in school. We have recognized the most important thing we can do for children is to direct their training, direct their study, and I 72 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE suppose that will hold in the adult situation as well. OW what is a "socialized recitation'? A socialized recitation is a situation where the individual members no longer recite to the teacher, but to the group. A socialized situation is one in which the individual does not stand in awe of the teacher, and in which the teacher is no longer a dictator or arbitrator or final authority. The socialized situation is one where a group of individuals are at work, attempting to make an adaptation which will carry over into their lives. If the situation is truly socialized they feel at liberty to express their opinions whether their opinions are in agreement with the opinions of others or not; they feel at perfect liberty to reveal the inadequacy of their know]edge, and to ask intelligent questions. They feel that if they do ask questions that they have not done anything wrong. If the situation is truly socialized they feel at liberty to either contribute to the hour or to ask questions so that they may carry something from the hour. Making a contribution is one sure method of getting something from the recitation proper. Why the socialized cactintiarn® There have been some conflicting theories of education. One to the effect that the mind was a wax tablet upon which we wrote at will. That was probably the philosophy of the day school you attended. We no longer believe in that. No amount of teacher activity is a substitute for pupil activity. The best prepared teacher in the world cannot do a thing for you other than to stimulate you to self-activity, the newer conception of education. The teacher may have most splendid codes, fine authorities, good address, and yet fail to teach, unless the members of the groups are stimulated to follow and interpret the discourse as it is given. That is one of the objections to the lecture method, which is not a socialized method of teaching. If learning does depend upon the activity of the individual, and I think there is plenty of evidence that that is the case, your success as a teacher is dependent upon your ability to get widespread participation on the part of the members of the group. We learn by doing. Ask a five-year-old child, What is a chair? He will tell you it is something to sit upon. Ask him what a table is—it is something to set things upon; what an orange is—something to eat. Every conception we have rests upon our own experience, and we can never substitute for our own experience the thinking or thoughts of others, nor can teachers pour subject matter from one mind to another, as we pour water from one vessel to another. A person will learn only to the extent that he is interested in what is being taught and the best education as to the person's actual interest is his own activity. THE other side of the socialized recitation is preparation for living. I think what a good many members want to carry from their class exercises is not necessarily knowledge of Church doctrine, which they may know, but it is the ability to contribute to the hour. They probably go to get the stimulation to read something in one of the standard works of the Church which they have neglected, or they go because they would like to read some current theological thought, and they need the stimulus of the group to bring them to do that thing. In other words what adults seek oftentimes when they go to class is living, they want to feel that they are still significant, that they are still growing, THE SOCIALIZED LESSON 5 and the only way teachers can make them feel that is to have socialized recitations. HAVE already given some oi the objections to "lesson-hearing," which means the assigning of a lesson to be mastered for the purpose of reproduction at a subsequent class session. If the individuals are not prepared such a lesson is a waste of time, i.e. If every person has read the lesson and knows the lesson there is no particular learning in that hour, and to ask questions and get parrot-like responses is almost a waste of time, except that people do learn by expressing 'themselves, and there is a certain amount of expression here. If the students are unprepared, and I think that is more likely to be the case, if they have not read the lesson completely, to ask questions and to wait responses is like waiting for the Judgment Day. The hour is a waste of time, the teacher feels that she is a failure, and the group feel that they have nothing to take home. THAT are some factors in a socialized recitation? First of all, participation must be widespread. By that I mean as many individuals in the group should be active as can be. How to get them to be active is the teacher's problem. I do not think the class members are going to be active if the teacher simply puts questions and waits for answers. I do not believe the class members feel as responsible to religious teachers as you felt to your school master. A group of forty women should not come and only five of them take part, because thirty-five of them will feel it was a poor recitation, not only that, but they will probably carry away with them some emotional attitude towards some of the people who did monopolize the time, yet the few who did take part probably did so because they thought the lesson was a complete failure, and they were rushing to the rescue of the teacher, to try to help her out of the difficulty. If the teacher were conscious of that fact, she would get as many of her group as possible to respond. There are various ways of doing this. I think the simplest way is to spread the questions over the four corners of the room. If you find yourself referring a question in the same direction two or three times, you had better check, and refer elsewhere in the group. By all means ask your questions to the group, and then name the individual. Get as many to respond as possible, also assign special functions. Think up all the ways you can to get these persons to feel responsible. If you had twenty people in your class because they have something to do there, you would not only have a good class, but you would increase your attendance. Now the second point, criticisms should be safeguarded. If a person answers a question or tries to make a contribution, it may not be exactly what you desire, but be tactful, be sympathetic, accept it for what it is worth, elaborate upon it if you wish, refer it to the group, but do not be too critical of the response. On the other hand, do not award people for something that you know not to be right. Do not say, "Yes, that is right," and go on to something else. If the individual is not perfectly right do not tell her so, but consider the issue until you have settled it to your satisfaction. Third, interruptions should be minimized. If you get someone starting to talk do not break in on them unless they are off the subject, but allow them to complete their 74 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE statement before you make any comment at all. You will find that if you break in upon people you frighten them, they lose their trend of thought, they become self-conscious, they dislike it—this reaction is perfectly natural. On the other hand, you do have to stop some people, as you know, but the easiest way to stop them is not to call on them. Four—Avoid digressions. There are some people who know two or three things very well, and they think they should be discussed everywhere they go. It is difficult to deal with these people, but if you knew the members of your group, if you knew their names, if you had established the habit of referring questions to the sisters in such a way that they did not feel they had been called upon the carpet for an accounting, but in such a manner that you felt they could make a contribution, and were soliciting their aid, you could avoid the digressions by these voceriferous individuals. You will find that the best group at times will leave the lesson and go off on to other topics unless you watch that very carefully, and all you have to say is, "Yes, this topic is very interesting, all topics are interesting to the members of this group, but if we are going to make headway in this particular course of study we must discuss just one topic at a time." Fifth—The teacher must participate wisely. It is not a socialized recitation if the teacher does the majority of the work. A teacher should do not tod little nor too much. If they do too much the individual members of the group will feel that the class belongs to the teacher. If the teacher does too little the individual members of the group will get away with the discussion and be able to carry the field. Now lastly, maintain an informal attitude. Do not talk down to your group; assume a very friendly attitude; use a pleasing tone as much as possible; get as close to the members of your group as you can; and establish a suitable rapport, if possible. I have already said you cannot have a socialized recitation if you simply ask questions and wait for the answers, but I am sure you can by stimulating the activities of class members. I have made a suggestive list of activities which I think the adult members of your group could enter into. 1. Plan your work for the next ttme—here are some points that probably ought to be brought out; how do you think we ought to take this? Who will take responsibility for this topic; and so on. 2. Presiding and conducting. Oftentimes this activity appeals to the members of a group, if they can sit in the chair simply while the discussion is going on, not that you want to substitute a member of the class as the teacher. You have been selected as teacher because you are more qualified for the position, but if you have a certain order of business, and you can hand that to a person and let her occupy the chair, it might be a very satisfactory experience for some individuals. 3. Individual Contributions on Assigned Topics. 4. Voluntary Supplementary Contributions——which are given offhand, any time during the hour, or challenging or questioning statements. Members of your group should feel free to disagree with you, or the other members of the group. Sometimes, as Dr. Talmage pointed out, people go round and round on the same two questions, and it is well to ask '"'What difference does it make?" That stops a lot of discussion. 5. Challenging or Questioning THE SOCIALIZED LESSON 75 Statements—We should feel free to question the statements of one. Another, and I think you can bring about that spirit. 6. Correction, Criticism, Approval or Confirmation: Do you approve of the statement made, or do you disapprove? Do you take exception to any part of what this class member said, or do you agree wholeheartedly? 7. Summarizing: It is occasionally a good thing, at the end of an hour to say, "We have been talking about this principle of religion, who can tell us very briefly what is the "Mormon" point of view? In other words, summarize the work of the class. 8. Contribute Stories and Illustrations. 9. Retell Stories. 10. Give Special Reports: I think in your theological work you probably do run into questions which seem to be too difficult for the members present, they are left in a quandry, they do not know exactly what the position of the Church is. Let us see if some individual will follow that up and make a report at the next meeting. 11. Make Special Investigations. 12. Bring supplementary materials, pictures, relics, books, etc. 13. Act on Committees. 14. Conduct Bulletin Boards. 15. Conduct Excursions. This list is just suggestive. I think every teacher in view of her group could extend this list a great deal, my point being that an interesting class hour will be a class hour which is filled with activities, and in which as many individuals as possible make contributions in as many different ways as possible. Now there are some dangers. It _ is relatively easy to put a question, with your book propped up before you, to a group with their books closed, as we used to do in the day schools; it is the easiest method I know. When you start throwing your topics open for discussion, having reports, investigations and the like, you must be on your toes. It is a difficult procedure, but it is worthwhile if self-activity is the basis of learning. There are certain dangers aside from that. There may be a waste of time, you will have to watch that and not allow the discussion to get out of hand. Be sure you can draw the line between the relevant and the irrelevant. It has always been interesting to me to see how the group will shortly divide itself into little cliques. You have to watch that very carefully, and you must not let your discussion be shortcircuited. I suppose you do not have disciplinary troubles in the same sense that we have them in school, but sometimes arguments lead class members to ignore the teacher or the group and to talk among themselves. You may have experienced a situation where a rumbling was going on here, there and everywhere, and the teacher wondered whether she was present or not, she lost control of her group. These are the dangers. If you know these few dangers I think you can meet them. You can nip trouble in the bud, if you can anticipate it. Cr 8 Houses By Harrison R. Merrill HAVEN'T any idea when the first houses were built or how they came to be built. I suspect that some chap away back when grass, fibre and skin skirts had first replaced fig leaves as the fashion, became strong enough to remain in one place for a week or two decided to build a permanent residence. Perhaps he was big, or perhaps he had reared some heavy-shouldered sons to help at the barricade. Since man began in a friendly climate, it is not likely that he had to build as protection against the weather, unless it was against the rain. In that case a few banana leaves and fronds of palms would have been sufficient. But this is not a history of houses. I merely wish to say a few words about them. MAN evidently learned to build houses very slowly, for even now, in these modern times, he doesn't exhibit a great deal of intelligence. He is a bit better than a mourning dove, but not quite as good as a magpie at building his nest. It seems that man is a vain creature. I have often wished I might know what a peacock or an owl thinks in order that I might see whether they, too, speculate upon what their neighbors are saying of them. At any rate, it seems to me that man has built a house covered with ginger bread and ornamental doors and windows in order that his neighbors and even the strangers when they pass might wonder at it. Of course, in primitive societies, each man built his own house. Later he paid little attention to outside elevations or inside comfort. With from a hundred and fifty to six hundred dollars with which to build, a man cannot allow his heart to get too set upon something beautiful or fine. Usually our pioneer friend in any country merely attempted to provide shelter from the rain and a bit of protection against the cold. The number of rooms was determined by his pocket book, not by his necessity. He usually was unable to think beyond the barest of walls and the plainest of openings. But even wealthy men have been slow to learn how to build good homes. It is true that architects did study form and materials and have long been able to build something beautiful upon the outside, but not until recently has the capacity to think in terms of comfort been developed. Only yesterday architects and those who could really afford to build houses thought first of parlor, sitting room, dining room, and bed rooms rather than of bath room, toilet, and kitchen. Then they built the parlor—which was never used— first; now they build the kitchen and bath room first and add whatever the purse will allow. Only yesterday folks had cupboards, safes, and wardrobes; now they have built-in cabinets, bins, and closets. It took man thousands of years to learn to put the keyhole above the knob instead of below it, and some of them haven't even learned that. AN has been stylish with his houses, especially here in the west. If his neighbor built a twostory, he followed; if a bungalow HOUSES 77 was built in a town, soon all the new houses seemed to be bungalows. No one, not even the architects, stopped to think long about whether a bungalow is a good type for this country, or whether its style matches our mountains. If bungalows are the style, then by gum, everybody must have a bungalow. I think our square blocks have been partly to blame for this deadly sameness. There are those who praise a square-blocked city highly, but I'm not of them. I like a town built according to no set rule, and the same goes for the houses. In our town we had but one hollow and when the concrete sidewalks were made, we filled it up, placing the city upon a dead and deadly level. I was shocked and delighted upon a trip not. So long ago to the east where in a half day's ramble along some informal streets I did not find two houses which remotely resembled each other, except that they all had shingles on the roof. No two had provided the same sized front yard. I remember in our town every house had to sit "four square to every wind that blew" and a fellow was just off his trolley if he made his lawn ten feet longer than that of his neighbor. The coming of electric lights and plumbing systems made a tremendous difference in the houses. When one by touching a swicth could make the sun shine at noon or midnight in the darkest closets, then closets could become something more than a place in which to lose things. I am told that roofs in a mountainous country like ours, from an artistic viewpoint, ought to be pointed and that gabled houses are best. Yet when that Spanish rage struck us sometime ago, I remember an architect friend of mine built a huge square building with a flat roof. It worked fine until the first winter when ice and snow melting and thawing in the drains clogged them while water painted frescoes on the hard surfaced walls of the building. Flat roofs for flat countries where there is no winter; pointed roofs to match these peaks. VENTILATION REMAINS an unsolved problem until we can obtain electric power at something like the figure we ought to have it. In the past no attempt was made to provide for air except through windows and doors. Most of our ancestors had come from Europe where thrifty people had even stuffed rags in the keyholes in order to preserve their expensive heat, preferring tuberculosis to coal bills. Here we threw away the thermometers and stuffed the stoves until centralized heating plants, stokers, and gas furnaces relieved us. Tomorrow we shall build houses with double glass windows fitted so tightly that not a breath of air can wriggle through. That will be when each of us can afford an air conditioner and can have our air washed and heated or cooled as the season demands. In those days we shall use humidifiers and keep not only the temperature but the moisture at the point we find most comfortable and healthful. Season will be found only on the outside, never on the inside of our buildings. In those days there will be no summer and winter clothing except outer wraps. Pavements and vacuum cleaners have done away with the old time scraper and spring cleaning by means of clubs and brooms. But tomorrow, the air conditioning plant will furnish the air for the family and the tight windows and doors will eliminate most of the dust. Yesterday grandfather, and even father, built his bedroom about as he built any other. The windows 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE J. B. FAIRBANKS, VETERAN UTAH ARTIST In front of his studio—a made-over coal-shed came down to the regulation distance above the floor. Any other distance would have been scandalous. The rooms were built as if, upon occasion, the entire family with the accumulated in-laws could be accommodated in the one room. Tomorrow the bedroom will be small and beautiful with a bath and toilet, a closet and a built-in chiffonier. Some homes will have their room so arranged that the bed may be wheeled out onto a screen porch by means of an electric or mechanical mechanism and back again in time for those using it to dress in comfort. HOUSES A FEW years ago somebody came forth with the suggestion that our next houses are to be of glass and steel. The lumber interests must have choked off those suggestions, but welcome the day when houses may be built for less or when we may have more with which to construct them. With the return of prosperity a new building program will get under way. Architects and artists should, during these lean years, be dreaming new dreams and scheming new schemes with good, old-fashioned comfort as the central motive and with beauty a close second. Avard Fairbanks went down to his father's home in Salt Lake City and designed a roof for the coal shed. The resulting building was so beautiful that his father, J. B. Fairbanks, moved in to it and used it as his studio. WE all need more training in architecture. Perhaps I have a wrong idea of what is beautiful and fine, but unless my eyes deceive me, our towns are not good to look at, in the main, and are getting worse. I have no brief for architects, but I have long been of the opinion that the lumber-yard, hand-me-down, job-lot houses have been bad for our communities. Everybody who has ever built a house, I presume, has thought before he started that he had the thing planned to the inch from garret to cellar and vice-versa only to find before the paint got dry that he had to make some changes in order to be perfectly happy. Next to building new houses, making over old ones is the most fun. Everybody should have a go at it sometime. When we get those glass and iron structures, of course, if we don't like the shape we can take them down, twist the iron a different way, recut the glass and have a new domicile. Anyway, friends, I hope we shall all spend a little time thinking about houses. Houses become homes; homes become gardens in which human souls grow. BLACK ROCK His Father's Son By Ivy Williams Stone CHAPTER 6 THE news of the death of Richard Haven the II quickly spread over the entire county. The fame of the Haven farms had been far reaching; and the tragic death of the elder son. Coupled with the uncertain accident to the foster daughter, added to the sympathy which the entire community had already felt for. The family since Oliver's accident. Father Haven, white faced and with drooping shoulders, moved as if ina trance. Mother Haven, seemingly endowed with a superhuman calm, took charge of all the funeral details. Oliver sat beside Esther's bed, in the darkened room, holding her hand and whispering words of endearment and comfort. "Taint right I should be talking of marriage while my brother lies dead," he muttered, "but as soon as you're well enough we're going to be married. I always felt you ought to have your chance to marry a man who didn't have a blemish on his face. I figured you'd get sickened of looking at a man without a nose, but now—" "YT know what you mean, Oliver," Esther's faint voice came haltingly. "T know what I'll look like when I get up. My eyeball will shrink and shrink and shrink, and pull my face out of shape. I guess I'll be needing some khaki bandages too," she finished with a weak smile. "Well, we'll be married and keep on living right here to home, and nobody needs to look at us who don't want to. We can grow fancy fruits and flowers, and we can carry on the family name for Dad. He'll be need Richard would wanting comfort. Us to do so." THE money which mother Haven gave Kareen to buy suitable mourning, was promptly spent in a music store, and she returned home laden with expensive music. "I shall sing at the funeral," she announced calmly. "Richard would want me to. I sang when he went to war; I sang when he came home; I shall sing this one last time. The most beautiful poem in the world has been set to music; I shall sing Henley's 'Invictus.' It means unconquered." With her blond curls refusing restraint, with a far away expression in her eyes, the tearless widow stood beside the coffin of her husband and sang as she had never sung before. At the piano the youthful boy played as though he were inspired; while his blond curls and those of the singing woman seemed to beckon to each, “we are one." Most of the simple, country bred audience could not grasp the portent of the son~ but deep emotion moved them to tears as Kareen sang. They felt the inexplicable difference between her and the other women of the valley; she stood with a queenly air, as though exercising an inalienable right. As the last lines poured forth, every spectator was openly weeping; and the men who had watched her ride the derrick horse felt a secret chagrin that they had permitted her to humble herself before them. "It matters not how straight the gate How charged with punishment the scroll— I am the master of my fate I am the captain of my soul "HIS FATHER'S SON All who listened knew she would carry on. That her one set purpose of life would not be defeated, and farmers glanced stealthily from the long fingered, delicately shaped hands of the Haven boy to their own browned, calloused hands. Truly, this boy had come also from another life! A WEEK later old lawyer Sleed came to see Father Haven. "I have Richard's will in the safe," he announced, "and I guess you ought to come along when it's read to her and the boy. There's the trunk, too, which the strange woman turned over to Richard. When he married Kareen. Richard didn't mention it in his will, but he told me, should anything ever happen to him, 'I was to give the key to you till the boy is twenty-one.'"" Lawyer Sleed handed Father Haven the odd shaped key which guarded the secret of Kareen's parentage. Father Haven, Kareen and the tall boy sat in the dingy, country law office while lawyer Sleed cleared his throat and slit the legal envelope with his penknife. While flies buzzed in the dingy window, the old lawyer read in a drawling monotone: "Tn the event of my death, | charge my father and my brother Oliver to carry on. All the property which I own shall stay undivided until my son Richard Haven III is twenty-one. My wife Kareen is at liberty to live where she chooses, to train the boy as she desires, until the day he reaches his twenty-first birthday. My father and my brother Oliver are to provide Kareen with one hundred dollars each month for her support and the education of the boy. All additional earnings from the farm shall be spent for improvements or banked to his credit. When he is of age, my son shall return to this office and in the presence of lawyer Sleed. My father and his mother, shall receive certain other instructions which I have prepared for him, and which are to remain sealed and unread until that time. I want iny boy should study everything Burbank raises. "Richard Haven If." When the drawling voice ceased, only the buzzing flies broke the silence of the room. Kareen's eyes were afire with anticipation and joy. Free—free at last! Free, to take the boy where she willed; to train him as she wished; to guide his life, to mold his habits; to plan his future! A hundred dollars a month! Why, 't seemed a fortune. Now, the long coveted desire, to purchase a Stradivari violin, seemed attainable. She could save, and scheme and plan. Surely, one of the five hundred forty-four undisputable originals would soon be theirs! "There's a package your father left for you, son,". The old lawyer passed over a package tied with binding twine. "Said you might like to look 'em over." The boy Richard pulled at the restraining string until his fingers whitened. Then lawyer Sleed cut it and expectant hands tore off the wrapping paper, revealing several booklets and government pamphlets on the life and achievements of Luther Burbank. Glancing at a cut of the great horticulturist, the boy cried, 'Look, Mother, look! His fingers are long and thin, too! I know I could do that sort of work, too! Just because my fingers are long, is no sign | could not work in soil. Look," he cried flipping through the booklets, "here's a story of the spineless cactus, and the stoneless prune, and the Shasta daisy, and the white blackberry, and the thornless. Blackberry, and the Crimson Rhubarb and—and—and," he stopped for breath, while his grandfather laid a gentle hand on his arm, and Kareen turned deadly white. The boy had never shown animation over the achievements of Beethoven; the pathos of Schubert's life had never 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE moved him; Schumann-Heink's victory in grand opera had never stirred him to praise. But now, a few paltry sheets on the achievements of a gardener in California had turned him, almost before her eyes, from a docile boy to a determined young man! "We want you to stay here, daughter Kareen,” Father Haven spoke haltingly, moved by emotions which he struggled to control. "Richard gave you permission to go where you choose, but we want you should stay with us. We will see the boy has good schooling before he takes over the farm.". "He won't take over the farm!" Kareen had become suddenly masterful, almost imperative. "I shall take him away to Salt Lake City. There are good teachers there; he will study piano and pipe organ, and technique. I will buy him a violin with the first hundred dollars you pay me. He will do nothing except study music! I will massage his hands; he will soak them in hot water every night, as Paderewski does, to keep them supple and flexible. He will study abroad; he will learn foreign languages; he will study the German composers in their own tongue. I am sorry Richard is dead. But what is, cannot be helped. The child is mine; MINE ALONE!" Father Haven stood nonplussed before this new, this strange Kareen. Never before had she seemed anything but a child to him. Now this changed woman stood before him, defiant; impelling; determined. "T will give you the piano, daughter, if you will stay with us," begged the grandfather. "Surely you will not take sonny from us. He must come back when he is twenty-one." "Only to sell the farm!' cried Kareen with fresh passion, lest her plans be frustrated. "I will take him away from all growing things; from hay and horses, from chickens and eggs, from cows and butter. I will train him to play. Music shall rule his life." _ "Ah, daughter," answered the older man, laying a gentle hand upon the shoulder of the quivering woman. "Do not make too great haste. The boy will be himself, in spite of all you may do for him. He is his father's son!" "Don't you worry, Grandpa," boasted young Richard Haven, breaking the silence that followed his mother's outburst. ''T'll be back. Someday I shall invent a watermelon without seeds, and pine nuts that are large enough to make a mouthful, and peaches without fuzz, and climbing strawberries, and wheat without chaff, and corn without a cob!" The boy waved his arms in a wide comprehensive gesture, as though the world were his for the taking. "I beg you to stay with us daughter," reiterated Father Haven. 'Surely our cup of sorrow has been full enough already. Do not take our grandson from us." "I will only go to Salt Lake City, father,"' temporized Kareen, touched by the pathos of the older man. "But as you love the farm, so does this boy love music. He must live his own life." TWO weeks later Esther and Oliver were married. The "White Rose" bedspread took the place of wedding gown, and the square white washed bedroom had to be the church, and the bandaged eye could wear no wedding veil. But a solemn simplicity marked the impressive nuptials as the bishop read the service, and a new desire to live and to carry on filled Esther's soul as Oliver turned his masked face toward her and pressed her hand. "We'll live in Kareen's house," he announced. "She's determined HIS FATHER'S SON 83 to go away, but the boy will come back. She can't seem to understand that Richard the III is bound to be a farmer; all Havens are born to the soil. But she has to learn. So you and I will keep the house for him, against his return. We'll save and work, and someday, as there is a God in Heaven, we will find a plastic surgeon who can make new noses, and put in glass eyes that look like real ones. Our farm will make us the money and we will both be as good as new." KAREEN packed in a frenzied hurry. Oliver and Esther were welcome to the house, and all that it contained, except her music and clothes. She was glad to leave; glad to get away from the sleek, glossy haired horses; the butter and chickens, haystacks and barns; glad to be free to train her son. With reckless abandon she threw their clothes into the new suitcase of real leather which Mother Haven gave her. The music encyclopedias and her sheet music were the only belongings she packed with care. Oliver drove them to the station. Just as the train began to pull slowly out young Richard Haven uttered a piercing cry, "Mother," he screamed, ''Mother, you have come away without the books on Burbank which Father left for me!" (To be Continued) The Friendly Road By Isabelle Ruby Owen There's a silv'ry strip of friendly road Straight through a valley fair, Where flower and bush and singing bird Say—'"God is everywhere." A busy bee darts here and there Where honey sweet reposes; A tiny cottage stands secure, Half hidden 'mong red roses. This silvery strip of friendly road Lures wanderers afar! It calls men back to safe abode ' Like "shepherd's guiding star." It leads deep down to a hidden dell Where tinkling waters fall; Where whispering trees. A story tell Strange voices softly call. This silv'ry strip of friendly road Leads down to a murmuring sea Or out where pines and hemlock grow Magnificent and free. There are friendly hands on every side There is life and an open door! Where grief abide you stand side by side With the rich man and the poor. 'When e'er I travel on this road I pledge my faith anew In gratitude for things I see Of which I never knew. Oh-—little strip of friendly road I love the sight of you! I always see a heap of good When I'm abroad with you. The Lean' Years By Alberta Huish Christensen 3 Awarded Second Prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest Tis strange to kneel in gratitude for loss; More strange that 1, who always measured life By laughter's gilded coin—laurels won— Should bless thee, who so like a piercing knife First brought me pain. I did not know till then How I had builded with the stones of greed A wall through which my neighbor's hungry cry I could not hear, nor see his daily need— But ob how chastened is the soul by fire;— How full the heart that drains another's tears. An overwhelming peace now fills my veins, A strength which is not born of sheltered years— Mine is the debt; you gave new eyes to me; You loosed the spirit's chains and set me free! ALBERTA HUISH CHRISTENSEN The Underlying Principles of Women's Right to Work Address of Lena Madesin Phillips President of the National Council of Women of the United States, and of the International Federation of Business and Professional Women, given at a Mass Meeting on WOMEN'S RIGHT TO WORK under the auspices of the International Council of Women Grand Amphitheatre, Sorbonne, Paris, July 5, 1934. NLY a Yankee with a sense of humor or a diplomat conditioned in the use of language to obscure rather than to express meaning is entitled to this subject, clothed as it is in the generally accepted legalitarian phraseology, Woman's Right to Work. For that right has never been questioned. From the vantage point of this congress, I see her toiling in the fields, bearing upon her back the burden of the pack horse, scrubbing, washing, cooking, sewing, working in poverty and need from sunrise to sunset—and even then still working. Who questions her right to these and a thousand other labors? Who questions woman's right to the unpaid or poorly paid drudgeries of the world? No one. Indeed humanity's struggle has ever been a struggle to have more and more while working less and less. To sow grain required less work than to find and gather it in its wild state—hence agriculture. To transport it by train or steamship required less effort than to carry it upon the backs of men or beasts. Perhaps speech itself was developed in part as a labor-saving device. It was easier for primitive man to ejaculate a certain noise which eventually came to mean plenty of food or running water than to lead his companion to the place where he himself might see these things. No, it is not the right to work to which woman aspires and which she is denied. This she has and has ever had. It is her right to equal pay for equal work, to the jobs paying more money for less work; and it is her right to opportunity and power with their attendant prestige. For say what we will about the protection of the morals and health of women and the heritage of the unborn generation, these are not the primary reasons for discrimination against women in gainful occupations. They are too often red herrings drawn across the trail, the alluring scent of which men and women smugly follow in order that the dominance of the strong over the weak may be rationalized. Give us more tractors in the field, more washing machines in the home, if you really mean that women are too frail in body to work. Abolish child labor, provide scientific care for our babies, if motherhood is too sacred to draw a good pay check. Permit us to earn our livelihoods by honorable means if your concern is for our morals. Perhaps, you say. Even so, there are not enough good jobs to go around. Men have families to support. But women, also, have families to support. If need is the criterion, why do we not limit the employment of those who because of accumulated wealth have no need of gainful employment? Would we send the banker back to the chimney WOMEN'S RIGHT TO WORK 87 corner in order that a needy woman might have productive work? Even the idea seems preposterous. Those who are secure do not surrender their jobs to those who are insecure. This, then, is the plain answer. Neither inferior physical strength, nor less need, nor the protection of the child forms the basis of discrimination against women. That discrimination arises from our competitive world, in which the strong exploit the weak. But my task is not to interpret, but to prove. WO theories of government in actuality deny women equality in rights. One 'conceives of 'society and the State exclusively in terms of the individual and is called individualism. The other, its counterpart, known as universalism, is predicated upon an independent entity, the State, which stands superior to the individual or his rights. The case seems more easily provable under the former theory. For the Dutch philosopher, Grotius, one of the earliest to take an individualist outlook in political science, deduced from the "originally social nature of man" the "inalienable and indestructible natural rights of the individual." To him natural rights were inherent in human nature. Probably Grotius thought in terms of male citizens. But since even women have their full share of human nature, we may assume that if man's right is inherent in his human nature, woman's natural right is inherent in her own. For whether, as according to the English philosopher, Hobbes, all individuals in a state of nature are free, self-dependent and hence mutually hostile, and therefore in order to escape the war of all against all ("Bellum omnium contra omnes") establish the State and relinquish to it all their natural rights; or whether, as according to Spinoza, natural freedom is relinquished to the State only in so far as is necessary for an orderly communal political life; or whether, as according to Rousseau, the State is the champion of natural rights, the theory of individualism is based primarily upon the inalienable and indestructible right of the individual arising out of human nature itself. That women did not share such rights was understandable. Philosophers did not really discover them for man himself until the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. The doctrine of natural rights was evolved by a capitalistic middle class as a satisfactory reason for the overthrow of feudalism; afterwards as the sound basis of a new economic and social order. The common man was free before his freedom was recognized as a natural right. His rights followed his power. The right to work was not originally enumerated among man's natural rights, since these were defined before the industrial age made a job a luxury. But life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, which were included, are today deeply rooted in free economic competition for both men and women. Therefore since such rights draw their justification, through reason, from human nature, are inalienable and indestructible, unless woman is devoid of or deficient in human nature, she must share them. Would it be because men have so long denied them to women, that as a rationalization they have called us "angels"? Woman's case under universalism, however, is not prima facie, but must be proven. For this is the governmental theory of dominance. It claims a distinguished ancestry. Plato proclaimed the super-state. Today's concept makes the State 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE more powerful, more important, than man's rights or the totality of all men. Its political principle is distributive justice. Therefore let us examine some of the contributions women have made to society. No less an authority than the noted historian, Mary R. Beard, concludes that women launched civilization. "Because primitive woman made herself into a cook and guardian of the hearth," Mrs. Beard says, "human beings no longer have to gnaw bones like dogs or wait for sunshine to broil their meat.... Primitive woman learned how to boil, bake and roast. She prowled around until she found the best sort of stones and then joined them into stoves and ovens. She molded mortar and pestle, instruments for grinding seeds and grain. "Mason insists that no one ever heard of a savage man having aught to do with the food plant industry. "Women were butchers, millers, harvesters, preservers of food. Women may plume themselves on having established all the branches of the textile industry—spinning and weaving, scraping and carding, dyeing and embroidering, tailoring and designing. "Women fingered and rubbed and scraped and mixed and dyed and soaked and baked the natural fibres and grasses and pebbles and clay and skins and feathers with which they came into contact, thereby extending domestic economy. "Women were the chief guardians of wells and pools. They invented the suction pump, according to David Livingstone's theory of the Bakalahari women. "The origin of fire itself lies deep buried in mystery. But in the great collection of fire myths assembled by Frazer, the honors, or the deceits by which wisdom was procured were divided about equally between the sexes." One might continue indefinitely. History abounds in woman's contribution to civilization. And since men have written that history we may be sure that not too much, but too little credit has been given to our sex. But governments based upon the universalist theory today lay probably greater stress upon the power and stability of the nation than upon exact justice. Let us, then, for the sake of argument, say that the power of the nation depends upon the strength of its men. Women must conceive and bear those men. Mothers mould their traits and character. THE evolution of humanity is the gradual conquest of mind over matter and the perfection of human relationships. | Since women must continue to have human nature's urge towards self-expression and fulfillment, their normal, uninhibited psychological expression is vital to the power and permanence of the State. Because to block this is to frustrate woman's strongest emotions, and that frustration projects its irritation upon the children, thus limiting and distorting their natural powers. It manifests itself in many ways, such as constant fault-finding or the mother's attempt to relive her life through the child's life. For example, financial dependence creates a feeling of personal inferiority which, even when a sense of security for the woman is found in marriage, is often transferred unconsciously by her to her children. Such compensation is disastrous to the development of the kind of manhood which a universalist State would seem to demand. Life plays many subtle tricks upon us. Is it not one of its little ironies that a State which keeps subservient WOMEN'S RIGHT TO WORK 89 its womankind in order to give its men a fuller chance must offer that fuller chance to men whose natures and characters have been warped in the making unwillingly, unconsciously, by frustrated, unhappy mothers? A male child, the offspring of a free father and a psychologically enslaved mother, will be part free and part slave. But there is yet a stronger argument. For six thousand years society required the work of, both men and women for sustenance. Then came the use of water, steam and electricity to supplement man's energy and the machine to take the place of human hands and feet and backs. During these six thousand years the output of energy per person, including that of man, animals and elementary machines, increased only from 2,000 to 4,000 units per person per day. In the last fifty years that output of energy has increased from 4,000 to 120,000 units per person per day. And the increase still goes forward at a tremendous rate. For example, five workers in digging the Welland Canal in Canada, can displace the same amount of earth which required 4,000 men in digging the Suez Canal in 1865. In the manufacture of incandescent lamps, one man can today do the work which in 1914 required 9,000 men. One might continue indefinitely with such instances. We must face the fact, and should do so gladly, that the necessary output of energy per person will grow less and less. To remove women from gainful employment will not solve the problem. And if they were to withdraw, to go back to the home, what then? One of two results. Either woman becomes a charge upon society, because the same newly found sources of energy and instruments of use have taken from the home her former work. Or if she is to do her part, she must use the old, less efficient methods. She can resume the daily tasks of her grandmother, doing by hand what can be done more economically by machine. But when she does, manufacturing of cloth, clothing, electrical appliances, canning, baking, laundering and a thousand other industries will cease. Thus unemployment will be greater than ever. So under individualism woman, because of her human nature, is entitled to equality; and also under the theory of the super-state, if for no other reason than because only in this way can the State achieve and exercise its complete function. But might makes right in our world, might incited by greed, fear, ignorance, the egoism of men and of women, as well—that same might which separates nation from nation, builds battleships and wages war; enslaves the poor for the benefit of the rich; the same might which incites prejudices against races and breeds intolerance of creeds. One force; many facets. "THEORETICAL might woman has—and potential might. And it is on the latter that the real speech should be. When will woman be consumed with the divine passion to use that might to enforce her rights? When will the half-gods go that the real gods may come? Oppenheim has said: "They can only set free men free And there is no need of that; Free men set themselves free." And the same, my friends, may be said of women. Through our might we could secure our right. Therefore let us talk less, or do more. Let us not use all our steam in blowing the whistle. Barren resolutions, for instance, excite our ego and soothe our conscience but are not 90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the swiftest forms of motivation. They are wishful thinking. They are not the end; only the beginning. They are an expression of opinion to be used as working agreements. But they have short legs of their own. There is a promised land of social justice to-all—even women. Dimly we can see it. Long have we talked about it; longer still have we prayed that the world might enter it. We have the right; we have the latent might. Let us go over and possess that land. "Free men set themselves free." And They Sang a Hymn By Adeline R. Ensign of the bread and wine at the Last Supper, just before He prayed in His anguish: "O My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from Me; nevertheless not as I will but as Thou wilt," that Jesus and His Disciples sang. For it is written, '""And after they had sung an hymn they went out into the Mount of Olives." In His greatest trial, Jesus had sought comfort in a Hymn. I. Was after they had partaken LL day long the mob had been gathering outside the jail. The violent oaths and profane language could be heard far away. Their's were no idle threats, this time they demanded his life. Upstairs were Joseph Smith, his brother Hyrum, John Taylor and Willard Richards, singing and praying. It was apparent their hour had come. Joseph, feeling the need of additional strength and comfort, asked John Taylor to sing the hymn, "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief." When the song had ended, Joseph requested that he sing it again, but Brother Taylor replied that he thought he couldn't as his heart was too heavy—but as Hyrum also expressed a desire to hear it again, John Taylor sang it through, tenderly and sweetly. Their time had come, and with the onrushing mob Hyrum fell, uttering, "I am a dead man." Joseph was next and as the bullets pierced his body he exclaimed: "Oh Lord, My God!" In their last moments, they too had found comfort in a Hymn. Headlights By Shirley Rei Gudmundsen When I lived in a little house On the highway, I used to watch The passing carriages and cabs And to compare them With all the other vehicles I had seen; And then airplanes. For I remember Ox carts going by, But I never learned to quell The thrilled tenseness that arose in me When I looked out in the dark night to see Two eyes of yellow light at a distance, And to hear the motor throbbing With increasing flood of sound, until The automobile had speeded on. And now that I am old 1 think it is great fun To watch the faces of people going about, And to remember all the faces of the past They had an interest for me; For I have read, in faces, All the story of existence That I may read, And I have learned to see In the eyes of children Headlights of a new generation, Dreaming the strange dreams I have dreamed, And hoping to make them real. A Magazine Window Display By Cora Carver Ritchie HE Four Stake Relief Societies of Weber County have really done big things in the last eight months of 1934, not only for themselves, but for the communities in which they live. Every civic undertaking that they felt would make a better and bigger place in which to live they have helped put over with the usual Relief Society work and spirit. At the close of a home products campaign sponsored by the Industrial Division of the Ogden Chamber of Commerce in which one ward in each of the Four Stakes won a home products dinner, for gathering the most home products labels, Mayor Peery said, "I have always noticed that you can depend on the ladies of the Relief Societies to put over their work in a big way. They are always dependable." In July on the two days the thermometer registered the most intense heat of the summer 500 women under the leadership of the Four Stake Work and Business Leaders held demonstrations featuring their year's work at different stores in Ogden. They listened to lectures on modern methods of painting and repairing in the kitchen and bath, etc., also visited stores to learn new and economical floor coverings and wall papers, drapes, slip covers, etc., and sponsored actual demonstrations in wool work. The Stake Work and Business leaders, Mrs. Erica Soderberg, Mrs. Lucile Myers, Mrs. Blanche Wilson, and Mrs. Charlotte McKinnon conducted the ladies in groups of thirty to sixty, each to the different stores, where the managers gave wonderful cooperation in helping put on educational demonstrations that materially assisted the courses outlined in the work and business lessons. The crowning event that the Relief Societies helped sponsor was the display window at the Newberry's Store during Ogden's Fall Festival. This window consisted of quilts, fancy work of all kinds, magazine and card displays. The four cards explained the four lessons and the magazines consisted of displays of bound volumes and the magazine opened to each one of the four lessons. This window attracted larger crowds than any other display during the two days' Fall Festival. In connection with the window, the manager of the Newberry's Store, Mr. Geo. Rentstrom, gave the women the upstairs floor for the busy work department. Here the Four Stake Work and Business leaders conducted another demonstration on wool work, such as pillows and shawls, painting of vases, lacquer work, making of flowers, pictures in silhouettes. Ladies from other nearby stakes and even from California attended these demonstrations. Manager Rentstrom served Ogden made candy and gave interesting lectures on the importance of buying at home. More than one thousand visitors attended in the two days. Samples of Utah made sugar were also given out. Mr. Rentstrom also prepared a table to be used as a magazine sales table. The sisters contacted each customer as they came in the door and used missionary tactics to get subscriptions. To many the magazine was new. Then a missionary talk was given explaining the value of the magazine to every member of the family. It was interesting 92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to note that often the men were the most willing subscribers. Mrs. Allie Y. Pond took charge of the magazine subscription work. The aim of all events was to put the Relief Society Magazine before the public realizing that the magazine in itself is an asset in any home. The campaigning of this magazine drive consisted of these demonstrations, a house to house canvas, lectures in each ward by a stake board member, and a play, "The Spirit of the Magazine" by the Fifth Ward of the Mount Ogden Stake. The Editor of the Relief Society Magazine, Mary C. Kimball, was present at the initial performance of this play. Courtesy of George Renstrom, DISPLAY WINDOW OF WEBER COUNTY RELIEF SOCIETIES A MAGAZINE WINDOW DISPLAY 93 Sister Lydia Burrows coached the ladies in this play which received so much favorable comment that it has been repeated several times. The results of this united effort and well directed campaign were most gratifying. All wards report new members. Mount Ogden Stake went 77% in the magazine drive. The Eighteenth Ward went 19 over 100% with 23 new subscriptions. The Seventeenth Ward went 10 over 100%. The small ward of Uinta consisting of twenty members sold 21 subscriptions. The four Stake Presidents, Mrs. Ezra Rich, Mrs. Ida Treseder, Mrs. Julia Perry and Mrs. J. E. Wright, have been the leaders in all these events. Mr. George Rentstrom, manager of the Newberry's Store in Ogden, was born in Huntsville, Utah. When I asked him if he would like the Relief Society to come into his store and put over their demonstrations he said, "I will be pleased to have them and will help in any way that I can. I was raised by the Relief Societies. Mother used to take me with her to meetings. They do a wonderful work. I also believe in patronizing Utah Products." He proved his statements by his cooperation. He even put the window in the second time so we could get this picture. Perhaps you think it will be impossible or maybe impractical to put on like events in your own stakes, but Relief Society presidents, you will find a Mr. Rentstrom in your town, perhaps several of them, your concerns are his, his cooperation with you means his success. Why not find him and let him help you. Bring No Flowers By Nellie P. Elzenga When I am dead, please bring no flowers, A lifeless body cannot see. You came not in the lonely hours, To smile, cr speak to me, 'Tis mockery then, sweet flowers to bring To nothing but an empty frame, To hear them preach and pray and sing And laud some dead one's name to fame. Why not be honest with yourself, And visit those who are in need; To share with them your worldly pelf Would be a grander, nobler deed! Why wait till death has called away Some dear one you have known for years, Then call to gaze on naught but clay And there unbidden, shed your tears? My Missingness By Vilate S. Raile Awarded First Honorable Mention in the Elisa Roxey Snow Poetry Contest Because I'd watched pain wear her thin, The bit of heaven that dwelt therein Should not be mourned! To comfort me they say, I should not cry; For no one knows so well as I How weary she had grown. I should be glad to see her empty chair. And know she's no more there To wait for death. I should be gay, enjoy each care-free day In new-found freedom. Go my way Unhindered by her care. Unhindered!' Freedom! God Forgive, They know not what they say— They have not sensed my missingness— They did not hear me pray to Thee, dear God, For three—or two-—or only one more Living, giving day. Sanctuary By Rachel G. Taylor Awarded Third Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest Beneath high, massive, vaulted domes Where men in somber robes move slowly by And glistening tapers, starlike, shine In shadows dimmed by opal glass With organ's deep accompaniment, Thy children kneel And whisper prayers to Thee. On crowded curbs where ragged children play With roaring motors swiftly clanging by; In murky street-lights' flickering gleam, Mid scoffers' smiles, With blatant, drum accompaniment. Thy children lift their heads And sing soul-songs to Thee. Oh, that such, might go Far up on mountain heights Where stands a temple of Thy handiwork Untouched by art of man. Its columns tall of silver satin bark Are arched above by stirring, shining leaves; Long shafts of golden sunlight gently slant Thro' skylight openings of the trees, Its aisles are carpeted with rich design Of trailing fern and columbine. As they would enter in with reverent step, From their shoulders there would fall The wornout cloak of creed; From their hearts there would be lifted The heavy burden of disturbing doubt; For there, where breezes like faint organs roll, Within the peaceful confines of Thy beauteous solitude, Comes faith and benediction to the soul. A Quaint Gown By LaRene King Bleecker My friend has a quaintly fashioned gown, Designed for a princess, demure. Romance lurks in its shining folds, And intrigue and dainty allure. Gay its sheen, as the sunset clouds, Or the red of a velvety rose. Fragrance of musk and lavender, Waken mem'ries of long, long ago. Each year in mood reminiscent, She wears it to Pioneer Hall. Her years fade away to magical youth; Once again she's the belle of the ball. Suitors in broadcloth and velvet, Pay homage in courtliest style; While troopers 'and gay caballeros, Bow low to the charm of her smile: Bow low at the feet of my Princess, To clasp the fringe of her gown; Or press a cheek in its shining folds, Though the seams are fraying and brown; And all its glamored fragrance breathes Of flower gardens, scented and old, And musky paths where young love walked Through moonbeam's latticed gold. Then back in its wrappings of tissue and silk, In fragrance of musk and sachet, In an old oaken chest in the attic The quaint gown is folded away. There are mists of tears, and sighs long-drawn, For the mem'ries of yester-years, When youth was gay and love was new, In the hearts of the Pioneers. Oh, sweet to know that once each year, In her gown of shimmering glow, My Princess walks in her garden, With her friends of the long, long ago. The Kind of a Woman I'd Like to Be By Lettie B. H. Rich I'd like to do a lot of things, As I journey on through life,— Do things that count as blessings true, That banish sin and strife. I'd like to lift the heavy load, Off those who are weighted down; Id' like to give a pleasant smile In place of the cold, dark frown. I'd like to give to those in need, Who toil and labor long, Who ne'er have had the leisure time To hear the bird's sweet song. I'd like to cheer the sick, the sad, Who feel that life is hard; I'd like to lift their burdened souls To believe in Christ, their Lord. I'd like to return the wanderers, To the straight and narrow way, That they may feel the spirit call, And teach them how to pray. I'd like to scatter lovely flowers, Where thorns and thistles grow, That earth may be more like a heaven, As we journey here below. Happy Mothers By Marba C. Josephson WHILE children are very young, mother's problems are those of activities largely. As the child begins to grow he reaches out from the protecting walls of his own home. His school associations, his neighborhood friendships begin to color his reactions to mother's and dad's instructions. When Johnny Jones doesn't go to bed until nine or ten o'clock, Junior can't see why he needs to go at eight. Mother's patience will have to take tremendous strides if she would not lose control of herself— thereby losing control over the children. The one program to follow is that of health. It will need all the best effort of both parents working in unison to solve this problem of discipline. They should invite the children to discuss the situation with them. They should point out in an unbiased manner what the rules of health are in regard to sleep, food, and habits in general. Parents will be agreeably surprised at the generous willingness of the children to listen—if they are wise enough not to force the discussion at a time of undue agitation. In nearly every case, after parents have explained the benefits of the prescribed course of action, they can safely leave the decision to the children. AFTER the law has been made, it must be enforced. Much as they dislike it, parents may at times have to punish their offspring. Some one said, "There are times when children just itch to be spanked." And yet, what about this idea of spanking? The matter of punishment is quite a problem. Talking the matter over with the neighbors doesn't solve it. Mothers and children have different persondlities and the same rule won't work in every case. The important thing to remember is to adopt a certain course of action in regard to the laws of the house and then to abide by that plan. Children have every right to expect a consistency in their punishment. They must be made to realize that they are subjected to this discipline because the parents have, with the youngsters' full consent and cooperation shown that it will result in the best good for all concerned. Corporal chastisement is not effective, although it is quite difficult always to control a quickness to physical reaction. Children resent the indignity to their developing personalities when they are whipped. Their spirits are cowed to so great an extent that often they are handicapped for their later battles in life. Mother and father themselves do wrong more frequently than they care to admit, and no one would ever venture to say that they should suffer a physical punishment at the hands of any one else. Why should they adopt the attitude of bully in correction of their children? One family uses successfully a checking system of penalizing—not excluding father and mother! When the children forget to put their clothes away, mother gives them a check. The paper for these marks is kept in an inconspicuous place on a wallboard which is hung in the kitchen. If the offense is particularly grievous, two checks may be HAPPY MOTHERS 97 given. Until one has tried this system she cannot appreciate just how helpful it is. It becomes a safety valve to release the energy which might otherwise result in a physical punishment. It saves jagged nerves and harsh words that are regretted after they are spoken. At the adoption of this method, the mother felt that undue emphasis was placed on the side of wrong-doing. After thinking the matter over and discussing it with the head of the house, she told the children that they might remove the bad marks by doing some unasked-for good deed. She was astonished at the number of checks which were removed. The work of the household ran more smoothly because of the oil of helpfulness which was present. On several occasions, rare selfdenial was. Practised. On Junior's birthday, John (aged five and a half) had found a certain handbill which could be traded at a local store for a chocolate eclair. Since the family had been curtailed in expenditures because of the depression, sweets were scarce. John took the handbill, received his treat, carried it home to mother, saying, "Hide this until Junior comes home. I want to give it to him 'cause it's his birfday." Needless to say, he had a check removed. A reward is given for the one who has the fewest checks during the month. This reward may be in the nature of a trip to some place of interest. A project book, or crayons, paints, or clay may be given on other occasions. The mother wished to test the system and so apparently abandoned it for a time. The children came and asked for it to be used again. They are enthusiastic over the method and it does seem to save their mother frayed nerves. OBEDIENCE in answering calls from the parents is often quite difficult to solve. One mother made it a rule that she would not wear herself or the neighbors out calling her children. So she bought a ten cent whistle. She keeps the children quite near home. Then when she wants them she whistles. She has made it a practice never to call them for trivial things. Often she gives them a cool drink of homemade rootbeer when they reach the house. Perhaps she will whistle for them to get their suits and go for a swim. It may be that they are to eat, rest, or work. The occasional treat serves as a stimulant to ready response when the youngsters hear that whistle. The question of obedience is tremendously important. Parents will have to consider carefully before they make hard and fast rules. Children must learn to think for themselves. They must learn early in life to make wise decisions, or else they will have great difficulty in taking their places as responsible men and women. Parents must encourage their young ones to reach their own conclusions as often as possible. Discipline is a harsh word albeit a necessary one in everybody's life. Recent American mothers have been afraid of it, consequently American youth is quite unrestrained. Parents need to help their children realize that discipline must be largely a matter of self-training. All the corporal punishment in the world will not assure well-disciplined children. A few good rules and wise, strict enforcement of them (with the children's hearty cooperation) will go far toward making them become self-controlled men and women who will do honor to their parents.
Masefield and His Message By C. Frank Steele
ALL great men are reverent, most of them are men of great faith. John Masefield is such a man. Again and again in his works his spiritual philosophy breaks through with prophetic radiance. Was it his long and intimate contact with the sea that gave Masefield this faith, the reach Godward, this trustfulness in His love and mercy? Perhaps. It is said that sailors are God-fearing men. And England's poet laureate was a sailor. He was indentured to the merchant marine at fourteen and in his fine poem, "The Wanderer," he reaches the pinnacle of lyrical beauty as he unfolds the career of "the loveliest ship my eyes have seen." Masefield is the greatest poet of the scene of England's glory—the sea. He speaks its language, rough and rugged and expressive; he knows its men and its women; he knows too its dangers and its toil, its pitilessness and its majesty! He has seen Neptune in many moods and sings of them again and again in his work. He sings also of the strong, God-fearing men who "go down to the sea in ships," who go down often never to return.
THERE is a haunting, mystical, spiritual note in much that Masefield has written. In his revealing study of "Poetry" in a lecture delivered at Queen's Hall, London, and published in the United States by the Macmillan Company, he interprets this for us. "I believe that the best poetry has always been a radiant perception of the life of the Universe, its Powers and its Laws. As they exist eternally, and that the mood of poetry in which they are perceived is an undying mood, existing eternally, as the Heart of Life: and that true poetry, which is a living in that mood, and a setting down of its truth, is necessarily eternal, too." Is not this another way of saying that great poetry flows from the font of divine truth and beauty? In fact, Masefield summons Milton to his aid in declaring that poetry is "the inspired gift of God, rarely bestowed."
He calls this poetic fire an "illumination" and goes on to express in language that leaves no room for doubt his belief in immortality, and not an immortality vague or fantastic but rather sublimely real and beautiful. He says: "I believe that this illumination exists eternally, and that all may know it in some measure, by effort or through grace. Those who deny can never have felt it. It is so intense that, compared with it, no other sensation seems to exist or to be real. It is so bright that all else seems to be shadow. It is so penetrating that in it the littlest thing, the grain of seed, the flower of a weed, the grain of sand, or the plume upon a moth's wing, are evidences of the depth and beauty and unity of life." How reminiscent of Whitman all this is! Continuing, he goes on to say: "This life upon this planet and this planet herself are parts or shadows or roots of something intenser and greater. We who are mortals are only partially incarnate, partially sentient, partially spiritual.
"But invisibly, very near us, touching us all, is a real world of divine order and beauty, inhabited by spirits whose mission it is to bring MASEFIELD AND HIS MESSAGE order and beauty where they can, to mortal souls struggling for such things; and remote as this world is in so many ways, its messengers are constant and its centre is everywhere."
In his discussion of poetry Masefield confines himself to four of the immortals — Homer, Aeschylus, Dante and Shakespeare. "The world, whose judgment cannot be set aside, has declared these four to be the masters. No others have such delight in life's abundance, nor such sense of the depth of its mystery," he declares. And from this foundation he proceeds to show this from their works, the whole study being eminently stimulating and revealing. Perhaps in this scant review enough has been said to kindle a desire for a thorough reading of the lecture. His conclusion sums up significantly the whole trend of his study: "His ways (the Divine King's ways) are the ways of light, and His words are the words of light, vouchsafed to a few great men of light, so that this world may know a little of the wisdom, beauty and power which are the daily bread of Paradise."
WHEN John Masefield wrote "The Everlasting Mercy" he gave us perhaps his most significant work. In this poem his art, the force of his genius is seen. It is a study in conversion, the conversion of a Herefordshire man, Saul Kane. The first part of the poem depicts Kane before the light of Christ came into his darkened soul, the latter part presents in sustained flights of sheer beauty the shaping of his "changed" life in his Lord. While the narrative is based upon Saul Kane, the character becomes the vehicle through which the poet unfolds his own rapturous vision of the "Everlasting Mercy." How deeply moving is Masefield's final outpouring of his soul to God:
"O Christ who holds the open gate, O Christ who drives the furrow straight, O Christ, the plough, O Christ, the laughter Of holy white birds flying after, Lo, all my heart's field red and torn, And thou wilt bring the young green corn, The young green corn divinely springing, The young green corn for ever singing; And when the field is fresh and fair Thy blessed feet shall glitter there. And we will walk the weeded field, And tell the golden harvest's yield, The corn that makes the holy bread By which the soul of man is fed, The holy bread, the food unpriced, Thy everlasting mercy, Christ."
JOHN MASEFIELD has an unfailing optimism reminiscent of Browning. Beyond the shadows shines the sun in its glory; reaching out to the man in the gutter is the hand of Divine Mercy. Spiritual reality is close to the poet. Like Shakespeare he believes in "a justice from outside life" which restores finite balance. It is Gilbert Thomas who says of him: "Firmly as his feet are set upon earth, his vision is never confined to it. In all his narrative poems, there is implied the suggestion that only half the story is told. The tragedy of The Widow of the Bye Street—like that of Dauber and the Daffodil Fields—is resolved into a final beauty which hints at—nay demands—the hope of Browning's line: 'In heaven, perhaps, new chances—one more chance.'"
IN addition to poetry and fiction, Masefield writes plays. These usually are produced at his own theatre at Boar's Hill, official residence of the Poet Laureate. He would bring back the days when the bards both wrote and spoke their work and he is giving practical support to a movement along this line in England today. While essentially a poet, Masefield has written plays in which he has achieved effects impossible in the field of poesy. Let me conclude this glimpse of a great poet and a great soul with an extract from one of his plays, "The Trial of Jesus," a work of restrained beauty and tenderness. Here, indeed, to stress a fine quality of Masefield the man, is unveiled the grandeur RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of his faith. This truly is more than a poetic gesture:
"Oh, if we call, our spirits may be doors, To those whose courage bears mercy and peace, Beauty and joy from shining corridors Whence comes the singing that may never cease. Oh to our spirits come Mercy, peace, beauty, joy: make here thy heaven, thy home."
Channels of Love By Nina Eckart Kerrick
There are channels of love in my heart, That run hither and thither to all— There are channels of love in my heart, That go to the great and the small. I'm so glad that I like the word "love", None can say it too often to me— There are channels of love in my heart, So I know, then, God's child I must be.
Let us bless the new day with the love. That goes hither and thither to all— Let us start every day with the love, That goes to the great and the small— Let's try every morn to speak love, And gladden the world with our smile— There are channels of love in our hearts, Let's be giving it out, all the while.
How weary and worn is the world, Because we are starving for love! Jesus, dear Jesus, come down Thy wonderful teaching to prove, For hatred and weariness fill The channels where love ought to be— I thank thee, dear Father, for love, The love thou hast given to me.
The love thou hast given to me, Has taken all hatred away— The love thou hast given to me Has joyously made me to say:— There are channels of love in my heart, Running hither and thither to all, There are channels of love in my heart, That go to the great and the small— I'm so glad that I like the word "love", None can say it too often to me, There are channels of love in my heart, So I know, then, God's child I must be.
Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest By Lella Marler Hoggan
OF all the attributes of heart or soul that should be cherished and cultivated and held fast, faith is the first and the last. For, in a measure, all of the other virtues grow out of this sustaining power.
In joy and in success it gives wings to our aspirations. In sorrow and in defeat it sustains and strengthens our crushed spirit. Through the long stretches of troubled nights, through racking days of anxiety, when the soul is brought down to the very dust, it is faith that renews and uplifts the fainting heart. It is the power that has given the race courage and fortitude to subdue the elements and establish civilization. It is back of every achievement. It has lighted the feet of man along every beaten path that the race has trodden from the jungle to the paved highway. It is more than hope, it is greater than courage, it is that certain assurance, that unquestioning confidence that knows no defeat. It is the lighted candle that guides the children of men through the darkest hours of life.
These strenuous times are as the hand writing on the wall. Are we losing confidence in the ultimate purpose of life, in the triumphant destiny of man?
"Stand not to doubt, Nothing's so hard, but search will find it out."
KEEP FAITH
"No vision and you perish, no ideal and you're lost: Your heart must ever cherish some faith at any cost. Some hope, some dream to cling to, some rainbow in the sky, Some melody to sing to, some service that is high."
That power that is deeper than the foundation of the earth and higher than the stars, still guards the safety and happiness of the human race. Through paths of pain and sorrow the God of Israel has brought us from the ends of the earth, and has established for us an empire in the heart of the everlasting hills. He has held us in the protection of his mighty arm and has led us into the land of promise. We are the children of prophecy, a prophecy that stands but half fulfilled. For the sake of all that has gone before, we must not forget. In these last days of doubt and fear, will the Mothers in Israel break faith with God?
Faith, then, will be the first keepsake to go into our treasure chest of life. Nowhere in the scripture is there a more beautiful expression of this divine gift, than in the Shepherd's Psalm. Let us make it one of our memories.
"The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. "He maketh me to lie down in green pastures; he leadeth me beside the still waters. "He restoreth my soul; he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. "Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for thou art with me: thy rod and thy staff they comfort me. "Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies: thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over. "Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life: and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever."
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
FEBRUARY — Patriotism need not be severe nor gayety foolish.
MRS. CAROLINE O'DAY of New York is the only new woman among the feminine members of Congress this session. There are five other women in the House, 3 democrats and 2 republicans, and one woman in the Senate—Mrs. Hattie Caraway of Arizona.
MRS. S. F. YOUMANS is mayor of the town of Oak Park, Ga. All members of the city council are also women.
MISS LUVERNE BROWN of Kansas City has been appointed a federal court bailiff. She is the first woman court bailiff in a United States district court.
MRS. ALICE M. FRENCH, founder and first president of the American War Mothers, died this winter.
MRS. ELBERT GARY bequeathed her wardrobe valued at $350,000 to be sold "for improving the condition of the poor."
REBA CRAWFORD SPLINALO has succeeded Amy Semple McPherson, resigned, as pastor of Los Angeles Temple.
CROWN PRINCESS JULIANA of Holland is the only European princess who offers a throne to her future consort. Court circles are wondering where there is a worthy noble for this beautiful princess.
EMPRESS MARIE LOUISE cherished her letters from Napoleon. Now 300 of them have recently been sold to the French government. They brought $75,000 and are said to furnish a most important addition to the knowledge concerning Napoleon.
MRS. NORMAN NEVILLE of Utah is the first woman to navigate the San Juan river canon where it enters into the Colorado through a gorge of wall 1500 ft. High. The trip was made by a party of three to take pictures.
CORA STERLING of Seattle is the first aerial policewoman. She patrols the skies for air regulation offenders.
THE Martin Johnsons have prepared a series of pictures of their trip into dark Africa. The pictures to be shown in the air over New York City.
HELEN JACOBS, amateur tennis champion, denies she has accepted an offer to become professional. She is now playing in Egypt.
MATHILDE EIKER has written a new psychological novel, "Heirs of Mrs. Wellingdon," which is said to be "delightfully written and never dull."
DORIS LESHIS' new book, "Full Flavor," is of the Victorian period. A choice book of kindly satire which if not quite authentic is none the less entertaining.
MARY KIDDER PARK has published her own story in a novel called "A Cowman's wife." It is a humorous record of Arizona ranch life.
JUDITH MARON, popular soprano of the Chicago opera company, brought the audience to their feet during her rendition of "The Last Rose of Summer" from the opera of "Martha,"
Our Relief Society By Amelia M. Barker  The Book of Mormon opening 4 ft Illus. No. Illus. No. 1 The following proportions serve nicely: each frame 6 ft. High, 3 ft. Wide, made of thin "re-saw", side strips and bottom 3 or 4 in. Wide, top strip 6 or 8 in. Wide, leaving an opening in the center of each leaf about 5 by 2½ ft. The framework for the covers is entirely covered with paper and lettered to represent a Relief Society Magazine. For the leaves only the framework is covered. Through one side of each page and also the covers a hole an inch in diameter is bored about a foot from the top and 4 in. From the bottom. The pages are numbered as in any book. The title announcing the program number is lettered on the odd-numbered pages. A companion title to it is lettered on the opposite even-numbered page and is in full sight when the page is turned back, as in illustration number 1. Our titles were: Page 1. Welcome. 2. Home. 3. Motherhood. 4. Block Teaching. 5. Handiwork. 6. Ethics. 7. Music. 8. Drama. 9. Literature. 10. Poetry. 11. Art. 12. History. 13. Biography. 14. Health. 15. Food and Nutrition. 16. Civics. 17. Social Welfare. 18. Theology. 19. Book of Mormon. 20. Theology. 21. Doctrine and Covenants. Eleven leaves, two covers,—13 frames in all. Illus. No. 3 The standards on which the leaves swing are made by bending two small iron rods 5 ft. Long as shown in illustration number 2. The hardware store where we bought our rods bent them for us without extra charge and made threads on each end so they could be bolted firmly into the 2 by 4 uprights. The uprights (illus. No. 3) are 6 ft. High and are braced 3 ft. Apart with the rods inserted top and bottom so the leaves will swing clear of the floor. Of course the leaves must be slipped on the rods before the rods are bolted into the uprights. Then this supporting frame is placed at such an angle that when the leaves grouped at AA' are slipped along the rods to B the center opening in the leaf will be squarely before the audience. The performer steps over the rod from the back, then through the opening in the leaf to enter upon the stage. Two 'pages' in costume stand at A' and C', the first to swing the leaf into position at B, and hold it as the performer steps through and gives her number, the second to swing it around to C when that number is finished. No reader is needed. The number is announced by the title at the top of the page through which the performer enters. ' 104 Magazine No. 2. Is a lath framework 4 ft. High, 2 ft. Wide, and 18 in. Thick, covered with paper lettered and decorated to represent a Relief Society Magazine. Pleated paper indicates the leaf edges. It will be large enough to enable a child of 7 or 8 years to stand inside it and carry it around. Peep-holes must be provided among the cover decorations to allow him to see his way around the stage. Careful costuming adds to its effectiveness. Time for presentation, 1½ hrs, Setting. A living-room. The ordinary curtain cyclorama. At the left, back stage, stands the Relief Society Magazine closed. To the right of it a writing table on which are books, Relief Society Magazines, a work basket, sewing materials, etc. Against the right wall, a divan with pillows, a reading lamp. Several easy chairs. The curtain rises showing the pages in their places at A' and C'. They slide the front cover into place at C', then bring page No. I into position at B. The President of the Relief Society steps through the page, advances to center front and speaks. "Dear friends, we welcome you here tonight on this the...... Anniversary of the founding of our Relief Society. We have a pleasing little play that we think you will enjoy. It shows the various phases of work taken up in our meetings and the many interesting and instructive subjects for study and discussion outlined in our lessons. We invite all you sisters to join with us, come to our meetings, that all of you, old and young, may be encouraged and blessed in our association together. March 17th, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the first Relief Society with only 18 charter members. Since that time our membership has increased to over 65,000. Our activities have been so farreaching and so effective that today The Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is known as one of the most efficient organizations for women in our RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE great nation and has gained international recognition. Not only does it look after the relief of the sick and the needy, but it is also a great educational institution, offering to its members valuable instruction in all subjects tending to uplift and enlighten womanhood, — personal culture, temporal vision, spiritual inspiration. This is given us through the medium of The Relief Society Magazine. We shall now try to give you an idea of the enjoyment to be derived from its pages." (Exits left. Page 1 is slipped into place at A. Page 3 is brought forward.) (Pages 2-3. Home and Motherhood.) (Mother steps through the page. She shifts chairs, arranges articles on the table, etc., sits down at table, picks up work. "Pages" exit quietly. Freddie, 6, and Buddie, 3, enter right. Buddie sits down front center and plays with a toy. Freddie approaches his mother. She lays down her work, and inspects him carefully, neck, ears, hair, hands.) MOTHER: That's fine, son. You look nice. You needn't start to school for ten minutes yet. But be careful and don't get all mussed up. (He joins Buddie. Mother takes up work as Jean, 10, enters right, calling eagerly.) Jean: Mother, did you get my sewing material for this afternoon? Where is it? MOTHER: Here on the table. Don't lose my scissors, will you, dear. (Jean goes round back of the table, examines her material. Paul, 13, enters, right, holding out a scout neckerchief all wet.) PAUL: Look, mother, what a funny color it's gone. MOTHER: Hang it on the rack, dear. It will be all right when it's dry. Remember to press it as soon as you get home from school tonight. PAUL: I'll sure have to hustle after school. I've made an appointment to pass a test before scout meeting tonight. (He hurries out with neckerchief, right, almost collides with George, 16, entering, intent on arranging books and papers in his brief-case. He drops some. ) GEORGE: Here, look what you're doing! (Stoops to pick them up. Ella, 18, enters behind him, pulling a frock over her head as she hurries in. She trips over George's papers scattering them again.) ELLA (quickly): Mother, will you pin the collar in place on this dress, please. Dr. Munn's taking us on a Geology hike this afternoon, so I'll be late getting home. I won't have a minute before Mutual and the dance starts right after. (Mother helps her.) GEORGE (explodes): The next one that comes barging in here I'll— (Aunt Lulu enters, left, swiftly followed by Father, hat in hand, smiling. Aunt Lulu is a charming, gracious woman, about 50, welldressed, wears traveling ulster and hat.) ELLA (exclaims): O, here's Daddy and Aunt Lu! (Mother and Ella rush to greet her affectionately. They stand with their arms around one another. Jean, George, Paul, and Buddie crowd round her. Greetings in natural manner.) MOTHER: I'm so glad you're here! Did you have a nice trip? ELLA: Let me take your things. (Exits right with wrap, hat, purse.) PAUL: Where's your grip, Aunt Lu? DADDY: Out in the car. PAUL: I'll bring it in. (Exits Left.) GEORGE (his papers collected): Want lunch, Dad? I guess there's something left. (They exit, right, together. Ella enters right, with a tray. ) ELLA: I know you're starved, 105 Aunt Lu. Here's some nice hot soup. I'll get something else in a second. We've just finished lunch. Aunt Lu: No, don't trouble, please. I'm too excited to eat right now. (Paul re-enters left, with grip. Daddy enters, right, hastily wiping his mouth and looking at his watch.) DADDY: I'll have to hurry back to the office. Anybody want a ride? (Ella hastily catches up purse and notebook, George seizes briefcase.) GEORGE: I ought to be back at High School this minute! ELLA: Let me out at Campus Corner. (They hurry out, left, after Daddy, calling back.) ELLA: Goodbye, Mother. Goodbye, Aunt Lu. GEORGE: See you later! MOTHER: Goodness! You children hurry or you'll be late for school. (Jean and Paul scurry for school things, Jean her sewing materials, Paul a baseball mit. They kiss mother and Aunt Lu and hurry out left.) Aunt Lu (tasting her soup): What a busy bunch you have, Lettie. Are they always rushing places? I'm dizzy already. (As she speaks Grandma enters, left. Aunt Lu sets her tray aside and rises. They embrace.) GRANDMA: My dear girl! You're looking well. How are Phil and the children? Aunt Lu: All just fine. Bob's at Pittsburgh Tech. And Betty's at Vassar. Phil had to hurry on to Portland on business for the firm, but I couldn't go through without stopping off to say hello to you people. GRANDMA (picks up Buddie): How are you today? (Sits, holding baby on her lap.) I knew Lettie expected you today so I thought I'd drop in before Relief Society Meeting. It's our work meeting today. We're putting on a quilt. Thank goodness I can still quilt. 106 Aunt Lu: Yes, I suppose Relief Society is a big comfort to women your age. But I'll wager Lettie here with all her bunch to care for has no time to waste in Relief Society meeting. I remember you used to take me with you when I was a little tot. The women pieced quilt blocks and sewed carpet rags and talked— whew!—the gossip!—and we young ones played with the balls of rags and wrapped our dolls in the quilt pieces. Up-to-date women today consider their own self-development of chief importance and grasp every opportunity to improve themselves. While Phil has been in the New York office I have received my degree from Columbia University, you know, and I always keep in touch with world progress through my club work wherever we live. Little Sister Lettie, here, used to be the brightest one of us all. It's a shame the way she's been tied down with babies and housework every minute. (Throws her arms around mother's shoulders and gives her an affectionate squeeze.) It's too bad. MOTHER: But my children—I don't mind— Aunt Lu: O, they're lovely children — perfect dears — but you shouldn't let them absorb all your time. As a girl you had wonderful talent. What do you know today of music, art, literature, the lives and works of our great men and women, the progress of science, foods and nutrition welfare work— MOTHER (with gentle dignity): Why we study those things in Relief Society, Lulu, every one of them. Our lessons are outlined for us by authorities in every field of study and research. (picks up Relief Society Magazine and flutters its pages) Here is our Relief Society Magazine with our lesson material, also splendid articles on such inter RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE esting subjects—and the best stories —poems—everything. It's a big help to me with my family. Aunt Lu (takes magazine, looks it over thoughtfully): Is that right. Well, well! If it just helps you to manage your big household, that's worthwhile. When I think of the time I've had getting Betty and Bob where they are now—why, a million dollars couldn't hire me to go through it again. Honestly, Lettie, I think I'd go crazy if I had as many as you. GRANDMA: The main thing, I think, is to keep them busy. Aunt Lu: Yes, but how! We've spent thousands of dollars on camps, hikes, trips, dancing lessons— MOTHER: Our Church organization practically takes care of keeping young people busy. You've been out of touch with our Church so long, Lulu, that I suppose you've forgotten the Priesthood quorums, Sunday Schools, Primary, Mutual— with its Beehive work and the Boy Scouts—besides school work and home duties—we haven't an idle moment. Relief Society is not for old ladies alone. You should see the young women we have. As for clubs—we're affiliated with the National Council of Women. Our course of study is broader than any club program because it includes religious teachings, too. Come to meeting with me and see. Oh, there goes Mrs. Brown with the quilt she took home last time to finish binding. (goes to left, calls) Mrs. Brown, come in a minute! (Pages re-enter and turn leaf.) 5. Handiwork. (Mrs. Brown and Mrs. Gray step through the leaf.) MOTHER: Mrs. Brown — Mrs. Gray—this is Lulu, my eldest sister. She has been away from home so long she doesn't know about us nowadays. Show her some of our handwork. (They unfold the quilt they OUR RELIEF SOCIETY carry and display it before the audience.) Aunt Lu: O, it's lovely! (Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Jones step through leaf. They bear various articles of beauty made in work meetings, children's apparel, scarf, cushion, etc. Introductions. Articles are shown and admired.) Mrs. SMITH: Are you going to meeting, Lettie? We didn't know your sister was here and we thought we'd call for you as we went by. AUNT LU: Go on, Lettie. I'm rather tired and would like a nap. MOTHER: Very well, I will. An hour's rest is just what you need. (The ladies collect their articles with mother, grandma and baby exit left, calling back goodbyes. Aunt Lu takes a magazine, arranges pillows and settles herself comfortably on couch. Silence, or low music as she turns pages slowly. Relaxes in sleep. From right small Relief Society Magazine enters and glides around stage as the R. S. Chorus sings to tune No. 127 R. S. Song book.) OUR GUIDE Our magazine inspired and true Each month our lives you bless, That we our daily tasks pursue In joy and thankfulness. CHORUS All hail, our wondrous magazine! How we depend on thee. To guide our hearts and hands and minds, In Relief Society. From out thy pages truths so bright In varied forms appear Our souls to thrill, our paths to light Throughout the coming year. CHORUS (Magazine exits left. Fourth leaf is turned, page 7. Music. Vocal or instrumental. Fifth leaf, page 9. Literature. A short short story. Sixth leaf, page 11. Art. Tap dancing— 107 fancy drill by school children, etc. Seventh leaf, page 13. Biography. Any noteworthy woman. Biblical characters are good, especially if the biblical language is used. Eighth leaf, page 15. Food and Nutrition. Nine small children appropriately costumed to represent a bottle of milk, an apple, wheat, an egg, an orange, lettuce, a tomato, a carrot, and a bunch of celery, enter and sing.) THE SONG OF THE VITAMINS (Tune: Jingle Bells) A few short years ago Some doctors wise and good, Found out some things you all should know About your daily food. They learned we saucy elves, Chuck full of pep and vim, Are hiding in good things you eat, And they called us "Vitamins." CHORUS Vitamins! Vitamins! A and B and C! In carrots, wheat, and oranges, eggs, milk and celery. Hold us tight! Treat us right! Then our aid you'll win, We bright little, shy little, nice little, spry little, gay little Vitamins! (They whirl lightly around stage as pianist repeats chorus.) We hide in many ways, But that is all in fun, We really wish you'd find us all, And nab us every one! So, if you want to grow Up big and tall and strong, Catch every vitamin you can, And we'll help you along. CHORUS Vitamins! Vitamins! A and B and C! In lettuce, apples, oranges, tomatoes, celery! Hold us tight! Treat us right! Then our aid you'll win. 108 We bright little, shy little, nice little, spry little, gay little Vitamins! (They whirl off the stage as pianist repeats chorus. Costumes are best made of wire shapes covered with crepe paper.) Ninth Leaf, page 17. Social Welfare (Recitation) THE BRIDGE BUILDER (R. S. Magazine, Vol. 13, 1926, p. 314) An old man, going a lone highway, Came at the evening, cold and gray, To a chasm vast and deep and wide. The old man crossed in the twilight dim, The sullen stream had no fear for him. But he turned when safe on the other side, And built a bridge to span the tide. "Old man," said a fellow pilgrim near, "You are wasting your strength by building here; Your journey will end with the ending day, You never again will pass this way, You've crossed the chasm deep and wide, Why build you this bridge at eventide?" The builder lifted his fair grey head: "Good friend, in the path I have come," he said, There followeth after me, today, A youth whose feet must pass this way; This chasm, that has been as naught to me, To that fair-haired youth may a pitfall be. He, too, must cross in the twilight dim— Good friend, I am building this bridge for him!" Tenth leaf, page 19. Book of Mormon. (R. S. Chorus sings "An RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE angel from on high," first three verses. (Songs of Zion, No.8) During the singing of the third verse a Lamanite chieftain steps out of the book and with stately and dignified mien walks to right front, where he stands looking into the distance in proud silence. The chorus immediately sings, "O stop and tell me, red man." (Songs of Zion, No. 224) From out the book and crossing Stage to right passes a silent procession: first, "Pilgrims going to church," then hunters and trappers, then surveyors, who pause, set up tripod, rod, etc., make notations in business-like way, then an Indian family of today—a dirty, greasy "buck" in white man's clothing slouches by, followed by a squaw carrying a papoose on her back. After her scurry several Indian children. The Lamanite chieftain watches them sadly. As the last child disappears, he raises both arms high into the air, face lifted as if in supplication to the Great Spirit, then lets arms fall heavily, despairingly, and exits slowly, right, head drooping mournfully. Eleventh leaf, page 21. (The Doctrine and Covenants. As a soloist sings the first verse of "Joseph the Seer." (Songs of Zion, No. 213) Joseph the Prophet enters followed by Oliver Cowdery. Joseph motions Oliver to a seat at the table. He paces the stage thoughtfully.) JOSEPH: Brother Oliver, I feel impressed to deliver a message from God to the people. Will you record it, please? I command you, all ye my saints, to build a house unto me. "Build a house to my name for the most High to dwell therein. For there is not a place found on earth that He may come and restore again that which was lost unto you, or which He has taken away, even the fulness of the Priesthood." And verily I say unto OUR RELIEF SOCIETY you, let this house be built unto my name, that I may reveal mine ordinances therein unto my people. (Sec. 124) Chorus sings: We want to see the temple with towers rising high, Its spires majestic pointing unto the clear blue sky. A house where saints may gather and richest blessings gain, Where Jesus, our Redeemer, a dwelling may obtain. (Songs of Zion, No. 195) (Nine little girls dressed in white enter, each bearing a picture of one of the temples enlarged on cardboard 18 x 24 in. Under each picture is its name and date of dedication, as KIRTLAND TEMPLE, dedicated March 27, 1836. As they hold the pictures up to view, the chorus sings.) Ho, ho, for the temple's completed, The Lord has a place for his head. The Priesthood in power now lightens The way of the living and dead. (Psalmody, No. 273) (Emma Smith enters, curtsies to Joseph and Oliver, sits in chair center stage which Joseph places for her. He stands behind her chair. Sec. 25.) JOSEPH: "Hearken unto the voice of the Lord your God, while I speak unto you, Emma Smith, my daughter. * * * Behold, thy sins are forgiven thee and thou art an elect lady whom I have called. * * * And the office of thy calling shall be for a comfort unto my servant, Joseph Smith. Jun., thy husband, in his afflictions with consoling words, in the spirit of meekness. And thou shalt go with him at the time of his going and be unto him for a scribe. And thou shalt be ordained under his 109 hand to expound scriptures, and to exhort the church, according as it shall be given thee by my spirit. For he shall lay his hands upon thee and thou shalt receive the Holy Ghost, and thy time shall be given to writing and to learning much. "And it shall be given thee, also, to make a selection of sacred hymns, to be had in my church. For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." (She exits right. The prophet continues.) "And behold thou wilt remember the poor, and consecrate of thy properties for their support. And inasmuch as ye impart of your substance unto the poor, ye will do it unto me." (Sec. 42) "And remember in all things the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted, for he that doeth not these things, the same is not my disciple." (Sec. 52) (Joseph and Oliver exit right. Mother and Grandma enter left. Aunt Lu rises to meet them.) Aunt Lu: Mother, Lettie, I've been looking through your Relief Society Magazine and I'm amazed. I had no idea Relief Society work could be so wonderful. From now on I mean to keep in touch with my nearest organization. Lettie, I take back all I said to you before meeting. You see I didn't know! "While the pianist plays lively march music, all the participants in the program, including the members of the chorus, form a tableau group on the stage. When all are in their places they sing the first verse of 'Have I done any good in the world today?' (Deseret S. S. Songs, No. 207)." CURTAIN An Interesting Letter THE following letter from a daughter of Dr. Samuel Gridley Howe will be of interest to our organizations in their study of this great man. Mrs. Sorenson is the stake social service leader of Wells Stake. She says: "On December 9th I was listening to Alexander Woolcott on the Town-Crier radio program over KSL. In this program he paid tribute to Mrs. Laura E. Richards, the 85-year-old daughter of Dr. Samuel G. And Julia Ward Howe. I knew that in our public library we had only one book on the life of Dr. Howe for reference work in our social service work in Relief Society. It occurred to me that Mrs. Richards might be able to refer me to some further information about where to obtain material on the life of her father. I thought also that she would be pleased to know that so many women were studying about her famous father. This was the letter which came in answer." Gardiner, Maine, December 26, 1934. Mrs. W. A. Sorenson, 1590 South West Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. Dear Mrs. Sorenson: I am ashamed to have left your letter, even for a few days, unanswered, but my eyes have been troubling me, otherwise you would have heard from me before. You did not perhaps realize that you were sending me in your letter a Christmas present more dear to my heart than almost anything else could be,—this beautiful tribute to my father's memory, and the knowledge that you and such a great number of other women are thinking of him and preparing to take up his life for study. This comes at a most fortunate time. I am even now correcting the proof of my new life of my father (who, by the way, was always called Dr. Howe): "The Life of Dr. Samuel Gridley Howe." It will be published in March by the D. Appleton-Century Company, 35 West 32nd St., New York City. This will give you all the material you really need, but I cannot refrain from telling you of the other works bearing upon my father's life. They are: Memoir, written by my mother, shortly after his death. Life of Dr. S. G. Howe, by F. B. Sanborn, published by Funk & Wagnalls, 1891. Letter and Journals of Samuel Gridley Howe, edited by myself, published by the L. C. Page Co., Boston, 1905. Two Noble Lives, a little book written by me for school children, telling briefly and simply the stories of both my parents' lives. Published by the L. C. Page Co., 1911. Laura Bridgman, written by my sisters, Maud Howe and Florence Howe Hall, published by Little, Brown & Co., Boston, 1903. Laura Bridgman, written by myself, published by the D. Appleton Co., New York, in 1928. I might add to this list his own "Sketch of the Greek Revolution," published in 1828; long out of print, but occasionally a volume turns up in a bookdealer's hands; and his wonderful "Reports" of the Perkins Institution, which might possibly be found in the Library of your State Institution for the Blind. They were published annually for forty years. And were eagerly read all over the civilized world. One thing more: in his "American Notes," Charles Dickens gives a most beautiful tribute to my father, and his work with Laura Bridgman. I cannot but feel, dear Mrs. Sorenson, that your springtime study will not only be profitable but deeply (Continued on page 113) Notes from the Field RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING SISTERS AND BRANCH PRESIDENCY, OSLO, Norwegian Mission: THE above picture represents the branch presidency, the group of "Singing Sisters" and the sisters of the Relief Society organization in Oslo of the Norwegian Mission. Due to the excellent cooperation of the Relief Society sisters in this mission the Relief Society conferences of the different branches have been most successful, and were greatly appreciated by the Saints and their friends. During the Oslo Branch Relief Society Conference the outstanding feature was the beautiful music furnished by the "Singing Sisters." They rendered in English the song "Opportunity." This is found in the December, 1933, issue of the Relief Society Magazine. After the singing the words were read in Norwegian. In this particular branch the group of singers are called "Singing Sisters" as there are so many of the Relief Society members unmarried. The sisters of this mission enjoy the lessons very much, particularly those in theology. Due to the diffi NORWAY culties arising in translation, the Relief Societies in Norway are dropping behind a year, as suggested by President Joseph F. Merrill. So for the current year they are studying "Latter-day Revelation" in the Theology period. In the teachers' topic period they are studying "What is Mormonism," by John A. Widtsoe. In Literature some of the outstanding authors of the world are considered. Among these are Charles Dickens, Shakespeare, George Eliot, Victor Hugo, Nathaniel Hawthorne, and others. In Social Service they are using the lessons prepared especially for the Missions on "Health and Home Nursing." Due to the present crisis and the financial distress that exists among so many of the people, the Social Service lessons make a great appeal. For the next year the lessons outlined for 1934-35 will be very acceptable. Relief Societies are organized and working very successfully in Narvik, Trondheim, Stavanger, Bergen. Haugesund, Oslo, Drammen, Moss, 112 Fredrikstad, Arendal. | Whether there is a large or small membership the same sweet spirit of the Gospel exists in each society that is found in any similar gathering in Zion. Sister Vivian C. Knudsen, who has sent in the information in reference to Norwegian Mission gives the following beautiful picture: "Norway, renowned for its natural beauty, is indeed a most wonderful country. Summer and winter are equally attractive. It is truly the tourists' country of Europe. In the journey from Oslo to Bergen one travels on one of the most wonderful pieces of railroading in the world. It is truly a masterpiece of engineering. In the 375 miles there are 184 tunnels. From the car window one sees a panorama of scenery unexcelled; scores of silvery waterfalls leaping down the green slopes of the mountains, mountain lakes resting in peaceful valleys, beautiful country farms nestled in the luxurious green shrubbery, and the fjords winding far into the mountains. Spring brings the flowers with a verdure that carpets the earth, autumn brings a wealth of colors, golden, crimson and green predominating; winter brings the hoar frost which covers everything, changing it to a gorgeous fairyland. Norway, the land of the midnight sun and long shadows, is a land of beauty unsurpassed." Northwestern States Mission: FROM the Northwestern States Mission comes the interesting report of the opening session of a very successful year. A program which was unique and unusual in its nature was held in the Portland Branch Relief Society at the opening of the season's work. This was for the members of the organization and in honor of the retiring Presidency. The program consisted of original ideas characteristic of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE outlined work of the departments for the year. The magazine was represented in a playlet called "The Spirit of the Magazine," and the song was a fitting climax to the dramatization. The Home Nursing unit presented a humorous skit. The story of Ruth, representing the Literary Dept., was very beautifully told. The Social Service Department was vividly portrayed by four tableaus depicting the work of Elizabeth Fry, Florence Nightingale, Jane Addams and the teachings of Christ in "Feed My Lambs." There was very beautiful music interspersed throughout the program and altogether the meeting was voted a most successful entertainment. Salt Lake Stake: THE Salt Lake Stake Relief Society is a splendid example of the very careful organization and planning of the year's work in advance. The program represents the fine spirit of cooperation which exists in this progressive stake, between the stake and ward officers and the entire membership. The general motto of the stake is voiced in: "We believe in progression through the learning and living of Gospel principles." The following definite program is mapped out: The stake and ward department class leaders' convention in September; the ward Relief Society visiting teachers' convention also in September; in October; the ward Relief Society conferences beginning in November and running through to the early spring; the stake board meeting held twice regularly each month; the stake Union Meeting held the last Friday of each month. Salt Lake stake makes it a point to entertain the County Infirmary patients once each year, and the stake board has a very delightful Christmas party. The stake and ward Relief Societies sponsor a Temple excursion. There NOTES FROM THE FIELD is a mothers' and daughters' evening specially planned, and the stake literary day is held during the close of the year. The season's activity is really brought to a conclusion with a ward and stake exhibition day when samples of the beautiful and artistic work done through the year's program is placed on exhibition. Before adjournment for summer vacation the stake board holds a delightful reception for its ward officers. There are nine stepping stones of progress which are outlined as follows: I. Progress through activity (a) Continuous growth II. Progress through study (a) Magazines (b) Text Books (c) General Material III. Progress through faith (a) In Deity (b) In Self (c) In Fellowmen IV. Progress through service (a) To living (b) To dead V. Progress through self-expression (a) Learn to do by doing VI. Progress through obedience to law (a) Church (b) Land VII. Progress through appreciation (a) Membership and calling in Church (b) Friendships gained 113 (c) Opportunities provided VIII. Progress through study of motherly virtues. (a) Spiritual (b) Moral (c) Physical IX. Progress through love of the beautiful (a) Human soul (b) Nature (c) Fine Arts Idaho Falls Stake: A MOST successful stake Relief Society Work and Business Day was held in Idaho Falls Stake in October, 1934. Each ward was given space in which to display the various articles made through the ward work days during the year. There were many beautiful and artistic things on exhibition: dinner trays, lemonade coasters and baskets made of reed, artificial flowers in brilliant hues and ornamental dolls dressed in colors showing the uses of crepe paper. There were many quilts and rugs of various kinds. Perhaps the most interesting and practical phase of the work was in remodeled clothing. The apron department was also most interesting. Patterns of the models on display were given to those who wished them. There were departments where recipes for different foods were interchanged. The exhibition was combined with a fine social event and refreshments served at the small tables. The stake officers were hostesses to more than 300 ward workers. An Interesting Letter (Concluded from page 110) interesting. The number you name —sixty-five thousand women—who are taking up this study, is deeply impressive. If you have the opportunity, by radio or otherwise, of coming in touch with them, please give them my very kindest greetings, and tell them that I wish them well in all their study and all their good works. With kindest regards, Believe me, dear Mrs. Sorenson, Faithfully yours, (Signed) Laura Richards. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: Mary Connelly Kimball Manager -: Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman VOL. XXII FEBRUARY, 1935 No. 2 The Prophet's Admonition "New occasions teach new duties, Building up the morale of the people. Time makes ancient good uncouth; They must upward still and onward Who would keep abreast of truth.' food for the physical body. The —Lowell. WHEN the Relief Society was first organized, the paramount thing in the minds of its officers was "searching after objects of charity and administering to their wants." The first admonition of the Prophet has during the years since he organized the Society been carefully and wonderfully carried out. Now that the Government is taking care of most of the physical needs of the people, the organization will have more time and energy to heed more fully the second admonition of the prophet, to "assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community." "This Society," said the Prophet, at a later meeting, "is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls." Building up the morale of the people, giving them a desire for the things of the spirit is quite as vital as food for the physical body. The Church offers educational and spiritual opportunities that are not appreciated by many. They let their children grow up without the training the auxiliaries and Priesthood Quorums give. They do not realize that they are handicapping their children by their carelessness. A prominent business man recently said, "There is only one thing I hold against my parents. They were kind and loving, they gave us opportunities to attend school, but they did not encourage us to attend the auxiliary organizations. As a result, I cannot appear as well as others in the community in  public affairs. I have not been trained to express myself before others. I lack the poise that comes from such training." Children who are not trained to pray, who are not fed spiritually, EDITORIAL rarely develop spirituality in later life. So, now that many responsibilities that the Relief Society formerly carried are taken care of by government agencies, we urge our officers and members to devote their energies to stimulating luke-warm parents to see to it that their children attend regularly 115 and participate actively in the auxiliary organizations. Our officers should see to it that the spark of spirituality that has been allowed to almost be smothered in many breasts shall be fanned into a flame. This is the great need of today. This is the great call of the present time. Our women 'will not fail. Cultivate the Power to Appreciate TT has been said people who appreciate us can do almost anything with us. Christ had the seeing eye, the understanding heart that could detect the good, the beautiful in everyone. He always emphasized the loveliest thing in man or animal or nature. There is a legend that at one time when he and his Disciples were leaving a city, they saw a crowd assembled around a dead dog. One said, "Look at his bleared eye." Another, "How mangy is his fur." Another, "How crooked are his legs." Christ gave one look and _ said, "Pearls cannot rival the whiteness of his teeth." He picked out the one beautiful thing this mongrel dog possessed. He made people respect themselves, and they held their heads higher, feeling there was hope in life. He loved those who were outcasts, because he could see something in them worthy of love. Itisa fascinating worthwhile experience to use His method to search out and. Emphasize the good that is often buried so deep that few see it. There is a divine spark in each human breast. Blessed are they that fan it into a flame and one of the most successful fuses is appreciation of the good. The Speed Mania THE injury and loss of life through traffic accidents is appalling. The percentage could be cut down materially if all would drive at a moderate rate of speed. The speed mania obsesses people. What a short time ago was considered fast is now considered slow. Many young people's lives are snatched out at a moment. Others are permanently injured for life. This needless loss of life and injury through fast driving should be cut down to a minimum. Public sentiment should be aroused. Young people should be warned again and again. Every effort should be made to safeguard against these unnecessary accidents. Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in April) LESSON VII GEMS OF TRUTH 1. Those Who Serve the Lord. Here is great comfort for those who serve the Lord: "Let your hearts be comforted; for all things shall work together for good to them that walk uprighily, and to the sanctification of the church." (D. And C. 100:15.) It is frequently said that rain falls on the just and the unjust alike, and that sorrow visits the homes of both those who serve the Lord and those who do not. Let it be admitted that there is at least partial truth in the statement. The just, however, have the assurance that all things will work together for their good, while the unjust have no hope of reward. 2. The Lord has said: "Whom I love I also chasten that their sins may be forgiven, for with the chastisement I prepare a way for their deliverance in all things out of temptation." (D. And C. 95:1.) Again: "They who suffer persecution for my name, and endure in faith, though they are called to lay down thew lives for my sake yet shall they partake of all this glory." (D. And C. 101:35.) But: "Those who will not endure chastening, but deny me, cannot be sanctified." (D. And C. 101:5.) 3. God's promises never fail. There are untold numbers of Latterday Saints who testify that adversity has often been a source of great blessing to them, and that trying conditions often prove to be a source of strength. Great comfort arises from the belief that no matter how dark the hour, or distressing the circumstance, God will bring all things together for the benefit of those who love him. There is probably no greater source of solace in times of trial. 4, Lives unattended by sorrow are like photographs taken in the full glare of the sun,—flat and characterless. In a beautiful life, like a beautiful photograph, the high lights are accentuated by shadows. 5. Leave Judgment with the Lord. Many people are prone to pass judgment. Almost without restraint they discuss the merits and demerits, particularly the latter, of others about whom they commonly know but little. Judgments are usually unjust and often injurious both to the judged and to those who sit in judgment. 6. It is evident without argument that fair judgments cannot be rendered in the absence of full knowledge of all facts in the case. In civil court procedure judgments are deferred until both sides to the controversy have been given ample opportunity to present whatever evidence appears to be relevant. After this has been done the evidence is fully weighed, and only then is the verdict rendered. Judges of civil courts are chosen primarily because of their supposed wisdom, fairness, and ability to differentiate between proper and improper conduct. But even under such conditions, errors in judgment are not unknown. 7. Little wonder then that judgment LESSON DEPARTMENT rendered in the absence of full information, particularly if influenced by bias and envy, are characteristically wrong. The Latter-day Saints are warned against conduct of this nature. The Lord says: "Leave judgment alone with me, for it is mine and I will repay." (D. And ome ZS:23.) 8. Spirit and Element. There is much food for thought in the following: "Man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; and when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy.' (D. And C. 93:33, 34.) 9. The first statement, namely, that man is a spirit, should answer once and for all time the muted question among certain materialistic investigators—both scientific and religious—as to whether or not man ig more than merely a physical being, actuated solely by mechanical impulses and entirely devoid of spiritual stimuli. Elsewhere the Lord has said that "The spirit and the body are the soul of man." (D. And C. 88:15.) That mortal man is a dual person—composed of both body and spirit—it is thus plainly evident. The Lord makes the further illuminating statement: "All spirit is matter, but it is more fine or pure, and can only be discerned by purer eyes; we cannot see it; but when our bodies are purified we shall see that it is all matter."" (D. And C. 131:7, 8.) 10. The statement that: "The elements are eternal" answers all questions as to the ultimate duration of what is commonly called matter, although, of course, it does not describe its nature or composition. 11. Finally, the quoted statement goes on to say that man can receive a fulness of joy only when the spirit and the body are inseparably connected. It is little wonder that the resurrection from the dead is spoken In of as the redemption. (See D. And C. 88:16-19.) 12. Knowledge and Intelligence. In bold contrast with the widespread sectarian notion that in the next world men will be placed in two classes—the saved and the damned— the Lord gives the following: "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." (D. And C. 130:18, 19.) 13. Justice, of course, demands just such a provision. It would be manifestly unfair if devout individuals who had exhibited a life-long devotion to the Lord should receive no more reward in the resurrection than those who had been scarcely less than indifferent. Fairness demands that all forms of industry be commensurately rewarded. That men be rewarded in conformity with their deeds is in strict accord with every law of the universe, wherein causes are invariably followed by similar and compensating effects. Anything short of this would be a violation of the fundamental principles of right and justice. 14. Moreover, if men were to be separated into only two classes in the resurrection, and particularly if the doctrine of unmerited rewards were to apply, a considerable part of the incentive for right living would disappear from the earth. While it is theoretically true that men should live Christian lives merely for the reason that to do so is right, yet incentive is. A powerful factor in human conduct. Very few individuals would attempt to climb a mountain if it were not believed that a more comprehensive view would be obtained by so doing. Likewise, few students 118 would undergo the requirements of a long period of college training if it were not believed that benefits would accrue therefrom. Human efforts are prompted principally by hope of reward; destroy this hope, and effort would largely disappear. The ill effects of such a condition are immeasurable. The above statement, therefore, like all others emanating from the same source, is in strict accord with the wisdom, justice, and love of God for the human soul. 15. Blessings Predicated upon Obedience to Law. Perhaps no statement in Mormion theology more fully illustrates the wisdom of God in dealing with his children than the following, given to Joseph Smith slightly more than one year before the time of his martyrdom: There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of the world, upon which all blessings are predicated—And when we obtain any blessings from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." (D. And C. 130:20, 21.) Some three months later, the Lord restated the same truth in the following language: "All who will have a blessing at my hands shail abide the law which was appointed for the blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were instituted before the foundation of the world." (D. And C. 132:5.) 16. These statements, perhaps above all others in Christian scripture, emphasize the basic importance of right living. On the other hand, they negate for all time the widespread sectarian belief that endless blessings await those who merely call upon the name of God and accept Jesus Christ as the Savior of the world. The fact is that before man can receive any blessing his conduct must conform with the law upon which it is predicated. Accordingly, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE there is no such thing as blessing incommensurate with conduct. As Deity has stated, this condition is not only irrevocable but was instituted before the foundations of the world. 17. Those of the Latter-day Saints who hope to find place in the Celestial glory should ponder carefully the following: "For he who is not able to abide the law of the celestial kingdom cannot abide a celestial glory." (D. And C. 88:22.) Plainly, therefore, those who enter this glory must have shown by their works that they are prepared to live it. What shall become of those who for example, have not brought themselves to conform with such elemental principles as the Word of Wisdom, the Law of Tithing, and the observance of the Sabbath Day, we of course, must not judge. The Lord has declared, however, that all blessings are predicated upon compliance with the laws that produce them. Moreover, the Lord has said that there is no escape from this truth;—it is irrevocable. 18. Should We Forget. The Lord might have had the present conditions in mind when he uttered the following: '"Who am I that made man, saith the Lord, that will hold him guiltless that obeys not my commandments. Who am I, saith the Lord, that have promised and have not fulfilled, I command and men obey not; I revoke and they receive not the blessing. Then they say in their hearts: This is not the work of the Lord, for his promises are not fulfilled.' (D. And C. 58:30-33.) 19. Only recently the writer of this article sat at a dinner table with a formerly active member of the Church. Almost from the outset he offered criticism of the First Presidency and other officials of the Church. He declared himself in favor of the widespread sale of alLESSON DEPARTMENT coholic beverages and admitted that he himself occasionally indulged in them. Later in the meal he drank freely of strong coffee and firmly announced his belief that the Church has no right to interfere with "personal habits" of its members. 20. His, like many others, was a clear case. He had evidently failed to heed the counsel of the Lord and then had turned to criticism thereof. He was evidently not acquainted with the scripture quoted above, nor with the following: "J the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do nét what. I say, ve have no promise." (D. And C. 82:10.) 21. The following is a pathetic reminder, if not a rebuke, to those who forget the Lord in times of prosperity and well-being: "In the day of their peace they esteemed lightly my counsel; but, in the day of their trouble, of necessity they feel after me.' Then with characteristic sympathy for those who stray from the path of rectitude, the Lord continues: "Notwithstanding their sins, my bowels are filled with compassion towards them. I will not utterly 119 cast them off; and in the day of wrath I will remember mercy." (D. And C. 101:8, 9.) Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Have members of the class relate personal experiences in which apparently undesirable conditions have eventually worked together for their good. 2. In what way is rendering of judgment often injurious to those who judge? Why should judgment be left with the Lord? 3. Why in your opinion is it impossible for the spirit of man to receive a fulness of joy without the body? 4, In what way has the sectarian doctrine of unmerited rewards injured the cause of Christianity? 5. In what ways are incentives conducive to good conduct? Give illustrations. 6. Why is it necessary that law must be obeyed before the blessing is received? 7. Why does infraction of law lead to criticism thereof? Teachers' Topic THE RELIEF SOCIETY "CHARITY NEVER FAILETH"' Day in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. True it is neither a national nor a state holiday, but by common consent among the officers and members of the Relief Society, it has become a day of remembrance in all the branches of the Church, therefore it signifies a special day in many parts of the world to the Latter-day Saint women. The Relief Society was organized March 17, 1842, by the Prophet JosM ARCH 17th is Relief Society eph Smith in Nauvoo, Illinois. There were present a group of eighteen women who are known as Charter Members, and whose names are held in reverence by the members of the Society. At the first meeting the Prophet gave instructions how to carry out the great work designed for the mature women of the Church as revealed through him. The great comprehensive program now carried on by the Relief Society for the benefit of humanity, 120 and educational progress for its members, is the development of the fundamental principles enunciated by Joseph Smith, the Prophet, on the occasion of the organization on March seventeen, 1842. The objects of the Society were "to care for the poor, minister to the sick, and to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community." The day is celebrated in various forms of social entertainment according to the desires and conditions RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE of the several wards or branches. There may be reunions, parties, dramatic or literary entertainment, pageants or banquets, but it is a day rather of remembrance than for gain, and in some way usually has an historical significance. At the time of the organization, March 17, 1842, so far as known there were no women's organizations of so broad and comprehensive a program so the words of the Prophet, "I now turn the key for women," has a deep and powerful significance. Literature (Third Week in April) LIFE AND LITERATURE Topay's DRAMA "All the world's a stage, and. All the men and women merely players; they have their exits and their entrances; and one man in his time plays many parts."—S hakespeare. RT is a world of Man's makA ing. In art man has found an outlet. The expression of the artist is the adjustment of man to that tension called life. The great art of the ages is drama. Man is a traveler on a shadowed road. In his unfolding both the individual and the universal are revealed. Every man is a hero and. Every life-story is a drama. Hence human life and human destiny are the materials of the great art, drama. Art is a continual revelation of Life. To every observer with a trained vision comes the joy of understanding. "It is by art and by religion men have always sought rest." The Story of the Theatre Literature has been defined as a "criticism of life." Drama is more than a criticism, it is an interpretation; also it is a vision of what life might be at its best. Wherever human beings strive and suffer there is drama. It -has been persistently claimed that the basis of all art is religion; in the case of drama the truth is well established. From every corner of the earth comes the evidence that dancing and music have had their place in primitive religious ceremonials. Different forms and varying stages of development have been discovered, but the spirit ls the same. It is likewise revealed that the Hebrews and the Egyptians developed little dramatic expression while the Greeks, Hindus, Chinese, and Japanese developed elaborate and intricate theatrical systems. In primitive drama, love, hatred, food-getting, initiation and sacrifice were the chief motifs; the lines of heroic and mythical ancestors furnished the stories } the action was in the nature of a spectacle; and the overpowering seriousness made its expression tragic. 'The comic spirit entered LESSON DEPARTMENT dramatic art when the spectacle becaine detached from a religious ceremonial and took the form of a revel (comus-revel). Literary expression, intensity of thought, mechanical equipment, and organization, have developed the art of the theatre to its present perfection, yet for beauty, effectiveness, and impressiveness primitive drama is often found to be superior to the drama of culture. The origin of Greek drama was in the ceremonial worship of Dionysius (dio ni' sus). A combination of song and dance formed the early festivals held in honor of this god. For the great spring festival visitors came to Athens from all parts of Greece. The semi-circular seats on the hillside leading up to the Acropolis could accommodate almost twenty thousand people. About the middle of the sixth century B. C., Thespis, the leaders of the chorus, dressed himself as Dionysius and made the chorus acts as-followers. This first impersonation in ceremonial led to rapid dramatic development. Aeschylus (es ki' lus) 525456 B. C., the first great dramatist added a second character, thus using dialogue independent of the chorus. Sophocles (sof o klez) 495-406 B. C., added a third character in his dramas. Competition added a great impetus to the art when great honors were bestowed upon the successful dramatists. Aeschylus is said to have won thirteen contests and Sophocles twenty. The stage evolved from the original sacrificial altar. Masks were used to simulate character, later they were equipped with small megaphones in the mouthpiece to project the voice. The actors, all men, took great care in the training of the voice. The chorus took the place of action in the drama, announcing any change in time, place, or action. The themes were taken from the old hero tales so dear to 121 the Greek race. The theatre grew in two centuries to be an important institution in Greek life. With the advent of the three great tragic poets, Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides (u rip' i dez) Greek tragedy reached its highest point. In comedy Aristophanes (ar is tof' a nez) and Menander brought a criticism of the life of the times by satire, banter, burlesque and humor to the festivals. The Greeks loved their great plays. The torch of Greek drama passed to the hands of the Romans as they became conquerors. The Romans developed a form of drama reflecting the temperament of the race. The Greeks were artists and dreamers while the Romans were fighters and men of action. The revel became a thrilling spectacle which in turn became the forerunner of modern vaudeville including monologue, dialogue, and song. The Romans also were the originators of the circus. Their theatres were also arenas where gladiatorial combats, races, and gymnastics were presented with popular approval. At the advent of Christianity, the drama had become so degraded that all performances were prohibited by Constantine, the converted emperor. For nearly a thousand years the dramatic spirit remained silent in Europe. English drama began in the Middle Ages when the church introduced into its services a ritual of illustration. Scenes from the Bible appropriate to the Christmas and Easter services were first used. These presentations known as mystery plays performed by the priests became very popular. Later the ceremony was removed to the steps of the church to accommodate a larger audience. Again it was removed to the village common. When the play left the confines of the church the acting was taken over by laymen. 122 From this point the development of English drama was very rapid. The mystery play was so called because it portrayed the mystery of the life of Christ. The Miracle play came into existence as a presentation of the life of a saint or a martyr. Another type of play, the Morality, was a presentation of a story containing an abstract truth or a life-lesson. The saints were superseded by historical characters, and short comedy scenes or interludes were interposed between the serious episodes. The play became in time secular. The scenes were mounted upon movable stages and drawn through the streets. Companies of strolling players traveled through the country giving performances in the courtyards of inns and on the village commons. The advance of the drama during the Elizabethan period is associated with Shakespeare and his contemporaries. The portrayal of human character through an understanding of human frailties and nobility; the sweep of imagination, and a new poetic form, blank verse, were new characteristics. Shakespeare is the undying glory of England. It is he who made England and all English speaking countries lovers of the play. English drama, however, declined during the next two centuries, the interest in poetry and fiction being paramount. Tury English drama took on renewed life until today it is assuming again its great role. It is generally agreed that "modern drama" began with Henrik Ibsen. Ibsen stands at the turnstile of yesterday and tomorrow. Ibsen has changed forever the dramatic map of Europe. All of our modern drama is the brain of Ibsen grafted on another land. Suderman and Hauptmann (haupt'man) in Germany, Schnitzler in Austria, D'Annunzio (dan noon'tsi o) in Italy, Late in the nineteenth century. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Shaw in England and O'Neil in America are among his greatest followers. The individual takes his place in modern drama to preach the gospel of individualism. Traditionally, the serious drama dealt with the transgression of an immutable moral law.. Ibsen saw human tragedy as man's failure to achieve peace with his universe—a social order dominated by outworn custom, unjust law, inherited instinct, and malevolent circumstance. His plays are a fearless disclosure of social evils. Ibsen's characters are ordinary people in contrast to the gods, kings, and princes of the older dramatists. His characters seen at a crisis make an unforgettable impression upon an audience. The content of Ibsen's work demands that thinking people look at the larger wrongs, problems, and possibilities in life. In our own day the greatest dramatic figures, Maeterlinck (ma'ter link), Tolstoy (tol'stol), Galsworthy, Yeats (yats or yets), and others have by their definite ideals and their splendid genius steered the drama through the struggles of commercialism to its rightful place as a great art. It is a long span of years from the time that a Greek audience of twenty thousand spectators watched the soul struggles of Prometheus chained to a mountain defying Jupiter, or viewed with awe the Antigone of Sophocles stand in si'lence awaiting the judgment of Creon in answer to her defiance, that of bestowing the right of burial upon her dead brother, to Maeterlinck's Pelleas (pell'e as) and Melisande. Standing upright struggling to understand their love, and D'Annunzio's Giaconda (ge a con'da) having sacrificed her beautiful hands to save her husband's masterpiece still facing life without his love. Many soul cries have been recorded in-the interim. "Human nature and human LESSON DEPARTMENT destiny are the two mysteries that the drama endeavors to reveal," says Hebbel, the German author. Drama as such becomes a mirror of life recording the processes by which human intelligence acquires identity. Ancient and medieval drama made the spectator an onlooker of the sufferings of man; modern drama makes the spectator a part of the drama as Bernard Shaw says, "We are not feathered spectators, but guilty creatures sitting at a play." Dean Inge pleads that "the stage of today must of necessity become the pulpit of the world." Time has taken great liberties with the actor, the author, the theatre, and the dramatic form, but with the materials there is little change, because they are the materials of life which remain unchanged during the ages. Everyman, A Morality Play The best of the Morality plays which have come down to us is "Everyman," a beautiful interpretation of the meaning of life. The Morality play was a development of medieval English drama intended to teach the beauty of goodness and the punishment of-sin. 'These plays were allegorical, that is, the characters were personifications of virtues and vices such as Charity, Pride, Truth, Falsehood. Curiously enough professional companies have revived the play, "Everyman," and carried it through many countries including England and America in the past few years. The revival made a profound impression upon all who saw it, the reason being that the play appeals to man's deep and universal instincts and feelings. "Everyman" is supposed to have been written by one Peter Diestenes, a Hollander, who lived near the end of the fifteenth century. The play is based upon a Buddhist parable which is as follows: A rich man 25 had three friends. When his king demanded money as the payment of a debt, the man went to his friends for aid. Two of his friends with polite excuses refused the request. The third friend came to his aid and pleaded for mercy at the hands of the king. The meaning of the parable is this: the first friend was the rich man's personal property; the second his worldly companions; the 'third was his own good deeds—charity, human kindness, love: "The best portion of a good man's life, His little, nameless, unremembered ~ acts of kindness and of love." The action of the play begins much the same as "Job" and "Faust" with a prologue in heaven. God reflects upon the moral condition of the world and the general activities of mankind. He sees men living on earth with no other thought than the satisfaction of their appetites, passions, and desires. Their chief quest is worldly things. Life has become a vain show. Death, God's messenger is sent to bring Everyman to his reckoning. As the messenger receives his instructions Everyman saunters on the stage. He is joyous youth, full of smiles. And gaily clad. Death accosts him, "Everyman stand still; whither art thou going thus gaily? Hast thou thy Maker forgotten?" Everyman in fear, asks for time promising much gold if but a day of respite is granted: Death is relentless and will grant no respite for gold. Only one concession is granted. Everyman is given time to find one of his friends to accompany him on his journey. Everyman seeks his greatest friend, Fellowship. This friend when approached will do any earthly task for Everyman but he will not take a journey to Eternity with him. Everyman seeks other friends to aid him, Wealth 124 whom he has loved so dearly, declines also. One by one the worldly friends decline to help Everyman. Finally, he bethinks him of a once dear friend, Good Deeds. Good Deeds is in the form of a maiden, she appears to be weak and much neglected. She offers Everyman her counsel. She calls her sister, Knowledge, to guide him. Knowledge is a radiant figure representing the light of the mind. Everyman allows" himself to be led by Knowledge to confession, where in humility he seeks cleansing in acknowledgment of his wrong-doing.. His gay apparel is replaced by sackcloth. A sense of confidence comes to Everyman. Good Deeds accepts the penitent and offers to accompany him on his journey. Knowledge further advises Everyman to summon Discretion, Strength, and Beauty, and his five wits to prepare him for his last hour. They come to his aid and give him courage. Having performed their service they leave us as they cannot enter the grave. Knowledge goes within the shadow of the grave and then withdraws. Everyman is not alone, Good Deeds is present; she goes down into the tomb with him because she is part of himself, she is his better self, and will remain with him forever. The distant chanting of angels is heard on some approaching shore. Everyman goes to the reckoning and the Book of Life registers the judgment the soul has brought upon itself. It seems unnecessary to add any comment on this old Morality play, but the analysis of a sympathetic critic, Ramsden Balmforth, is enlightening: "It is true to Nature and what we believe to be behind Nature. It will give rise to a multitude of thoughts and speculations concerning the mystery of Life, sin, the will, endowment, the limitation of capacities, the light within, the meaning of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of temptation, eternity, God— all these things crowd upon the mind as we see or read this old Morality." The Irish National Theatre One of the most interesting modern dramatic movements is the establishment of the Irish National ThePart of an interesting national revival by Irish literary figures in an attempt to strengthen a national consciousness, it has revived almost forgotten legends of ancient Ireland, and pictured the peasant life with its charm, merriment, and inherent tragedy. William Butler -Yeats is the prime mover in this revival. Since 1904 the Irish National Theatre has produced plays by internationally known writers such as Yeats, Lady Gregory, Padriac Colum, and St. John Errins. The most powerful playwright of the new theatre was John Millington Synge. After completing his education at Trinity College, Dublin, he traveled on foot through France, Bavaria, Germany, and Italy. Upon his return to his native land, Yeats suggested, "Go to the Aran Islands. Live there as if you were one of the people; express a life that has never known expression." Among the primitive fisherfolk still using the original tongue of Erin, Synge found the materials for his genius to produce the finest poetic dramas in Irish literature. “In the shadow of the Glen," 'Riders of the Sea," are one-act plays. A comedy, "The Playboy of the Western World," won wide recognition for its imagery and characterizations. "Deirdre of the Sorrows" is from the world of Irish legend, Dierdre, the Helen of Ireland, is here portrayed in the story of her deathless love. Note: The lesson, "Irish National Poetry," in the Relief Society Journal of April, 1933, provides a backLESSON DEPARTMENT ground for the study of the Irish Theatre. Suggestion: If it is deemed advisable one of the Irish plays could be used in the lesson. 'The following Irish plays have much of delight in them. "The Lost Silk Hat,'' Lord Dunsarry. "The Gods of the Lord Dunsarry. "The Land of the Heart's Desire," William Butler Yeats. "The Rising of the Moon," Lady Gregory. Mountain," Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature, Macy. 2. The Story of the Theatre, Hughes. 3. "Everyman'—This play can be procured in the "Little Blue 125 Book"' series at a small cost from "Haldeman-Julius Co., Kansas City. 4. Relief Society Journal, April, 1933. Lesson—Irish National Poetry. B. Program: 1. Music: "Melisande" from and Melisande." 2. Discussion: a. The Story of the Theatre. B. The Place of the Theatre in Modern Life. 3. Review: a. "Everyman" or b. One-act play—Irish Plays. C. Objective: As the theatre is an important institution in modern life an understanding of its history and the scope of drama should be interesting and stimulating. It is not intended to make a critical study. "Pelleas Social Service (Fourth Week in April) JANE ADDAMS AND 1. The Beginnings of Settlement W ork. In the year 1867 a young man of wealth, an Oxford graduate, called on the Reverend John R. Green, later to be the most popular English historian, and offered his personal services. Greatly surprised at so unusual an offer, Mr. Green nevertheless accepted the proffered aid. Accordingly the stranger took up his residence among the poor of this part of London. His name was Edward Denison, and Mr. Green was then the vicar of St. Phillips, Stepney, London. The inspiration for this self-sacrifice on the part of Denison, as the world has come to look upon it, SETTLEMENT WORK came, it appears, from the University circles. In those days there were connected in one way or another with Oxford several men of exceptional talent and exceptional. Interest in social questions—Ruskin, for instance, and Kingsley, and Maurice. Besides being greatly interested in the condition of poor people, these men sought to enlist the interest of others, particularly of young men. "In thought," said the compassionate Ruskin, "I have not yet abandoned all expectation of a better world than this. I believe this in which we live is not so good as it might be. I know there are many who think the atmosphere of rebellion and misery which wraps 126 the lower orders of Europe every day, is as natural a phenomenon as a hot summer. But God forbid!" And he importuned his hearers and readers to "'act like men," and help to make a new and better world! It was under the impulse of such appeals to action as this that young Denison formed his resolution to help the poor. The spirit in which he worked is indicated in these words: "Would indeed," he says, "that we could have some real Christianity taught... Taught—but in the way our Founder taught it, by living it. That is the only way. Those who would teach must live among those who are to be taught." In another letter he tells of his work: "Just now I only teach a night school, and do what in me lies in looking after the sick, seeing that the local authorities keep up to their work. I go tomorrow before the board at the workhouse to compel the removal to the infirmary of a man who ought to have been there already. I shall drive the sanitary inspector to put the Act against overcrowding in force, with regard to some houses in which there have been as many as eight and ten bodies occupying one room." Other university students took up the cry for better conditions in the London slums, through taking up residence among them. These was Arnold Toynbee, a brilliant young Oxonian, who offered his services to the Reverend Samuel A. Barnett, a clergyman resident in Whitechapel, vicar of St. Jude's, in London. Barnett had been to Oxford, where he had delivered an address on the conditions of the poor, which he had seen with his own eyes. It thoroughly aroused a group of young men, including Toynbee, over what Ruskin termed the making of a better world in which to live. Barnett,  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE before actively taking up the ministry, had served an apprenticeship with Octavia Hill. He therefore could speak with knowledge of the poor in London, both as to their condition and the way in which they might best be helped. When Toynbee Hall was established in 1884, Cannon Barnett became its first warden. With respect to his work in the settlement there it is said' that "there is scarcely any modern movement for social betterment—health, visitation, slum clearance, old age pensions, city planning, workers' education—which was not anticipated by Barnett's plans and work." 2. Details of Miss Addams' Life. Like Octavia Hill's interest in human welfare work, the interest of Jane Addams finds its roots in her early environment. Walking with her father once, when she was a child, and seeing for the first time "the poverty which means squalor," she inquired of him why people lived in such horrid little houses, and declared with much firmness that when she grew up she should of course have a large house, but that it would not be built among other large houses, but right in the midst of horrid little houses like these. Her father was an unusual man, it seems. All her early impressions, she says,' were directly connected with him. The following incident is revealing, not only of the father's character, but also of the daughter's. After Hull House had been established, Miss Addams began agitating for some sweat shop laws. She "was told by the representatives of an informal association of manufacturers that if the residents of Hull House would drop this non Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences. Twenty Years in Hull House (Jane Addams), p. 1. LESSON DEPARTMENT sense about a sweat shop bill, of which they knew nothing, certain business men would agree to give fifty thousand dollars within two years to be used for any of the philanthropic activities of the Settlement." When it gradually dawned upon her that she was being offered. A bribe, her "shame was enormously increased" on recalling what the editor of a great Chicago paper had said, in 1881 when her father died, that he personally knew "this one man who had never been offered a bribe because bad men were instinctively afraid of him." Whereupon Miss Addams asked herself 'what had befallen the daughter of my father that such a thing could happen to her," reflecting characteristically that "it could not have occurred unless a weakness in myself had permitted it.” Mr. Addams always believed "that it was very important not to pretend to understand what you didn't understand and that you must always be honest with yourself inside, whatever happened." On reaching the proper age, Jane Addams matriculated in the Rockford Seminary, a boarding school for girls. Here she studied such subjects as mathematics, history, Greek, Latin, and mental and moral philosophy. Of history she was particularly fond. One summer she read the whole of Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire—a notable achievement for a school girl. She says that she did not take seriously the Aristotellian legend hung on one of the walls, that "there is the same difference between the learned and the unlearned as there is between the living and the dead," but rather inclined to the popular sentence from Carlyle, that " 'tis not to taste sweet things, but to do noble and true things, that the poorest of Adam's sons dimly longs." Which 127 shows that here was the same girl that told her father she would build a large house right in the midst of horrid little ones! Rockford was not then a college, but became one the year following her departure from it. When it did become so, however, she was among the first to take a degree. The general influence of the school, it seems, was in the line of her natural bent, for one of her classmates became a missionary to Japan, founding an English school there; another, a medical missionary to Korea, working her way to the position of court physician; still another, an exceptionally skilled teacher of the blind; a fourth, a pioneer in the movement to bring books to the people; and she herself founded one of the first Settlements in the United States. Besides her diploma, with what it represented in learning, Miss Addams took at least one thing away with her from Rockford—the power to make decisions under strong pressure from without. This ability, which may have come from her own strong character as well as from her school enyironment, was to stand her well in hand in the years to come when she was besought to turn Hull House into a nursery for all sorts of isms, political as well as social, with which the Chicago of the period was infested. The next five years comprised what Miss Addams terms (quoting from Tolstoy) the "snare of preparation." She made two trips to Europe. On her graduation she decided to study medicine, and with this purpose in mind she went to Philadelphia and entered a medical school. But "the development of the spinal difficulty which had shadowed me from childhood" compelled her to seek the aid of a physician, with the result that she spent the next six 128 months in bed, enjoying "the luxurious consciousness of leisure."' In reality she was glad of an excuse to give up medicine as a career. On partially recovering (she did not fully recover till after she had established herself in Hull House), she went to Europe, on the advice of her doctor. 3. The Settlement Takes Root in Chicago. During her first visit to England Miss Addams experienced a shock, out of which gradually came the idea of Hull House. It was when she was touring London's East Side, where are "the oldest, the biggest, and the dirtiest slums in the whole world." A crowd of the "submerged tenth," haggard, ill-clad, unkempt, were bidding their farthings and ha'pennies for vegetables held up by an auctioneer. These vegetables were in various stages of decomposition, for it was Monday, and they had been kept over from Saturday. Of the poor creatures who were thus bidding for these vegetables she says: "Their pale faces were dominated by that most unlovely human expression, the cunning and shrewdness of the bargain-hunter who starves if he cannot make a successful trade, and yet the final impression was not of ragged, tawdry clothing nor of pinched and sallow faces, but of myriads of hands, empty, pathetic, nerveless and workworn, showing white in the uncertain light of the street, and clutching forward for food which was already unfit to eat.. For the following weeks I went about London almost furtively, afraid to look down narrow streets and alleys lest they disclose again this hideous human need and suffering." It was out of this experience, and her growing sense of the futility of the purely cultural life, that Hull RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE House became first an idea and then a reality. One of her companion-travelers in Europe, on her second visit there, was Ellen Gates Starr. After witnessing a bull-fight in Spain one time, when it dawned upon her mind that she had been "tied to the tail of the veriest ox-cart of self-seeking," as she says, instead of "following in the wake of a chariot of philanthropic fire, she hesitantly revealed to Miss Starr a plan she had formed to establish a Settlement House in Chicago. Miss Starr fell in with the idea and indicated a desire to join her in the project. Immediately Miss Addams set off for London to get first-hand some ideas to be applied in her scheme. She spent considerable time in Toynbee Hall, for she proposed to do in Chicago what Cannon Barnett and the University group were doing in Whitechapel, East London. Miss Starr became a co-founder of Hull House. Hull House, which was chosen shortly after Miss Addams' return from Europe, is on Halsted Street. It was built and occupied by Charles J. Hull, a Chicago pioneer; hence its name. At the time, however, it was owned by Miss Helen Culver, who generously gave a free lease to the entire place. "Hull House," says Miss Addams, "once stood in the suburbs, but the city has steadily grown up around it, and its site now has corners on three or four foreign colonies. Between Halsted Street and the river live about ten thousand Italians—Neapolitans, Sicilians, and Calabrians, with an occasional Lombard or Venetian. To the south on Twelfth Street are many Germans and side streets are given over almost entirely to Polish and Russian Jews. Still farther south, these Jewish colonies merge into a huge Bohemian colony, so vast that Chicago ranks as the third Bohemian LESSON DEPARTMENT city in the world. To the northwest are many Canadian-French, clannish in spite of their long residence in America." This place was fitted up with furniture to suit the style of the house, and in the year 1889 it was opened for its new use. 4. What Went on in Hull House. A Settlement, in the view of Jane Addams, serves two purposes. In the first place, it furnishes an outlet for the instinctive desire of young persons, who also have an education, to do something altruistic, as contradistinguished from what she calls "mental accumulation." In all such young persons there are (1) the desire to interpret democracy in social terms, (2) the impulse to aid in race progress, and (3) the urge to help the Christian movement toward humanitarianism. And then, in the second place, there are people in every large city—children, youth, even the old—who are suffering for want of guidance and assistance. The purpose of Hull House, on this line, is declared in its charter to be: "To promote a center for a higher civic and social life; to institute and maintain educational and philanthropic enterprises, and to investigate and improve the conditions in the industrial districts of Chicago." Thus Hull House stands for an attempt "to relieve, at the same time, the over-accumulation at one end of society and the destitution on the other." But it does this in the conviction that "the things which make men alike are finer and better than the things which keep them apart, and that these basic likenesses, if they are properly accentuated, easily transcend the less essential differences of race, language, creed, and tradition." One of the first things done in Hull House was to read aloud George Eliot's Romola to the young 129 people who gathered there, and it was apparently enjoyed more than one would imagine from the involved plot of that great story. A kindergarten was early established for the children of the neighborhood. Later reading facilities were provided for young and old, and the reading habit encouraged. Very early was seen the necessity of substituting for the saloon a hall in which might be held under wholesome conditions parties, wedding celebrations, and dances. Presently a coffee house and kitchen was opened, where dishes of proper nutritive values were prepared and sold at such prices as the neighborhood could afford. In addition, Hull House soon became the starting-point and center of social movements. It assisted "the labor movement by aiding the organization of trades unions among the more helpless workers; by investigations and agitation for improved factory inspection; by arbitration of one strike; by discussions in the Social Science Club of Working People." It was a resident of Hull House who secured the first public swimming pool in Chicago. When the Settlement work began there, fifteen years were to elapse before public parks and playgrounds came into existence in that city. Hence Miss Addams' group were pioneers in many activities looking to the public benefit, especially the benefit of the working classes. For the most part, the residents of Hull House were educated women. As already stated, Miss Addams held that one of the purposes of the Settlement was to furnish an outlet for the altruistic desires of the cultured classes. In Hull House, as in Toynbee Hall, university students and graduates found a ready channel *Social Settlements (Henderson), p. 52. 130 for the feeling that they ought to put their talents at the service of humanity. Indeed, in the Rockford college, Miss Addams' alma mater, classes were held for the purpose of giving its members such training and direction, during the summer months, as would prepare them for welfare work. "No university or college qualification," however, "has ever been made for residence, although the majority of residents have been college people." Even in the early years of Hull House there were as many as twenty-five residents, and of course this number increased as buildings were added to the original plan. 5. Growth of Settlements in America Hull House was not the first Settlement in the United States. The first Settlement was established in 1887, in New York City, two years before Miss Addams began her work in Chicago. Founded by James B. Reynolds, it was called the Neighborhood Guild at first, but in 1891 changed its name to the University Settlement. In 1891 also, the third Settlement in America was established in New York City. This same year another was established in West Chicago, and the following year the movement spread to Philadelphia and Boston. Subsequent years were to witness the Settlement idea grow till it covered every large city between the two oceans. Indeed, the movement seems destined to include the small town, for as Tolstoy says, "Wherever we may live, if we draw a circle around us of a hundred thousand, or a thousand, or even of ten miles circumference, and look at the lives of those men and women who are inside our circle, we shall find half-starved children, old people, pregnant women, sick and weak persons, working beyond their strength, who have neither food nor rest RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE enough to support them, and who, for this reason, die before their time; we shall see others, full-grown, who are injured and needlessly killed by dangerous and hurtful tasks." Hull House, however, came to represent the best in Settlement work, not because it was one of the first two to be established in this country, but because it has had at its head for more than forty years "a woman of high intelligence, of exceptional insight into life, of rare wisdom, of sympathetic understanding, of strong character, and of steady devotion to the work of helping to establish social justice in the world. Miss Addams is internationally known, partly through her work in Hull House, and partly for her activities in behalf of universal peace. In every list of great women, regardless of whether it is made in America or in some other country, Jane Addams is always on the list. Recently the historian Beard, an authority on the history of American civilization, put her on his list of the greatest living personalities in the United States, because she had, he said, opened a new chapter in the social history of America. Class Discussion 1. A settlement, in the view of Jane Addams, furnishes an outlet for the instinctive desire of young persons to do something altruistic. Discuss the ways in our Church through which our young people may express their altruistic desires. Do you think we give them sufficient opportunity in this way? 2. In what way was Hull House the starting point and center of social movements? State the most important of these. 3. Why is Jane Addams accorded so high a place among the great women of the world? LESSON DEPARTMENT Mission Lessons LESSON VII. HEALTH AND HOME NURSING COMMON AILMENTS "The more one knows about the wisdom of the human body, the less one has to fear." HEADACHE COMMON ailments may have uncommon endings or complications, so they merit special consideration. Johnny's earache may end in a mastoid or brain abscess, and Mary's headache may be a sign of kidney disease. Headache is a much more common sign of kidney disease, than is ache or pain in the back. Headache is a symptom not a disease. It is a definite warning that something is wrong, and if possible it should be corrected. It is often the eyes. It may be the teeth or bad tonsils. Headache may be a reflex pain from stomach trouble, or a bad case of indigestion. Poor ventilation, especially where gas is burned, will cause headache. Fatigue will cause headache and other nervous disorders. Poisoning from carbon monoxide, or from lead or benzine, produce a severe headache... Since headache is only a symptom, in all cases, especially of repeated headaches, it is necessary to find the cause and remove it, rather than be satisfied with taking drugs for temporary relief. Headaches may be accompanied by dizziness with vomiting and a sick stomach. Such headaches have a tendency to appear periodically. They may occur every week or month, as the case may be. These headaches are known as migraine, and often begin early in life and extend through the years. Headache, then, is not a disease but a warning from nature that something is wrong and should be corrected. The treatment of headache is simple. If possible, remove the cause. Temporary relief may be obtained from a laxative, a hot foot bath and an ice bag to the head. Such remedies as aspirin, caffein or bromides are to be used in emergencies only. FAINTING Fainting, like headache, is only a symptom and not a disease, and it is the cause, rather than the act itself we are most interested in. Fainting is caused by the absence in the brain of the proper amount of blood. When a person faints the face is pale, the pulse rapid and feeble and the breathing quick and shallow. Fainting may be caused by fatigue or it may follow hemorrhage or it may be the first symptom of sun stroke. In other days when people were not so careful of their diet, fainting was more frequent than at present and was generally caused by Anemia. If a person in a crowd faints, get him out of the crowd as quickly as possible and stretch him out flat. His head should be lower than his feet —in this way bringing the needed amount of blood back to the brain. Cold water over the face may help to revive a fainting man, but it is very poor practice to throw the water over the clothes as well as the face. Smelling salts are always good, a teaspoonful of aromatic spirits of ammonia on a handkerchief held over the nose of the individual will help. In all cases loosen the clothes of the patient and open the windows so that he can breathe. When the patient is conscious, give him a teaspoonful of aromatic spirits of ammonia in a quarter of a glass of cold water and keep him quiet until he has fully recovered. A fainting person is unconscious and to violently shake him and call his name is not only useless, but poor practice. BACKACHE Backache, like headache and fainting, is not a disease but rather one of nature's warning signals that something is wrong. Backache is such a common complaint and so many of us suffer from it that we are apt to overlook the cause, and be concerned only with the pain in the back. Backache is often caused from incorrect posture. People with weak feet and fallen arches can be cured of backache by properly caring for the feet. The muscles of the back are under constant strain and in industry people with a "stand up job" suffer a great deal with backache due to this continued muscle strain. It is important that clerks, and people working at machines should be provided with a convenience to rest their backs at repeated intervals. Muscles need rest, and a wise employer will see that his employees are provided with opportunities to relax and rest. Backache is sometimes caused by a slipping joint, following muscular strain. Such a kink in the back is referred to as lumbago, and can be just as painful as a broken leg. Pain in the back is never due to the pinching of nerve roots in the spinal column, as some advertising would have us believe. Backache has been caused by changing of shoes, from high to low heels. We must remember that sometimes when there is trouble in the pelvis, backache may be one of the first symptoms of which the individual complains. Backache, like headache and fainting may be due to fatigue. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In all cases of persistent backaches it is necessary to consult a physician and find the cause. Home remedies are sometimes helpful for backaches due to muscular strain or rheumatism. Oil of Wintergreen, or a good liniment, such as chloroform or belladonna may be rubbed over the painful area, and heat applied after. Indeed, heat seems to be one of the most soothing remedies in backache. Sometimes a turkish towel placed over the back, and ironed with a hot iron, furnishes temporary relief. The application of a belladonna plaster cut large enough to cover the area, may help. Again we must remember that backache is only a symptom and one of nature's warning signals that some disorder exists and should be corrected. HIVES Hives are a nettle-like rash. They consist of wheels or welts of all sizes and irregular forms. This skin rash resembles the bite of an insect. It itches intensely. Sometimes it spots the entire body, and it may appear and disappear at intervals. A single eruption has a raised white center, with a reddish base. Hives is a toxic or poisonous condition due to the effect of drugs or food. It is often caused by a hypodermic injection of serum or vaccine. Digestive disturbances due to eating shell-fish, oysters, or strawberries, have been complicated in certain susceptible individuals by hives. The treatment for this rather annoying, but never very dangerous, condition, is to find the cause and remove it. People who are constantly complaining of recurrent attacks of hives may find the cause in some simple article of food which seems to act as a poison to them. Once the condition is established the proper treatment is a purgative, such as a dose of Epsom Salts, to be followed by large quantities of water. The itching is very intense, and this discomfort can be relieved by sponging the body with a strong solution of Epsom Salts or Baking Soda. Sometimes relief can be obtained by using diluted vinegar as a body sponge. A very effective local measure against the intense burning and itching of the skin is to have the druggist add carbolic acid (two per cent) to the ordinary calomine lotion. Shake well, and rub freely over the irritated skin. Some cases of hives have been known to occur from the toxic effect of fear. In severe cases call the doctor. A hypodermic injection of adrenalin chloride may cause hives to disappear like magic. CONSTIPATION Constipation is probably the most common of all ailments. It is one of the penalties of our modern way of living. If we lived perfectly normal lives, constipation would be as infrequent as tuberculosis or pneumonia. Constipation results from the laziness of the Colon, or the large bowel. "The Colon is the sewerage system of the body, but by neglect and abuse it becomes the cess-pool. When it is clean we are well and happy; let it stagnate and the poisons of decay, fermentation and putrification enter the blood; it makes one mentally depressed, irritable, restless and physically inactive." Every organ of the body is affected by continued constipation. We look and feel old, the joints are stiff and painful—neuritis, dull eyes, and a sluggish brain overtake us; the pleasure of living is gone." The causes of constipation are legion. Irregularity of meals, overeating, eating too hastily and failure to eat the proper kind of food has 133 much to do with the condition. Modern diets contain too many "soft foods" such as pastry, potatoes and white bread, to promote proper bowel activity. The diet should consist largely of vegetables; carrots, spinach, squash, beans, peas, etc. Raw vegetables, raw fruit, dried fruit, honey, molasses, coarse bread and coarse cereals, are all laxative foods and have much to recommend them. Drink plenty of water upon rising, and during the day. The laxative habit and the enema habit are thought to be direct causes of constipation. Laxatives and enemas have their definite indications, but should be used only in cases of emergency. The diet is a very important part of the treatment of Constipation. The laxative foods enumerated above, may not be sufficient to correct the condition in which event a small amount of mineral oil may be taken over a short period of time. It acts only as a lubricant to the bowel. Japanese sea-weed, which is known as Agar Agar, is very beneficial. The dose is one tablespoonful at meal time, and is best given with liquids as milk or fruit juice. Massage of the abdomen, the proper amount of exercise, especially walking, swimming or horse-back riding, are all excellent methods of assisting in overcoming this condition. The establishment, early in life, of a habit time for the moving of the bowels, just after breakfast, and never to vary five minutes each day, is an important measure to save one from the evils of constipation in later life. We are so much the creatures of habit that this is a very important measure and should be cultivated. When constipation persists, consult a physician and follow faithfully the prescribed treatment, for the ill 134 effects of persistent constipation are sure and far reaching. APPENDICITIS Constipation is thought by many to be one of the contributing causes of appendicitis. Others are very sure that it is a result rather than a cause. Appendicitis is one of our common ailments, and now ranks as the second cause of death of the American people. Appendicitis may be described as an inflammatory condition of the appendix. Some people suffer several attacks and without help or treatment recover. Unfortunately this is not always the case. Sometimes the appendix breaks or ruptures and distributes infection over the rest of the abdominal organs and the dreaded condition of Peritonitis follows. A boil on the back of the neck that swells, breaks and discharges is not dangerous because of its location. Such an infection can do no damage to the protecting skin, but a ruptured appendix is a menace to life itself. There are certain definite and easily observed symptoms which accompany appendicitis—in the order of their appearance they are— RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE First: Pain—colicky in nature and in the beginning it may be all over the abdomen, but soon becomes most pronounced in the lower right side. Second: Tenderness—which is pain caused by pressure, and is most marked in the lower right hand portion of the abdomen. Third: Nausea and vomiting — these symptoms are not always present in the beginning, but become frequent as the disease progresses. Fourth: Fever—not a constant symptom, but as the disease advances, it is nearly always present. In some cases the temperature may be below normal throughout due to the shock of very severe infection. In all cases of doubtful appendicitis, for the symptoms are very similar to those of "green apple colic," it is necessary to call a doctor in order that the true condition may be ascertained. Laxatives and cathartics must not be given, even in doubtful cases. They may complete the rupture of the thin walled inflamed appendix. There is no medical treatment for appendicitis. The ice bag over the region will be helpful until the doctor arrives. Teachers' Topic (Published a month earlier than usual by special request) EASTER THE very foundation upon which we rear our glorious structure of Faith, the Gospel, is the Resurrection of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. There has never been the universal appeal about the keeping of Easter there has been in the observance of Christmas, yet the two are so inter-related it is impossible to consider one without the other. The personality of the little Baby, and the picturesqueness of the manger-cradle lay instant hold upon the heart of humanity, but these would have been forgotten had the mouth of the Tomb remained sealed. "Christ, the Lord is born," was the first angel message of glad REPORTS ON MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS tidings, but it was incomplete without the second, equally sacred and sublime—"He is risen!" Historically, Easter is the festival of our Lord's Resurrection, and is one of the most joyous days observed by Christians. It corresponds with the "Feast of the Passover" of the Jews. It is really the great Feast of the Atonement; the last perfect fulfillment of the great law of Sacrifice. The "Easter Story" is most beautifully told in "The Fourth Gospel," and what a glorious radiance it casts on the whole world! One real, thoroughly authenticated resurrection lightens all the darkness of the ages. Men had been going down into death by the millions, and no one coming back. The mighty chasm of the grave had devoured nations and races for thousands of years. The immortality of the soul was generally believed, but no one knew the effect of death upon it. There was no light and men went shuddering 135 into the great unknown. The effect of death was shown in the glorious Resurrection of Christ, and the terrible burden was lifted. Easter always falls on the Sunday after the full moon, next after March twenty-first. The idea in fixing it by this standard was that Easter might always occur at the spring full moon, at which time, the first Easter, or Christ's Resurrection took place. It seems that great ecclesiastical controversies raged around the question of the actual day to be celebrated, and were finally settled only by the decree of the Council of Nicea, 325 A. D. By this decree it was fixed on the Sunday immediately following the fourteenth day of the Paschal moon, which happens at, or on, the first Sunday after the vernal equinox. Well may Easter be observed by all for we know the triumphant words, "He is Risen!" were the seal and climax of Christ's whole incarnation and work as Redeemer and Savior of the world! Reports on Magazine Subscriptions MRS. NELLIE P. ELZENGA has been the efficient Magazine Agent of Nibley Park Ward, Granite Stake, for nine years. She has worked very hard and met with great success. For two years now with a membership of 95, she has secured 110 Magazine subscriptions. She has taken eggs or any kind of produce and then sold these things in order to aid women to get the Magazine. She has also taken 10c or 25c at a time, adding to it as the would-be subscribers could, until the needed amount was secured. It is remarkable how many subscriptions she has secured among people whose dollars are very scarce. Utah Stake gave ten Magazine subscriptions as prizes in their drive. The 17th Ward, Mt. Ogden Stake, had 74 subscriptions at the beginning of the season and after the drive had 91, and the agents, Mattie K. Vogel increased the membership very materially by her visiting to get subscriptions. Mrs. Elsie Miller reports she took $7.00 worth of fruit and vegetables and did everything possible to have every member in her Ward have the Magazine. We present on the next page a picture of the women who presented the "Spirit of the Magazine" in her honor, because of the success she had won. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE STAKE PERCENTAGES Stake Enrollment No. Sub. Bear Lake 533 240 Deseret 608 320 Franklin 593 358 North Weber 806 386 Star Valley 435 231 Teton 368 194 Timpanogos 275 188 WARDS 100% OR OVER Ward Stake Enrollment No. Sub. Percent Magazine Agent Bates Teton 14 14 100 Ruby Tanner Cedron Teton 76 76 100 Christina Dearing Linrose Franklin 95 95 100 Jeanette S. Barton Midvale 2nd Ward East Jordan 20 20 100 Cordelia Carver Nibley Park Granite 95 110 115 Nellie P. Elzenga Springfield Blackfoot 19 19 100 Alice A. Gardner Sterling Blackfoot 40 40 100 Ada M. Cordon Tuttle Blaine 14 14 100 Helen S. Walker Afton North Star Valley 80 26 130 Alice E. Allen Burley 1st Ward Burley 19 19 100 Bell Partridge Delta 1st Deseret 40 40 100 Name of Agent Fairview Star Valley Delecta Burton Franklin Franklin Sylvia Barlow Lindon Timpanogos Erma Works Mapleton Franklin Izora Hoopes Pleasant Grove 3d Timpanogos Alice Oliverson, Rose Hawks Preston 5th Ward Franklin Annie Stone Providence 1st Logan Azuba G. Alder Richfield 2d Sevier Lunetta R. Chugg Slaterville North Weber Flora Magleby Thayne Star Valley Sylvia S. Knight Windsor Timpanogos Eliese Roberts WARDS 75% OR OVER Ward Stake Enrollment No. Sub. Percent Name of Agent 136 SPIRIT OF THE MAGAZINE, PRESENTED BY PROVO FOURTH WARD Ward Stake "I will study and prepare myself, and some day my chance will come." Lincoln did not idle away the precious years of his youth, waiting for "something to come along." With faith in himself and confidence in the future, he prepared for a life of responsibility. In America's hour of need, he became the Man of Destiny. OPPORTUNITIES COME TO THOSE WHO ARE PREPARED! EVERY DAY IS REGISTRATION DAY L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE (A Department of L. D. S. College) 70 No. Main Salt Lake City Was. 1812 Now is the Time to gather together your last year's issues of the Relief Society Magazine and preserve permanently the valuable material they contain by having us bind them durably and attractively in black gold-stamped cloth. Price $1.50 per volume Special rates for quantities The Deseret News Press PIONEER BINDERS. PRINTERS, RULERS MUSIC PRINTERS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine YOU CAN'T GO WRONG If You Insist on Beneficial Life Insurance Of Safety—Success IF IT'S A BENEFICIAL POLICY IT'S THE BEST INSURANCE YOU CAN BUY. INSURANCE. Home Office 254 COMPANY Salt Lake City OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS J. REUBEN CLARK, JR.. FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT AXEL B. C. OHLSON. SECRETARY JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH ORVAL W. ADAMS E. T. RALPHS STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN HEBER J. GRANT. PRESIDENT DAVID O. MCKAY, SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT GEORGE J. CANNON, EXECUTIVE VICE-PRESIDENT LEO E. PENROSE, ASSISTANT SECRETARY MARCH 1935 Quick-starting—Utah's Purest Coal Hard—Burns Longer at lowest cost. Clean. These coals maintain clean, cheery warm homes ROYAL COAL COMPANY General Offices—5th Floor Newhouse Building—Salt Lake City, Utah Leonard E. Adams, General Sales Agent KNIGHT FUEL CO. guidance asking. See your Fuller Dealer for a ing and modernizing needs. PAINT WALLPAPER GLASS W. P. FULLER & CO. SALT LAKE CITY AND OGDEN FULLER DEALERS EVERYWHERE When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine ASK YOUR FRIEND THE COAL DEALER Peerless Laundry SNOW WHITE CLOTHES Exclusive Family Service It's Easy to Modernize You can apply for a loan under the Federal Housing Act to buy Natural Gas APPLIANCES We'll be glad to have you consult us for details UTAH GAS & COKE CO. BLUE BLAZE the coal that is Dependable and Economical BLUE BLAZE COAL CO. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 1184 E. 21 So. WASATCH GAS CO. 1111 Walker Bank Bldg. Phone Hy. 2182-2183 OGDEN GAS CO. Salt Lake City, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints VOL. XXII MARCH, 1935 No. 3 CONTENTS Mexican Poppy...........................................................Frontispiece Relief Society Song........................................................Ruth May Fox 137 Miracle on a March Day...........................................Vesta Pierce Crawford 139 Music—the Language of the Soul................................Adeline Rasmussen Ensign 143 Promise of Spring........................................................Grace Zenor Pratt 146 The Work of the Hand..................................................Amy W. Evans 147 Bible Pictures..........................................................Claire S. Boyer 148 Relief Society Teachers...............................................Lotta Paul Baxter 149 Social Activities in the Relief Society............................Achsa E. Paxman 151 A Tribute to the Relief Society..................................President W. R. Sloan 153 To Relief Society Sisters.............................................Elsie E. Barrett 155 Julia Alleman Child....................................................Jennie Brimhall Knight 156 A Mother's Dream......................................................Leaone Foutz Carson 158 His Father's Son........................................................Ivy Williams Stone 160 Happenings................................................................Annie Wells Cannon 164 Class Work................................................................Mary C. Kimball 165 Friendship Formed in Our Work.................................Inez Knight Allen 167 My Friends................................................................Bertha A. Kleinman 168 The Gathering...........................................................Lydia Burrows 169 A Promise Fulfilled....................................................Theodore Martineau 173 Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life....................Lella M. Hoggan 174 Let There Be Peace..................................................................... 176 Notes from the Field .................................................................. 177 Editorial—The Relief Society....................................................... 181 A Suggestion............................................................................ 183 "Bits of Wits"......................................................................... 183 Lesson Department................................................................... 184 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance, Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE HOME OF THE ROUND OAK WASHER As Perfect As Any Piece Of Your Furniture. GRANITE FURNITURE Sugar House HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS FROM FACTORY TO YOU We Solicit Your Mail Orders No. 88. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New New Style $.65 Styles .85 No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and New Style 1.10 Ladies' New Style....................... .85 No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double No. 85. Very Special Non-Run GarBack 1.35 ments—Guaranteed—Not To No. 81. Heavy Wt. Old Style Run Rayon. New Style Only. Double Back............................ 1.50 Special 1.10 We Mark Garments for 10 cents Specify when ordering, your bust, trunk and length, whether new or old style, and if men's or ladies', We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. MOSSE LEWIS SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH L-D. S. GARMENTS, CUTLER VALUES No. 68 Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton, New Style $.75 No. 68 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton, Old Style .85 No. 500 Super Non-run Rayon Short Sleeve and Knee Length 1.19 No. 74 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Fine Combed Cotton. 1.19 No. 73 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton Silk Stripe.............. 1.25 No. 64 Lt. Med. Wt. Bleached Combed Cotton............................ 1.29 No. 62 Med. Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back Combed Cotton 1.65 No. 56 Extra Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back Combed Cotton 1.98 No. 82 83 1/3% Wool 3.15 In ordering garments please state if for men or women, and if old or new styles are wanted; also state bust, height and weight of person. Marking 15c. An additional charge of 20% will be made on orders for persons weighing 210 SALT LAKE CITY pounds or over. UTAH 57 Years L DS. GARMENTS Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. OLD AND NEW STYLE NEW STYLE ONLY, MAN OR LADY 144 Spring Needle Flat Weave........$1.06 472 Light Rib. Cotton......$.75 205 Rib Knit, Med. Weight.............. 1.25 464 Med. Rib. Cotton........ 1.00 33 Fine Knit, Lt. Weight....... 749 Med. Lt. Weight........... 157 Med. Lt. Wt. Flat Knit............ .90 527 Cot. Rayon plated Med. Wt......... 2.35 758 Med. Hvy. Cot., Ecru or White.. 1.65 702 Med. Wt. 10% wool, Ray. Stripe 1.90 902 Unbleached Cot., Extra Hvy..... 2.00 605 Non-run rayon ............... 1.25 1118 Med. Hvy. Wool & Cot. Mixed.. 3.25 405 Non-run Viscose Rayon.............. 1.35 BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine GRANITE MART Popular Southeast Department Store Branch Z. C. M. I. Featuring nationally known merchandise A manufacturers guarantee of satisfaction Use your Z. C. M. I. Account at GRANITE MART FREE DELIVERY 1080 East 21st South Street Phone Hyland 210 Our Guarantee Every article of food you buy in our Stores and Markets must give you complete satisfaction in every respect. You are the only judge and you must be "absolutely satisfied." 48 So. Main St. 502 So. Main St. 422 E. 3rd So. 825 So. State St. Salt Lake City, Utah Murray Midvale Bountiful O. P SKAGGS "A Surety of Purity" Build a Relief Society Library! Your teachers and members will then have the necessary books when they need them. Ask Us For Lists Your Orders Will Have Careful Attention at the DESERET BOOK COMPANY SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH FRANK MARTIN CO. Rug, Carpet and Upholstered Furniture CLEANERS 1630 So. State St. Phone Hy. 7276 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Relief Society Song By Ruth May Fox How gracious is sweet Charity Descended from above To gird our great society With harmony and love. With open hand she walks with truth, God's seal upon her brow; She will not stoop to arrogance To self she will not bow. Like rain upon a desert land, Or dew upon the flowers With faith and hope and tenderness Her benefits she showers On all who need her ministries, And oh, what loads of care She changes into happiness With goodly gifts to share. We rev'rence, thee, sweet Charity, Our hearts with thine enfold Upon our banner beautiful Thy name is wrought in gold. With thee, our blest society Must do the work assigned By Him who knoweth every ill And loves all humankind! Charity never faileth She hastens to forgive; Her wisdom elevates the soul And marks the way to live. W. D. Green MEXICAN POPPY The Relief Society Magazine VOL. XXII MARCH, 1935 No. 3 Miracle on a March Day By Vesta Pierce Crawford shining white enamel, said Shannon Heath as she set the frying pan over the blazing wood fire in the kitchen range, "and pancakes instead of waffles." The pancakes bubbled up and Shannon turned them skilfully. She could do without household conveniences if she had to, but there were certain things that she could not do without. She knew exactly what these things were, but no one else could possibly understand—no one in Utah anyway. Not even Dan. And he really wanted to understand. She heard him out on the porch splashing water over his face. She could tell when the water spattered on and how it trickled off, and she knew just when he would seize the towel and when the water from the blue granite wash basin would land on the ground. Some men have such an irritating way of washing their faces and soaking their hair. Sometimes Shannon felt that she could not endure the snorting. Maybe, though, it wasn't his way of washing that was so bad. Just the general lack of culture, absence of the finer things. Dan slammed the door shut. "Is that some March wind, not cold, but fierce, a snow-eating wind. I'll be plowing come tomorrow." A' ugly black stove instead of Come tomorrow. He had even forgotten the kind of language he had used when he was a law student back east. The kind of language he had used to impress Shannon when he first knew her back there at the University. Lawyer turned farmer. What a change! Well she hated farms—especially Utah farms. And Utah people. She was glad that she didn't know many of them. The fewer the better. Two years on the Fremont and she was acquainted with only a few of the neighbors. But if they were a fair sample of the rest it was just as well to have very little to do with them. "Bring on the hot cakes. Do they look good, and Shannon, you're a beaut. That hair. Them eyes." He thought he saw anger flare suddenly in her dark blue eyes. He looked at the magnificent coil of red hair on the small regal head. A smile now and then and she would be priceless. "What you going to do today. Honey? It's a swell day—snow almost melted, ice broke loose in the creek and crashing down. Hans Gunderson digging a ditch. What you going to do?" "Clean the lamp chimneys. Wash the separator. Sweep up some mud. Tend the chickens. And if I get time I'm going to read." 140 Shannon read too much, but he didn't want to tell her that. And such peculiar reading. Not the plain kind of words he liked. Her books were different. A few days ago he had opened one of her volumes of poems and read a little. The phrases puzzled him. They didn't seem to mean anything. Strange how Shannon enjoyed such books, sitting hours alone reading them over and over again. "Shan, dear, why don't you come out of the kinks and see a little more of the neighbors. Get acquainted with our native Utah stock. We farmers along the Fremont may not be polished much on the outside but we're solid clear through." "Well, sometimes I'd prefer a little polish." "Shan, don't try to be. Someone you're not. You were never cut out to be a cynic, a darling like you. I'd like my wife to understand my friends and find out what they're really like." "The more I see of them the less I like them."' Shannon pushed back her chair and looked out at Mill Valley—a stretch of hills navy blue with cedars and patched here and there with snow; a canal skirting the hills; then the patterned fields sloping down to the creek. It was rugged and yet peaceful—strange combination. Far away towards the blue mountains she could see the canyon gash—the place where the pioneers had come through when they first saw the Fremont. So Dan had said. And the pioneers thought this the fairest valley under heaven. Well, they were pioneers with the ability to see paradise in any valley that meant an end to wandering. "Shan, why don't you pick up and go in town to Relief Society meeting today. Mother was saying last night Flossie RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that the lesson's going to be about literature, Utah poetry." "Is there any?" Dan ignored the _ implication. "Well, they're going to talk about Utah poetry today in the literature lesson. Mother said Flossie Nielson's getting the work ready." Flossie Nielson! The image of that woman loomed up before Shannon. Flossie Nielson of all people. Dan was still pleading, "I'd think just out of curiosity you ought to go." Maybe she would go. It ought to be humorous to hear Flossie Nielson talk about poetry—Utah poetry, if there was any. And what could these farm women understand about such things. She would go and see. THE March wind billowed the flounce of her blue wool suit. Shannon wore low heeled brown shoes that left neat little prints along the edge of the road. She walked close to the bank of the creek to watch the loosened ice boulders roll and tumble in the stream. There was a smell of spring in the air and along Cedar Ridge farmers plowed on the dry hillsides. Shannon felt the wind on her face and the song of the creek in her ears. Springtime in the hill country! Suddenly Shannon heard a raucous honk. She looked up just in time to see Flossie Nielson back a rattling old car out of the stockyard. Twisted the wheel and brought the car around into the road. With one hand she pushed two little boys down into the back seat. Then she settled the baby girl down into her lap. Her hat was only half on and the tie on her yellow print dress was still waiting to be done up. "Want a lift?" she called to Shannon.  The girl in the road turned. Flossie Nielson! But she might as well. Act grateful. MIRACLE ON A MARCH DAY She climbed into the front seat and the car lurched forward and leaped along over the ruts. I've been more than busy today," explained Flossie. ''Had to put the finishing touches on the lesson. And right the last minute Tommy pinched his finger in the door and that man of mine brought two cattle buyers home for dinner." "I don't see how you get time to work in the Relief Society." Shannon was trying to make conversation. "Time! I don't have time, but I take it. We farm women need Relief Society. It's about our only chance for lovely things. Why I wouldn't have read a poem these last fifteen years if it had not been for our literary lessons." Poetry! Shannon looked at the dumpy little woman beside her. Certainly there was nothing romantic in her sandy hair and pale blue eyes. Her hands on the wheel were red and knotty. The car swerved around a load of hay and chugged into the main street of the town. A row of miscellaneous automobiles and two old buggies stood in front of the meeting house and groups of women hurried along the sidewalk. "THEY went in together, Shannon and Flossie, and took their seats. Shannon saw the friendly smiles directed towards them. The opening song was one that Shannon had never heard—"For the strength of the hills we bless Thee, our God, our Father's God...." For the strength of the hills. Through the window Shannon could see the gap in the mountains where the pioneers came through in the early days. "Thou hast made thy children mighty by the strength of the mountain sod...." The music filled the chapel and floated out into the March sunshine. When it was time to give the lesson 141 Flossie stood up quietly with 10 apparent nervousness. Yet her cheeks were flushed and her eyes shining. She held a little sheaf of notes in her hand. "I noticed the cedar trees today as I was coming to meeting. They are beautiful. At the forks of the road there is a cedar tree taller than most of the others. It grows ona side hill and you can see its roots spreading out among the rocks." Cedar trees—almost against her will Shannon loved them—navy blue where they congregate in dark companies on the hillside, raggedly beautiful where they stand in silhouette alone. Flossie's clear voice continued: "Utah literature is like this cedar tree with its roots in the rocks of this land and its branches reaching skyward. Not mature, a growing thing. Perhaps years will pass before our tree of literature stands superbly grown. The arts are slow of growth. But today, my dear sisters, I want to talk about some examples of Utah literature that 1] think are worthy of the traditions of our State." Shannon looked at the women who listened. Some of them she knew. Old Marcia Gudmundson, without chick or child, who lived alone in Cottonwood Lane. Expectancy and eagerness flooded her wrinkled face. She had not been born in the mountain valleys but she had learned to love them. Angeline Nagley whose large family had married and moved away to the city, Angeline who might have been very lonely indeed. But she did not look lonely. She smiled and there was a light in her brown eyes. She had come to the meeting to be filled with beauty and inspiration. Shannon saw it in her face. Flossie spoke of the literature that flowered early in the Utah valleys, the writings of Eliza R. Snow and i42 the other sisters who edited the church magazines. "And the pioneers," said Flossie, ''even the leaders who laid the foundations of our inland empire were poets too. I think you will like these words: 'I found a large room canopied by the sky and walled in by these mountains.' Thus Brigham Young described the Salt Lake Valley, in these very words. They are poetry — earthy poetry." There was not a sound in the room. Expectantly the women waited. Flossie read again: " 'Their habitation is the munitions of rocks, and they ask no odds of the world, but they are subject to the God who has redeemed this basin....'" Flossie folded a sheet of paper as she explained, "These words were uttered by Daniel H. Wells who felt deeply the surging pulse of the desert land." Shannon looked at Trena Olsen, a young woman who had seen little of the world beyond the Fremont. She was married to a farmer and already the mother of a large family. She stared fixedly at Flossie and her eyes were eager. Flossie glanced again at her notes. "Since these valleys were first settled Poetry has flowered in the desert; singers have lifted up voices of purity and power. One of our living poets, a woman, wrote these lines. I love them: “Over the knees of the mountains Indian summer lies Like the golden haze of remembered days Over a woman's eyes....” For a moment Shannon held her breath, drinking in the beauty of the words. At her side Helga Anderson RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sighed, "them's the prettiest words I've heard since my Margaret died. She was a school teacher and could read real nice." Shannon seemed to feel the emotions of all these women. A strange communion seemed to fill the room. She knew that everyone was remembering thoughts too deep for words. Flossie folded up her notes and sat down. The lines of the closing song assailed Shannon with their lofty melody—"O, ye mountains high where the clear blue sky arches over the vales of the free...", "THE women lingered at the door. That was a good lesson. We enjoyed it. You did yourself proud, I can live a long time on that. Vaguely Shannon heard their words of praise. Flossie deserved everything they said. As the car jolted along out into the farmlands again Shannon sat very still. When they reached the Nielson yard she got out slowly, thoughtfully: "Flossie, that lesson helped me out so much—so much more than I can say..." "Oh, that's all right, Sister Heath. I haven't much ability but we all have to do what we can and I like the meetings." All her arrogance, all her stupid superiority seemed to have vanished as Shannon walked along a road that meandered pleasantly through Mill Valley. The March wind whipped her cheeks and she heard the roar of the creek as it tumbled boulders and melting ice along its twisted channel. Shannon saw the cedar trees on the hills and she thought of their roots in the rocks and their branches lifted to the blue. Music—the Language of the Soul By Adeline Rasmussen Ensign has had a very definite and important place in the life of man, a place it is certain to hold, for "Language is not subtle enough, tender enough, to express all we feel, and when language fails, the highest and deepest longings are translated into music." The idea has been expressed that music was in existence even before the creation of man, when the earth was in the state of formation. However, we know that during man's habitation upon the earth, there has been music of one form or another. Music had a very humble beginning, to be sure, and its development down through the ages is indeed an interesting study. It has always held a very special place in the hearts of men for from its primitive state to its present level, it has been used as an expression of the innermost feelings. The first mention of music in the Bible is in the twenty-first verse, fourth chapter of Genesis, and it is mentioned throughout the Bible, in both the Old and the New Testament. For just one example of its use in those early days we recall how Saul would send for David when he was in poor spirit, and how David with his harp would sing and play until "Saul was refreshed and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him." Cicero, the great Roman orator said, "The songs of musicians are able to change the feelings and conditions of a state." FROM the very beginning, music T was in July, 1830, when the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints had been organized but three months, that the Lord, seeing the need of music in His Church, gave the revelation requesting Emma Smith (who later became the first president of the Relief Society organization), to "Make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in My Church. For My soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." We see by this revelation that a song is a prayer and has more significance and value than most of us are prone to give it. We know there is a vast difference in saying our prayers, and praying, just as we should also realize there is the same difference in the way in which we sing. If the Lord considered singing of such great importance that just three months after the Church was organized,—in those troublesome times—He commanded Emma Smith to "Make a selection of hymns to be had in My Church," and when we realize He specified that "He wanted a selection which is pleasing unto Me, to be had in My Church," we understand there is a responsibility which cannot be overlooked or considered lightly. ROM the first hymn book which was compiled by Emma Smith and printed in 1835, we quote the Preface: "In order to sing by the Spirit, and with the understanding, it is necessary that the Church of the Latterday Saints should have a collection 144 of 'Sacred Hymns' adapted to their faith and belief in the gospel, and as far as can be, holding forth the promise made to the fathers who died in the precious faith of a glorious resurrection, and a thousand years' reign on earth with the Son of Man in His glory. Notwithstanding the Church, as it were, is still in its infancy, yet, as the song of the righteous is a prayer unto God, it is sincerely hoped that the following collection, may answer every purpose till more are composed, or 'till we are blessed with a copious variety of the songs of Zion." It was rather a difficult undertaking at first to find songs "adapted to the faith and belief of the Gospel," and naturally many songs were included in our first hymn books that were omitted from later editions as soon as our own poets and musicians set about to write according to our faith and beliefs. Many of our poets wrote beautiful words which they set to some tune familiar to them and which they loved, and likewise, our musicians set familiar words to beautiful music that they had composed. Among our songs we still find some written by those not of our faith, and as these songs are in accord with our teachings, they add greatly to our collection. VERY song has a message, a sermon in itself, and by careful study we are able to grasp the full meaning of each one. Only when we understand them completely can they come from our hearts. When we think of the Pioneers on their long trek across the plains, how weary and downhearted they would become and how after the singing of some hymns they would, with renewed courage, resume their toilsome journey, surely there is more to a song than just mere words and music. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The story has been told of a company of our American soldier boys just before going over the top in. No Man's Land, grouping around in a dug-out, singing "Lead Kindly Light." Picture in your mind these boys who needed all the courage they could muster, just before making the supreme sacrifice, singing— "Lead Kindly Light, amid the encircling gloom, Lead Thou me on! The night is dark, and I am far from home; Lead Thou me on!" How earnest their plea—''The night is dark, and I am far from home—. Lead Thou me on!" If we could only realize the opportunities, which music affords us, to express our deepest and innermost feelings,—then our songs could not become a matter of form or custom, but we would partake of the spirit of them and sing them with fervor. Its Place in The Relief Society "THE chorister and the organist of the Relief Society must understand the purpose of this great organization, understand thoroughly what may be required of them in their special offices, and then after having accepted the responsibility, put forth their very best efforts towards success. It is necessary that they attend the Stake Union meetings as well as the Ward Officers' meetings because there they receive instructions and partake of the spirit of their fellow workers, for it is with this closeness and unity of feeling and purpose that each effort is blended into a beautiful and harmonious whole. They should be willing to spend time in preparation of their work so that it can be presented intelligently,—realizing that it must be MUSIC—THE LANGUAGE OF THE SOUL thoroughly understood by them before it can be transmitted to others. They should know the powers of music and how our different moods can be translated and expressed in its language. WE cannot put too much stress on the importance of the proper selection of songs in the Relief Society—for when they are chosen to correlate with the lesson they serve as an introduction and foundation upon which the class leader can build. Perhaps if more consideration is given to this feature, many thoughts would be discovered in our songs that could later be enlarged upon in our lessons. The ingenuity of the chorister is often challenged when a thought developed in. The class work needs a certain song to complete the atmosphere. "THEN there is the chorus work that should be encouraged for there is something about mingling our voices together in song that unites us,—that weaves an invisible something around our hearts to bind us together. Surely nothing is more inspiring or delightful to hear than a well trained chorus. "The music in my heart I bore Long after it was heard no more." These choruses when organized in the wards and stakes will find they have ample opportunity to furnish music on various occasions; Relief Society conferences, programs of various kinds, and what could be a more beautiful tribute to a departed friend than to sing at the funeral services. THE choristers and organists have such splendid opportunities to become efficient leaders. There are many books written upon this subject which can be read and studied. Then, 145 too, many radio programs feature only the best in music and if listened to attentively much can be learned in the way of phrasing, tempo, expression, etc. We must apply ourselves and remember "Of all work that produces results, nine-tenths must be hard work. There is no work from the highest to the lowest, which can be done well by any man who is unwilling to make the sacrifice." OW let us attend a Relief Society meeting; as we approach the appointed meeting place we hear strains of music—the organist is playing a prelude. How appropriate the selection, and how beautifully she renders it. It is her special privilege to create the atmosphere for the entire meeting. The chorister is ready too, her list of songs, selected to correlate with the lesson, she has already handed to the presiding officer. Everyone present feels the spirit of unity and co-operation. Contrast this meeting with one where no forethought or preparation has been given to the prelude, where the chorister rushes in at the last moment, picks up a song book, and the first song she turns to is the song that is sung whether it be appropriate or not. This condition shows a decided lack of appreciation of the importance of music and the meeting for that day is greatly handicapped, indeed. "My house is a house of order," saith the Lord. Can we expect His Holy Spirit to abide in a place where confusion and lack of preparation exist? We need the Spirit of the Lord, we invoke His blessings upon us but we have a right to expect them only when we have done our part to merit them. Bulwer said, "What men want is not talent, it is purpose; not the pow146 er to achieve, but the will to labor." We can so fittingly apply this to our Relief Society work. What use is talent if we aren't dependable, or the power to achieve if we haven't purpose and the will to labor? THE Relief Society is a great organization and there is a vital RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE place in it for music, but it is for us to give it the place it rightfully deserves—the place the Lord had in mind when He said, "For My soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto Me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." (Promise of Speing By Grace Zenor Pratt he distant cottonwoods turn silvery green,New wheat fields like an emerald carpet spread, The Slorious promise of another spring— And winter had betokened all things dead. The hyacinths along the garden wall Thrust up their waxen blooms from the dark earth, Blue, rose and lavender, and purest white.  A daffodil springs golden from the turf. A wild rose now appears on swaying stem; The sky is blue with fairy floating cloud, An orchard fragrant in its rosy mist, A field with upturned sod but newly ploughed. So many springs beheld with wondering eye, So many miracles of sun and shower, With each new promise we behold in spring Our faith returns to God's creative power.
The Work of the Hand By Amy W. Evans
THE women of ancient Babylon used needles almost exactly like the ones we use today, and probably had the same difficulty in threading them as we do for the eyes were made after the manner of the modern needle. This is one of the recent interesting discoveries of archeologists. Their findings also disclose the fact that the women of those ancient days did some fine decorative needle work. Yet long before that time there is evidence that some sort of needle was in use, in fact needlecraft is as old as history and woman has stitched to clothe the family down through the ages. While this craft grew out of human need for covering, for warmth and protection, it long ago developed an avenue of self expression in creative art, and through the various forms of the needle, as the crochet hook, rug hook, shuttles, etc, we have the fine tapestries, needlepoint hooked rugs, embroideries and laces which are cherished as beautiful specimens of art.
THE sewing day of the Relief Society was first organized to meet human need as shown by the minutes of October 14, 1843, a little over 92 years ago, "Meeting held in Lodge Room, Coun. Whitney presiding. Mrs. P. M. Wheeler proposed to the society that a sewing meeting be appointed that garments and bed coverings may be made and given to such as are suffering and cold and naked. Moved and seconded and carried that the sisters meet Thursday afternoon of each week at one o'clock to comfort the poor." —P. M. Wheeler, Asst. Sec. From that time on this has been the main purpose of the sewing meeting in the Relief Society as expressed in the minutes of the organization so long ago. However with changing conditions the objectives of this meeting have broadened. When the need of sewing for the poor grew less urgent it became more apparent that there was a benefit to the members themselves in meeting together and working together. The idea of this meeting as an avenue for creative self expression took shape. Psychologists now tell us that to create something with the mind or hand is one of our fundamental desires, that by satisfying this urge we become more well rounded personalities and better able to meet the demands of life. This creative work with the hands releases pent up energy and relaxes tense muscles. The concentration on patterns and designs, the matching of colors takes the mind off personal worries. The manager of a needle work shop who has been in the business for years bears out this statement when he said that art needle work always booms in depression times. None of us who have felt the thrill of creating a beautiful rug, an artistic quilt or a bit of fine lace need to be told of the satisfaction she has had in her work. Even when our handwork could not be considered strictly a work of art it has had a certain beauty to the one who created it and had a decided value to her as a means of self expression. Recently there has been a boom in knitting and the department store art 148 sections are filled with earnest knitters. Of course knitted things are fashionable now. Some maintain that Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt with her knitting bag during her husband's presidential campaign had something to do with starting the fashion. It has been rumored too that the Prince of Wales knits. Regardless of fashion knitting is restful and perhaps personal worries during the depression has had something to do with this knitting boom. A woman who is 77 years old combines utility and beauty in the making of quilts. It is one of the major interests of her life. Recently one of her relatives asked her husband about her and he said "'Oh, she's fine, those quilts of hers keep her happy and contented. They're what keeps her going." She is always on the lookout for new patterns and pieces, and she can see the concrete results of her own efforts in her greatly admired quilts. There is the recognition of her ability which also is a source of satisfaction to her. There is no doubt that what her husband said is true. They do "keep her going." With what pride the creator of a beautiful hooked rug tells of the cast off silk hose and other discarded materials that she used in its construction. How she worked out her own design and color scheme. It is a child of her own hands and ingenuity. Working as a group has advantages aside from social contacts. It is stimulating to see what other women are doing. Many a woman has been inspired to make her own home more comfortable and attractive by learning what other women are doing along this line. The exchange of ideas at our work meeting has its value. Then again the tense nervous woman is greatly benefited by hand RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE work. Psychiatrists have long used handicrafts in the treatment of nervous troubles. Too much intellectual work without an outlet in action of some sort tends toward nervous tension. So aside from the fact of sewing to clothe underprivileged children and keep elderly people warm and comfortable our work meeting has another value. It is like mercy, it is twice blessed. "It blesseth him that gives and him that takes." The comradship that comes from working side by side for a good purpose, the opportunity to satisfy our creative urge and our desire for recognition brings us a fuller and richer life. Our Relief Society program would not be well rounded without this phase of our work. "Needle work has filled the need for women in every age since Penelope sat at her web."
AGE By Claire S. Boyer
She sorted out her past days quietly, and put the fair ones in a mental vase, distilling days as if they might be rose leaves, the fragrance lingering upon Her face
Relief Society Teachers By Lotta Paul Baxter
MANY are the activities and means of expression in Relief Society work. Whichever line of endeavor one decides to analyze, she is prone to become overenthusiastic about it. One reason why the Relief Society teacher and her work are so interesting is the fact that her work is the oldest division outside of the presidency, and was inaugurated one year after the society was organized. It has stood the test of time, and year by year is growing in importance. For many years the duties and principal activities of the teacher were collecting donations. These consisted largely of merchandise, which were laboriously carried to the business meeting, there to be redistributed to the needy—a task requiring another visit with a heavy load. Her work involved looking after the physical well being of the people on her district, feeding the hungry, nursing the sick, performing the last sacred service for the dead. So skillful and Christlike in manner were these services usually performed, that in countless homes through the intermountain region are heard today expressions of appreciation for these ministrations. In 1916 the General Board prepared and suggested the use of topics to be used in the homes, but not until 1923 were these topics a required subject. They are the uniform outlines published in the Relief Society Magazine each month. At this time the teacher became an educator in a specific field, and every month these topics are discussed in a large number of homes throughout the Church.
THE strength and power of the teacher for good in each community at once arrests the attention of the investigator. A unit twentyfour thousand strong, working in harmony with, and under the direct supervision of, the general presidency—this fact is a testimony of the perfection of the mother organization and an illustration of the ability of groups to work together, when blessed with the spirit of their calling. The general organization is the background which gives strength, dignity, and usefulness to the work of the teacher and makes its existence possible.
THE Relief Society teacher is not a hit or miss visitor, going where she pleases, when she pleases, at any and all times. She is called to do a specific piece of work among a distinct group, with whom she becomes acquainted and in whom she is personally interested. Their sorrows are her sorrows, their joys are her joys. The people of the district become attached to these faithful visitors who come to their homes with such regularity and with such richness of spirit that the people are reluctant to have them taken to another group.
WITHOUT desiring to cause an unsettled feeling in the work of the teaching corps, we nevertheless recommend a change of teachers on certain districts by the ward president whenever she deems such change desirable. Where this procedure has been tried we have noted a beneficial effect both to the visitor and to the visited. Educationally, it 150 has had a broadening tendency. Whether the teacher is left on the district over a long period of time, or whether she is asked to take a new one, rests entirely with the presidency of each ward.
WHAT greater tribute can be paid to any individual than to say she is honest? Honest with herself, with her associates and with her God? In public service, there is frequently a feeling of irresponsibility and sometimes a distinctly dishonest attitude in accounting for funds entrusted to the care of chosen officials. No feeling of this kind should creep into transactions of the Relief Society; for this work sets the teacher apart as a woman who can be trusted. I have before me the 1933 Annual Report, which is a most interesting and informative pamphlet. Adding the three funds handled by the teachers—namely, the annual dues, the general fund, and the charity fund—we have a total of over $175,000.00. When you take into consideration that at a low estimate, five thousand women handled this fund, and that every cent received was duly accounted for and turned over to the proper authority, you must agree that we have much reason for pride and gratitude. In the teacher's hand is a little book in which a sacred record is kept of all donations received on her district. She should never allow that book to fall into strange hands, for no one but the teacher and the ward presidency should see the record it contains.
I HAVE written below a few of the "mechanics" of teaching.
1. Always be prepared with topic and present it as best you can.
2. When approaching homes be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE careful in conversation. Many misunderstandings have drifted in through open doors and windows.
3. Always have the teacher's book with you.
4. Always ask how the donation is to be divided.
5. Never say "This is the first donation received."
6. Never use donations to make change in your home. Mistakes occur.
7. Never let your children make the notation of donation received.
8. Never let the hostess take the book to write in her donation.
These may seem small warnings to make; but their violation has caused much trouble where no harm was intended.
I BELIEVE that in the heart of every woman there is a desire to give to some one something she may possess. It may be material gifts, it may be service, it may be love; sometimes it is all three, and yet she lacks the initiative to express herself and to contact the right individual. The Relief Society teacher has the opportunity to pave the way for the fulfillment of all these desires. None more competent than she to take care of donations. None more resourceful to open the door of service to all who wish to serve. None more capable than she to direct the yearning for love from one woman to another. Over a period of years I have eagerly listened to instructions given and tributes paid to Relief Society teachers and have thrilled to the beauty of all that was said; but I still believe that the possibilities and opportunities in this field have scarcely been opened. We have been good teachers, we can be better; we have comforted many, we can comfort more.
Social Activity in the Relief Society By Achsa E. Paxman
THE Social Diversion in Relief Society is one of vital importance. Every woman needs the play spirit introduced in her work and in the serious thoughts of life. It is nature's way of developing and keeping mothers young and physically fit. Play does for the mind precisely what exercise does for the body—relaxes, strengthens, vivifies. The Relief Society organization is strengthened in many ways where it plans delightful play time or social affairs for the members. What is lovelier than to see Relief Society women of various ages enjoying a well planned social entertainment. One is always impressed with the democratic atmosphere of all these parties. Women poor, women rich, educated women, and women of meager learning are all made welcome and heartily participate in the social atmosphere. For many women, the Relief Society is the only medium of social activity, consequently it is important that the organization plans sufficient social entertainment to meet the needs of all. "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy." "Variety is the spice of life." We may apply this philosophy to Relief Society. An interesting party gives a change from the expected routine; introduces the play spirit and produces relaxation; adds a more intimate friendliness; increases interest and attendance at Relief Society meetings.*
*The National Recreation Association, 315 4th Avenue, New York City, will send suggestions for interesting parties, games, and entertainment programs for a small fee. Write for a free catalogue. A few suggestions: Old time games, 10 cents, Progressive Contest Party, 5 cents, Radio Mystery Party, 5 cents, Twice 55 Games with music, 25 cents, What can we do (Social games and Stunts), 25 cents.
Social gatherings may be marred or improved according to the greetings and reception given the guests upon their arrival. A cordial welcome and a hearty handshake at once helps the recipient to acquire an attitude of sociability, which is a great asset for a successful and enjoyable afternoon. The reception committee should arrange for introductions to be made that all may be acquainted. It is also fine to promote a general handshaking with all as they assemble. The following are suggestive social diversions that every ward may schedule during the year. Opening Social held in September. Party in honor of Visiting Teachers or Outgoing Officers. Christmas Party. Membership Social in February. Anniversary Celebration in March. Work and Business Exhibit Party. Strawberry Festival. Canyon Party or other Summer Festival. Work and Business Day each month also gives a splendid opportunity to introduce varieties of social diversions. The Ward that gives an outstanding Opening Social in the Fall and succeeds with a fine attendance at the Social has attained much toward a successful year.
THE following is a brief description of an Opening Social of 1934: The Presidency sent postcards to 152 each woman in the ward inviting her to attend a Social and Luncheon. Each invitation assigned a small responsibility which added to the personal interest in the affair. Results: 150 women in attendance from a 136 enrollment with 36 children in the nursery. At 2:30 p. m. A delightful program was given which included an original play introducing the Relief Society Magazine. Following the program, games were played which secured the participation of every woman. Then a jolly crowd went to another hall where a delicious luncheon was served on beautifully set tables. Everyone left the social afternoon with joy and laughter in their hearts and a greater love for Relief Society and the friends with whom they had mingled.
Christmas Party. At this interesting time of the year many lovely things can be done to make the party novel and entertaining. One of our wards gave a sumptuous turkey dinner. The long tables were beautiful with Christmas decorations. The delicious food was perfectly served. An unusual program of music along with an original play were presented by Relief Society women. Toasts and gifts of appreciation were given to the honored guests, who were the women of the Relief Society past seventy years. One hundred and fortyfive women enjoyed the afternoon. Indeed, much time and effort was given to make this affair delightfully successful but the good accomplished in uniting the women, in advertising Relief Society, and in the evident RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE joy of the participants was more than compensation for the hours of work required in the preparation.
Work and Business Exhibit Party. Prepare a program including original poems, stories, songs, etc. Introduce contest games as a social mixer. Serve light refreshments. Arrange exhibition of hand work. Visiting Teacher's Socials are among the most important and most appreciated of parties. They may be made simple or elaborate but whatever is done is a gesture of appreciation for the fine service of the teachers and the good they are accomplishing. At least once a year, it is desirable to have a Stake Social in order that the women of the several wards may mingle together. The anniversary Celebration may be chosen for this. Some of the finest entertainment programs and socials have been given by organizations of the Relief Society. It is interesting to note the originality displayed in making these affairs both unique and joyful. A group of women, belonging to another church, were invited to participate with the Relief Society at an Anniversary Celebration. They were delighted with the unusual program and appreciated the welcome accorded them. These women have been greater friends ever since and even send contributions to help in the charity work. Social activities are great assets to Relief Society. Even conversions result from the friendliness of these social functions.
A Tribute to the Relief Society By President W. R. Sloan
I THINK that I can truthfully say that I have been an unofficial member of the Relief Society all of my life. My earliest recollections are pleasantly intermingled with the kindly ministrations of this wonderful group of women who have contributed so much to relieve the suffering, worries and cares of their brothers and sisters during their sojourn in mortality. As a child, I remember being taken to meetings, listening to these kindly mothers and grandmothers give their testimonies and wonder why tears rolled down their cheeks as they spoke. On other occasions needles would fly, newfangled sewing machine wheels would whir under the pressure of fast moving treddles. Quilts would rapidly take shape, their bright colored blocks catching my youthful eye. It seemed sometimes to a tired little boy that mother's fingers would never cease to press her needle through these gay colors, nor her back to bend over the rack on which the work was stretched. The work of Relief Society was so interwoven in my mother's life that it seemed the coming and going of these good women was as natural and expected as family prayers or the milking of cows of a morning, their duties as much a part of her life as the fetching and carrying, the ironing and washing, mending and cooking for her own household.
In the fall of 1902, I returned from filling a twoandahalfyear mission to the Eastern States—my first absence from the family hearth. It was the signal for new and mature responsibilities in life. Upon the date of my arrival home I was met by a member of the Ward Bishopric who advised me that I had been sustained as President of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association the previous Sunday and that I was to proceed at once with the work. Entering upon this responsibility with the enthusiasm of a returned missionary filled with the spirit of service, I soon found myself surrounded by a corps of workers ready and willing to do their part. Just at the time that this work was assuming marks of some little success, I was called into a council meetings with Bishop J. M. Dunn, his first counselor and the stake presidency. They asked me to work as second counselor in the Bishopric and I was accordingly set apart for this work. However this office was of short duration. When circumstances arose necessitating our worthy bishop's release, I was asked to succeed him as bishop of the Kimball Ward of the Alberta Stake, in Alberta, Canada: I was just 21 years old and as yet had not complied with the injunction of St. Paul when he said that a bishop must be blameless and the husband of one wife. Having just returned from a long mission, I had not yet made the preparations for such an important venture as marriage, but I entered upon the responsibilities of my new calling with all confidence and enthusiasm, assured that the Lord would provide. It was here that I had my first 154 real insight into the workings of the Relief Society in the Church. My mother was then the president of our ward organization, and while we were living on a ranch some seven miles from the ward meeting place, yet I have never seen more loyalty and love for work than my mother here manifested. A team of gentle ponies was always kept on the ranch for mother's special use, it was long before the day of the automobile. Every week, upon the meeting day, the team would be harnessed and prepared for mother, who would drive the seven miles to be at her post of duty. And very seldom, if ever, would she leave the ranch without loading up the buggy with meats, butter, eggs, vegetables and other necesities to distribute among those in need. Sometimes she neglected to return home and upon investigation we would find that she had spent the night with some sick sister, in line with the code of duty of Relief Society, to comfort the sick and afflicted, minister to the dying and to care for the poor. I have heard scores of people say, "Sister Sloan, we always feel better when you are with us because you always bring with you a spirit that makes us feel good. Surely you are a wonderful woman." These testimonies and recollections are very dear to me for they came at a time in life when I needed the wisdom of experience to guide me, an unmarried bishop. During these two difficult years it was my mother who was indeed my real counselor. No one quite understood as mother did some of the problems that came up. Without her help I am sure that I could never have carried on my work.
THIS early foundation in Relief Society work was ever a bulwark RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to aid in building the Relief Society organization in the Northwestern States Mission. During the eight years Sister Sloan and I labored in the mission presidency, the importance of the Relief Society as an unfailing tool in solving relief problems among our people was demonstrated time and again. We were thrilled at the end of our term in office to report 35 Relief Society organizations with a combined membership of 800 earnest workers, throughout the mission. Our Portland society commissary alone collected and distributed 1200 pieces of wearing apparel in one year and equipped one small branch of our people with clothing, after they had been driven from the drouth area of southern Utah, aiding and encouraging them to get a foothold in their new found homes. The inspired organization of the Relief Society is testimony that the restored Gospel is the perfect plan for the salvation of mankind and that the mission of our Savior was to "give life, and that more abundantly." If space would permit, one remarkable incident after another could be told of benefits brought to the Mission Field by Relief Society endeavor. Our Vaughn, Montana, branch can testify to the spirit of this wonderfully alive organization. This branch was without funds when a group of our people moved into the town to make their homes. They wanted a chapel. Presiding Authorities were promised that they would furnish the labor if the Church would supply the material. The agreement was made. Materials were purchased and the membership turned to with a will. They started their chapel April 2, 1932, and before the end of the year they dedicated it to the Lord, complete and paid for. Well do I remember how those Relief Society sisters bustled about to aid in the construction, washing, painting, even helping with carpentry and cement work in addition to cheering the Priesthood along with food brought to the scene of operation to hasten the work. The cooperation of that group was one of the most outstanding in the history of the mission. They stand as a testimony to other members of the Church. "Broke" financially, but not spiritually, these faithful men and women immediately set about building a place in which to worship when they arrived in Vaughn. Today they stand among the leaders in the mission branches for per capita payment of tithing. Only six nontithe payers were listed among their membership for 1934.
AIDED by the Priesthood, the Relief Society program, properly administered, can go far to relieve mankind's six greatest worries, listed by one famous economist as: (1) Poverty, (2) Criticism, (3) Ill Health, (4) Loss of Love, (5) Old Age, and (6) Death. Their program provides that the best form of charity is to try to get people to help themselves. The course during the past ten years has done much for the poor and the needy, but I truly believe that it has done more for its own membership by developing within its ranks personal culture, personality, independence and a desire to be loyal selfsupporting citizens of the nation and members of God's great Kingdom.
To Relief Society Sisters By Elsie E. Barrett
May the dreams we have had In the year that has gone— The hopes we have cherished so dear— All the fond yearning dreams That no one ever knew Of the wonderful things That we've wanted to do— Come true in this uncertain year. May the faith in each heart Have a daily increase To light any rough darkened ways; And then lest we forget May Divine Spirit guide So that we with the needy May blessings divide With grace in these changeable days.
Julia Alleman Child By Jennie Brimhall Knight
"Oh, may I learn to love to give, And for the sake of others live. My sweetest joy be mine to know That I have lessened others' woe."
THESE words from the pen of one of her teachers might be said to be the epitome of the life of our beloved sister and coworker, Julia A. Child, who was born September 8, 1873, and died January 23, 1935. It is always sad to say farewell to those we love, but there is compensation in the thought that they have gone to receive their reward and are at rest from pain. Although we shall miss her words of counsel and her expressions of faith, in fancy we may see her sparkling eyes and winsome smile, and hear her pleasant voice. We needs must say that God is just and good. We are consoled with the fact that through the years of labor and close association with her, we have painted a beautiful picture that will hang on memory's wall while time shall last.
JULIA ALLEMAN was the only daughter of Benjamin Alleman and Sarah Starr. Her childhood home, situated on the main street in Springville, Utah, is still occupied by members of her father's family. Julia had a happy childhood. Adored and petted by her two brothers, she was never spoiled. She was affectionately devoted to her family, and being industrious, she found great satisfaction and joy helping her mother with the household duties. Her parents, who were of pioneer stock, thrifty and energetic, made a comfortable and hospitable home where their children's friends always found a hearty welcome. Julia's keen mind, sunny disposition and merry laughter made her a favorite among the children at school in her home town. She began her work at the Brigham Young Academy at Provo while Dr. Karl G. Maeser was the president. Here she was a diligent and apt student. Her popularity among the young folks was evidenced by many admirers. After graduation she taught school for a number of years in Springville. Her work was of such high merit that she filled engagements in various summer school and teacher institutes both in Utah and Idaho. In addition to her professional and home life she devoted many hours as teacher and officer in various organizations of her Church. She was a counselor in the Y. L. M. I. A. Of the Springville Second Ward and held a like position in the LeGrande Ward of Salt Lake City. She later was a member of the stake board and counselor in the Liberty Stake in the same organization. When on April 1, 1924, Clarissa S. Williams became the General President of the National Women's Relief Society, Julia A. Child was chosen as a member of the general board, which position she held until the day she was chosen to be second counselor to President Louise Y. Robison, October 7, 1928. In these positions she has shown marked ability, good judgment and poise. She was chairman of the educational activities of the organization. It was while Miss Alleman was teaching school that she met and finally married George N. Child, then superintendent of the schools of Utah County. To them were born a daughter whom they named Julia, JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD 158 and two sons, John and Richard. Their marriage made of Mrs. Child a dual mother. Mr. Child having buried his charming wife was left with a family of six small children. He chose Miss Alleman to be his wife and their mother. Their family life was quite ideal. They enjoyed many successes together and shared each other's sorrows until death called Mr. Child in the prime of life, July 12, 1932. Mrs. Child faced the situation with surprising faith and courage, and throughout the remaining years, although wracked with pain she still held to her idea of lessening others' woe and did not complain. How well she performed her part as the other mother can best be explained by the words of her stepdaughter who said, "she has been an angel in our home." The world has need of such splendid young people as the children they have left. In All her public life she was recognized as a woman with ability and charm. She was calm in her deliberations, wise in her counsel. She was tolerant and decidedly careful and considerate of the opinions and feelings of others. She was a wise and loyal counselor to President Robison, and they spent RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE many happy hours together, among them being their attendance at the Congress of Women held in Chicago, July, 1933. Mrs. Child participated in the ceremonies at the erection of the Relief Society Monument at Nauvoo, Illinois, on July 27, 1933. She worked earnestly for the advancement of the Relief Society in all the stakes and missions of the Church and wherever she went, her instructions were well received and she always made friends. She gave freely of her time, her talent and her love. Being blessed with faith and unusual patience she taught all of those who were fortunate enough to know her how sublime a thing it is to suffer and be strong.
THE Psalmist said: Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord, and who shall stand in His Holy Place. He that hath clean hands and a pure heart, who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully. If ascending the hill means living the Gospel of Jesus Christ, Sister Child has ascended that hill, and if his Holy place means Heaven, we are satisfied that she stands in his Holy place with her loved ones.
A Mother's Dream By Leaone Foutz Carson
"Rockabye baby in the tree top When the wind blows the cradle will rock When the bough bends the cradle will fall Down will come baby, cradle and all."
SLOWLY and more slowly rocked the chair and softer and more softly sang the voice as the song neared its end until gradually both came to a standstill. Then with Gary's dear little head pillowed on her arm and his blue eyes closed in sleep, Rena sat watching. First she looked long and lovingly at his sweet baby face and as countless mothers have already done and as countless mothers will always do, she began dreaming of her baby's future. As she sat there in the lullaby hour which marked the close of a busy day she seemed all at once to look backward instead of forward and these words, spoken of old by the Lord, flashed into her mind: "And I will take you one of a city and two of a family, and I will bring you to Zion."—Jeremiah 3:14, A MOTHER'S DREAM Yes, little Gary, this has surely been fulfilled as all of God's words will be in due time.
I fancy now I can see the bleak snowclad peaks of far away Scandinavia where people learn to overcome hardships of the severest kind in order to work out a meagre existence. It was there, little Gary, that your grandparents struggled to know and enjoy some of the finer things of life. Theirs was a serious life, their very souls being tried as they battled with the elements. Not much laughter for them as it takes sunshine to make people laugh. But this takes us on to sunny France where another family lived among flowers, sunshine and song. Life was kinder to them in many ways and it was given them to know the fine arts as well as the beauties of nature. And not far from these a small boy in wide plaited pantaloons and wooden shoes clattered down the streets of quaint old Holland where people understand what thrift, economy and sincerity mean to man. Ah yes! Gary, and across the channel a little browneyed girl played on the streets of the world's largest city. One day Queen Victoria attracted by this spotlessly clean child with her long curls and piercing eyes, stopped her fine carriage and gave the little girl a beautiful doll. Imagine, Gary! A queen giving your great grandmother a doll. Oh! But then she couldn't have been any dearer than you. Why any queen would stop to gaze at your plump little cheeks, your golden hair and wonderfully beautiful big blue eyes.
"And then came a marvelous work and a wonder. From somewhere afar came the voice of the, Good Shepherd and the words of the ancient prophet were fulfilled as each in his turn was gathered, one from a city and two from a family and brought to Zion. Ah! Little son! I can see them now crossing the 159 great Atlantic in small sailing vessels. They were months on the way with the Grim Reaper leaving only five out of thirteen of one family. Some, child, knew the beloved prophet, saw him and heard his voice, figured in the Haun's Mill Massacre, and later walked most of the way over the burning, trackless plains, over the rugged and dangerous cliffs to the peaceful valleys of the mountains. Here they helped to lay the plans for this great commonwealth, subdued the desert and conquered the Indians, leaving it all for you and for me to enjoy.
"Now what shall we do with this great heritage, son? Waste it? Oh, no! First of all mother and daddy will strive to be worthy examples for you little son, to follow. Then surely with the strength and fortitude of the north; with the sunshine and culture of the south; and with the honesty and steadfastness of merry England and thrifty Holland; and back of all these—the blood of Israel flowing in your veins, you cannot and you will not fail, will you Gary?
"Who knows? Some day you may walk in the halls of the legislature or enforce the laws in the courts of justice; or you may yet save mother's life by your knowledge of medicine or surgery, or best of all you may go to the nations of the earth and proclaim the everlasting gospel to many other honest souls who are anxiously awaiting this message of hope.
"There now! Just one little squeeze and it woke you up. But mother just had to love you a tiny bit. Anyone would who looked at your little round face and dimpled hands. Oh! How our Heavenly Father blessed us when He sent you, one of His choice spirits to us, for us to care for and raise to serve Him. Oh, Gary! I hear daddy coming! Let's run to meet him."
His Father's Son By Ivy Williams Stone
CHAPTER 7
LIFE in a city apartment house was vastly different from that of the Haven farms. Kareen hunted about until she found one with the "Bohemian Air," as the landlord laughingly explained. All of his tenants were artists, and if the musicians did not object to the occasional odor of turpentine paints, the painters did not mind the continuous practising. Their first purchase was a second hand baby grand piano, delivered with a small "down" payment. This was a wonderful way of securing what you needed, while you needed it, and Kareen blissfully signed the contract papers without reading it. "Father would never have done it that way," expostulated Richard. "Father always said to go without things until you could afford to pay for them." "But Richard, it would be months before I could save up enough to buy the piano outright, and during that time you can practise. You are going to study in earnest now, with no outside work to distract your attention, or to stiffen your hands. You won't have to touch a thing but your piano, and in time, a violin!
"How I wish I could buy you a Stradivari violin to begin on! When you are of age, and we sell the farm, the very first thing we shall buy, or try to buy, will be a Stradivari violin!" Kareen threw herself into the duties of this new life with increased animation. She kept her word, and never asked Richard to perform any task, no matter how trivial. She did all the house work and marketing. The piano nearly filled the tiny living room; two small bedrooms, a bath and the combination kitchendining room completed their tiny home. "This whole place isn't as large as our dairy," complained Richard, stretching his constantly increasing frame until the frail couch creaked dangerously under his weight. "I feel cooped up, and shut in. I'm going home week ends. This milk doesn't taste right." "Oh Richard," Kareen sought to conceal her true alarm with a forced laugh. "Don't you know the difference between raw and pasteurized milk? In cities milk has to be treated by heating, to kill possible germs that might creep in. This milk is much safer for you to drink." "No milk on earth could be better or cleaner than that produced on the Haven Farms," scoffed Richard. "I like to drink it fresh—while it is still warm. And the radishes you brought home today are pithy and the lettuce stalks wilted." "Perhaps I have been working you too hard," parried Kareen. "We will plan to walk in the park every evening and reduce your practising to five hours per day. And your teacher says you may now safely start real work on the violin. We will buy one tomorrow."
WITH Kareen's enthusiasm making up for Richard's indifference they shopped in all the music stores of the city, hunting the violin whose tone would most inspire the youthful musician to greater effort. "Do you happen to have a 'Stradivari' that I HIS FATHER'S SON might look at?" was her unvarying question. "They are distinctive from all other makes. The bodies are larger and broader and the varnish is a creation in itself." Music dealers came to know this strange, eager eyed woman with a discerning ear for musical tones, and the tall, overgrown boy who trailed her, noncommital and reserved. "Perhaps this would suit you," offered one dealer more kindly than others had been. "It is not a Stradivari—but patterned after his style. It is not new; but as you must know, old violins are usually better." The dealer ran an experienced bow over the strings and even Richard seemed interested. The tones were beautiful and Kareen seized upon this find eagerly. On the inside of the violin the word "Stradivari" was plainly visible; by turning the instrument sidewise in a good light the word "after" could be discerned printed above it, in small inconspicuous letters. "After Stradivari," laughed Kareen; "naturally it would not be real. But some day, Richard, when we have sold the farm, and you are famous for your playing, then no matter what the price, we will buy a genuine Stradivari!"
THE months slipped by with the determination of the mother really making the boy a good player. Every night Kareen massaged his hands and soaked them in hot water. Every night as she worked, her tongue kept up a rapid recital of the achievements of great musicians, "Beethoven wrote his 'Moonlight Sonata' after being inspired by hearing a blind girl play one of his earlier compositions. Johann Strauss wrote over four hundred waltzes. He became the court conductor at St. Petersburg. Think of it, Richard, he played before kings? Isn't that wonderful?" "Kings have to eat," responded Richard. "I read in a book at the library yesterday that Mr. Burbank worked twentyfive years to perfect a strawberry he named 'The Patagonia'. "Bach composed music for the organ, piano, cello and violin," Kareen would hasten to disregard all references to the farm. 'He had eleven sons, all of whom were musicians. Fifty of his descendants were music performers."
UNCLE OLIVER has a wonderfully fine Mother," Richard announced one evening coming home exceedingly late. "I don't suppose you would understand just what it means, but Burbank speaks of such things as 'sports.' One of the apple trees on the farm had a branch with different blossoms and the apples were different from the others. They were larger and sort of pointed on the end, and each apple had five little bumps near the blossom end. A nurseryman got to hear of it and came out. What do you think, Mother, that one apple tree sold for three thousand dollars!" "Where was it growing?" queried Kareen with sudden interest. "On the Haven Farms," responded Richard, as though the question were superfluous. "Oh, I mean, exactly where was it growing? Was it on Oliver's homestead or in Father Haven's orchard, or was it on our land." "It is one of the trees father planted just north of our house." "Then it is ours, ours," cried Kareen exultantly, "and we can have that extra money. It could, it will be used to buy your Stradivari!" Richard Haven the III rose to his full height, and never before had Kareen realized how he had become a counterpart of his father. In spite 162 of the curling blond hair and the tapering fingers, Richard Haven II stood before her as though he were still alive. "We get only a hundred dollars a month, Mother, until I am twentyone," he reminded her. "Uncle Oliver is investing part of this money in a tractor. It plows ten times as much land as horses can, and the trouble over in Europe is creating a great demand for American wheat. Uncle Oliver is planting an extra hundred acres to wheat this fall. Do you know, Mother, I have a queer feeling about that war across the pond. It's going to reach out farther and farther. Already there has been a revolution in Russia, and a lot of the exiled political prisoners, who had been banished by the Czar, have gained their freedom." "How terrible, Richard, for people to fight when they might play," cried Kareen. "How much better to expend our energies in cultivating the fine arts than to learn how to kill! Think of Niccolo Paganini, Richard. He fought against poverty all through his childhood, in order to secure good instructions from the masters. Finally he managed to get a hearing from the famous teacher Signor Rollo who was so impressed with his genius that he gave Niccolo the beautiful blue cloak that had been presented to him at his last concert!
"If this war keeps up," Richard spoke in slow prophetic tones, exactly as his father always had done, "the world will need farmers more than it needs violinists with blue cloaks. We have to raise things to eat, Mother! Wheat, barley, oats, corn, rye! We will need large stores of meat to ship to Europe! This means lucern, timothy; even the thornless cactus which Mr. Burbank has developed will come into great use. The world needs farmers—not violinists!" Kareen saw his smouldering resentment and hastened to divert his attention. "Listen," she suggested. "The last few nights beautiful strains of music have been coming from below. Somewhere in the building there is a wonderful violinist. I have never seen him, or her," she parried, "but whoever it is, plays with the genius of a master!" "Oh, I know him," answered Richard. "He's a queer old codger. His shoulders are stooped and his face is awful white. He makes me think of the seedlings out on the farm that have been shut away from the light. Like a plant that has grown in a dark cellar. He claims he once owned a Stradivari, but it was stolen." Kareen stood by the window and presently the strains of music, unquestionably from the fingers of a master, floated out upon the night air. Her features became radiant with the joy of appreciation. Her eyes gleamed with anticipated achievement; the apartment house seemed to fade into an opera house; to her the scene became a concert hall, with Richard the performer. "Ah, my son," she cried, "when you can play like that, you shall have achieved the goal I have set for you! Soon you are to have your first recital. Your teacher has promised me if you keep on practising for another month or so, he will feature you alone. We will invite Father and Mother Haven; Esther and Oliver too. They won't come, I guess, they never mix with people. You will play MacDowell's 'To a Wild Rose'; and Humoresque; and 'Sextette from Lucia,' and—" "Uncle Oliver told me that men are being mutilated by the thousands over in Europe; so many that the HIS FATHER'S SON demand has created an incentive for greater study of plastic surgery. He thinks doctors will soon be good enough that he can go East for his operation. It will take a long time, maybe more than a year. Aunt Esther will go with him, to get a real perfect glass eye. Last week, I saw him at the market, for a few minutes, and I sort of promised him, when he is ready to go, I'll go out and tend the farm while he's gone. Grandfather is getting too old for hard work." This announcement was terrifying to Kareen, but she dared not betray her real emotions. "That day is perhaps far distant, son," she forced a brave smile; "Oliver would be taking a grave hazard to have a part of the leg bone removed unless he is very sure of the results. The thing for us, right now is to massage and soak your hands. Remember, your recital!" AREEN'S indomitable determination made malleable the soul of the boy. She gave him little unsupervised time; almost no leisure. Hour after hour the boy rehearsed. The first appearance of the promising young violinist was much publicized. "I'm going for a long walk before the concert, Mother,' Richard announced, standing for her inspection of his first dress suit. He looked 163 thirty years old, the blue of his eyes, the gold of his hair, accentuated by the black broadcloth. "O Richard, you may get dust upon your shoes! Or you will wander through the park and get your fingers soiled, or you will wrinkle your coat!" "IT will not walk in the park," he replied gravely. "You go to the theatre and take my violin with you. I need a long walk to sort of quiet my nerves." "There will be flowers," smiled Kareen happily. "Remember to be there not later than seven-thirty."' The hall was filled with spectators. In the music loving community people gladly came to such concerts. Eight o'clock came, and a frantic teacher and white faced mother were distracted over the non-appearance of Richard Haven. At eight-thirty a white haired, slightly built man came forward to Kareen. "If madame will permit I will play the numbers of the concert. I know them well." While Kareen, shedding the first tears of her life, watched the long, agile fingers of a master violinist play as Richard had never played, her son lay flat on his back under an auto truck in the city market. Oblivious to time and dress suits and concerts, Richard Haven was helping his Uncle Oliver change a tire on an auto marked 'Haven Farms, Incorporated." (To be Continued) Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon A March day is like a blustering woman—a hidden promise of something fine when the storm is over. AMELIA EARHART PUTNAM accomplished a most daring feat in the world of aeronautics in her solo flight across the Pacific. For once the story does not read "the first woman" but the first person to cross both the great oceans in a solo flight. She was also the first person to make a transcontinental auto-gyro flight. HELEN WILLS MOODY is to make a come-back this spring.: Tennis fans will await with interest another game between her and the new champion, Helen Jacobs. MME. MARCELA SEMBRICH, the star of the original company, which opened the Metropolitan opera house in 1883 died this last winter. Caruso called her "My Greatest Gilda." MRS. NOBUKO JO, Japanese social worker, has established small places called Wait-a-Bits by means of which she is said to have prevented 2,500 young women from suicide. CORNELIA SKINNER will appear this month in her new play, written for one person. The play is an historical saga of American life covering the period from 1880 to 1934. Even her brilliant artistry will be taxed to the limit as it endeavors to portray the necessary periods in change of costume, voice, and condition. FiLIZABETH BERGNER, Viennese actress, acclaimed Europe's greatest star, made her debut on the American stage in the late winter and took the "first nighters" by storm. She appeared in "Escape Me Never," by Margaret Kennedy. Off stage she is simple and modest and avoids publicity telling the reporters "I am thrilled but terrified, so terrified." ATHARINE CORNELL has been voted first place among all the actors or actreses on the American stage this last year. MISS: ELLEN FITZ PENDLETON has offered her resignation as president of Wellesly college effective June, 1936. The date marks the twenty-fifth anniversary of her presidency and the fiftieth anniversary of her graduation from this college. LLA VON E. WENDELL, eccentric spinster of New York, died last January. Her assets in real estate valued at $30,956,357 was turned over to charity. Why not the personal property of $8,034,555.68 as well? MB>: HERBERT HOOVER calls following a "'neglected art." She recommends schools for followship as well as leadership. MRS. FLORENCE KAHN, California's representative in Congress, is the first and only woman on the appropriation committee. Aside from her arduous public work she writes a daily letter to her mother. KATHLEEN NORRIS, called the world's richest serial writer, makes close to $300,000 a year. Class Work By Mary C. Kimball THE Relief Society through its various activities is developing its members spiritually, mentally and physically. One of its major features is its class work. Each week the women assemble in clean, well-ventilated and attractive rooms to listen to and participate in lesson work. These lessons have been prepared by experts in their line. The educational opportunities, the spiritual inspiration and cultural enthusiasm afforded cannot be fully realized. This great educational program has drawn into the Relief Society thousands of women. Many of them who have hungered for educational opportunities, have found in these classes the inspiration, incentive and direction they have longed for. Many have become so well informed that they have been asked where they got their training. Few realize how far-reaching are the effects of the classwork carried on in the Relief Society. It reaches women who live on farms and in cities. The hunger that there is in every normal heart for growth has in Relief Society classwork found appeasement. Thousands of women who have not had the opportunities of a college education are getting training equal to that received in uni-versities through their Relief Society courses, and those who have had the benefits of university work find joy in studying authors they enjoyed years before and widening their knowledge of these authors and their books. The interest there awakened in subjects and people will last through life. The information there gained gives fine material for conversation in the home. Adult education is one of the great movements of the day, and we know of no finer way of carrying on adult education than is done in the Relief Society. Here friends and neighbors, those who know and understand each other, meet under the most desirable conditions near their own home. These women of like ideals but of different intellectual powers, because they love and understand each other, participate freely in the class discussion and ask questions. The information there obtained has been a great help to mothers when their children have asked questions and the children have looked with admiration on their mothers who answered their questions intelligently and gave the help they needed in their school work. One woman who gave excellent service teaching literary lessons in her organization, when visiting her daughter's English teacher showed such knowledge of writers and books that she was asked in what college she received her excellent training. She replied, "I Left school when I was fourteen. My education has come through the classes offered in the Relief Society." One woman lived on a ranch and felt that her life was drab and ugly. She was persuaded to go to Relief Society meetings. She said, "What water is to the thirsty land, these lessons have been to my hungry soul. They changed my life; they gave me an interest and joy; they opened up new fields, and have enriched my life." "THOUSANDS have not only found enjoyment and develop166 ment but direction and impetus in their reading and have had the satisfaction that comes from communicating with great minds through these lessons. Since reading is a creative process, through the impetus of these lessons, these women have constantly reinterpreted books. Their emotions and imaginations have been aroused and often their creative power called forth. Through the rereading of books, they have discovered that great books grow with their maturing experience, that other books do not, and thus they have learned to distinguish a great book from those of less worth. MORE and more people are realizing the need of religion if one is to lead a happy, normal life. Theo-Logical studies during the past years in the Relief Society have given the women a knowledge of the Scriptures and a spiritual uplift. They have studied Gospel Dispensations from Adam down to the present dispensation of the fulness of times. They have considered some social aspects of the life of Jesus, Parables of the Savior, Women of the Bible, Gospel Themes, the Twelve Apostles, Genealogy, The Book of Mormon and The Doctrine and Covenants. Thus have they become familiar with the teachings of the restored Gospel and have been inspired to live better lives. In the testimony meetings following the theology lessons, they have poured out their hearts in gratitude to the Giver of every blessing. In this sacred communion, they have learned to understand each other better and love each other more. N the literary lessons, one of the most readily available sources of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE culture, they have found great delight. The literature has satisfied a soul-hunger. It has brought those who have followed its gleam into communion with great minds, in rapport with beauty of thought and expression, for literature is a storehouse of the best thoughts most beautifully expressed of all the ages. During the years the Relief Society has had literary lessons, it has studied the greatest writers and the greatest books of all time. IN the Social Service Department, lessons have been studied on home economics, public health, social studies of local communities, standards of living, child welfare, personality studies and social reformers. These lessons have been practical and have been applied in the training of the children, in the bettering of homes and communities and the personal improvement of the members. HE Relief Society has made continuous progress since its organization. During its reign women have been accorded greater opportunities than ever before in the world's history. Universities and colleges have opened their doors to them. Suffrage with all its attendant benefits has come. Every field of endeavor is being entered and the achievements of women in many lines are outstanding. One barrier after another has been removed as the women in their Relief Society classes study these things they realize that the key has been turned and that knowledge and intelligence has increased since, their great organization was effected by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Oo Friendship Formed in Our Work By Inez Knight Allen FRIEND is one attached to A another by esteem and affection." — Webster. Another has said "A friend is one who knows our faults and loves us still." A friend is one who turns a deaf ear to evil report, who shares joys and sorrows and who manifests sympathy and tenderness to another in all kinds of experiences. "THROUGH the Relief Society organization, groups throughout the Church are bound together by the strongest bonds of friendship. Being organized by the Priesthood, and given definite responsibility in behalf of all members at once creates a common interest. Each active member of the group knows that as she does, so each other member puts forth effort and makes adjustments at home in the interest of the work. All have the same objectives. Some weakness and some ability is common to each one. All rejoice over the success and happiness of others. All are eager to help where there is sickness or death in the community. Together they grieve with parents whose son perchance has gone away because he could find no work and whose manhood rebelled against depending on father and mother who are in financial distress. They are concerned with the young woman in love but whose lover is unable to provide necessities to begin independent life. In unison they mourn when one of the flock falls by the wayside in sin. There is a sympathetic tolerant desire to reclaim and prevent repetition. Some _ one's child wins distinction at school, and all feel the reflected honor. Everyone is cheered by the happy marriage of the children and by the birth of the babies. Promotions in the Church among members is cause for thanksgiving. Through the Relief Society organization they unite, pooling their talents and resources to the end of helping all to realize their righteous desires. When there are meetings or conventions, each one on the prograin knows the fear and trembling which accompanies each of the others who have special parts to take, and they pray each for the other to do her best. As each officer seeks in humility the help of the Lord, she knows the others do the same. They are seeking for the good in every one. Confidence is established in the understanding heart of one another, and they exchange experiences dear to them. Through this exchange of human hopes and disappointments, their souls are mellowed with tolerance and tenderness one toward another. They sense the meaning of the Savior when he said, "The Lord maketh his sun to shine on the evil and on the good and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust." Souls of women thus laboring shine through adversity and prosperity. One beholds not alone the face and the raiment but the glorious spirit within. They seem lifted above temporal wealth or poverty, and they mingle in a more spiritual realm of equality, appreciating superior human and permanent values. Slightly paraphrasing what the poet said, they are many souls with but a single thought, many hearts that beat as one. "THE educational plan enables all to grow in knowledge and de168 velop in righteousness. They find keen joy in these studies. In the leisure hours they enjoy one another. Such fine social affairs, small yet tremendous in scope, allow personal relaxation and increase companionship. Thus working together with mutual RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sympathy and similar interest enriches lives with the most precious friendships. One truly feels all are children of the same Father. To laugh and play and sing together, to work and weep and pray toegther is real comradeship. Thank God for true friendships. My Friends By Bertha A. Kleinman Do I need a friend, a true blue friend, To serve in stress and need— Give me a book solidified, With ideals staunch and bonafide, With human hope personified, And I am served indeed! Do I need a friend when days are blue, And things look dull and dead,. Give me a book of lyric lore, Of minstrelsy and troubadour, A book where fancies' tilt and soar, And I am banqueted. Do I need a friend to censure me, When I am far from grace, Give me the Book'of the olden ode, The Book of Books with its golden code, That hews me straight to the narrow road, And tells me face to face. Do I need a friend whose praise is shorn Of flattery and sham— Give me the standard archetype, The test and triumph of linotype, That builds me true to my prototype, And paints me as I am. Do I need a friend a friend to spur me on And flout my lagging zeal— Give me the tale of yesteryear, Whose pages breathe of the old frontier, When red blood deeds of the pioneer, Were true and warm and real. Give me a book, a book that speaks To-the innermost heart of me— Whether delux or modernized, Or copyright or standardized, A book that is imortalized, That speaks to the soul of me! The Gathering By Lydia Burrows Music. READER: "Music, God is its author; and not man. He laid the keynote of all harmonies. He planned all perfect combinations and He made us so that we can hear and understand." Music: "Oh, How Lovely was the Morning." (1827. Joseph Smith in attitude of Prayer.) CURTAIN Music: "Praise to the Man." (1830. The Organization of the Church. Joseph Smith and counselors.) CURTAIN Music: "The Morning Breaks, the Shadows Flee." (1842. The Organization of the Relief Society. First Presidency with Joseph Smith standing.) REAVER: "March 17th, did you say? The Relief Society was organized and we commemorate the day. God's laws seemed to raise woman to a higher plan, She was needed in his cause And must work along with man. So she seemed to lead the race When she found again her place, And from that day in 1842, her work began." CURTAIN Music: "Come, Saints." (1847. Pioneers with Brigham Young around camp fire singing. Eliza R. Snow prays, using "Prayer of the Trail," prize poem; Jan. Mag., 1934.) Come, Ye CURTAIN Music: "In Our Lovely Deseret." (Beehive, State emblem, on stage, center back.) READER: "Gathering from all corners of the earth Come saints from every tongue and clime, To us, they bring their gifts divine." (Nations, in couples, come on stage in native costumes and go into hive, while their National music is played. America goes into hive last and returns with flag.) Music: "Star Spangled Banner." (Congregation) (Couples come out of hive dressed in civilian clothes, and stand on sides of stage.) READER: "Our church is a composite of all peoples, all lands, all ages. Its fundamentals are beauty. One aim, one faith, one goal, the hand of fellowship is extended to all. 4. Music: "Love at Home." (while verse is read) READER: HUMAN TOUCH "°Tis the human touch in this world that counts, The touch of your hand and mine, Which means far more to the fainting heart Than shelter and bread and wine. For shelter is gone when the night is o'er. And the bread lasts only a day. But the touch of the hand and the sound of the voice Sing on in the soul alway." "The L. D. S. Church is a wonderful organization considered from a sociological point of view. Our Word of Wisdom, so say scientists, 170 is an exceptionally fine document and if observed, people would become famous for their physical and mental vigor. "Relief Society members look with pride at our church organization, and the opportunities it offers for self-expression and growth. The door has been opened for woman. Although we are chiefly concerned with home and our children, it is impossible to forego the frequent mention of the Greeks and peoples of ages back, who have bequeathed to us models of architecture, and sculpture, as well as models of the drama, and other literary types, which have served as "'well-springs" of inspiration to all subsequent ages. "Man is that he might have joy. Experience teaches us that service to others, that type of unselfish ser-. Vice, which expects no reward, brings real joy. Such as our angels of mercy who go from house to house, (enter two visiting teachers) who care for the sick, bless the old, help the ones in need, no matter who or where they are, but to them all give heed." (One teacher kneels down by child with bandaged head, then they cross the stage and one pins a rose on an old lady.) READER: "The Relief Society in 1902 felt the crying need for department work as our organization stands out from all others, not because it's the oldest, not because it was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, not because of its size, others may be larger; but primarily because of its effectiveness and efficiency. The spirit of Relief Society is the spirit of service in its broadest and finest sense. It grips those who come under its influence and lifts them heavenward. All women are welcome, all are needed. "The richness of our programs make it interesting to young as well as older ones. It will make woman RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE more attractive, more charming, more successful in her sphere of action. The training she gets in this organization will make her a better wife, better mother and a happier woman. "In 1923 the E. R. Snow memorial poem contest was established in honor of this pioneer poet and great woman leader, not only to perpetuate her memory by bringing it before the readers of our wonderful magazine each year in January, her natal month, but to encourage our ladies to cultivate the gifts of poetic expression and high ideals as she so beautifully exemplified them. 96 poems of quality and worth were sent in. Each year a notable improvement in quality of composition is seen. Most all are worthy of publication in our magazine, which has a circulation of 31,000." (Prize Poem if you want tt.) (Song, "Our Magazine," by chorus dressed in R. S. Colors. Dec. Mag., 1933.) READER: "The magazine comes once a month as a messenger of inspiration and consolation, filled with rare gems, poems, short stories, making us realize today as never before that we must constantly readjust to changing conditions. "Relief Society sisters must keep abreast of Truth. In our organization we have talented women to supervise art, work and business. Really they are the cash registers as well as lending a touch of color and refinement to our homes. (Enter teachers displaying sample of 'year's work.) Everyone is affected by color and order, consciously or unconsciously. We cannot escape from it if we would. In our homes, color creates the atmosphere which has an effect on our thoughts, our moods and actions. If used correctly it is a force that enriches home life. You may have a home beautiful by comTHE GATHERING ing to our art class, 'Work and Business Dept.' "THE BoaRD OF ARBITRATION." (The Presidency enter followed by Secretary.) READER: "Presidents three, where all troubles are ironed out, and then comes one who records our acts and deeds, be they good or bad, who can say? As we weave into this mesh of life, a thread each day. This we hope, that when the last thread shall be woven in, God grant it be love instead of sin. "Tis God to judge, deny the fact who can The proper study of mankind is man.' (Literary Teacher takes her place on stage.) READER: "The literary teacher acts as a guide as we travel over land or sea. How fascinating to have the fellowship of great men, that have gone, to meet men and women with their halos of glory, to travel if only in dreams or fancy. 'Tis like the memory of golden days, the serene midsummer evenings, or the dawn over wild lands, the briar rose, singing of birds, little tales told by the fire of long, long ago. 'Tis the entrance to fairyland, so to speak. The wise literary teacher always brings us safely home with a longing to go again. "We also have one who understands human nature, the Social Service teacher, who with skill and care helps us over many rough places in life, with our joys in rearing a family." (Social Service Teacher comes in while this is being read.) (Mother comes on stage with child, 6 or 7.) READER: "A builder builded a temple, He wrought it with care and skill— Pillars and groins and arches, All fashioned to his will. 171 And men said as they saw _ its beauty, 'It never shall know decay, Great is thy skill, O builder, Thy fame shall endure alway.' "' (Child goes off stage and boy comes in, standing by mother.) READER: "A mother builded a temple With infinite and loving care, Planning each arch with patience, Laying each stone with prayer. None praised her unceasing effort, None knew of her wondrous plan, For the temple; by the mother builded Was unseen by the eye of man." (As the boy goes out a bridal couple come in arm in arm, from other side of stage.) READER: "Gone is the builder's temple— Crumbled into dust, Low lies each stately pillar, Food for consuming rust. But the temple the mother builded Will last while the ages roll, For that beautiful unseen temple Held a child's immortal soul." (Here, come over and kiss mother. She shakes hands with groom, waves handkerchief as they go out.) (Theology Teacher goes in with scroll and stands in center of stage.) READER: "The Theology Teacher is the one who interprets the scriptures. For the last three years we have been studying the Doctrine and Covenants, the book of laws to the church. "Hearken, O ye people of my Church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, hearken ye people from afar, and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. "For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape, and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall 172 not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. ""God's decrees never fail. "Thus sayeth the Lord, I am willing to make these things known unto all flesh, for I am no respecter of persons." (Pages come in and take hold of scroll and unroll it. Upon tt is written, "The Glory of God is Intelligence.") Music: 'The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning."' (Congregation.) READER: "All in all we are living in a wonderful day. Not withstanding the lawlessness on every hand, while crimes of appalling cruelty are common occurrences, while poverty has stalked through the earth, while war clouds hover over many lands, yet never has there been more opportunities, more more willingness to abide the Golden Rule and more faith to seek first the Kingdom of God and all other things that are righteous. "Wealth may take wings and fly away, but knowledge is everlasting.” (Pages cross to center stage and understanding,. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE take book, which the Work and Business teachers have handed to President. They turn pages on which © are written "KNOWLEDGE," "OPPORTUNITY," and "RELIEF SOCIETY." READER: "Knowledge is the golden ladder over which we climb to heaven. Knowledge is the light which illuminates our path through this life and leads us to a future life of everlasting glory. "Opportunity is knocking at your door. (turn page) "Will you ladies come and join us each Tuesday at two o'clock p.m.? (turn page) "Remember, the clock of life is wound but once, And no one has the power, To tell just when the hands shall stop, At late or early hour. Now is the only time we own, Live, love, toil with a will Place no faith in tomorrow, The clock may then be still." Music: Closing song, "Opportunity," Dec. Mag., 1933. A Promise Fulfilled By Theodore Martineau MONG the many who were left homeless through the Exodus from the Mormon Colonies in Mexico in 1912 was Mrs. Fannie C. Harper, owner of the Harper House in Colonia Juarez. Mrs. Harper had for years taken a prominent part in the Women's organizations of the Juarez Stake and after the death of her husband, some years previously, had continued to carry on the hotel business in Colonia Juarez. With all of the property accumulated through years of toil swept away by the Revolution, Mrs. Harper found herself an exile in the Village of R...... W..... In Utah where she had relatives living. While here she received a blessing in which she was promised that on her return to the Colonies, her life would be safe and she should regain possession of her property and thus enjoy the fruits of years of labor. Having an abiding faith in this. Promise, and with but little to lose and much to gain Mrs. Harper made the return journey only to find on her arrival that the Villa soldiers then occupying the town had made her home their headquarters. The building was now occupied by about one hundred soldiers, who promptly and very decisively denied her request that they vacate her home. Repeated requests met with the same result, and it looked as if the promise our sister had received in her blessing might never be realized. But Sister Harper was of that type of character whose faith never wavers. So she watched her chance which came on a day when the garrison was called out to meet an approaching enemy, only six men being left to guard the Cuartel. Not anticipating even the remotest possibility of a lone woman daring to molest their home during their absence, this guard strayed away for a short pasear, only to find on their return, Mrs. Harper and a native woman busy in throwing out their possessions, bag and baggage. Expostulation, entreaty and even dire threats made no impression on the subject of our sketch, who calmly proceeded to wash and scrub and' scrape away the accumulated trash. Nor could the returning troops, either by persuasion or threats, prevail upon Sister Harper to let them again occupy her home, much to their chagrin. She lives there still in the enjoyment of her home, and still, as of yore, dispenses the hospitality for which her house has so long been famous. As a friend, counselor, and mother to the younger generation, Sister Harper well deserves the friendship and love of all her acquaintances, of whatever race or color, and it is a pleasure to bear record that these are hers in rich abundance. D. AWilliams ~ KEEP CLEAN "No life can be pure in its purpose and strong in its strife And all life not be purer and stronger thereby." —Owen Meredith. CLEANLINESS is an essential C quality of all culture, refinement, arid beauty. But it is greater than any condition it ever graces: for it is indispensable to health and even life itself. It is the vibrant silver current that vitalizes the moral structure of civilization. It is the iron in the wine of life, that prevents disintegration. Truly, "Cleanliness is akin to godliness." An environment that is not clean breeds misery and disease. The body that becomes defiled is in mortal danger. A life that is polluted soon falls into suffering and generally ends in black despair. The morally corrupted nation is the nation that is wiped from the map by the finger of righteousness. Nature refuses to tolerate uncleanliness, and "The Spirit of God will not dwell in an unclean tabernacle." Nature has a regular and thorough 60 Sessclves for the 'Treasure Chest of Life By Lella M. Hoggan system of house cleaning. She lends us her two greatest cleansers, water and sunshine, in order that we, too, may clean our habitations. When the Master found his Father's Temple defiled, he cleansed it by casting out the thieves and money changers. Should not we, too, cleanse our tabernacles when we find them becoming cluttered with the things that detract from their holiness? And is not a mental house cleaning quite as necessary as a physical one? Fear, anger, hatred, and all of their kin, literally poison the system and lower the morale of anyone who tolerates them. There is a dignity and self-respect in cleanliness. It is a fact, that one may change her mental attitude from one of gloom and forboding, to one of hopeful expectancy, by having a warm bath and changing to clean, pretty raiment. The careful details of personal cleanliness are the badges of culture and refinement, and should be the expression of moral character. "My strength is as the strength of ten Because my heart is pure." David Starr Jordan says, "Not to escape temptation but to master it, is the way of righteousness." And Apostle Paul uttered one of the greatest truths of life when he said, "For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption: but he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting."—Gal. 6:8. The broad, easy road of weakness and sin leads down to degeneration and despair; while the narrow path of self-denial, self-restraint, and self-control, KEEPSAKES FOR THE TREASURE CHEST OF LIFE leads up to mastery and joy. Our prayer should ever be, "Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me."— 51st Psalm. We want clean pages in our book of life, pages that will need no apology. Generations are to follow after us. It is our desire that our descendants shall be clean and honest and kind. But what about our obligations to them? Will they look back upon our record with pride and satisfaction? Nature demands a clean blood stream, if we would pass on to the race our best inheritance. Those going before us have paid in pain, and blood, and tears for the spotless mantle they have placed on our shoulders. Are we willing to make a similar sacrifice, in order to pass it on to the next generation without blemish? "Consider the lillies of the field, how they grow: they toil not, neither do they spin: and yet I say unto you, that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these." —Matt. 6:28. The Master artist adorns the lily in the white garb of purity. May not we adorn ourselves likewise? "Those who wish to be clean, clean they may be," in body, in mind, and 175 in spirit. Did not our Savior cleanse the lepers, and forgive the woman found in sin? His love reaches out to mankind today, even as it did of old. We, too, may make him the morning star of our high endeavor. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow: though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool."—Isaiah 1:18. Among our cherished ideals is a beautiful woman, who possesses all of the feminine graces. She is like a fragrant flower that sheds a dellicate perfume all along the walks of life. She is the companion of our high hours of meditation—the woman we desire to become. As we are made strong by struggle and sacrifice: as we are cleansed by the fire of pain and sorrow: as our lives are sweetened by unselfish love: we may draw a little nearer to her day by day: until, finally, we shall be prepared to walk by her side, and feel the refining influence of her modest loveliness, the gentle touch of her chaste womanhood. Are you already walking in. Her sweet presence? Surely, purity is one of the jewels beyond price. We shall certainly desire to make it one of our keepsakes for the treasure chest of life. Let There Be Peace At the end of 1934 Ishbel, Lady Aberdeen, President of the International Council of Women, in response to letters urging her so to do, made an appeal to the National Councils all over the world to take active steps toward the abolition of future wars. She calls attention to the silent procession of women at the Hague and tells that the great gathering was addressed by four members of Parliament, and that then the great procession was formed following a flag which proclaimed in big letters "Women Want World Peace." "Silently the long procession made its way through the city until it came to a halt at the Peace Palace, where a petition was presented of which the text had already been submitted to the Government. It stated that women wanted peace based on arbitration; that they condemned war as being in contradiction with all humanitarian and religious principles. Women claimed from the delegates of all countries at Geneva rapid progress in the Disarmament negotiations according to the idea underlying the League of Nation. They drew inspiration from an expression of opinion of Her Majesty Queen Wilhelmina in a telegram sent to President Roosevelt (on Good Will Day, é May 17th, 1933) to the effect that she did not see any reason why peaceful settlement should not become the sole method of dealing with international disputes. The petition closed with the words 'Before all the world Dutch women declare that they want arbitration and mediation instead of war'. Lady Aberdeen says, "the great thing is to get the movement going, and to encircle the world with the holy determination of mothers who are the originators of life and also the preservers of the lives of future generations. "When the rank and file of the populations of all nations are evidently so agonizingly anxious to prevent War from breaking out, surely it must be within the power of the mothers of the human race, with the blessing of God, to bring influence to bear on the politicians which will prevent world suicide. "I beseech you, dear friends, not to let this appeal fall on deaf ears,. But to show in a practical way the potentiality of the Sisterhood of. The International Council of Women in this crisis of the world's history." Surely if women will unite the world over, they will have great power to hold at bay the War God. Memories By Ella J. Coulam Have you passed a fragrant garden In the Springtime of the year, When the perfume of the violets Awakened memories dear? Have you watched the crystal waters Of a rushing mountain stream When a quiet pool in canyon's turn Aroused a cherished dream? Have you met a gentle woman With a kindly passiveness, Who reminded you of Heaven And your Mother's tenderness? Thank God for these reminders Of the bright spots of our past, Which will give us joy unmeasured And hold our memories fast. Notes from the Field Carbon Stake Relief Society. The one shows five "THESE two pictures from the generations, the other the organizaCarbon Stake are quite typical of tion of the Welling Ward, with the a WELLING WARD 178 babies who belong to the members. The Welling Ward has a membership of 105 families, and there were 20 new babies last: year. All the activities of Relief Society are carried on with the spirit of enthusiasm for the work. South Sanpete Stake A VERY excellent program in the field of music is being conducted in the South Sanpete Stake. A chorus is organized in each ward and in the Stake Union Meetings there is also a regular music department, where the outline for the coming month's work is suggested. The choruses from the various wards take turns in furnishing music at the Union Meeting. This creates a spirit of friendly rivalry and works out for great good. Since it is felt that the young mothers should be interested as far as possible in the social service lessons, especially, the ward has organized a junior as well as a senior chorus of women, and the junior chorus furnishes the music on the social service lesson day. For special occasions, as the Relief Society Stake Conferences and the anniversary days, the choruses from all the stakes unite and furnish the music. The combined chorus is known as the "Relief Society Singing Mothers of the South Sanpete Stake." Each month a list of hymns is made out and given to the ward choristers, and these musical numbers correlate with the different lessons. The use of the baton is demonstrated for those who are self conscious about leading, and each chorister is given a chance to practice on the members of the chorus. The ten minutes allotted for practice on each Relief Society day, with the exception of Theology, is used to excellent advantage. The day on which the Literary lesson is given is set apart as a time for special remarks upon music appreciation. The class leaders cooperate closely with the choristers in selecting suitable musical numbers for this lesson. This program of activity, when put into effect, gives an excellent opportunity for keeping the stake chorister and organist in touch with the wards, and if any difficulties arise there is an excellent place for discussing them together. For the practice of the hymns ten minutes of the time is allowed in general assembly of the Union Meetings. Each ward practices the hymns on Social Service day and on Work and Business day. The stake is to be congratulated for its faithful and competent choristers and organists. They are doing a very excellent work in bringing up the standard of music and aiding in the general cultural program of Relief Society.
Lyman Stake
A VERY interesting report of the activities of the Lyman Stake begins with the stake day, held on September 25, 1934. This was in honor of the wards. There was a good representation from practically every ward in the stake, and where there was not a representation, it was due to very unfavorable weather conditions. The Dines Ward, which is the most remote, is to be congratulated upon having one hundred percent in attendance. During the morning session a very fine program was presented, and the playlet "The Spirit of the Magazine" was given. At this meeting the small banks which had been prepared were given to each ward executive officer. These banks were to hold the pennies for the Annual Dues and the Magazine subscriptions. At noon a hot luncheon was served to everyone present, and this was a very delightful occasion, as some of the visitors had driven 75 miles or more to be in attendance. During the afternoon session special instructions on the Home Project introduced by the Relief Society this year, was the subject for discussion. During this day a fine bazaar was held. The Stake Board has assisted the members of the Lyman Ward in preparation for this, and the proceeds were to go to the stake and ward libraries. The stake is extremely happy that the movement for the libraries has been started, and the Magazine subscriptions throughout the stake have greatly increased. The wards are all enthusiastic over the Home Project. It was a very auspicious beginning for a successful year.
Lethbridge Stake
FROM the Lethbridge stake comes an account of Relief Society activity. It is extremely interesting when it is taken into account that the wards of this stake are quite widely separated, and there are many obstacles in the far north which our sisters have to surmount. The beginning of the Relief Society year's activities was on September 25, 1934. At this time the stake executive officers had decided to visit three of the most remote wards. They left early in the morning for Calgary, the most distant ward, as their destination. There had been a severe storm, which was quite unusual, at this season of the year, but as the trip had been planned, the sisters decided not to postpone the start. The roads were very difficult to travel, and the journey of 186 miles was accomplished in seven hours. Calgary is the largest city in Alberta, and the Relief Society here is very active in looking after the Latterday Saint women in this community. Stavely was the next point of destination. Here a most 179 delightful meeting was held, with every member of the Relief Society and some visitors in attendance. Many of them had traveled over long expanses of muddy roads to be in attendance. The sisters continued their journey until they had covered the entire distance and met with the sisters. It was a very inspirational visit, and many fine phases of work and business that had been given in April Conference were demonstrated. It was a most excellent thing for the board to establish this very active contact with the sisters who are faithfully carrying on. Perhaps no more efficient and regular visiting teachers' work is done than is to be found in the Taber Ward of this stake. There are 16 districts and 34 teachers. Six of the districts are out of town and have to be visited by some means of transportation, and yet in this ward 100% visiting teachers was reported. There was a very interesting special meeting called in this ward in honor of the teachers, who were royally entertained by the ward presidency. A very fine spirit prevails throughout the different wards of the Lethbridge stake, and every ward is trying to do its best in carrying on the educational and material side of Relief Society work.
Yellowstone Stake
FROM the Yellowstone stake comes this very interesting item, which shows the force for good which Relief Society proves to be in our L. D. S. Communities. It is certainly a practical demonstration of the spirit of stimulating good work. The following questionnaire was sent out to the wards, and the results which were received follow: The observance of: Prayer in the home....................90 % The Word of Wisdom..............90 % The Sabbath Day....................90 % 180 Payment of Tithes..................84% Free from forbidden practices and secret orders (Cardplaying, Sunday pictures, etc.)....97 % Attendance at Sacrament Meetings
Report on Magazine Subscriptions
WE publish herewith the last list of magazine subscriptions we shall print until the drive next fall. We deeply appreciate the earnest effort of our magazine agents, and the assistance rendered them by the officers. We are grateful for the very large subscription list that has been turned in. We now have more subscriptions than ever before in our history. It is remarkable the increase that some wards and stakes have made within the last few months. East Jordan reports that they have turned in 124 more subscriptions this year than last. Sister Artemesia Romney, president of the Northern States Mission, says their subscriptions have increased very materially. We hope all our subscribers will feel amply repaid in what the magazine offers them for their money.
WARDS 100% OR OVER Ward Stake Enrollment No. Sub. Percent Name of Agent Beazer Alberta 29 29 100 Mrs. Bertha Wynder Hagerman Blaine 40 40 100 Mrs. Emma Penfold Marion Cassia 24 27 112 Hattie N. Tolman Mt. Glen Union 13 13 100 Wanda Zaugg Pershing Alberta 9 9 100 Mrs. Vera Lee Rochester Emery 15 15 100 Cleo Olsen Taylorsville Alberta 19 19 100 Mrs. Rose Lowry Union Union 38 38 100 Rose Koffard
WARDS 75% OR UP TO 100% Ward Stake Enrollment No. Sub. Percent Name of Agent Bancroft Bannock 46 39 85 Mrs. Zetta Ormand Bountiful 2nd So. Davis 113 93 82 Alta Hill Brigham City, 3rd Box Elder 78 Mabel Christensen Brigham City, 5th Box Elder 94 Crystia Woodland Carey Blaine 47 35 75 May Wilde Draper East Jordan 84 71 84 Bertha Andrus Emerson Minidoka 40 33 82 Hill Spring Alberta 64 48 76 Mrs. Sarah Fisher Kimberly Twin Falls 20 15 75 Mountain View Alberta 54 41 78 Mrs. Sarah Stocker Perry Box Elder 75 Selma Thorn Pleasant Grove, 2d Timpanogos 75 Rigby, 1st Rigby 82 63 80 Elizabeth West Roberts Rigby 22 18 82 La Voun Kunz Welling Taylor 22 17 77 Elizabeth Bullock 11th Ensign 115 87 76 Pima St. Joseph 147 145 98 Susannah Crockett
STAKE PERCENTAGES Stake Enrollment No. Sub. Percent Magazine Agent Alberta 557 306 Mrs. Violet Tanner Alpine 748 340 45 Mrs. Ivy Steele Blaine 357 182 50 Mrs. Alice Piper Box Elder 928 577 62 Mrs. Eliza Thompson East Jordan 656 403 61 Mrs. Matilda M. Smith Minidoka 335 159 48 Mrs. Margaret Duffin Oquirrh 438 189 43 Palmyra 726 364 50 Mrs. Hattie Wilcox Twin Falls 188 132 70
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTERDAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND
THE GENERAL BOARD President First Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: Mary Connelly Kimball Manager: Louise Y. Robison
Vol. XXII MARCH, 1935 No. 3
MARCH seventeenth records many experiences and accomplishments of Relief Society. To you, dear members, for the achievements of this year, congratulations and hearty thanks. Your efforts inspire confidence, your devotion indicates reliance upon divine aid which always insures success. Louise Y. Robison
IT is a source of keen pride and pleasure to me to be associated with the multitude of faithful workers in the Relief Society. Their devotion to the great Relief Society cause, and to the church itself; and their helpfulness to one another and to humanity in general at all times and under all circumstances distinguishes them as true followers of our Lord and Master. Amy Brown Lyman
HONOR and gratitude to the women of Relief Society, who are the living embodiment of the two great commandments upon which hang all the law and the Gospel—to love and serve God and fellowmen. Julia A. F. Lund
Relief Society: For my membership in this organization I am truly grateful. The opportunity it offers for unselfish service, as well as its educational value to all who will work for it cannot be over estimated. Also among its many blessings are the priceless friendships it has given me. God bless the Relief Society. Emma A. Empey
THE influence and teaching of the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints will reach every land, and hamlet in the world. The Board has traveled thousands of miles to carry a message of love for the Gospel, taught by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Sarah McClelland
MEMBERSHIP in the Relief Society breathes a divine testimony of the sweetness of life, for its mission is love, the "Charity that never faileth."—Annie Wells Cannon.
Assistant Manager
GREETINGS to the women of 182 GREETINGS to the woman who "looketh well to the ways of her household, and who eateth not the bread of idleness," who increases her efficiency by study and participation in Relief Society activities. Jennie B. Knight
"Go take to the lowly my blessing and peace. As I cared for the poor so do ye, And if ye do good to the least among these Ye verily do it to me."
SURELY they whose untiring and ceaseless efforts to maintain the high ideals and standards of Relief Society have done just that. All praise and honor to them for their supreme loyalty and devotion. May there be peace, happiness and contentment in the souls of those whose love and understanding have helped scores to travel the highway of life. May vision, courage and faith in the cause they represent come to those whose responsibilities are new and problems many. Lalene H. Hart
"THE beauty and breadth of Relief Society work is seen at its best in the activities in the Wards. I wish to pay my tribute of appreciation to the Ward Presidents, Counselors and Secretaries, who are doing a splendid work. Every week someone who has been forgotten is found and brought into the fold. God bless the Ward Officers! Lotta Paul Baxter
DURING the coming year. May we all realize that it isn't the size of the thing we do, but the way in which we do it that is the ultimate test of our usefulness. Wishing you continued success in your work. Cora L. Bennion
FROM its small beginning so long ago our Relief Society has RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE grown until its message now goes to its organizations in 21 foreign countries and to every state in the Union. On this its 93rd birthday greetings to its members everywhere and may God bless each one. Amy W. Evans
IN the great cosmic universe of our Heavenly Father every atom has its place, and is inter-related with every other atom. So, in our Relief Society, each member has her place and adds her strength to the whole organization. Rosannah C. Irvine
With joy I recall my visits to your Stakes. The cordiality, the sincerity and the love of our Relief Society workers has ever been an inspiration to me. May heaven's choicest blessings always be yours. Nettie D. Bradford
TO all members of the Woman's Relief Society on this the ninetythird birthday of its organization, Greetings: I cherish the most pleasant memories of all you whom I have contacted and hope to meet you all again and many more of my loyal coworkers during this coming season's activities. Elise B. Alder
MAY Relief Society women be blessed by ever keeping in mind that loving His children is the way to love God. Inez K. Allen
OUR earthlife is significant. Opportunities are daily afforded us for service and improvement. Our Relief Society is a medium of education for women. It is our great opportunity! I sincerely appreciate our great organization. Ida Peterson Beal
WE all have spiritual hungers—for selfexpression, for the EDITORIAL beautiful, for friendship, for the gospel message of hope and peace. I am very grateful for my membership in an organization which satisfies these longings. Kate M. Barker
TO all my Relief Society Sisters—love and appreciation. With John Greenleaf Whittier in The Eternal Goodness, may I say— "O Friends! With whom my feet have trod The quiet aisles of prayer, Glad witness to your zeal for God And love of man I bear." Marcia K. Howells
I AM grateful for the opportunity Relief Society has been to me, for the friendships I have formed and for the noble women with whom I have associated. They have been an inspiration to 183 me. May we look forward in this great work with hope and courage. Hazel H. Greenwood
IN memory of the founders of this great Relief Society we send greetings to the officers whose untiring efforts direct the plans and most of all to the vast army of selfsacrificing, uncomplaining workers, who relieve the suffering, comfort the sorrowing, and cheer the despondent. Emeline Y. Nebeker
It is a blessed privilege to belong to and participate in the activities of the Relief Society. The growth received through service and class participation therein is continually transforming the members, so that they are constantly getting nearer and nearer the stature to which the Master desired them to attain. Mary C. Kimball
A Suggestion
ELDER OSMOND OLSEN, an ordinance worker in the Manti Temple, writes that on the day he and his wife were married, she presented him with a complete Temple suit which she had made herself. He has greatly treasured this because of his wife's thoughtfulness and the loving work she did for him. He says he so often hears people make the excuse that they would go to the Temple if they had clothes. He suggests that neighbors, friends and relatives could cooperate in overcoming this obstacle, and also see that transportation is provided for those who desire to go to the Temple.
"Fits of Wits"
JUDGE NEPHI JENSEN has collected many of his terse, clever sayings and a few of his poems and bound them into a volume called "Fits of Wits." It will be greatly enjoyed and read with much profit, for Judge Jensen's philosophy is worthy of thoughtful attention, and so tersely does he put his thought that one can get food for thought from a few words. Price 75c, Deseret Book Company.
Lesson Department (First Week in May)
Theology and Testimony
LESSON VIII
THE KIRTLAND TEMPLE
1. Early Revelations. Scarcely a year after the Church was organized, and when the membership was still very small, the Lord gave a revelation to Joseph Smith in which he made brief and indirect allusion to the existence of temples in the last days. Here is the statement: "I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God; wherefore, gird up your loins and I will suddenly come to my temple." (D. And C. 36:8.) The statement, although brief and indirect, was portentous of a practice that would later differentiate the Latterday Saints from all other Christian people. It is doubtful, however, that at that time the members of the Church, and likely even the Prophet himself, realized its significance.
2. At first thought it may appear strange that the Lord is under the necessity of revealing the truth a little at a time, that is "line upon line and precept upon precept." The fact, of course, is that if principles were revealed in their entirety at one time, the Saints would not be prepared to receive them. Moreover, the same condition holds in secular matters. Children at school, for example, are given only a limited amount of new material at any one time. Students of music, of physical education, of medicine—and of anything—necessarily approach their subjects in the same manner. Indeed, on every hand and in every form of activity, the human brain is limited in its assimilation of new material.
3. Two months later the Lord again alluded to the same matter as follows: "That my covenant people may be gathered in one in that day when I shall come to my temple," this time adding: "And this I do for the salvation of my people." (D. And C. 42:36.) Some four months later, in July of 1831, the Prophet arrived at Independence, Missouri, chiefly for the purpose of establishing a branch of the Saints in this locality. By that time he doubtless fully understood that the privilege and obligation of building a temple to the Lord rested upon his people, for in the language of the Prophets he was caused to exclaim: "When will the wilderness blossom as the rose? When will Zion be built up in her Glory, and where will Thy temple stand, unto which all nations shall come in the last days." (History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 189.) Almost immediately in reply the Lord said: "Behold, the place which is now called Independence is the center place; and a spot for the temple is lying westward, upon a lot which is not far from the courthouse.' (D. And C. 57:3.) A few days later, on the third of August, 1831, the Prophet in company with a small group of elders impressively dedicated the place to this sacred purpose. The structure has not been erected, but is held in contemplation by the Latterday Saints for some future time.
4. The Beginnings at Kirtland. In a revelation given at Kirtland, Ohio, LESSON DEPARTMENT December 27, 1832, the Lord directly commanded the establishment of a holy house. Here are his words: "Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God." (D. And C. 88:119.) For some reason, at least partially unknown, the Saints were slow to heed this command. Perhaps they did not understand its import; perhaps they were looking too steadfastly toward the "center place," or perhaps they were more interested in the promised rewards of the future than the stern realities of the present. At any rate, their delay brought forth a rebuke from the Lord in no uncertain terms, declaring that they had committed a grievous sin. He promised them, however, that if they kept his commandments they would still be successful. The Lord then gave the dimensions of the building and designated the purpose to which its various parts should be dedicated. (See D. And C., Sec. 95.)
5. Constructing the Temple. This had the effect of arousing the Saints to great activity. A building committee was appointed and a circular letter was sent to all branches of the Church, requesting the members to assist in the immediate fulfillment of the Lord's command. Some six weeks later, July 23, 1833, "The corner stones of the Lord's House were laid in Kirtland, after the order of the Holy Priesthood." It is interesting to note that on this very date the Saints in Missouri received notice from a lawless mob calling for their expulsion from that state. Work on the Kirtland temple, however, continued without interruption, although at times somewhat slowly, because of the extreme poverty of the Saints. 185
6. The Saints were perhaps never more fully united in a common purpose. "With very little capital except brain, bone, and sinew, combined with unwavering trust in God, men, women, and even children, worked with their might. While the brethren labored in their departments, the sisters were actively engaged in boarding and clothing workmen not otherwise provided for—all living as abstemiously as possible, so that every cent might be appropriated to the grand object, while their energies were stimulated by the prospect of participating in the blessing of a house, built by the direction of the Most High, and accepted by him." (Eliza R. Snow.)
7. Slightly less than two years after the construction of the temple began, a solemn assembly was held in Kirtland for "the purpose of blessing, in the name of the Lord, those who have heretofore assisted in building, by their labor and other means, The House of the Lord in this place." (Hist. Of the Church, Vol. II, p. 205.) The record then gives the names of more than a hundred who were blessed because of their valiant and efficient work in this connection.
8. For some time prior to the completion of the temple, parts of it were used for council meetings and other gatherings of the Priesthood. As early as January, 1836, a code of rules was formulated and adopted for use in the "House of the Lord at Kirtland." On the twentyfirst of the same month the First Presidency of the Church, together with Father Smith, met in the west room of the unfinished temple and engaged in solemn prayer. Father Smith was blessed by the First Presidency, after which, by virtue of his authority as Patriarch, he anointed and blessed them. After this was done several other officials of the 186 Church were invited into the room and given blessings. The Prophet relates that "The spirit of prophecy and revelation was poured out in mighty power; and loud hosannahs, and glory to God in the highest, saluted the heavens, for we all communed with the heavenly host." Certain details of these heavenly manifestations will be considered in a later part of this lesson.
9. Dedication of the Temple. The temple was dedicated on Sunday, March 27, 1836. The opening of the doors for the first session was set for eight o'clock in the morning. An hour before this time, however, throngs of people, from far and near, began to arrive. A capacity congregation of between nine and ten hundred were admitted, while many others were deprived from attending the service. The assembly was organized in solemn form, each of the divisions of the Priesthood being seated in its appointed place. The early part of the service was characterized by scripture reading, prayer, singing, and exhortation. The officers of the Church, also those of its various quorums, were duly accepted by a rising vote of all present. The dedicatory prayer, received by revelation, was then offered by the Prophet Joseph. (See D. And C., Sec. 109.) The congregation next sang the song which has since become a strong favorite among the Latterday Saints, namely, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." The proceedings were sealed by shouting "Hosannah, Hosannah, Hosannah to God and the Lamb," three times, sealing it each time with "Amen, Amen, and Amen."
10. Early Spiritual Manifestations. Brief mention has already been made of spiritual manifestation that occurred at a meeting in one of the rooms of the temple before its completion. It will be remembered that this was the occasion of a meeting attended by the First Presidency and the Patriarch. The Prophet RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE writes: "The heavens were opened unto us, and I beheld the celestial kingdom of God, and the glory thereof, whether in the body or out I cannot tell. I saw the transcendent beauty of the gate through which the heirs of that kingdom will enter, which was like unto circling flames of fire; also the blazing throne of God, whereupon were seated the Father and the Son. I saw the beautiful streets of that kingdom, which had the appearance of being paved with gold..... I saw the Twelve Apostles of the Lamb, who are now upon the earth, who hold the keys of this last ministry, in foreign lands, standing together in a circle, much fatigued, with their clothes tattered and feet swollen, with their eyes cast downward, and Jesus standing in their midst, and they did not behold him. The Savior looked upon them and wept." (Hist. Of the Church, Vol. II, pp. 3801.) This was by no means the full extent of what the Prophet saw, nor of those who were with him. Speaking of the latter, he says: "Angels ministered unto them as well as to myself, and the power of the Highest rested upon us, the house was filled with the glory of God, and we shouted Hosanna to God and the Lamb."
11. After the above manifestations were completed, the Prophet invited the High Councilors of Kirtland and Zion into the room. He says: "The visions were opened to them also. Some of them saw the face of the Savior, and others were ministered unto by holy angels." Thus, even before the temple was finished the Spirit of God was visited upon it in mighty abundance, not only as a manifestation to one individual but to many.
12. Manifestations following the LESSON DEPARTMENT Dedication. Here is the Prophet's record of spiritual manifestations that occurred at a meeting held in the evening of the day of the dedication, which, however, was attended by officers of the Church only: "Brother George A. Smith arose and began to prophesy, when a voice was heard like the sound of a rushing, mighty wind, which filled the Temple, and all the congregation simultaneously arose, being moved upon by an invisible power; many began to speak in tongues and prophesy; others saw glorious visions; and I beheld the Temple was filled with angels, which fact I declared to the congregation. The people of the neighborhood came running together (hearing an unusual sound within, and seeing a bright light like a pillar of fire resting upon the temple), and were astonished at what was taking place." (Hist. Of the Church, Vol. II, p. 428.) Thus not only those who were in attendance at the meeting witnessed the manifestations, but many others as well.
13. The next Sunday (April 3, 1836), following the eventful Sabbath upon which the Temple was dedicated, manifestations of even greater import were received. At the afternoon session the Sacrament was administered. When this had been done Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery retired to an appropriate stand, enclosed by curtains, and solemnly sought the Lord in prayer. They testify that the Lord Jesus Christ appeared unto them; and later Moses, Elias, and Elijah. (Read carefully D. And C., Sec. 110.) 187
The Kirtland Temple was built by the Latterday Saints at a time of extreme poverty. The consummation of the Lord's commandment was a supreme test of their faith. But they arose to the occasion and manifested a faith and devotion seldom equalled in the history of mankind. As a reward for their diligence and obedience, the Lord poured out his blessings upon them in rich abundance. Even the Savior himself, with concourses of the heavenly host, graced the temple by his presence. Although the temple remained in the possession of the Latterday Saints for only a short time, yet the blessings received within it will endure for eternity.
Suggestions for Discussion and Review
1. Make it very clear as to why revelations of the Lord are necessarily progressive?
2. What was happening to the Latterday Saints in Missouri at the time the temple was undergoing construction? Give details.
3. Why was the building of the temple a supreme test of Latterday Saint faith?
4. Enumerate the principal points in the dedicatory prayer.
5. Have some one give the origin of the song "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning," then have the class sing it.
6. Make a list of all the spiritual manifestations known to have taken place in the Kirtland temple.
Teachers' Topic
MOTHER'S DAY
LIKE other days of remembrance a special day has been set apart to remind us—lest we forget—of the one whose prayers, love, devotion and service have been the firm foundation on 188 which that fundamental institution, the home, has been built, and upon which today the stability of civilization depends. Although Mother's Day has, comparatively recently been designated as a holiday especially devoted to the honor of women generally, history reveals that the idea came from ancient times. Mother worship with its customs, rites and ceremonies dates back to pagan times. The worship of the "Mother of Gods" was used in Rome 250 years before Christ and was celebrated as a festival when the people brought offerings to the Temple. With the coming of Christ the festival was changed in spirit though it kept some of its old forms. It was there that the old celebration with pagan rites gave way to the one in honor of the "Mother Church" out of which grew the observance of "Mothering Sunday." This was the day allowed the children who were apprenticed out to visit their parents and take to them some little trinket or gift. Many beautiful stories of mothers in many countries, in olden and modern times, have been written which reveal their strong character and their patient devotion to their families and humanity. The story of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Francis Willard and her mother is such an one.
IN our modern time the idea of a special day for Mother originated with Anna Jarvis of Philadelphia, though in many places in Church gatherings it had been celebrated at various times. A proclamation by the President of the United States, Woodrow Wilson, in 1914, designated the second Sunday in May as Mother's Day, to be observed by displaying the American flag and other appropriate exercises, as a public expression of our love and reverence for the mothers of our country. To Latterday Saint Mothers this day has a deeper significance. Appropriately set on Sunday, it is enriched by its association with the Divine, as they believe in their Heavenly Mother as in a Divine Father. While we pay homage to those mothers whose long lives are full of joy and happiness with their family and friends, let us not forget those whose lives have been cut short by the ravages of disease, which might have been prevented through a little greater effort on our part. May this beautiful custom of honoring Motherhood never die, but take on a deeper meaning as the years come and go.
Literature (For Third Week in May)
LIFE AND LITERATURE
What Every Woman Knows
She had an understanding with the years; For always in her eyes there was a light As though she kept a secret none might guess— Some confidence that time had made her heart. So calmly did she bear the weight of pain, With such serenity accept the joy, It seemed she had a mother love for life, And all the days were children at her breast. —A Woman.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
In pursuit of the Good, the True, and the Beautiful, is rightly said to be Man's highest task. Side by side through the ages Woman has aided Man in his task. The measure of civilization lies in the opportunities provided for Woman to attain her highest development. Man seeks achievement by power, woman seeks accomplishment by influence. Intelligence, courage, and perseverance have directed her keen intuitions to aid Man. The highest ideal of which both Man and Woman are capable is that by intellectual and moral interdependence, reciprocity and companionship each individual attains Happiness. Many pages in "The Book of Literature" record Woman's place in the world, in every department of development, in science, in art, in literature, in education, and in philanthropy. There are also many pages recorded of her own expression, a mirror of her heart and mind.
Woman, The Adventurer
Of woman, her heart and mind. Many songs have been sung and many stories told. A mystic light veils from our sight Eve as the mother of men and Mary as the mother of Jesus, but they are the most reverenced of womanhood. In each woman's heart there is an understanding of the motherlove of Rebecca and Andromache, an exultant pride at the valiance of Deborah and Florence Nightingale, a human sympathy for the erring of Guinivere, and always a poignant sorrow for the Giacondas of every age. When Antigone (an tig'o ne) of Sophocles defied Creon and gave her brother burial so that immortality might not be denied him she gave the world a pattern of ideal womanhood—a defender of eternal law. A great host of women are our 189 literary companions inspiring, challenging, and comforting all womankind. To James M. Barrie, contemporary author, woman owes a most understanding and tender portrayal. Sir James Matthew Barrie who once belonged to Scotland now belongs to the world. This master of two arts, fiction and drama, is held in affectionate regard by Englishspeaking people, readers and playgoers alike. The son of Margaret Ogilvy was born in the little town of Kirreimuir, ninety miles from Edinburgh in 1869. The father, honest David Barrie, was then in his fortysixth year. On the day of James' birth Margaret Ogilvy Barrie got her first set of hairbottomed chairs for which she had long been saving up her sixpences. The boy who played as other boys over braes and downs, a little more shyly than the other laddies, was no genius child. He did, however, earn a reputation of a storyteller at the village school, a tiny seminary kept by two maiden ladies. Glasgow, Forfar, and Dumfries were the scenes of Barrie's education. The young scholar turned eagerly to literature finding romance in that which lay near at hand. A day came when Barrie's sister saw an advertisement for a feature writer in an English provincial paper that had strayed up north. Proving the successful applicant J. M. Barrie joined the staff of the Nottingham Journal in 1883. One by one the "Auld Licht Idylls," glimpses of the old minister, the postmistress, and the villagers of Kirriemuir, were written. Robert Louis Stevenson, enthusiastic over the work, encouraged Barrie to continue writing. "A Window in Thrums" another picture of the village soon followed. "The Little Minister" with the lovable Gavin Dishart and Lady Babbie, established Barrie's reputation as a 190 novelist. The sentiment, humor and pathos of the idylls and sketches were strange new qualities to the readers of English fiction, but the distinctive charm of the playfulness of the author won general acclaim. Established now in London, Barrie was still a "homekeeping chimney corner laddie" thinking always of the mother who watched and waited in Scotland as the new author took his rank in contemporary letters as a writer of genius. Urged by Sir Henry Irving, England's noted actor producer, Barrie dramatized "The Little Minister." For the production of the play in the United States, the author visited New York. Then started the friendship with Charles Frohman, the most gifted and famous theatrical producer that America has known. Utah's own Maude Adams, the beloved American actress, as Lady Babbie, began her role as a Barrie character, for the author in his appreciation of her stated: "I love to write for her and see her, in my work." The dramatic activity of Barrie thus successfully began, continued bringing to the theatre many delightful plays, chief among them being "Quality Street," "AliceSitbythe-Fire," "The Admirable Crichton," "Peter Pan," "What Every Woman Knows," "A Kiss for Cinderella," and "Dear Brutus." Barrie wrote plays to be produced conforming to no literary conventions. It has been well said that Barrie has more intuition into character than any other English playwright. There seems to be a spiritual intimacy in his work that accounts for its charm, his "Aprilweather" style, his fashion of combined sentiment and laughter. Because of this gift Barrie is particularly apt in his treatment of women and children. To his contemporaries Barrie, the man of genius, is a rare RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE creature—"a child who can express through an artistic medium the childishness that is in him." The hero of many years of popular acclaim, James M. Barrie is today the most unassuming little man you would meet in a day's walk. In 1913 the King of England bestowed knighthood upon him for his notable contribution to English life and letters. Another of his great days was his election to the rectorship of St. Andrews University, Scotland, and still another when he was made Chancellor of Edinburgh University in 1930. Known as the hermit of the Adelphi, where he lives, he is probably London's most contemplative pedestrian as he walks along the Strand unnoticed by many, yet known to the world as the finest embodiment of Scotland's national genius in our time.
Margaret Ogilvy, by her Son
In "Margaret Ogilvy" Barrie has raised a most enduring memorial to his mother. The work is not a biography in the accepted meaning of the word; it is not a tribute or a character sketch. In it the author has done more than draw a lovely picture of his mother's humble life, he tells us more about himself than about his mother as he reveals the motherlove which nurtured his genius. The beauty of the book lies in the fact that it is the intimate life of a woman whose life might have been found in thousands of Scottish homes of the period. We perceive from Barrie's work that years of narrow means marked his mother's early years. The joy at the acquisition of a set of chairs is a landmark in the family history. Death came often to the Barrie home, leaving its mark of ill health upon the wee mother. Few incidents of importance are recorded in the lifestory, rather do we note the different facets of the beautiful character of the woman who emerges from the pages of "Margaret Ogilvy." Of his mother's face Barrie says, "For when you looked into my mother's eyes you knew as if he had told you why God sent her into the world—it was to open the minds of all who looked to beautiful thoughts." During a serious illness, after the accidental death of her oldest son, Barrie's mother became very dear to James. To make her smile and forget her grief was his joyous task. Whistling, capers, stories were all employed, the record of the smiles being kept to show the doctor each morning. In the chapter "What I Should Be" we see the mother's anxiety over her son's education. His disposition to become a writer recreated much consternation. Picturing him lonely and hungry on a park bench made her son's early experiences in London a source of great worry to her. How eagerly she watched for criticisms of her son's work when fame came his way. A most human account in the story records Margaret Ogilvy's jealousy over Robert Louis Stevenson. This contemporary of her son seemed to dim his greatness. With most intricate plans Barrie tempted his mother to read "The Master of Ballantrae" of Stevenson to offset her jealousy. As a day in Margaret Ogilvy's life is outlined we see the unselfish service of her "maid of all work," her daughter, Jane Ann. Then comes the closing scene, wistfully the loving son is asked, "Am I an auld woman?" Gleefully as a boy the picture of a girl in a magenta dress with a white pinafore, carrying her father's dinner, the girl she used to be, is painted. The most treasured family heirloom is called for, the christening robe. It was brought to her. It seemed to bring 191 back the memories of motherhood. One by one the children were named as she held it tenderly in her arms. The "maid of all work" passed away before the mistress. The son's last task was to bury them together. Again of his mother's eyes the son declares, "They were never more my guide than when I helped to put her to earth, not whimpering because my mother had been taken after seventysix glorious years of life, but exulting in her even at the grave." Our interest in Margaret Ogilvy is heightened by her son's confession that she is the essential heroine of all his books, she has found her way into every character of a good woman, young or old, that he has created.
Peter Pan
Sir James M. Barrie's delightful creation, "Peter Pan," has by now a secure place in the hearts of children of all ages. "I'm youth, Eternal youth," cries the immortal boy, Peter at Playing "Peter Pan" a supreme achievement in imagination can be placed with "Alice in Wonderland," "Puck of Pook's Hill" and "The Blue Bird," "The Pied Piper," the rapture of childhood and the joy of all old age, William Lyon Phelps has written of "Peter Pan," "It is one of the most profound, original, and universal plays of our epoch." The text is now translated into nearly every modern language and produced in the theatres of almost every civilized country. A long line of talented actresses have played the role of the Boy Who Would Not Grow Up. But none with more elfin significance than Maude Adams, the idol of the American stage. The play is written about the echo of a mother's sigh for her children Ah, if you could only stay as you are. Not staying children but maintaining the spirit of youth—a quality of mind, not age—is the message. The play opens like a modern comedy—Mr. And Mrs. Darling are going out for the evening, so they step to the nursery to say goodnight to their children, Wendy, John, and Michael. Through the window the motherless Peter comes flying. The children are eager to follow Peter to fairyland. Off to the Never Never Land they go. The land is peopled by the world's lost children and fairies. The children are delighted with the fairies. Wendy becomes a mother to Peter. Pirates come to steal Wendy, but before she goes she makes Peter promise to take his medicine and wear his winter underwear. Tinker Bell, a faithful fairy companion, protects Peter from the Indians. There are many thrilling adventures and escapes. The children are finally taken back to the nursery, there to be greeted by their parents. Wendy wants her mother to adopt the lost children. Peter, however, decides that as he cannot consent to grow up, he must return to the Never Never Land. High in the tree tops he lives in the house made by Tinker Bell playing his pipes and waiting for the spring, because then Wendy will come to visit him. A statue of Peter Pan has been erected in Kensington Gardens as a gift to the children who visit there by the creator. The gift of Sir James Barrie came as a delightful surprise, set up by stealth in the night it was revealed to them on a Mayday morning. How fitting it is that the royalties from this classic of fairy tales amounting to some $10,000 annually, now go to the support of the Children's Hospital in London as a gift of the creator of Peter Pan. To young and old the message of Peter Pan comes "Except ye become as little children." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"What Every Woman Knows"
The story of Maggie Shand, a beautiful embodiment of motherwife, is the material of the drama. Maggie Wylie, a plain Scotch woman, is the subject of a strange betrothal contract. Her brothers anxious to see her mated, advance John Shand the money for his education with the provision that at the end of five years he is to marry Maggie if she is willing. Maggie knows her limitation, as a girl without charm which she explains, "Charm is the bloom upon a woman. If you have it you don't have to have anything else. If you haven't it, all else won't do you any good." Six years pass, John Shand's great hour has come. It is election night and he is running for parliament. Maggie, overdressed and plainer than ever, is awaiting the election returns. At the committee rooms. John, victorious, is accompanied to his headquarters by many friends. As Maggie watches some of the women she realizes more than ever her own lack of appeal. John, loyal to his contract, now offers to marry Maggie. Maggie would release John, but the brothers decide the issue by presenting their sister as the bride-to-be of John Shand. The play moves to London, some months later, John Shand has gained popularity through his speeches, the terse humor in them being known as "Shandism." At a committee meeting of women, John's speeches are the subject of discussion. Maggie protects from them the secret, she it is who writes the speeches. She explains herself later when suspected. "He loves to think he does it all himself, that's the way of men. ['m six years older than he is. I am plain and have no charm. I'm trying to make up for it." During the course of events John Shand succumbs to the wiles of an LESSON attractive woman. Maggie still plays her role in spite of the remonstrances of her brothers, "I'll save him if I can," she says as to her decision. It is decided not to jeopardize John's success by a separation. Plans are later made for John and Lady Sibyl to be house guests of a friend. John is selected to deliver an important speech for his party. Keen disappointment is evident when John meets with his colleagues to present his speech, it is inadequate and lacking fire. Ata critical moment Maggie arrives, she brings a speech— John left it in London is her explanation. John delivers the speech and the "Shandism" of it again assures his success. John is saved for Maggie. According to Charles Frohman's biographers '"What Every Woman Knows" was written expressly for Maude Adams. "It was a dramatization of the roguish humor and exquisite womanliness that are her peculiar gifts." The author himself justifies this statement by saying that he wrote the play because "'there was a Maude Adams in the world." The delightful comment of Maude Adams' appreciation of all that Barrie meant to her is found in her statement: "Whenever I act, I always feel that there is one unseen spectator, James M. Barrie." Maude Adams "From the eventful night at the Salt Lake Theatre, when nine months old Maude Adams was carried to the stage in "The Lost Child" up to her recent reappearance as Peter Pan, in whatever character she has been seen, it has been the player and not the play that has left the impression." A long list of DEPARTMENT 193 characters have fallen to her interpretation: Lady Babbie in "The Little Minister," the Duke in "L'Aiglon," Joan of Arc, Rosaling, Maggie Wylie, Phoebe T. Throisells, Chanticler, Peter Pan. As an actress Maude Adams hides behind her act. It would seem paradoxical to state that his exclusiveness has made her the best known actress on the American stage. Her frequent visits, professional and informal, to her birthplace, Salt Lake City, are marked by joy and appreciation. To this beloved public she made recently a valuable gift of paintings, another monument to her own spirit. The spirit of Maude Adams is the spirit of Peter Pan—joy and innocence, freshness of morning. The buoyant creative upbuilding energy of life that makes her cry, "I am youth, Eternal youth," is remembered by young and old wherever she has played. Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature, Macy. Margaret Ogilvy, Barrie. Peter Pan, Barrie. What Every Woman Knows, Barrie. B. Program: 1. Music: Appropriate to "Mother." 2. Review: a. Margaret Ogilvy. B. Peter Pan. 3. Reading: "What Every Woman Knows." C. Objective: This lesson has been planned for a "Mother's Day" program. GS) 194 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Social Service (For Fourth Week in May) Florence NIGHTINGALE IT is said that one time, not long after the Crimean war of 1854 55, some British naval and army officers met at 4 dinner in London. In the midst of the conversation, which of course was about war, to who, Crimea, would most probably be the thereupon wrote a name on a slip of paper. When the votes were counted, it was discovered that the men had put the Same name on al] the slips. It was the name of Florence Nightingale. At a time when the word "nurse" connoted to most minds not only ignorance and credulity, but also bad morals, Florence Nightingale turned it into a word fraught with tenderness, skill, deed, one of these very officials said that, when nature made Miss Nightingale a woman, great commander. Popular imagination," None of the women we have Studied thus far, great as they undoubtedly were, exceeded Florence Nightingale in ability and high character, and none ever attained the general popularity that she did. Preparatory Years. IF We are to understand the interest and the activities of the child, this in the case of both Octavia Hill and Jane Addams; it is the Wordsworthian adage that the "child is father to the man." This is especially true of the subject of this lesson.' Florence Nightingale was one of the social class known in England as “upper.” Her father, William Nightingale, was the owner of two large estates- Embly Park, in Hampshire, and Lea Hurst, in Derbyshire. Besides, there were Mayfair rooms in London during the fashionable season, with its gay parties. Florence was born in Italy, in 1820, while her parents were on an extended visit to the Continent, ame sort of domestic life that millions of other English women had But Miss Nightingale had other plans for herself, married, and never seems to have Wanted to marry. LESSON DEPARTMENT Always her nature and disposition inclined toward tenderness where suffering was concerned. Even in imagination she was so. For the dolls with which she and her sister played were forever ailing and needed the care of the healer. In this respect she differed greatly from her sister. What injury the latter inflicted on the dolls, in broken legs, scarred faces, and bruised hands and arms, the former instantly and tenderly repaired. That at least is the tradition concerning her. And then, too, when she got a little older and was over the doll period, she used to visit the farm-folk in the neighborhood, especially the sick and those who suffered in any way, for the purpose of seeing if she could be of any use to them. Even ill-treated animals, particularly such as had been hurt in any manner, received protection and benefit from her solicitude for the unfortunate. A story is told to the effect that she once saved the life of a farmer's dog, who had been injured in an accident, who was to be shot as of no further use, but whom she nursed back to usefulness through knowing how to mend a broken leg. Thus many a home around Embly Park came both to know and to love the young healer. From the time she reached womanhood till she was thirty-three years old Florence Nightingale lived a desperately dual life. Outwardly she was a society belle. She danced,-she went to dinner parties, she went abroad frequently with her parents and sister and attended no end of Italian operas, and she might have had her pick of the desirable young gentlemen in her circle, for she was both beautiful and engaging. Once indeed she thought seriously of marrying one of them, but only once, it seems. "I have an intellectual nature and a passional nature," she says, in a passage which 195 we are abridging, "which requires satisfaction and which would find it in him, and I have a moral and active nature which I would not find in him. And sometimes I think that I will satisfy my passional nature at all events." But she did not. Inwardly, however, she was burning up with a desire to satisfy what she called her moral and active nature. Of this she writes: "The thoughts and feelings that I have now I can remember since I was six years old. A profession, a trade, a necessary occupation, something to fill and employ all my faculties, I have always felt essential to me, I have always longed for. The first thought I can remember, and the last, was nursing work; and in the absence of this, education work, but more the education of the bad than of the young. Everything has been tried, foreign travel, kind friends, everything. My God! What is to become of me?" The obstacle in her way was her parents' prejudice against nursing. It was as if she had wanted to do the most menial labor. In the midst of her distress she came to think that God was punishing her for her sins. 'No one," she said at this time, "has so grieved the Holy Spirit.' And she prayed to be delivered from vanity and hypocrisy, and she could not bear to smile, "because she hated God to hear her laugh, as if she had not repented of her sin,' whatever it was. She "saw nothing desirable but death." When at length she became superintendent of a charitable nursing home and gained thus her independence, her mother almost wept. "We ducks," she said, "have hatched a wild swan." But, as one of Florence's biographers notes, it was an eagle they had hatched! Meantime, Miss Nightingale had prepared herself for what she must 196 have known in her heart was coming. "She devoured the reports of medical commissions, the parnphlets of sanitary authorities, the histories of hospitals and homes. She spent the intervals of the London season in ragged schools and workhouses. When she went abroad with her family, she used her spare time so well that there was hardly a great hospital in Europe with which she was not acquainted, hardly a great city whose slums she had not passed through. Then, while her mother and sister were taking the waters at Carlsbad, she succeeded in slipping off to a nursing institution at Kaiserswerth, where she remained for more than three months.” 2. The Lady with a Lamp. It was the breaking out of war— the Crimean War—that gave her the opportunity she sought and at the same time showed her enormous capacity for such work. The Crimean War arose over an attempt by Russia to establish a protectorate over Greece, and was fought between Russia, on the one side, and Turkey, France, Great Britain, and Sardinia, on the other side. A fortunate combination of circumstances brought Miss Nightingale into the picture. In the first place, she was prepared for her work by study and by experience. This we have already seen. If the war had come some years earlier, she would not have been ready; if it had come a few years later, she might have been committed to work elsewhere, and not been able to give it up. And then, in the second place, Sidney Herbert, a close friend of the Nightingales, was at the war office in the cabinet. As a matter of fact, a letter from him inviting her to go to the seat of war and one from Eminent Victorians (Strachey), Florence Nightingale. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her to him offering her services passed each other in the mail. At Scutari, the place to which the wounded were sent, she found a veritable inferno. There were four miles of beds, but not enough to supply the needs, and these were so close together that one could hardly pass between them. Underneath were the shallow sewers, whose filthy breath rose into the rooms. The floors were so rotten that they could not be scrubbed. There was no ventilation whatever. Said Miss Nightingale, "I have been well acquainted with the dwellings of the worst parts of the great cities of Europe, but have never been in any atmosphere which I could compare with that of the Barrack Hospital at night." The sheets were of canvas; there were no basins, towels, soap, brooms, mops, trays, plates, no knives or forks or spoons, no scissors, splints, or bandages. And of course there were no nurses before Miss Nightingale came. Of the altogether too few doctors the leading ones were too old to see what improvements could be made. Laundry facilities were all but nil, and the food was inadequate both in quantity and quality. To make matters worse, it took two or three weeks to bring the wounded from the battlefield to the hospital, and seventy-two out of every thousand died in transit. If the British officials thought of Florence Nightingale as a nurse merely, they had reckoned without their host. She was much more than a nurse. Prior to embarking she was told that there were supplies enough at Scutari, but, whether she distrusted her informants or was unwilling to take any chances in a matter so important, she took with her great quantities of whatever she thought she would need. Also she carried about $35,000, which had LESSON been contributed by friends of the army, and this was considerably increased by a fund collected by the London Times. Opposed by some of those who were her official supervisors at Scutari, she went over their heads and practically forced decisions in her favor from the central war office in London. The amount of red tape she encountered was interminable, not to say irritating, to a woman of her temperament, but she cut it whenever it was necessary. Once, when the commissary refused to let her unpack some supplies that were greatly needed, because he had not received any orders to do so, she herself ordered them unpacked, while that official stood by wringing his hands in agony. On another occasion, when five hundred new beds were needed, she hired two hundred men to build an addition to the Barrack Hospital, and paid them out of her private funds. It was not long, therefore, before she was in complete charge there, with no one to say her nay. Her authority once established among the grumbling under officials and doctors, she set to work at the huge task of caring for the wounded. In a Turkish house she had laundry boilers installed. Soldiers' wives were put to work at the tubs. And so, for the first time, the sick men had clean things to wear and to sleep in. In addition they enjoyed the luxury of towels, soap, knives and forks, combs and toothbrushes. Next she saw to it that their food was nourishing, properly cooked, and served regularly, with such extra delicacies as soups, wines, and jellies. Similarly she provided the men with clothing and other essentials, for their kits had mostly been lost in the shuffle of events, and then, as she wrote to Herbert, she was practically "clothing the British army." The expenses, for the most part, were DEPARTMENT 197 met from her own fund and that furnished by the Times. Indeed, in her own words also, she looked on the business of nursing as "the least important of the functions into which I have been forced." The effect of all this is expressed by Strachey, in the following passage from his Eminent Victorians: "To those who watched her work among the sick, moving day and night from bed to bed, with that unflinching courage, with that indefatigable vigilance, it seemed as if the concentrated force of an undivided and unparalleled devotion could hardly suffice for that portion of her task alone. Wherever, in those vast wards, suffering was at its worst and the need for help was greatest, there, as if by magic, was Miss Nightingale. Her superhuman equanimity would, at the moment of some ghastly operation, nerve the victim to endure and almost to hope. Her sympathy would assuage the pangs of dying and bring back to those still living something of the forgotten charm of life. Over and over again her untiring efforts rescued those whom the surgeons had abandoned as beyond the possibility of cure. "Her mere presence brought with it a strange influence. A passionate idolatry spread among the men: they kissed her shadow as it passed. They did more. 'Before she came,' said a soldier, 'there was cussin' and swearin', but after that it was as 'oly as a church.' The most cherished privilege of the fighting man was abandoned for the sake of Miss Nightingale. In those 'lowest sinks of human misery,' as she herself put it, she never heard the use of one expression 'which could distress a gentlewoman.' " If, however, Miss Nightingale was all gentleness to the sick and helpless, she was something very different to those around her who were well. Here, too, she lived two lives. For, beneath the calm exterior of the woman who, dressed plainly and unassumingly, went about among the mules and miles of beds, comforting and consoling, there were all the signs of power, quick decision, the hard executive. Her voice, as one says, "had that in it one must fain call master." She never raised her voice; always she spoke softly, even when she commanded. "The thing just can't be done, Miss Nightingale," a doctor told her once. And she answered quietly, very quietly, "It must be done." And it was done. Her authority was altogether irresistible. In the end, however, Miss Nightingale's health broke. But not her spirit. When the fever rose to a point where she was unable to move, she wrote letters till her mind left her. Once her life was despaired of. But she recovered. Her indomitable will saved her. On recovering, she was importuned to return to England, but she would not do so, she said, as long as there was a sick or wounded soldier left in the Barrack Hospital. And she did not. It was not, however, till four months after the declaration of peace that she embarked for home. In England her reputation passed all bounds—thanks to the letters of the soldiers, the reports in the Times, and the official correspondence. On her arrival in England she was presented by the Queen with a brooch and a letter. The brooch bore a St. George's cross in red enamel and a Royal cipher, surmounted by diamonds, with the inscription, "Blessed are the merciful." And the letter contained the phrase that her Majesty hoped "to make the acquaintance of one who had set so bright an example to our sex." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
3. She Reforms the Army. Miss Nightingale's spectacular work at Scutari alone would have made her continuously famous. But in her own eyes it was but a springboard from which she was to leap to much greater usefulness. Scutari had only given her experience, knowledge, power, which she must now employ so as to bring about reforms in the army. Not only she, but others, saw this. "Such a head!" the Prince Consort set down in his diary after her visit to Balmoral, "I wish we had her at the War Office." She had, during her visit, gone into "all the defects of our present military hospital system and the reforms that are needed." Two things hindered. One was her health. Two years at Scutari had undermined her nervous system, so that, during the forty-five years that remained to her (she died in 1910), she did her work often from a sick bed—reading bulky reports, dictating long letters, receiving visitors, high and low. And then there were the War Office officials, particularly the indecisive Lord Panmure, commonly known as the Bison, with others there, who spent their time resisting reforms. But she had her compensations, too. There was her immense popularity; there was her easy access to the Queen; and there was her own position among the upper class, which gave her access to peers and the nobility. Moreover, Sidney Herbert was her devotee and friend—as long as he was in office. It was a contest—who would win? First of all, she wanted a Royal Commission appointed, to inquire into the health of the army. To attain this object, however, three steps would have to be taken. The commission would have to be authorized, then the right kind of men would have to be appointed on it, LESSON and finally its powers would have to be defined in such a way as to favor reform. But this meant three distinct battles with the minister of war—Lord Panmure. These stretched out over six months each. But in the end Miss Nightingale had her way. She practically dictated not only the members on the Commission and defined their powers, but she decided what the Commission should say in its Report and what it should not say. However, through Sidney Herbert, who wrote the report, through infinite tact and her knowledge of the minister of war was abnormally publicity, and she had an eight-hundred-page report of her findings as to the health of the army and the need for reform, which knew this, and was taking nothing for granted in the situation. From now on, therefore, all her knowledge, of course, with the change of government Lord Panmure was forced DEPARTMENT 199 out of office. This left the way clear for all the reforms which she had barracks and the hospitals were remodelled, being properly and ventilated for the Coffee-rooms, rooms, gymnasiums, and workshops were established. The government, in which all these things happened, marked an epoch in the history of the English army, as a reformer she says: She laid the foundations "of the whole modern system of medical work in the army," and "saw her beginning to bring her knowledge, her influence, and her activity into the service of the country at large. On hospitals the theory of hospital construction Nurses Thomas' Hospital (1860), she became the founder of modern nursing.
Class Discussion
1. What hospital facilities have those unable to pay? Is this adequate for the need? Do nursing service? Sufficient nurses? Are school nurses employed in your education system? At were the outstanding 200 characteristics of Florence Nightingale? In what way did her work pioneer the way for the Red Cross? Discuss some particulars of the Red RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Cross work that are similar to what she did. 3. Read A Lady with a Lamp or Philomenia, by Longfellow.
Mission Lessons
LESSON VIII. HEALTH AND HOME NURSING
HEALTH HABITS
"Knowing what to do to keep well is the very best kind of knowledge."
MAN has been described as a bundle of habits. From birth a child reacts favorably toward the simplest habits of sleeping, eating and elimination. The rising hour, the daily bath, the number of hours of sleep, the care of the teeth, etc., may be referred to as our health habits. These habits should be properly established early in life, for they have a great deal to do with health, and later on, even enter into the formation of personality. The process of growing up is but a repetition of acts, or habits, which may make or mar our lives. The ability to make friends and the simple reaction to the various problems of life are partly the result of habit. "Health is the ability to stay well." It is so vital and necessary for a successful life, that the formation of important health habits should begin early. If a child can acquire proper habits of eating, and sleeping; of elimination and of obedience to parents, his later life need give very little concern. Bad habits acquired in early childhood are great handicaps in the race of life. Tantrums—which may be defined as sudden and violent outbursts of anger, not properly controlled, may continue through life, to the detriment of the individual. Boys who acquire the tobacco habit early are rarely able to overcome it when they become men. Tobacco is a poison which undermines the will and makes the nerves unsteady and unreliable. Tobacco robs the muscles of strength, it weakens the heart, and hurts the character. Under no condition should children be permitted the use of tea and coffee. We find adults suffering from certain nervous disorders because as children they were allowed to use these beverages. An ounce of tea leaves may contain as much as twenty grains of poison, and this, if given in one dose, would poison a child. Pure water and good milk are the best and safest drinks. The emotions of fear, of jealousy, of destructiveness, and of anger must early be controlled. These have not only a weakening effect upon the character of the child, but they are very harmful to his physical well-being. The successful and happy life of the adult depends largely upon the daily hygiene of the child—hikes, play, exercise, food, study and cleanliness. The person who is unhappy, and in poor health, may be the one who has failed to acquire good health habits.
TEETH
The care of the teeth really begins with the mother before the child is born. Proper food during pregnancy will add much to the structure of good teeth—which are so necessary to health in later life. It is important for the expectant mother to eat vegetable soups, eggs, fish and chicken. It is better that she avoid pork and veal. An abundance of vegetables, both raw and cooked, LESSON DEPARTMENT will be very helpful to the baby's teeth. Cooked fruits may be taken, but fresh fruits are preferable. When a child is late in cutting teeth, it usually means the diet of the child is deficient, and it is necessary to consult a doctor. Some form of cod liver oil is very beneficial to the growing child because it furnishes some of the vitamins that are not found in the average diet. The brushing of the teeth at least twice daily is a health habit that should be established early in life. Such a habit will pay big dividends all through life. Cleanliness prevents decay and decay destroys teeth. Baby teeth should never be allowed to rapidly decay. The child should be taken to a dentist and his teeth filled before teeth begin to ache. An aching tooth tells a story of neglect. Some hard foods, such as raw vegetables should be eaten daily for the sake of the teeth. It is well to remember that milk, eggs and green vegetables are the types of food necessary to prevent the early decay of teeth. The old saying, "good teeth, good health," still rings true. Personal beauty is very much enhanced by the possession of a mouth full of good, clean teeth. The mouth should be cleaned of old roots. Decayed teeth are detrimental both to a sweet breath and to health. Headaches, neuralgia, rheumatism and even heart disease, have been traced to bad teeth. In all cases of chronic illness it is well to have the teeth X-rayed. Small abscesses and pus pockets found at the roots of bad teeth may have much to do with the cause of disease.
BATHING
A daily bath is not essential to health but it is a fine adjunct. There are whole races of people who never bathe. To people living in temperate and hot countries a daily bath is both refreshing and healthful. 201 The skin is one of the organs of elimination. It helps get rid of bodily poisons in much the same manner as our lungs and kidneys do. Bathing stimulates the action of the skin and increases its power to throw off poisons. A cleansing bath with hot water and soap is very necessary at least twice a week, to assist the skin in this process. Warm baths are sedative and are often used in hospitals to quiet excitability and the delirium of very nervous patients. A hot or a cold bath is often stimulating to body activities. A daily cold tub, while enjoyed by many, is not to be recommended for everyone, because of its sudden shock to the circulatory system. A valuable substitute, in the absence of water, is the so called air bath. Expose the body to the air and rub the skin vigorously with a rough towel. Such an air bath is quite stimulating and is a fair substitute if water is not available. Washing the hands always just before eating is a very important health habit. It is a common habit with most adults, but to a child it is a task, and only constant repetition can make the task lighter, until eventually it will be impossible for him to eat without washing. It must be remembered that about ninety per cent of all infections taken into the body enter by way of the mouth. It is very important that children acquire this habit of washing their hands before eating, and that they be constantly reminded that hands, pencils, and other objects should be kept away from the mouth.
SLEEP
Certain machines, such as engines and motor cars can keep going all day long without stopping for rest. Human beings cannot do this, and it is unwise to attempt it. Muscles become so tired that they will refuse to go on working. Long and continued effort, without proper rest, generates in our bodies certain poisons, or toxins, which are known as fatigue poisons. Rest is just as necessary as proper food to keep tempers and bodies in good order. When an animal is kept awake for a long time without rest it dies just as surely and sometimes as quickly as from starvation. Many people are suffering from sleep hunger. The number of hours of sleep required for good health varies with the age and with the occupation of the individual. Most children require from ten to twelve hours each day. It has been generally accepted that adults should have eight hours sleep, but in this fast moving age, many people need more, to renew their energy. Insufficient sleep is one of the causes of malnutrition as well as of nervousness and irritability. Ability to sleep is largely a matter of habit. It is desirable that the bedroom be quiet, that the windows be kept wide open and that an abundance of circulating fresh air be in sleeping rooms. To those who are troubled with insomnia, remember that a regular hour for retiring, a warm bath, a quiet room, a drink of hot milk, and a happy and contented state of mind, are simple measures conducive to restful sleep.
SUNLIGHT
It is only in recent years that science has recognized the value of sunlight as a cure for disease and as a very effective measure to keep people well. For hundreds of years, the plants have been making use of the sun's rays to build up their structures. But only recently has man come to realize the value of sunlight as a health measure. We know that direct sunlight will cure rickets. We know that the use of the sun's rays in the treatment of tuberculosis is most beneficial. We know that daily exposure of the body to the sun 202 importance of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE will enrich the blood by increasing its phosphorus, calcium and iron. We know that these minerals are essential to proper health. Growing babies require sunlight, as well as adults, and a five minute exposure to the sunlight twice daily for a growing baby has been found very healthful. Sunlight is death to germs. Many germs cannot stand the sun's rays even for one hour. Natural sunlight is most desirable to keep our homes free from disease germs and as a curative agent for many diseases. During the long winter months artificial sun baths may now be taken under Quartz Lamps. The ultra violet light obtained from such lamp is very beneficial, especially to the health of growing children. We cannot stress too much the importance of proper foods for growing children. "The child of today is the man of tomorrow," is an old phrase, but nevertheless true. The malnourished child is underweight, has dark circles beneath his eyes, is listless in school and is apt to be very irritable. By following the rules of health, and by forming proper food habits, such a child improves rapidly, both physically and mentally. A poorly nourished child is more susceptible to disease than a well nourished one. The responsibility that rests with parents in assisting the child to establish the proper food habits, is very great indeed. If mothers and fathers are meeting this responsibility properly along with the others, their children will develop into men and women whom they may well be proud of. We submit the following suggestions for the purpose of establishing proper food habits in children: First—"Meals should be regular." Second—"Persuasion, rather than command, should be used in getting children to eat what they profess to dislike." Third—"The child should not be LESSON DEPARTMENT 203 forced to eat when not hungry." Fourth—"Plenty of water should be given." Fifth—"Cleanliness is essential." Sixth—"Plenty of time should be allowed for meals." Seventh—"The child should be in a happy state of mind at meal time." Eighth—"A variety of food is required to furnish the needs of growing children." We suggest the following foods in the order of their importance: Milk, at least a pint a day and as much more as possible should be the first article in the diet of every child. If the child refuses milk, give him his share in the form of custards, milk soups, cream dishes, etc. Eggs, fish and meat are necessary foods in the diet of every child. Cereals and flours should make up at least one-third of the diet of the child. Cereals must be well cooked to make the starches more digestible. Vegetables are also an important factor in the diet of a child. All vegetables are good, but green vegetables are particularly rich in iron and vitamins. A child should have some fruit in its diet daily, and where it is impossible to obtain fresh fruit, dried fruits may be used. Children should never be given sweets between meals. They spoil the appetite and have a tendency to produce early decay of the teeth. The diets of children are very important because they produce to a great extent health habits which make or mar the lives later on. "The development and preservation of a strong and vigorous body does call for a certain amount of diligent and persistent application in the way of time and effort. But routine daily exercise, intelligent care in choosing one's food, and the observation of moderation in all life's habits—all these are admittedly justified by the joy of possessing abundant health and vitality."
Eyes! Defective vision. Us for complete information. Fine New Almost every child has good eyes, yet by the time he is mature, sixty chances out of a hundred are that he'll suffer Save your children's eyesight by giving them correct home lighting. It costs so little. Phone ELECTRICITY IS THE BIGGEST BARGAIN IN THE HOME UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
We can save you money on GOOD CHICKS. Live delivery guaranteed. Get our replacement offer on chicks that do not live. All kinds CHICKS—DUCKS—TURKEYS—SEX CHICKS. Place Your Order Now for Future Delivery and Be Safe. WE CARRY PIONEER AA—AAA CHICKS Purity Seeds VOGELER'S Purity Seeds "Best by Test" still lead. These seeds are from the best seed growers in all parts of the world, where the conditions are best for the production of each kind of seed. Place Your Orders Now. PET FOODS We carry a complete line of National advertised foods. also bowls and stands. VOGELERS 50 West 1st South—Wasatch 804 GOLD FISH We carry a fine grade of fish;
TEMPLE BRAND GARMENTS Of superior quality and workmanship manufactured for the SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE And sold at prices defying competition. Remember we Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. When ordering from us
No. FOR LADIES 703 Flat Weave Spring Needle........$.98 736 Fine Quality Cotton Lt. Wt. 75 719 Ribbed Light Weight.................... 1.10 792 Fine Quality Cotton Lisle.......... 1.25 713 Light Weight Silk and Lisle...... 1.00 750 Non-Run Rayon......................-..... 1.00 762 Non-Run Rayon......................... 1.25 735 Light Weight Cotton Ribbed.......89 714 Medium Weight Cotton.............. 1.25
No. FOR MEN 662 Men's Non-Run Rayon...............$1.25 646 Fine Combed Cotton Lt. Wt......75 610 Ribbed Light Wt. Spring Needle 1.10 602 Extra Fine Quality Lisle............ 1.25 614 Med. Wt. Ex. Quality ............... 1.25 660 Silk, Wool, Cotton, Med. Wt..... 1.95 664 Med. Hvy. Wt. Cot. Double Back 1.65 601 Med. Weight New Style Only.... 1.25 680 Heavy Wt. Cotton unbleached.... 1.95
Garments Marked Upon Request. Prices Subject to Change Without Notice. 10c for Cotton—Silk 15c 20% Extra Charge for Sizes Over 46 Do not fail to specify New or Old Style and if for Man or Woman. Also state if long or short sleeve, short or long legs are wanted. Height and Weight. Give accurate Bust Measurements, Samples Sent Upon Request.
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 42 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah—OLDEST KNITTING STORE IN UTAH Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY 29 Bishop's Building Open Daily—9 a. m. To 5 p. m. Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3286
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Positions are more plentiful— BUT— The day of self-made men is past. Real opportunities are coming only to those who are prepared. PARENTS: Is your son or your daughter idly waiting for "better times"? That idleness is dangerous! Investigate the training that is offered in your school. Write for the booklet, "Planning Your Future," or visit the school while it is in session. EVERY DAY IS REGISTRATION DAY L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City (A Department of the L. D. S. College) 70 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah Wasatch 1812
Now is the Time to gather together your last year's issues of the Relief Society Magazine and preserve permanently the valuable material they contain by having us bind them durably and attractively in black gold-stamped cloth. Price $1.50 per volume Special rates for quantities
The Deseret News Press PIONEER BINDERS, PRINTERS, RULERS MUSIC PRINTERS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
YES! IMPRESSIONS LEFT BEHIND Though our Daddy has gone. He provides for us still, For He thought of a way and it gives us a thrill, Each month Uncle Sam as sure as can be Brings a check from the Big Home Company. We sure love our Daddy for being so wise, Assuring our future the rest of our lives. Play Square With Your Family—Put Them On The Safe Side A Beneficial Life Representative Will Gladly Give You Particulars On The Contract Best Suited To Your Need—Also Facts Convincing You That IF IT'S A BENEFICIAL POLICY IT'S THE BEST INSURANCE YOU CAN BUY
HOME OFFICE SALT LAKE CITY J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT AXEL B. C. OHLSON, SECRETARY DAVID O. MCKAY, SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT LEO E. PENROSE, ASSISTANT SECRETARY JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH, DIRECTOR ORVAL W. ADAMS, DIRECTOR E. T. RALPHS, DIRECTOR STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN, DIRECTOR HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT GEORGE J. CANNON, EXECUTIVE VICE-PRESIDENT
The RELIEF SOCIETY WE HEARTILY RECOMMEND KNIGHT ROYAL Spring Canyon Coal ROYAL COAL Hot Clean These coals maintain clean, cheery warm homes at lowest cost. ASK YOUR FRIEND THE COAL DEALER KNIGHT FUEL CO., ROYAL COAL COMPANY General Offices—8th Floor Newhouse Building—Salt Lake City, Utah Leonard E. Adams, General Sales Agent
For HOME-MAKERS Any FULLER Paint Dealer will be pleased to supply you with helpful plans and suggestions on decorating your home with paints, stains and enamels. Use Fuller products and Fuller color harmonies for lasting protection and beauty... Inside your home and out! PAINT WALLPAPER GLASS W. P. FULLER & CO. SALT LAKE CITY AND OGDEN FULLER DEALERS EVERYWHERE
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine.
Clean, Hard—Burns Longer Quick-starting—Utah's Particular Coal A complete laundry service for every SHIRTS Cash and Carry at our Offices Laundry 16 So. Main 24 East 2nd So. 624 So. State Telephones Wasatch 2624—2625
Good Business! The thousands of intermountain motorists who use Pep 88 gasoline and Vico motor oil, make possible the operation and growth of one of the west's largest industrial enterprises—-make possible the employment, directly or indirectly, of several thousand local people. It is always good business to encourage and support local industry. We appreciate the patronage of so many motorists, and we shall strive always to produce the finest gasoline and oil that can be made.
Vico MOTOR OIL UTAH OIL REFINING CO. 400 Service Stations in Utah and Idaho.
BLUE BLAZE the coal that is Dependable and Economical BLUE BLAZE COAL CO. 1111 Walker Bank Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Royal home and pocketbook
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints
Vol. XXII APRIL, 1935 No. 4
CONTENTS
"The Groves Were God's First Temples"............Frontispiece April.........................................Bryce W. Anderson 205 An Orchid Root................................Lorene Pearson 207 The Message of Easter.........................Sylvia R. Grant 209 The Light.....................................Helen M. Livingston 209 His Father's Son..............................Ivy Williams Stone 210 Resurrection..................................Estelle Webb Thomas 213 Our Magazine—A Pageant.......................Blanche Kendall McKee 214 Street Trees of Utah Towns are Worthy of Better Care.......... Rufus Johnson 218 Dr. Jane W. Manning Skolfield.................Annie Wells Cannon 222 The Emancipation of Women.....................Olga Kupse 223 The Great Adventure...........................Carlton Culmsee 224 Goddess of the Air............................Minnie I. Hodapp 225 The Gate Beautiful............................Mary Fridal and Maude O. Cook 226 Happenings....................................Annie Wells Cannon 230 Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life..........Lella Marler Hoggan 231 Working with the Czechoslovak Women's Council.............. Martha Gaeth 233 Guides in Buying Textiles.....................Vilate Elliott 236 A Wish........................................D. S. H. 239 Notes from the Field.................................. 240 Editorial—When April Comes—Lessons for November................ 243 "Can Nations be Neighborly?"—Foreign Mission Lessons................. 244 Leadership Week—A Ripe Old Age—Book Notice................ 245 Lesson Department................................. 246
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
GRANITE NORGE ROLLATOR REFRIGERATOR The Longer It Runs The Better It Is The Home of the DEXTER WASHER FURNITURE CO. 1050 EAST 21ST SOUTH Sugar House
NEW FROM FACTORY TO YOU No. 88. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style $.65. No. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style............... 1.10 No. Heavy Wt. Men's Double Back.................... 1.35. No. Heavy Wt. Old Style Double Back................. 1.50
HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTERDAY SAINT GARMENTS We Solicit Your Mail Orders
No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles 85 No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style............ 1.10 No. 85. Very Special Non-Run Garments—Guaranteed—Not To Run Rayon. New Style Only. Special..
We Mark Garments for 10 cents
MOSE LEWIS 14 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Specify when ordering, your bust, trunk and length, whether new or old style, and if men's or ladies'. We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States,
The High Cost of "Cheap Paint" Do you realize that only the rich can afford "cheap" paint? Because good paint takes less to give the same coverage; it takes less time to apply; and it lasts longer. Let us show you the charming color combinations for walls, woodwork and floors so much in vogue now. Our stock is complete of Lowe Bros. Paints, Pratt & Lambert, paints, varnishes, lacquers, 61 Floor Varnish and Imperial Washable wall papers The finest line in the west. Come in today or ask your local dealer for these brands. FREE—"101 Questions and Answers About Painting and Decorating." "Save the Surface and You Save All" SALT LAKE GLASS and PAINT Co. HEADQUARTERS FOR PAINTS, WALLPAPER & GLASS
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
University of Utah Summer Session 1935 June 10-July 19; Post Season July 22-August 16 Offers courses in social work, social education, and ethical values in literature especially adapted to Relief Society officers and members. These courses will be given by Henry Neumann, A. L. Beeley, Hugo B. Anderson, and Hazel M. Peterson: Eminent Visiting Faculty Members Offering Six Weeks Courses Include: Henry Neumann, Leader Brooklyn Society for Ethical Culture Edward M. Hulme, Professor of History, Stanford University Guy Montgomery, Chairman, Department of English, University of Calif. George Starr Lasher, Head, Department of Journalism, Ohio University R. D. Case, Superintendent of Schools, Salinas, California Eva M. Jessup (four weeks courses) Specialist in Commercial Education, Los Angeles Public Schools David Snedden, Professor of Educational Sociology, Columbia University, will give eight public lectures Bulletin will be out about April 1; write for copy THE PRESIDENT UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SALT LAKE CITY
GLADIOLUS We grow only the choicest large flowering varieties. Our Glads will bring Prizes in any GLADIOLUS show. One box of 30 bulbs 3 each of 10 varieties, all labeled for $1.00 or $3.00 per GLADIOLUS 100. One box of 30 hand mixed bulbs for 0.75 $2.75 100. The King of Flowers Every order is prepaid by us. Beautiful and easy to grow V. V. PHILLIPS & SON Write for free field grown Rose list
Home Owners' Loan Bonds Federal Farm Mortgage Bonds Other Seasoned Investments Edward L. Burton & Company Salt Lake City Established 1899
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
April By Bryce W. Anderson
The curtains part on April, while the south wind's bugles sound; Each grass-blade thrusts its fingers through the damp and tender ground; The clouds of gossamer convene to shower fertile rain, For Spring has gathered up her skirts to dance across the plain. The saucy robin courts anew; the dove mourns to his mate; The sun, in springtime splendor, lingers o'er the show till late; The quilts of snow are gently cast from world of new-born thrills, For Spring has flung her cloak aside to scamper through the hills. Now May will bring the blossoms, and June will bask in gold, And gone will be the mem'ries of the Winter's breathless hold; Yet verdant May, nor sun-wrapped June, with April ne'er compare, When Spring comes tripping barefoot with the rain-jewels in her hair.
"THE GROVES WERE GOD'S FIRST TEMPLES"
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXII APRIL, 1935 No. 4
An Orchid Root By Lorene Pearson
"IT'S my fault for bringing you to this country where you knew no one," Ben said helplessly. "I didn't know women were so different, so lonely away from their kin. I thought you'd take up with the folks around here." He looked over at Sadie's head bowed numbly over her hands and the still, fixed stare that saw nothing. Terror gripped him. The life seemed gone out of her once bright face. Blundering on he tried to soothe, "And now with her gone—" Those last words stabbed Sadie back to consciousness. Sobs tore at her heart, sobs that could not be eased, even by Ben's solicitous hand on her shoulders. What was there to live for? Lucy had been everything to her. Now there was nothing, nothing. Through her sobs she groaned, "Lucy is dead!" Ben got unsteadily to his feet. "Will you be all right—while I go out and make—arrangements?" Sadie controlled herself by sheer force of will. Poor Ben, he knew no one to call in and there was nothing else for him to do. She could help at least by controlling herself until he was gone. But something happened. She could not cry after the door had closed behind him. The bitter grief could not spend itself but sawed along her throat with desperate unrelenting stress. She walked unsteadily to the window to look out in an effort to find relief but the hated landscape of the western Wyoming country town only accentuated the dismal future she saw before her. Why, oh, why had they come here? No one cared. There was no one to help her. The rows of dull unpainted houses, the dusty gray of chilly March streets criss-crossed between the blocks mechanically. There was no life, no feeling. She was at its mercy now. Lucy had been her all, but now—there—was—nothing— She turned away and fell across the couch. "Mrs. Beckwith!" called a far away voice, as if from a dream. She roused. There it was again, "Mrs. Beckwith!" There was a gentle tap on the door. Sadie managed to sit up by the time the door was opened and a total stranger in a clean house apron walked in confidently carrying a great white cake on a lovely green platter. "Just thought you might need something tasty about," said the woman. "As soon as I heard I got out my mixing bowl and I finished it just this very minute." Sadie looked at the woman, not 208 quite comprehending it all. Quite casually, as if they had known each other always, the stranger put the cake on the little table by the window, pulled up two chairs and said, "Now if you'll tell me where the glasses for water are and a couple of plates and forks, I'll just sit here and have a bite with you. I'll bet you haven't eaten for days." "Why—no—I," Sadie stumbled, "and it does look so good. I'll go get the plates myself." A patch of yellow sun lay across the table-cloth between them. Two green plates with the exquisite slice of white cake in the middle and this strange comforting woman seemed a bit of fairyland conjured up out of fantasy, or fever. The woman admired Sadie's plants and gave an account of an orchid she had brought to flower after seven years of patient tending. A lovely thing it was, delicate lavender and white and gold. "You know," she said, "in places like this town a body has got to do a great deal to bring beauty into their lives. So I says to myself when I first come here, just because you live in a place like this there ain't no reason why you can't have an orchid just like the ladies in beautiful cities. It opened just last week, Mrs. Beckwith, after seven years. But it is the most beautiful thing I have ever seen. It sure does take a long, time to get the best things doesn't it? And a body has to go about getting the root for himself at that. Well, I must go along now." Sadie was on her feet and beside the departing woman in a moment, "Why did you—come?" she asked. The woman looked at her a long understanding moment, tears standing in her eyes. "I belong to our Relief Society here and we are always taught to help those in need. And since I got the orchid root I've lost three, Mrs. Beckwith, and I RELIEF SOCIETY The MAGAZINE know the first few hours are the worst you'll ever have in your life." At the door she turned and added, "There's one more bad time, that's right after the funeral. If you need me put a white cloth in your window. But I don't want to intrude."
TWO days later Ben brought Sadie from the cemetery and let her out at the house. "I'll be back, just as soon as I take this car back to Jake. Sit there on the step if you don't want to go in. I'll be back in a jiffy, honey." Sadie dropped down on the first step. She couldn't go in, never could she go into that house again. If she could just cry, but she couldn't do that either. There was that horrible sawing in her throat and insanity pressing tight against her brain. The little casket, the clods of dirt, oh God, it was cutting her heart out of her body. Her numb hand fumbled in her purse for a tiny bottle she had hidden there that morning when they were getting ready to go to the Church, a tiny silvery bottle with a liquid that would ease the horrible devastation in her heart. "I knew," she moaned, "that I loved her and naught else. But now it's too late—too late." The morning newspaper, neglected on the step, fluttered up before her eyes in a gust of wind. She paused in her numbed searching and read the headlines automatically. Something bothered her and she read again. TWO KILLED IN AUTO WRECK, father and daughter overturn in ditch east of town. Why, thought Sadie, they lived in the next street. I've seen that dear little mother bidding them goodbye in the morning as he went to work and the girl to school. Now they are both gone and there is no one left but her.
Automatically Sadie got up, unlatched the door and stepped within. She threw her hat and coat over the patch of yellow sunlight on the little table by the window and went straight to the kitchen. Her apron hung by the cupboard in its usual place. Were there eggs? Good. And there was flour, of course. Butter? What luck. The squeak of the cupboard door was strangely comforting. AN ORCHID ROOT 209 Never before had she been so strongly aware, that, as one works for others, one loses oneself; it is not that the poignancy of your own tragedy is any less great but that the dross of sorrow is drained away and the rest transmuted into the beautiful and lasting. And the rule was to do for those in need. She, too, had found an orchid root.
The Message of Easter By Sylvia R. Grant
He died upon the cross— And all good things that graced the land Languished and drooped, while wind and wave Rose in wild fury to embrace The conquering dark that swept a stricken world. In glory He arose— Majestically He trod a tranquil earth, While ivory flowers gave homage at His feet. With radiant splendor shone the morning sun And joyful voices sang, "He lives again!" No more shall death prevail— Let not dark shadows grieve the human soul, For brief will be the conquest of the tomb. God gave His Son that He might grant to man The priceless gift of immortality.
The Light By Helen M. Livingston
A darkness came. I could not see But found a light inside of me. And then each night and every day Its tiny gleam showed me my way. And now wherever I may go Though very small it shines out so. I'm glad the darkness came. You see It gave my little light to me.
His Father's Son By Ivy Williams Stone
CHAPTER 8
RICHARD HAVEN crawled out from under the truck, where he had been assisting in changing a tire, and surveyed his handiwork with satisfaction. "Getting those bolts off was sure some job," he admitted, "but it was fun too. My, but she's a beauty!" He stepped back and looked over the shiny new truck with the joy of possession. He ran his hand lovingly over the gold sign "Haven Farms, Incorporated." "That means me, too," he half whispered. "My, I'm glad you got it, Uncle Oliver. Soon I'll be driving it for you. I can bring the load to market every day. Your having to come at night, like you do, makes it sort of hard, I will be there; I will get up early and reach the markets long before the horse teams." The boy glanced sympathetically at his Uncle Oliver, who still wore the protecting shield over his face, and who still avoided meeting people. "You'll have to wear different clothes than what you got on now, Richard, if you expect to get very far with a truck. I'd say that suit is sort of dirty. Was you expecting to go some place when you saw me?" Richard glanced down at his disheveled finery. The precious dress suit, which Kareen had purchased at much personal sacrifice, was dusty and grease smeared. Memory of where he was supposed to be flashed over Richard's consciousness with sweeping remorse. "O," he cried in genuine dismay, "I was supposed to be playing my violin before a lot of people. Mother called it my 'debut'. There were to be a lot of women with nothing to do, who wanted to hear me play. I don't want to play, Uncle Oliver. I want to plow. I want to help raise food for the soldiers. Our boys are going to Europe to fight. I'm too young to fight, but not too young to be a good farmer!" I'm going back with you, now!" "You'd best go home, son," Oliver laid an understanding hand on the shoulder of the boy who was now his equal in height. Your father had things figured out pretty well. Stay with your Mother, 'til you are twenty-one. Then come home and read the rest of the instructions he left for you. I think his way was best." With reluctant, weary feet Richard Haven returned to the Bohemian apartment. The fresh earth odor which clung to the truck filled his soul with the longing for the farm. The young spring vegetables had smelled sogood, so fresh; the call of spring surged in his veins. The world needed action, not music of dead masters. He wanted to be a producer, to perform his part in the struggle which now seemed about to tear the whole earth asunder. Potatoes and wheat, sugar and meats were soaring to a fabulous price; and here, he, Richard Haven, son of a farmer, heir to wide lands, was spending his days in a tiny apartment, drawing a bow over four strings! With such resentful emotions stirring his heart, he opened the door of his apartment. He would tell his mother! He would fling the violin out of the window; or better, still, she could take lessons. She was HIS FATHER'S SON still a young woman, and, with the urge she felt, she could make good. "It's no use scolding me,' he blurted out as he entered the room, hoping to forestall accusations and reproaches. "I didn't intend to run away! I just walked to the market, and who should be there but Uncle Oliver, in a beautiful new truck! You ought to see it, Mother! Its got the left handed steering wheel, and a self starter and a closed in cab and one piece windshield! It can make twenty-five miles an hour easy. The gas tank holds 17 gallons; Uncle Oliver taught me how to mend a puncture. I'm going to drive it for him every morning, and I'll reach the market first!' He stopped for breath, and his eyes fell upon his forgotten violin, reposing upon the lap of the frail, delicate man from the apartment below. "I forgot the concert," explained Richard Haven simply. "When I saw the beautiful truck with 'Haven Farms, Inc.,' painted on both sides, well, I just forgot everything else!" Kareen was starry eyed; all trace of her recent tears were banished with new aspirations. "O Richard," she cried, "I will forgive you this time! Your absence brought this gentleman into our lives. He is recently from Europe and has played with Paderewski and studied with Fritz Kreisler. He used to be a violin teacher himself before—before—" "Before I had the misfortune to antagonize my wife's father," supplemented the man who had filled Richard's place at the concert. His long, tapering fingers strummed the strings of the violin lovingly. "Once I owned a Stradivari violin. It was a beautiful jewel. Its deep red gold varnish was unsurpassed. I would give my life, the little that is left of it, to possess it again!" "Mr. Smith—Mr. Peter Smith 211 will play for us," smiled Kareen. "He saved the evening for you, Richard. After hearing him play, I knew you were not ready to appear in public. He has agreed to teach you, Richard! His touch is exquisite! He will teach you far better _ than any teacher you have ever had. Under his tutelage, you will learn to breathe, feel and live your work. Listen!"' Standing before the baby grand piano, while Kareen played his accompaniment, Peter Smith played the mediocre violin until it seemed animated. His very soul seemed to flow into expressing his joy in freedom. Praise for his release from bondage filled the tiny room, until even the resentful Richard was mollified and he knew also, that he stood in the presence of a master. "You play as though you once had a great sorrow,' whispered Kareen. "Madam," a latent fire of grief and hate leaped into the eyes of the seem-ingly mild, fragile man. 'Madam, for eight years I never saw the light of day. For eight years I never ate until I had filled a huge bucket with coal. But I never ceased to pray; somehow, I always knew that God would free me! Always I rubbed my hands and exercised my fingers. This great and terrible war, Madam, was my salvation. Out of every ill there comes a benefit to someone. I was one of the political prisoners who were freed by the Russian Revolution! But even my freedom had its alloy. All was changed. I could not find my wife. I could not find my child. I could not find my violin! All I ever learned was that my infuriated father-in-law had banished my child to America in care of a nurse, had cloistered my wife in a nunnery for life. Of my beautiful violin, which came to me from my ffather, and to him from his father, I could find no trace!" The 212 prematurely old man bowed his head in grief and tears of which he was unashamed rolled down the cheeks of the sympathetic Richard. "We will pay you!" cried Kareen. "We cannot, of course, pay you what your services will be worth, but we are able—" "Madam, money to me is no object. In my country, servants were loyal unto death, and fortunately a faithful soul provided me _ with funds to reach America. If Richard is teachable, I will teach him; and search for my lost Stradivari. -It had a special name; 'The Parke, dated 1711." Out on the Haven Farm Oliver still wore the khaki colored shields which Esther made for him so carefully. Every advancement in plastic surgery was carefully followed by all the family. Oliver knew the danger of paraffin poisoning and that the services of any but the best surgeons would be too hazardous. But the World War brought great strides in this branch of surgery, and now Oliver and Esther were agreed that an operation could be performed successfully. Esther would make the journey to Minnesota too, for the right eye had shrunk pitifully, until she also wore it bandaged. -"It may take a long time, Father,' Oliver had studied enough to know all the self sacrifice which this delicate operation would demand. "We might be gone over a year. It will make it pretty hard on you." "I will lease the land until your return." Richard Haven I, still stood erect and supple, still looked the world squarely in the. Face. "Richard would like to come back," suggested Oliver. “He isn't so happy there in the city, studying the violin." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "The boy is scarcely old enough to know his own mind," replied Father Haven. 'Let him continue as his father suggested. He is barely eighteen, and is filled with the unrest which this war has created among all young people. Let him study three years more, as his mother wishes, and as his father planned. Then he may return. I will lease the farm to Japanese tenants until your return. From now on until he is of age, Richard's grandfather may mold his future." "What do you mean, father?' Mother Haven almost lost the calm which the changing' years had brought her. 'You are saying he is to study music, and now you say you are to mold his future." Father Haven indulged in a little smug smile, enjoying the surprise which he knew his revelation would produce. “Sometimes it happens that a child has two grandfathers," he announced slowly. "Such was the case here. Although we never knew him, and she never knew him, Kareen had a father—and a wonderful father. After thirty odd years of banishment and terrible suffering, he has at last found his child. Kareen's father lives in the same apartment as they, and is about to undertake the training of the boy. The revolution in Russia released thousands of political prisoners, and he was one of the fortunate ones. The duenna, an ever faithful servant, furnished him with money and the address of the man whom the girl had married. I, myself, directed him to the apartment. He looks like a man returned from the grave, far removed from the light of day. The coal mines of Siberia are not the pleasantest place in the: world for a violinist to live." "No wonder Kareen loved music," soothed mother Haven. "No _ wonder she could not learn to keep HIS FATHER'S SON house properly. She was born a musician, and is teaching her boy the life she was denied." "He is his father's son,' admonished father Haven with emphasis. “Kareen may hope to mold the boy's life; but his grandfather will understand, and in due and proper time, our son's son will return to his people and his land." "Amen," breathed his listeners, as though a benediction had been pronounced. WHILE his Uncle Oliver underwent a delicate and prolonged operation; while his Aunt Esther secured a perfectly matched glass eye and the muscles of her face lost their tension; while the Japanese farmers cultivated the fertile acres he was to inherit, Rich213 ard Haven learned to play a violin with his soul. His white haired tutor recited actual tales of privation and suffering; told of the beauty of the young wife whom he had lost; described the perfection of the lost Stradivari instrument he had loved as though it were a child. The young man listened and played and improvised. Just before he reached maturity, when Kareen was planning the European tour, when she was gloating in the soaring prices being paid for farm lands, she picked up one of his practice books which had fallen from the rack to the floor. From it fluttered a small leaflet, worn, dog-eared and pencil marked. It was entitled: "The Romance of Burbank's Crimson Winter Rhubarb." (Lovingly nicknamed "The Mortgage Lifter.'') (To be concluded) Resurrection By Estelle Webb Thomas "He is risen! In the glory of the morn From the tomb's engulfing prison, Christ, the Savior, was reborn. And the earth, in happy token, Springs recurrent, from the tomb, Winter's leaden spell is broken In a burst of leaf and bloom. May we not the symbol borrow, As earth's miracles unroll, Rise from out all sin and sorrow In an Easter of the soul! He is risen!" Our Magazine—A Pageant By Blanche Kendall McKey In the center of the platform is a large representation of The Relief Society Magazine. This is a box-like contrivance, large enough to hold three women in tableau, with a small opening or door at the back. The front opens like the cover of a book. The Relief Society Magazine cover of May, 1933, is effective and not difficult to reproduce, The reader stands down stage in one corner of the platform and the soloist in the other. The accompanist plays softly "O My Father;" the soloist takes up the refrain, singing the song through with feeling. As the music dies out, the reader begins softly "Crossing the Bar." READER "Sunset and evening star, And one clear call for me! And may there be no moaning of the bar, When I put out to sea. But such a tide as moving seems asleep, Too full for tide or foam, When that which drew from out the boundless deep Turns again home. Twilight and evening bell, And after that the dark! And may there be no sadness of farewell When I embark; For tho' from out our bourne of Time and Place The flood may bear me far, I hope to see my Pilot face to face When I have crossed the bar." Alfred Lord Tennyson was an old man when he penned those beautiful words expressing his simple faith in a divine, merciful God. The poet had lived richly and honorably; peacefully -his eyes could close in their last sleep. To each of us at some time must come the call of "evening bell and after that the dark!' But we are prone to become so engrossed in earthly affairs that many of us seldom stop to consider why we are here or of what use is the struggle. What shall we take back with us when we turn from mortality to meet our Pilot "face to face"? Only that which we have learned from human experience; hearts filled with love and sympathy and minds stored with wisdom if we have lived abundantly. But life is too short to learn much from merely one's own experience, so we seek knowledge out of good books, for they bring us the best thoughts of all the ages. We who work in the Relief Society are proud of our magazine, unpretentious as it is. We feel that it enriches our lives in as much as it broadens our horizon by taking us into many fields,—fields of fancy and of fact. Richter has said: "There are so many tender and holy emotions flying around in our inward world, so many rich and lovely flowers spring up which bear no seed, that it was a happiness poetry was invented, which receives into its limbus all these incorporeal spirits, and the perfume of all these flowers." Let us consider for a few moments one or two of our own poets. (Soft music: "An Old-fashioned Garden." House lights are turned out, a spotlight flooding the magazine. The cover slowly opens disclosing a beautiful lady, costumed in nineteenth century dress. She sustains the tableau while the following poem is announced and read. As OUR MAGAZINE—A PAGEANT the reader's voice is heard, the soft music dies out.) READER "Bouquet" by Estelle Webb Thomas "Dear Mid-Victorian ladies, Sweet belles of yesteryear, Whose charm time's gentle traces Have rendered yet more dear. Though the rose in your cheek has faded, And your eyes less brightly shine, I will seek 'mongst your gentle numbers To find my valentine. I've a love for the old-time graces, The fragrant old bouquet That bloomed with your lovely faces, And faded so soon away. I think of my mother's garden, With its phlox and columbine Where she plucked for her boy a nose-gay— My first sweet valentine!" (Feb., 1933) (Again the soft strains of "An Oldfashioned Garden" are heard as the lady walks out of the magazine, taking her place on its left. The cover slowly closes as the music changes to the French national hymn, "Marseillais." The cover opens, disclosing a tableau of Joan of Arc. See Relief Society Magazine, Nov., 1929. Music dies out as the reader announces the title of the poem.) READER "Domremy's Maid" by Kate Thomas "Domremy's maid is standing neath a tree With listening in her eyes, and in her face A growing purpose; fingers interlace Then part to grasp the sword that is to be. England be wary, oft rebuked is pride, Better a pact with God than Burgundy. 215 There shall be once He is not on your side; Domremy's maid is standing neath a tree." (Nov., 1929) (To the music of the "Marseillais" Joan steps out of the magazine, joining the lady on the left. The cover closes and the music changes to "Come, Come, Ye Saints." When it re-opens, three pioneer ladies are discovered. Their faces reflect the spiritual message of the song. The music dies out.) READER "Pioneer Ladies" by Claire S. Boyer "Ladies linked with a pictured past, In your silver hair we see disappointment, suffering, grief, and long anxiety. In your eyes we read again, hope and courage— Sparkly beams of the faith in your heart created When you planned your fairest dreams. You are hallowed with glory And the strength of vibrant years, And we joyously salute you, Valiant, noble pioneers." (July, 1933) (Pioneer ladies join Joan of Arc, left of magazine. The cover closes, the music dies out, the house lights ccme on.) READER Delightful as poetry is, the Relief Society Magazine pursues fancy in the form of prose fiction. For a short time let us continue to be "moonlight travelers in fancy's land." (The magazine opens and a lady in modern dress enters. Coming down to the front of the platform, she announces the name and author of a story and proceeds to tell it. Any short action story would be appropriate; "Guests," by Ivy Williams Stone, June, 1933, is suggested. "The Indestructibility of Matter," by Helen Hinckley, July, 1933, is amusing and short. At the close, the young lady goes up Stage left, near the magazine. ) 216 READER Coming back to reality, let us remember that our magazine is a publication for the home, and what would the home be without good food? In turning the pages we find many helpful suggestions and wholesome, delicious recipes. (The cover opens, disclosing a girl or woman dressed as a cook. Carrying a rolling-pin or a large spoon, she comes down to front and recites.) Cook "We may live without poetry, music and art; We may live without conscience and live without heart; We may live without friends; we may live without books; But civilized man cannot live without cooks. He may live without books,—what is knowledge but grieving? He may live without hope,—what is hope but deceiving? He may live without love,—what is passion but pining? But where is the man who can live without dining?" (She crosses up stage to the right of the magazine. The cover opens again and a speaker in modern dress comes down to the front of the platform.)
SPEAKER Our magazine is filled with all kinds of articles: accounts of local, national, and world happenings; discussions of live issues; descriptions of foreign lands; ways of beautifying the home. I shall suggest briefly one short article. (Any article may be taken; "The New Jerusalem," by Frank C. Steele, June, 1933, is suggested. At the close the speaker goes up right. As she does so, the cover again opens, disclosing a second speaker, who comes down.)
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
SECOND SPEAKER We come now to perhaps the most vital part of our magazine—the lesson department. I could not begin to suggest the fields that, through the guidance of this department, we have explored; the studies we have pursued year after year. But we follow definite lessons planned by expert educators in four different fields. Last year we studied Church history, Christ's beatitudes, literature, and social service. We are especially grateful for our outlines in literature, knowing that one cannot approach unguided a field as wide as mankind itself. We have pursued our studies humbly, realizing the truth of Carlyle's assertion: "Of all the things that man can do or make here below, by far the most momentous are the things we call books." Through literature we have been better able to understand our neighbor. Under social service work we have paid special attention to the study of the child, realizing that after all the rearing of children is women's most important work. (She goes up right, standing near the magazine. Soft music is heard: "Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd." House lights are turned out and the spot light used. The cover slowly opens, disclosing a child holding a picturebook, doll, or other toy. She sustains the picture while the reader recites. Music dies out.)
READER "My Star" by Helen M. Livingston "A star shines in my path so bright It lights my way both day and night. The wisemen will not see it though The shepherds may not ever know. But all along its lighted way I walk with joy. Then some glad day; Within my arms my babe shall rest And nestle sweetly on my breast." (Aug., 1933)
OUR MAGAZINE—A PAGEANT
(Again comes softly "Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd" as the child goes to the second speaker up right. As the reader's voice is heard, the music dies out.)
READER Life would be dull indeed were it not for our moments of inspiration, when we dwell in the "land of faery, where nobody gets old and crafty and grave." (Music plays "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning." The cover opens slowly, representing "Inspiration" clad in a Grecian gown. She holds a lantern or other light high over her head and is peering into an unseen world. She holds the picture until one verse has been played, then she comes out of the magazine, remaining, however, within the circle of the spotlight. A little child runs to her from one side of the stage, and the music dies out.)
INSPIRATION Who are you?
CHILD I am a very nice thought. (Another child runs from the other side of the stage).
INSPIRATION And who are you?
SECOND CHILD I am another very nice thought.
BOTH CHILDREN We have many playmates; would you like to see them?
INSPIRATION Not too many at once. But at some time they all will be welcome. (With the children clinging to her she addresses the audience. ) If you have learned from vales of sorrow drear What gives unto your soul its inner light, Withhold it not from him who stands below, His eyes upon the height. For even from a little thought has sprung Deeds that are mighty—in the end sublime; A Resurrection springing from the mind May be the outgrowth of your thought—or mine. (Music: "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning." After a line or two the poetry group goes slowly back into the magazine, followed by fiction. All this movement must be very slow. The first and second speakers go out with the first child, followed by the cook. Inspiration turns slowly, leading the children out; the cover closes and the music dies into silence. Softly the soloist begins "O My Father." After a line or two the house lights come up, and she sings to the end of the song.
Street Trees of Utah Towns are Worthy of Better Care By Rufus D. Johnson, Tree Warden, Salt Lake City
IT was the Irish writer, Shaw Esmond, who paid Salt Lake City one of the most gracious compliments the town ever received. He wrote: "There is a City of Dreams in America as little known so far as I have read her guidebooks as one of Rider Haggard's Lost Cities of Africa. It is easily the most beautiful city I have seen on the North American continent. I think it must be one of the most beautiful cities in the world." Since Mr. Esmond is a native of the green isle, we must expect a bit of blarney from him, nevertheless, there is much truth in what he says. Salt Lake is in fact beautifully situated from a standpoint of natural setting, but much of its charm is due to the vast number of trees which spread out on benchland and valley floor like a veritable forest. What may be said of Salt Lake in this respect is true also of most of the towns of the state, for, to their everlasting credit, the founders of Utah were a race of tree planters from the very beginning.
WHEN the creaking wagons of the pioneer train emerged from the mouth of Emigration canyon, no groves of green crowned trees waved them friendly welcome. One sturdy juniper near what later became Sixth East street and four or five narrow-leaved cottonwoods at Third South and Main streets were the sole tree reception committee. Of course the meandering stream banks were fringed with willow, dogwood, choke cherry and other native growth, but these were low growing and more like shrubs than trees. Except for the conifers of the mountain sides, that is, the pines, firs, spruces and junipers, Utah is scantily provided with good native trees. Box-elders and cottonwoods were plentiful in the canyons, but these are both species of rather inferior quality. The better kinds, such as large-toothed maple, alder, birch and hackberry are all trees of small to medium size, and none of them are particularly adapted to town and street use. So the early settlers were confronted with a pressing need of trees that would transform the sage strewn acres of the valley into something resembling the tree-studded lands they had left behind. While in many instances small trees and cuttings of the larger willows, poplars and the like were brought in the earlier pioneer trains, most of the trees of the first planting cycle were obtained from seeds brought across the plains. These included black walnut, ailanthus, black and honey locust, catalpa and possibly a few others. Lombardy poplar cuttings were brought from St. Louis by William Wagstaff in 1853. Mulberries were imported at an early date in an endeavor to establish the silk industry. Many seeds and plants were brought from California by returning members of the Mormon Battalion and other travelers. Naturally the vital need of the settlers was to first establish fruit trees and berries as a source of food supplies, but hand in hand with this endeavor, a valiant struggle was maintained to create beauty, supply cooling shade and make for maximum health assurance by a liberal planting of ornamental trees.
As settlements extended throughout the state, this tree planting practice was carried to the most remote village, until today it is doubtful if there is a town in Utah that does not boast the beauty and comfort of tree lined streets. The one feature which dulls the edge of our satisfaction at this condition is the fact that early planters did not have a free choice of the best varieties. As a result, the majority of our plantings have been fast growing, short lived species which have quickly arrived at maturity and have become a liability rather than an asset to the various communities. For instance, box-elders in many locations have a life span of but 30 to 40 years. Then they begin to die of various diseases or become brittle with age and are easily damaged or destroyed by wind. Poplars (cottonwoods) become overlarge and constitute a menace to life and property. They uproot pavements, clog sewers and exhaust the soil of surrounding lawns and gardens. In short, at the age a high grade tree is just coming into its prime, trees of the poorer sort are ready for the axe. Perhaps the most outstanding planting error of the past was the tendency to set trees too closely together. Trees must have light in order to function properly and when they are crowded, there is constant competition among them for the life giving sunshine. Thus they are forced upward, fighting for a place in the sun because there is no room UTAH 219 for them to develop outwardly. Unable to grow into the graceful, rounded forms which Nature intended them to have, they assume narrow, straggling shapes, utterly lacking the beauty they should exhibit, and becoming sources of danger through excessive height. This condition encourages that type of mutilation known as "topping," a reprehensible practice which destroys any lingering attractiveness such a tree may possess. The remedy in such a case is not the ruthless hacking of all the crowns, but a removal of the surplus trees so that the remaining ones can round out into natural form. Overplanting is almost as grave an error as underplanting.
WE are grateful to the early planters for the heritage of wonderful trees which have brought us joy and comfort through the years and which have made Utah towns noted throughout the country. But now that we have an almost unlimited choice of tree material and can profit by the mistakes of the past, it is time that we plant better trees in better fashion and so pass on to those who follow us an even more delightful tree heritage than we have enjoyed.
IN Salt Lake City and several other towns of the state, street trees have been placed under the supervision of a shade tree commission. This commission designates the kinds of trees which shall be planted in each street, stipulates the spacing, indicates how pruning shall be done and in general prescribes the care and treatment of all public trees. In order that uniformity shall prevail, all work is done under permit from the commission. Under the old system a street would often show as many different trees and styles of planting as there were houses on the block. Each owner planted according to his whims and the result has always been a jumble of species and spacing that is far from the ideal. Of course there is a certain amount of charm in any tree, but since the street is communal property its treatment in planting should be along lines that will conserve the best interests of all concerned. The trees selected for planting in Salt Lake were chosen for hardiness, immunity from diseases and insect pests, cleanliness and persistence, or long life. They are slow growing, compared with box-elder and poplars, but one cannot find quality and rapid growth in any one tree. These varieties will be found appropriate for any community with climate similar to that of Salt Lake, which means that they will survive in nearly all of the principal towns of Utah. Following is the list: Norway maple, London plane, European linden, green ash, white ash, blue ash, honey locust, horse chestnut, ginkgo and English elm. Siberian, or Chinese elm has been used to some extent, but this tree, though a surprisingly fast grower, is not of good quality and should be used sparingly on streets. The minimum distance for planting is 35 feet apart, but 45 to 50 feet is much to be preferred. Trees planted at the latter distance will touch each other at maturity. After all, we should look into the future in tree planting, visualizing the finished picture rather than being guided by the slender sapling at planting time.
THE JEREMY COTTONWOOD Tree (83 years old) A Pioneer tree growing on the northwest corner of 4th West and South Temple Streets was planted in 1852 by John Jeremy
STREET TREES OF UTAH
EVERY town in the state should have either a shade tree commission or some agency of the city government charged with the supervision of planting and care of street trees. Members of commission serve without pay, and in the smaller towns the executive work might be undertaken by someone already employed by the city, thus providing supervision without additional expense. Even if the work is done at some cost, what is more valuable to any community than the preservation and maintenance of its precious trees?
USUALLY it is to the women of any community that we must look for the promotion and fostering of the beautiful things in life. It is well known that Relief Society members have plenty to do in performing the noble work which is their objective, but what a splendid thing it would be if they would take the welfare of trees as well as humans under their kindly wings, and see to it that the tree traditions of our forbears are upheld in all the towns and villages of our beloved state. Surely no organization is better fitted to urge this work, or could accomplish more in bringing it about.
Dr. Jane W. Manning Skolfield By Annie Wells Cannon
IN the death of Dr. Skolfield, which occurred on the 12th of February, this year, the state of Utah lost a great and noble woman Dr Jane Skolfield was a worthy daughter of pioneers. Her parents, Henry W. And Margaret Galbraith Manning came to Utah in the early covered wagon days and made a home in the desert land where they reared a large family. She was proud of her heritage and like her brave parents not afraid of any task, but made each task a stepping stone to something higher. She rose from student in a village school to teacher, from teacher to a professor of pedagogy, and then became a founder of schools for little children. Even as a child she gave evidence of leadership and the gift of organization. At twelve she was a Sunday school teacher, at sixteen she assisted her father in his small business and did her share of the work on the farm.
ALWAYS eager to advance she set her aim for a profession choosing that of medicine, and became a leading and proficient physician. Her ministrations as a woman physician naturally brought her in contact with many of the unfortunate. Only those who knew her best can tell of the kindness of her great soul. How deeply she sympathized with the young unmarried mothers and befriended them in their dire need as well as served them professionally. Later in life as a member of the board of the state Industrial School this same tenderness was manifest in behalf of the delinquent young people who lived there. They in turn loved her and watched with eagerness her visits, for always she brought into their lives something to make the days seem brighter. When a member of the legislature in 1913 she introduced a number of measures for social betterment. As a merciful benefactor she will be always remembered.
A WOMAN of so forceful a character naturally became interested in different activities for the advancement of women in education and culture, and she became affiliated with several organizations for this purpose. She received many important positions of honor by appointment from state and civic officials, and was many times sent as a delegate to national conventions. In a social way, aside from her professional life Dr. Jane formed many close and loyal friendships. She was especially fond of her association with the members of the Ensign club of which she was a charter member and co-founder.
NOTWITHSTANDING her public career Dr. Jane maintained a charming home life. She surrounded herself with good books, beautiful art treasures, and cultural things. In this atmosphere with her precious family she loved to entertain her friends—dear friends who knew the worth of this courageous woman, who, in fighting life's battles, knew no such word as fail.
DR. JANE W. SKOLFIELD She was in truth a woman who believed the world belonged to the energetic, indeed like "The Happy Warrior" she walked among the 223 tasks of life and turned each necessity to glorious gain. Dear to the heart is the memory of such a friend.
The Emancipation of Women The View of the Church and the Auxiliary Organizations By Olga Kupse, of the Geneva Conference
IT is but a few years ago since woman was considered an inferior being from the intellectual and physical standpoint. And under this simple pretext she was deprived of developing herself; man, her lord and master, found it was right and just that she exist only to serve him. In our day her condition is not much better, if she has the time to earn her bread she is terribly exploited, and has not the right to make laws for her defense, in spite of the fact that she is not forgotten when it comes to paying taxes. From the moral viewpoint her condition is even worse for there are two standards of measurement. Society demands everything from a woman or she is an outcast but excuses the man with an indulgent smile. The laws which govern a married woman are deplorable and in spite of our civilization, we are very much behind in this regard, for a country that wishes to progress must work for the emancipation of woman and for her education, for women's influence dominates the nation.
THE Church of Christ recognizes the liberty of woman in all fields and works for her emancipation. The Mormon woman is recognized as the equal of man. From the religious point of view, she feels the same obligation as he to work for the Church and in the Church. She is recognized equal to man from the moral viewpoint and it is not that she must abandon her principles of purity and honesty but because man must rise to her level. She enjoys civic equality which permits her to express herself and be a personality as real as her husband or brother. The Church has elevated woman in emancipating her and has brought out her true nature. The Mormon woman is educated to the same degree as the man in the sciences, in art, and in sports. She is therefore prepared for her career first in the home and after in society, for it is a great mistake to believe that the education of woman destroys the home. Thanks to her high principles of morality, the Mormon woman aspires above all else to create a home and to rear beautiful and healthy children but further she feels the need of sharing her talent with those less privileged and less gifted. The Church, wishing to interest woman in her own spiritual and intellectual development, gives her the opportunity of opening her heart and doing good, by establishing the auxiliary organizations. The greatest of these organizations is the Relief Society. The Mormon women meet for study, at the same time, working for the well being of those less favored. They organize bazaars for charity and make visits to the sick and poor. The Church has foreseen also, that all work must be followed not only 224 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE by rest, but also by recreation, and has organized the Mutual Improvement Association, which is divided into two departments, one for the young men, and one for the young women. There the youth have the opportunity for amusement in a healthy and interesting manner, either in music, the drama, the dance or sports, at the same time studying the principles of the gospel. It is in the Mutual Improvement Association meetings that we come to know and love one another, that the true fraternal feeling is developed.
THE development of the auxiliary organizations should call forth all our efforts for there one may sow the best grain. Let us not forget to organize a class for children so that we may give a little love, instruction and joy to the poor little ones who sometimes suffer for the lack of sympathetic care. This is the first duty of woman and very important for the future of the branch. Though Mormon women may be called to be missionaries in the world, their first duty is to work within the Church at home to train the hearts and minds of the little ones, to guide the youth and help the poor and sick. We have need of all the sisters and all the brethren to pilot the work of the Lord to a good harbor. Let us all resolve to wake up and say, "Here I am—I am ready." Here is the thought which I wish to leave with you in conclusion—serving my neighbor is serving God—loving my neighbor is fulfilling the highest commandment. Let us work, my friends, and I ask that God will help us and bless us with His Spirit.
The Great Adventure By Carlton Culmsee
No matter how faintly the springtime breathes Its secret into the wind, or the wreathes Of mist, or the strengthening sun,—Life hears. The furred and feathered prick their ears, And the hearts of seeds that long have lain Asleep, are pierced with delicious pain. Even the human babies know As up and down in the sun they go, Pushed in a buggy or pulled in a sulky Or borne in arms, like gay and bulky Buds unfolding in blanket leaves, Drinking in the sunny air And a whole new world with a serious stare Of one half-eager and yet half-loth To start this great adventure of growth!
Goddess of Air By Minnie I. Hodapp
UP from the isles where the palm-trees wave, To Sprite of the air, Rain-clouds greaten; surges rave; Daughter, beware! Breaking the woof of the sky's thin roof Soar with the mellow moon aloof, Gallantly dare! High in your red-gold monoplane, Ocean-wide flight! Intrepid lady whose joy is pain Whose zeal delight: Nerve and sinew finely taut Vitalized with dauntless thought Steering aright! Into the star-fields wide and clear Eagerly on! Sailing the jeweled atmosphere Storm-bodings gone! Far-winged, musical strains you hear Brief your voice, dispelling fear Cheering the Dawn! Warmly vivid with high emprise Yon beckoning goal; Fate upholds fame's deathless prize To valiant soul! Weary with changeless watching she, Spanning the great Pacific Sea, Sane her control! Into the zone of the sun-god's throne Brilliantly fair, Facing its piercing rays alone Speeding with care; Sails in the harbor; the surf's sweet moan Home! Swift to triumph! Amelia, our own Goddess of Air!
The Gate Beautiful Pageant written and arranged by Mary Fridal and Maude O. Cook, and presented at Tremonton, Utah, March 17th, 1934
(Stage in semi-darkness, figures draped in black groping in confusion. Music: "Lead Kindly Light.")
Reader: The earth lies shrouded in darkness; unfathomable mists of error engulf her; the night of apostasy hangs like a pall over the land; the sun of truth is clouded; no stars of hope gleam forth. The Cross wanes pale against the brooding waves of blackness." "The nation's bow to Satan's thrall, He fills with strife the souls of men; He seeks to blind them one and all Lest they the way to life obtain." —Joseph J. Daynes.
(Trumpet calls to attention.)
Reader: Through the impenetrable gloom, the trumpet sounds. The Voice of Prophecy is heard speaking to the nations. (Ray of light penetrates darkness. )
Voice of Prophecy (behind stage. ) Hear oh, ye heavens, and give ear oh earth, and rejoice ye inhabitants thereof. The Lord is God and beside Him there is no Savior. Great is His wisdom, marvelous are His ways, and the extent of His doings none can find out. His purposes fail not, neither are there any who can stay His hand; therefore, hearken ye people from afar and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. His voice is unto all men. Behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. The heavens shall again give light and the glory of the Lord shall fill the earth. His kingdom shall be established in the tops of the everlasting hills, and all people shall flow unto it, saying, "Come let us go up to the mountain of the Lord's house, where He will teach us His ways and we shall walk in His paths."
(Near close of this speech as figures in black are looking upward to the light and listening to voice, the curtain is drawn. As it rises the Prophet is seen kneeling in prayer and over him the Spirit of Inspiration stands with arms extended as if to bless. During this tableau, the duet, "The Morning Breaks," is sung.)
Reader: "Awake and arise, oh ye slumbering nations, The heavens fling open their portals again, The last and the greatest of all dispensations Hath burst like a dawn o'er the children of men." —Curtis.
(Curtain rises and reveals Gate Beautiful in rear center of stage, guarded by Spirit of Inspiration. Light floods stage.)
Reader: The new day has dawned. The future beckons all mankind to advance, to achieve, to press on and on and on to greater and still greater heights, for "The glory of God is Intelligence." Into the light of the new day comes woman to the Gate Beautiful, begging to pass beyond its sacred portals. From time unmeasured the heavy hand of ignorance and superstition had been over her to bind, and shackle, and oppress. Now shrinking and half afraid she pleads that THE GATE BEAUTIFUL she might enter into the new day of hope and promise. (Woman enters at rear of stage and comes begging to Gate Beautiful. As reader says, "To bind, and shackle, etc.," figures in grey or black bent with burdens pass across rear of stage.)
Woman: Oh, thou Spirit of Inspiration, pray illumine the way, dispel the mists of darkness and error. Aid us to attain the heights of which we dream. Fulfill the promise that the wilderness shall be as the rose, and the desert as the garden of the Lord. Make the voice of melody to gladden the heart, that peace, and joy, and thanksgiving shall abide in the land. Remember the thralldom of my sisters and open to us the Gate that we, too, may pass into the glory of the new day, that our light may shine forth in eternal praise to our God. Open to us, I pray thee, The Gate Beautiful.
(Inspiration opens Gate and leads Woman to left of stage where a platform with three steps extending around it is located. Solo, "I'm A Pilgrim.")
Reader: Woman now enters a new field of achievement and promise with a prayer in her heart for courage and guidance that with this new power and recognition she may in honor and dignity take her place side by side with man, that together they may fulfill their high destiny and bring to perfect realization a better, brighter day. (Ten girls dressed in pastel shades and bearing lighted candles execute drill and march to back of stage behind fence which supports gate, where they remain.)
Reader: The Master in love sent the three graces, Faith, Hope, and Charity to abide with and to guide fair woman. (Faith enters dressed in white wearing banner across breast, Banner is blue with letters of gold. The word Faith is on banner.)
Faith: Woman, give me thine hand and I shall lead thee along the stormy pathway of life, that thou mayest pass safely over the "Slough of Despond," and the "Mountain of Temptation," and through the mists of doubt and fear and arrive safely at last at the shining shore. I shall give thee strength to endure and understanding that thou mayest not doubt the purposes of thy Father Thou shalt trust in God and have confidence in thy fellow men. Remember that without Faith thou canst not please thy God. (Faith takes Woman by hand and leads her up one step of platform.)
(Enter Hope dressed same as Faith.)
Woman: "Sweet Hope thou art welcome, I have been so sad and lone So desolate and afraid. Come closer Hope That I may touch thy robe. Now my heart seems a little nearer God." —R. S. Magazine.
(Duet, "Whispering Hope.") (Dance representing Hope.)
Reader: Thou blessed Hope, when dark and dreary days confront us, when sorrow, pain, and disappointment overwhelm us, thy voice doth whisper peace, and bids us trust in Him who said, "Come unto Me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I shall give you rest." Verily, "Hope doth spring eternal in the human breast."
(Enter Charity.)
Reader: "Charity suffereth long and is kind. Charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth; beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never faileth. And now abideth Faith, Hope, and Charity, but the greatest of these is Charity." (Faith, Hope, and Charity each lead Woman up one step of platform where she is seated. Faith sits on lower step, Hope sits on one other and Charity stands behind Woman.)
(Enter Truth.)
Reader: Hail Truth, thou Spirit of Theology. Thou revealest God in all His majesty and power. Thou teachest of His laws and maketh known His ways. Thou leadest from the grosser walks of life into the warming, peaceful rays of living Light. Thou givest us wisdom and understanding. Thou art "a lamp to our feet and a light to our path." Help us to realize that in the midst of joy and plenty we needs must ponder of the message thou wouldst teach. (Music, "O, Say What Is Truth.")
Truth: In the House of Righteousness there is much treasure, Things long withheld from men are now revealed, Heavenly light gleams forth in all its splendor, The lips of Prophets are no longer sealed.
(Enter Spirit of Testimony. ) (Violin music, "I Know That My Redeemer Lives.")
Reader: "Oh that my words were now written, Oh that they were printed in a book, That they were graven with an iron pen And lead in the rock forever, For I know that my Redeemer liveth And that He shall stand at the latter day Upon the earth; And in my flesh I shall see God."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
(Enter Literature. )
Literature: "Life is rich as down the vista of the years we look And find within time's golden book The treasures of the human mind." R. S. Magazine.
Reader: "In the Book of Literature, Man its author, has recorded his experiences with the Good, the True, the Beautiful." "All that mankind has done, thought, gained, or been is lying in magic preservation in the pages of a book." Oh Woman, forget not Literature, but be mindful of "verses stored with sagas and with songs of old, for "To us in ancient story wonders great are told Of heroes rich in glory and in adventures bold." "Therefore, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom." (During this speech two little pages enter carrying large book and lay it at feet of Woman.)
(Enter Social Service and unfurls Children's Charter. Little boy and girl enter with her and remain at her side.)
Reader: "A challenge to the world is flung, The Children's Charter, hold it high; For every child the word has come Health, love, and happiness is nigh." —R. S. Magazine. Great is thy obligation to humanity. All men are equal in the Father's sight. To them He hath bequeathed life, liberty, and the right to happiness. A place must be found for all on the great stage of life, for each must play his part. The right to work and to achieve belongs to all mankind. Therefore, spare not any effort to seek out the THE GATE BEAUTIFUL needy one and strengthen thou the weak for "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these ye have done it also unto Me."
(Enter Spirit of Peace, the Teacher's Topic.)
Reader: We greet thee, sweet Spirit of Peace, our Teacher's Topic. Thou enterest into the homes each month with Zion's visiting teachers, extending the hand of friendship and good will, cementing all in bonds of unity and love, binding hearts in ties of confidence and trust, that sorrow may be assuaged and suffering relieved.
Peace: "How beautiful upon the mountain are the feet of them that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace, that bringeth good tidings of good that publisheth salvation, that saith unto Zion, 'Thy God reigneth.' "
(Enter Industry.)
Reader: To thee, oh Spirit of Industry and Thrift, doth now our quest for happiness turn. Among thy many duties is the sacred charge to guard and keep the homes and happiness of God's great multitude, —the common folk. Thy busy, willing hands provideth food and warmth. Thou maketh plain, homely necessities into works of art. Thy ingenuity putteth to use all things that there may be no waste nor want. Thou makest our homes and surroundings comfortable and lovely, a place where sympathy and encouragement abides, and like a powerful magnet draws and holds all in chains of love and loyalty that shall endure forever. Thou makest a place where "We may cheerfully turn when the long shadows fall at eventide, to play, and love, and rest, because we know for us our work is best."
Reader: Blessed beyond the woman of any other age, the woman of today finds life rich in opportunity. The opening of the Gate Beautiful brought her into a new day of promise and fulfillment. Hers now the right to desire and to receive, to sow and to reap, to share with man life's joys and sorrows, its hopes and attainments, its privileges and blessings. (As reader is reading the above, the curtain rises and reveals Woman with babe in her arms and crown upon her head. Prophet and Spirit of Inspiration stand in center of stage.)
Woman: "Lo, I rejoice in all these gifts, God gives to Womanhood, But surely the Gift transcendent Is glorious Motherhood." —R. S. Magazine. Motherhood, thou the Gift supreme.
Reader: To thee, our beloved Prophet, who 92 years ago today opened to Woman the Gate Beautiful and led her forth from darkness and error into the resplendent rays of the New Dispensation, we offer our praise and adoration. To womanhood in all the world we say, "Awake to thy glorious opportunities, and with words and deeds give thanks to thy Maker for the gifts, blessings, and possibilities the new day has brought to thee." And to the Daughters of Zion, "Arise put on thy beautiful garments and shine forth that thy light may be a standard for the nations." (Congregation joins in singing, "Praise to the Man.") (Characters are grouped about stage to get best balance and most artistic effects. Colored lights add to effect. Woman is more elaborately dressed than other characters. ) Curtain
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
AS April's smiles and tears combined, Bring forth the loveliness God designed, So gentle words to troubled mind, Give balm, like unto gold refined.
LENA MADESIN PHILLIPS, while on her lecture tour, expressed herself as deeply affected by her delightful reception in Salt Lake and again meeting old friends.
FRANCES PERKINS says, "Not only ability but suitability should be the measuring stick for public office for women and men alike."
M. CAREY THOMAS, president of Bryn Mawr college says, "The girls of today are more serious than formerly, franker and have more courage."
ROBERTA NICHOLSON'S bill in the Indiana legislature is to end breach of promise suit extortion. Its purpose is to end unscrupulous women and lawyers from promoting blackmail.
MRS. M. E. P. BROWN, known to early patrons of the Salt Lake theatre as "Lizzie Platt," died last month. She was a clever soubrette actress and the last of that historic dramatic company of pioneer days.
Miss FLORENCE KIMBALL, a former Salt Lake girl, has been elected to carry on the work of the late Mme. Sembrich at the Julliard school of music, New York. She is a granddaughter of Sarah M. Kimball, early Relief Society and suffrage worker.
COLLEEN MOORE'S Doll House is started on a world tour. It cost $435,000, took 700 artists and craftsmen nine years to complete it. The proceeds from the tour will be donated to hospitals for crippled children.
MRS. CLAIRE STEWART BOYER, of Utah, has been awarded a prize for a nature poem—"Poplar Trees," by a Chattanooga writer's club.
GRACE MOORE has been awarded the annual fellowship gold medal for distinctive service in the arts by the society of arts and sciences.
CLAUDETTE COLBERT was noted to have given the best screen performance in 1934 by the motion picture arts academy.
DR. OLGA KNOPH has a new book "Women on Their Own." In it the author concludes that problems of married life really existed before marriage.
EDITH OLIVIER, in her biography of her famous father called "Alexander the Corrector," gives many pleasant glimpses of the social life of this learned compiler of biblical concordance.
ELIZABETH M. ROBERTS' strange story, "He Sent Forth a Raven;" "Romany," another gypsy story by Lady Eleanor Smith; "Many Poppies," a fantasy by P. L. Travers; "Cleopatra's Daughter," by Beatrice Chanler; "Next Time We Live," by Ursula Parrott are some of the late books by women, popular for club reviews.
Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life
KEEP FIT By Lella Marler Hoggan
Guard well thy health: it is the instrument Of life, for grand and noble uses meant: The courage that through change and chance endures, And every gift of happiness secures. —Osgood Eaton Fuller.
OUR bodies are the tabernacles of our spirits. They are a most precious possession. Without them we cannot live the earth life; with them, we may go on advancing through the eternities. How prudent it is, then, that we should guard them and preserve them in soundness and in beauty. The old Greek ideal was to possess, "A sound mind in a sound body." And one of our Heavenly Father's first provisions for our welfare in these latter days, was a health program, a Word of Wisdom, for the "temporal salvation of man." They are simple rules of health, some of which, were a hundred years in advance of science when they were given to our great-grandparents. Those who have lived this Word of Wisdom have found it a promotion to their health, their success, and their happiness. Now that it has stood the test of a century, are we not brave enough to accept it and to live it? William Hawley Smith tells us that "Bodily conditions greatly modify, limit, and determine mental functionings." And just as the quality of the mind is limited and modified by the condition of the body, so is the body, in a large measure, subject to the condition of the mind. "For each bad emotion," says Elmer Gates, "there is a corresponding chemical change in the tissues of the body." Fear, anger, jealousy, every vicious emotion retards the bodily functions, poisons the blood stream, and hastens old age. While love, mirth, confidence, and every good emotion promotes health and prolongs life. Orison Swett Marden claims that a raging temper creates as much poison in the system as the cigarette. How many of us are subject to brain storms? Every condition that saps our energy or uses up our vitality needlessly, is a menace to health and life. We would not pour our valuable, fragrant perfume into leaking containers; then why should we permit our vitality to be uselessly dribbled away? Is it not more precious than any perfume? Should we not be more diligent in conserving our life forces than we are in caring for our trivial belongings?
THE Latterday Saint mothers have a full program. It is crowded to the very margin of the page. To be good wives and mothers, and at the same time, to enrich and beautify life, is no small undertaking. The Master came that we might have life more abundant. And it is 232 to drink from this fountain of joy, that we are climbing up the sunlit heights. But how can we obtain a full measure of happiness if our bodies are weary and broken? How can we play the game of life efficiently if we are contaminated with poison and fear? If we expect to gain inspiration and permanent satisfaction from our efforts, we must keep fit physically and mentally. Is it not necessary that mothers should have rest periods and a leisure time program, as well as the rest of the world?
WE burn the candle at both ends and then wonder why it is consumed so quickly. We not only use up our regular supply of energy, but we draw on our reserves from day to day, and still expect to be prepared to meet any emergency that may arise. We permit ourselves to go in debt to live from year to year, and yet hope to make an honest settlement some day. By what school of logic do we reach such conclusions? In ten or twenty years from now, our grown children may surround us with comforts and try to prolong our lives. But neither money nor effort can add one year to a life that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE has run its course. We can't reach back through the years and undo what has been foolishly done. Exhaustion is dangerous. Rest and relaxation reduce worry and renew bodily energy. How many of us know how to "let go," to close the door of the mind against all care, and revel in the sublime beauty of poetry and song? How many of us know how to "wash the slate clean" at night, and retire to our rest relaxed and unafraid, to a night of untroubled sleep and a glad awakening? Life here and now, is for our joy as well as our development. Let us learn to conserve and guard our health, that we may lengthen out the years and make them sweeter and more worth while. If we would know how best to accomplish this fine art, we may study our divinely inspired health program. It was given "for a principle with promise," a promise that is well worth the price of obedience. Health, vigor, and stamina, and hidden treasures of knowledge, are to be ours; and the destroying angel shall pass by us as in the days of ancient Israel. "The first wealth is health,' said Ralph Waldo Emerson. Shall we not then include it with our cherished treasures? Working with the Czechoslovak Women's Council By Martha Gaeth THE Czechoslovak Women's Council is a federation of fifty-two women's organizations in Czechoslovakia with headquarters in Prague. I was first attracted to its work by the strong and winning personality of its President, Mme. F. F. Plaminkova. Like a powerful dynamo, she electrifies everything about her. To be near her is to be swept into a current of energy, activity, and accomplishment. She is fearless and frank in her statements. Her efforts in behalf of women have brought her ever increasing recognition in her country. She left the teaching ranks to enter politics. Today she is a senator and membet of the executive committee of the National Socialist Party which numbers in its ranks her illustrious countryman, Eduard Benes, Czechoslovakia's Minister of Foreign Affairs. Besides being the President of the Czechoslovak Women's Council, she is a member of the executive committees of the following organizations: International Women's Council, the Alliance for Citizenship and Equal Rights for Women, Open Door, and the Association of Business and Professional Women. She is, moreover, the Convener of the Standing Committee on Suffrage in the International Women's Council and chairman of the Committee of Enfranchised Countries in the Alliance. Is it any wonder then that I, an American citizen of Czech birth, should be attracted by so winsome and internationally minded a worker?
NOR is this the only reason why I associated myself with the Czechoslovak Women's Council. I am in hearty sympathy with its program. I firmly believe in the efficacy of women's organizations. There are plenty of sore spots in the fabric of our modern civilization that need mending by a woman's hand. Women can well contribute to education for world peace and the creation of a desirable public opinion for disarmament and more peaceful methods of settling international disputes and differences. Through the Disarmament Committee of the Women's International Organizations, much has already been done in this direction. Women can best protect children from the dangers of parental unemployment and child labor; they can best tell what is needed in their educational program. They are best fitted for improving their own working conditions, prisons, reformatory houses and penitentiary institutions for women. They can do much in raising the moral standard of youth. By nature and calling they are best adapted to improve social conditions and render help wherever it is needed. Only through organized effort will women gain equal naturalization rights with men.
MY observations have led me to conclude that womens' organizations are badly needed in Czechoslovakia to reeducate women for their new role in a democratic state. It appears to me that the relationship between men and women in 234 Czechoslovakia is not a particularly healthy one. A woman is not always treated as a man's equal. She is still kept in a harmfully subordinated and servile position in spite of the fact that constitutionally she is granted equal suffrage rights with men and that many of her country's public men are most outspoken in their high esteem of women and their equal rights. President Masaryk deplores the still prevalent condition and asks: "Why should the mother who bore the children not be equal to the father who begot them? And if a man really loves, how can he love some one beneath him? I see no difference in the intelligence of men and women." * * * Karel Capek: President Masaryk Tells His Own Story, p. 134.
I CANNOT help feel that Czech women are partly to blame for this condition. I shall never forget what took place when my son was born in Prague. Both the attending physician as well as the nurses exclaimed with a triumphant air: "A boy!" They could not understand my disappointment in not getting a longed-for daughter. Letters of congratulations from my Czech friends declared, to my surprise, that I was favored by the gods in the birth of a son. As time went on I discovered that the birth of a boy was always an occasion for greater rejoicing. It signified, in short, no worry over a future dowry. It also meant the birth of a superior creature with greater opportunities in life. From the moment, His Majesty, the Boy-Baby, makes his appearance on Czechoslovak territory, he is administered to by mother, sister, grandmother, auntie and any other female about, and later by his wife in the most servile manner to the end of his days. How any boy so brought up can possibly respect his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mother and other women and treat them as comrades in this great enterprise we call life is beyond my humble understanding. Of course, His Majesty pays the price for this wrong attitude in more than one way, but unfortunately, he does not know it. The woman remains equally ignorant of the harm she has done. This erroneous upbringing crops up most unexpectedly in a boy's life. President Gaeth tells with relish peculiar stories of his YMCA camp experiences with Czechoslovak boys. A typical American summer camp program was followed by the YMCA authorities much to the dislike of the mothers. The latter frequently visited the camp to complain about the type of menial work given their sons. One mother, for instance, was very much put out because her boy was made to peel potatoes; another because her son was made to clean his cabin. If peeling potatoes and cleaning cabins are degrading tasks for boys, then it follows naturally that women, who usually perform these tasks, are inferior beings. One also understands why so many young women shun these tasks for more masculine occupations even if these consist of mere routine office work. A boy must be brought up to esteem and appreciate these mundane home activities. Only then will women enjoy doing them and cease to be inferior for performing them.
REEDUCATION is greatly needed here and only through womens' organizations will it be effected. There is no earthly reason why Czech women or any other women, for that matter, should be kept in a servile position. It is all a matter of correct attitudes. Every woman has a birthright to her inner freedom. She can be educated in using her free will but she should THE CZECHOSLOVAK never be forced. In Czechoslovakia, just as in many other countries today, women are being denied the right to work as an economy measure. What are these young women to do when work is denied them? There are not enough men to marry them all in the first place. A goodly number of men do not make enough to support a wife and family. Many of those who can, shirk the responsibilities of the married state. Is it just to penalize the women for all these conditions? Married women, in particular, are being discriminated against. A great majority of these women in Europe work because they have to. Their wages are needed to make possible a decent standard of living for the family. If discrimination against women is carried on because there are not enough jobs to go round, that men have families to support, why not also limit the employment of those who because of accumulated wealth have no need of gainful employment? The Czechoslovak Women's Council is bending all its energies against such discrimination, considering it to be the old exploitation of the weak by the strong. There is no question about the need for increased protection of womens' rights in Europe today. When I see the plight of the European woman I cannot refrain from joining her organized ranks and doing my bit to help better her position.
THERE was still another reason why I joined the Women's Council in Czechoslovakia. I was anxious to keep our Relief Society sisters in the Czechoslovak Mission informed of all activities undertaken by their countrywomen as well as by women throughout the world, thereby making their organization serve as a window through which they not only viewed the activities of the women of the Church but of the world. This is done by making a monthly study of the Czech Bulletin, the official organ of the Czechoslovak Women's Council. A resume is prepared by one of the members and circulated to all the Relief Societies in the Mission. Questions for discussion are usually added by myself for the purpose of comparing and contrasting the women's aims with Latter-day Saint aims. They are usually in harmony, but the methods used to attain them are not always to our liking. This study is taken up during the work and business meeting. I also subscribe for the English Bulletin, the organ of the International Women's Council and add to the Czech resume any item of interest of vital importance. The discussions which these questions have motivated have proved most stimulating and have been instrumental in pointing out our Latter-day Saint ideals for womanhood in bolder relief. The sisters and friends greatly enjoy this service which relays to them the important activities of women throughout the world. There are at present three Relief Society organizations in the Czechoslovakian Mission with a total of sixty members. Their contact with the Women's Council is made possible through my direct, personal membership. As a direct member of the Council, I work with the Standing Committees on Education and Relations with Foreign Countries. My American teaching experience stands me well in the former and my knowledge of English makes me a most useful member in the latter. So far I have thoroughly enjoyed my associations with the leaders of the Czech women. I have come to understand them better and their aims as well. I enjoyed the privilege of attending the quinquennial meeting of the International Women's Council in Paris in July as a Czechoslovak delegate. As such it behooved me to prepare the English reports for the Immigration and Education Committees of the International Council. My American citizenship makes me ineligible for office in the Czechoslovak Women's Council but it RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE leaves me eligible for work and there is plenty of that! Down deep in my heart is a dormant desire to have the Czechoslovak Relief Society officially affiliated with the Czechoslovak Women's Council at some future time, thereby better enabling it to make its contribution of beautiful Latter-day Saint ideals to the womanhood of Czechoslovakia.
Guides in Buying Textiles By Vilate Elliott (Director of Clothing and Textiles Brigham Young University)
THIS paper is not so much to inform you on consumer's education as it is to awaken in your minds the needs of the consumer in identifying the goods she is about to purchase, to make each of us conscious as to what we as consumers may do in aiding standardization: to make us feel the necessity of demanding more forcibly the establishment and maintenance of grades and standards for the materials we purchase: that these grades and standards be attached in plain labels to the goods for the use of the consumer in selection. Heretofore much help has been given the producer, but his technique of production has confused rather than helped the consumer to distinguish differences in makes of goods. Commercial buyers are trained specifically for the particular task of buying, while the household buyer lacks this specialized knowledge. She does not have access to the objective tests now employed by commercial buyers. For example when our government buys cloth for the army and navy it has a staff whose duty it is to test the material for fiber, weave, count of threads per inch in warp and filling, color fast to water and sun, the exact amount of remanufactured fiber used. Tests for its strength, whether it is preshrunk and various other tests not available to the private consumer. Dresses and Materials. Up to date the consumer depends on what little knowledge she has of textiles and the saleswoman who frequently is no better informed than the consumer. The saleswoman may be perfectly honest when she tells you she thinks that dress is all silk and that the silk is not weighted. The consumer likes the dress, it is the style and color she wants, it fits her and the price is right so she takes a chance on its wearing qualities, there is very little to guide either her or the saleswoman. There are some of the better grade stores that are beginning to have labels on their dresses and are willing to stand behind the goods they sell, their prices seem higher, but the amount you are likely to lose through bad buys at stores who do not stand behind a reasonable amount of wear in the goods they sell will make up the difference. If there is a label on your dress, read it carefully, read all the fine print, it may be directions for washing and pressing, GUIDES IN BUYING TEXTILES or it may have some facts about the quality of the material. Ask your saleswoman intelligent questions about fabrics and insist on definite answers. In the better stores clerks and buyers appreciate quality-minded customers and are anxious to explain good features of dress materials. Stores interested in volume sales rather than quality business, sometimes try to evade questions that customers ask. As this is often only a defense for their ignorance, you will be wise not to buy unless you can get the information to which you are entitled. Still another help in judging dresses is training yourself to know by the feel and the appearance of the material whether the quality is good or poor, I know this is difficult as the methods of deceiving are many and devious, and the purchaser finds it difficult to pick out the ones best suited to her needs, for whether a dress is good or bad depends upon its quality and whether it is suited to your needs. Good quality is easier to recognize in cottons than in most fabrics but even so you must choose with care, whether you are buying a service weight or a sheer-cotton. For dress wear, you will want a well woven material so that it will keep its shape and stand up under repeated laundering. Other points on cotton are—Is it heavily sized to make it look firm and closely woven. Rub the material between your hands, notice if little white particles of dust come to the surface, notice how the weave is affected. Heavily sized materials have no body and will not stand up after washing. Are they pre-shrunk, some cottons are stretched so excessively in the manufacture that they shrink even after several washings, but those with labels marked preshrunk are more apt to be satisfactory than those which have not been 237 subject to a shrinking process. Another important factor is fastness to color both for washing and sunfast. Colors have been perfected so much that the best fabrics are color fast. The weave is also important, a standard weave with the threads in the warp and filling very nearly the same count. Novelties are generally higher in price regardless of quality, they often require special machinery, which must be discarded when the fad is passed, this adds to the cost to the consumer; then, sometimes to produce something new and unusual the construction of yarn and the proper balance of weave is sacrificed. Choose the fabric for the qualities that give service rather than fashion alone. Good quality silk dresses are made of "pure dye" silks. By pure dye I mean a fiber that contains no more than 10% of any fiber or substance or weighting other than silk, black silk may contain 15% and still be labeled as a "pure dye." All fabrics containing more than the above-stated percentages of substances and fibers other than silk should be labeled either as "weighted silks" or as a mixture, whatever it may be. This practice is intended to protect both the manufacturer of quality silk and the consumer against cheap silks that compete unfairly with those honestly represented. "Metallic-weighted silks are often difficult to distinguish from pure dyes unless you can test samples, but make observations, read labels and ask questions. Usually heavily weighted silks are priced low in comparison with pure dyes and that is only right, because their value is less. Compare the feel and appearance of two pieces of the same type of fabric. For example weighted flat crepes have more sheen, are heavier to lift and more slippery than pure dyes; 238 satins are hardly as pliable and sheers feel more wiry and harsh when gathered up in your hand. Weighted silks cut along stitching lines and rub into shreds wherever there is friction—as under the arms, on the hips and across the shoulders. They split when simply hanging in a closet. Weighted silks are more troublesome to care for than pure dyes. Wrinkles can hardly be pressed out of them without steam, and the colors are seldom dependable. As you wear weighted silks they feel clammy next to the skin and are uncomfortable in hot weather. Weave is another point to examine when buying a silk dress. You want a weave that is firm and not likely to shift and cause ugly pulling at seams under the arms and at the hips. Shrinking and stretching are two more points to ask about when buying a silk dress. Very crinkly crepes often stretch; those made from tightly twisted yarn draw up. Dresses made of a fabric with a close, regular weave are much more likely to hold their shape. One other point, inasmuch as pure dyes is applied to rayons as well as silk, see that pure dyed silk is marked on the label. If you do not know whether the dress is silk or rayon, ask your clerk, if she does not know ask the buyer, you are entitled to the information. But this information is sometimes difficult to obtain, the following is an example: "A study of fifty ready-made silk dresses ranging in price from $2.98 to $59.50 carried out at New York University and Pennsylvania State College is interesting from the standpoint of difficulty of obtaining accurate information from salespeople. Forty-seven of the fifty clerks selling the dresses misrepresented to the purchaser the amount of weighting present in the fabrics. In some cases even the store buyer was consulted RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and failed to give the correct information. Twenty-three of the clerks stated positively that the fabrics contained no weighting, while the remainder said that they had but very small amounts, if any. Under analysis, however, it was found that the silk of only three of the dresses contained no mineral weighting. Of the remaining 47 dresses, one was found to contain 100% rayon while all but two of the others consisted of approximately one-half or more of tin-phosphate weighting." (From Coles "Standardization of Consumers' Goods.") "Honest, definite information is the best guide to both wise purchasing and wise selling."
Points To Look For When Buying A Dress
1. Style and fabrics suited to your needs.
2. A label that tells what kind of fibers make up the material.
3. Definite information about shrinkage, weighting, or sizing, and color fastness to sunlight and washing.
4. Fabrics made of durable yarns with firm, balanced weave.
5. Stapled fabrics rather than novelties, for economy.
6. All pieces cut the right way of the goods.
7. Full cut with plenty of room.
8. Neat, appropriate, and serviceable workmanship.
9. Allowances for alterations, particularly in growing girls dresses.
When your table linen is marked household linen or domestic linen or any one of the terms used other than pure linen it is not linen, the only label which means anything on linen is marked pure linen, then again it may be spun flax which is made out of the combings of the flax, such linen will eventually wear up rough with small ends and rough places showing on the surface. It is pure GUIDES IN BUYING TEXTILES linen but it will not wear or have the gloss and sheen of a linen made from the long flax threads known as line. Many times our rayons are marked on the selvage celanese, or bemberg, or tubize. If you know these names it will help you to know how to treat it; water has no effect on celanese but it weakens every other rayon; celanese must be pressed with a warm iron only while a hotter iron does not seem to affect other rayons. When we look at a blanket which seems fluffy and wooly, we feel it must belong to the sheep family but having been deceived before we are suspicious, we wonder how much cotton blood runs in its veins masquerading as all wool and a yard wide, we have no way of telling because its percent is not labeled. So often the producer by his trade names confuses the consumer instead of helping him. "Trade names may be misleading. 'Nu-grape' is not made from grapes. 'Belgen' sheets are not made in Belgium or of linen. Of 100 textiles trade terms submitted to 600 women buyers in all parts of the country, 38 were found to be misleading, 23 confusing, and 5 'more or less' misleading. Philippine mahogany is not genuine mahogany. Hudson seal is made from muskrat skins. Silk may be weighted two or three times its original weight with metallic substances. 'Part wool' blankets may contain an almost infinitesimal amount of wool." (Taken from Standardization of Consumers' Goods, by Coles.) If the consumer can identify the characteristics of the material she is about to buy it will help some, but often deliberate statements are made to deceive the public. Probably one of the most common deceptions is in fur, we are told that rabbit fur masquerades under at least seventy different names, it may be made to resemble seal, otter, or beaver, or any other of the numerous names. Its price is placed to fit the fur it represents, there is nothing to help the buyer, he must be guided by his experience or his knowledge, if he has any, of furs. Usually the furrier has masqueraded the rabbit so completely that previous experience, inspection or knowledge will be of little avail. (To be continued)
A Wish By D. S. H.
Soon the spring will come again With leaves unfolding on the trees, With flowers blooming everywhere And in the air the warm spring breeze. (How can I bear to welcome it— Enjoy its beauty and its cheer— When my brave lad who loved it too Has gone away and left me here?) Soon the spring will come again With lovers walking down the lane, Thrilled with the endless dreams of youth, Repeating still, the old refrain: (Help me, dear Lord, to understand— Cleanse me from bitterness and woe; Remembering that Thou leadest me Smiling and hopeful let me go.)
Notes from the Field
MRS. PHILETUS JONES AND DAUGHTERS Zion Park Stake:
THE above picture is a most interesting one to Relief Society women. It is of the mother and daughters in the family of Philetus Jones, former Bishop of the Rockville Ward. Sister Jones is at present an officer in the Rockville Ward Relief Society, and her eldest daughter is President of the Springdale Ward organization. It is from families of this type that the great strength and power of Relief Society has been developed. In addition to the mother and daughters there are three fine sons who are all active in Church work. The Project is receiving special attention in this enterprising stake. Some of the wards have adopted the practice of responding to the roll call by giving the number of chapters of the Bible which have been read during the week. Others are not only reading the chapters, but they have pledged themselves to tell each story to some members of the family. It has been recommended by the stake officers that the Relief Society presidents ask the Bishops to cooperate with them in permitting some member of the organization to discuss the subject for a few months in Sacrament Meeting. On January 27, a very beautiful pageant, "The Books of the Bible," was presented by the Relief Society. It is felt that the influence of this will be very far reaching.
Panguitch Stake
A very interesting item which has to do with the Relief Society Magazine comes to the office from the Panguitch Stake. Sister Sarah LeFevre has subscribed for the Bulletin and the Relief Society Magazine since the beginning of its publication. She has been very careful to study the issues and then preserve NOTES FROM THE FIELD them, so that they are in a most excellent condition. These were donated to the Panguitch Stake Relief Society Library on condition that the stake have them bound. The work committee, through its chairman, took up the work of raising money to pay for the binding. A very clever method was devised. Each member was asked to sew a patch on an old shirt, covering the donation the individual wished to make. The Relief Society women took the old shirts to the homes where they were covered with bright colored patches holding the contributions. The shirts became quite colorful and heavy with the money contributed. In the Spring "Aunt Sarah" took the Magazines and money to Salt Lake, where twenty beautiful volumes were bound in the colors red and gold. These lovely books fill one shelf in the new Relief Society library.
Oquirrh Stake:
A MOST unique example of the attention which is being directed to the Bible study in the Project, comes to us in the form of a recipe for a Bible Cake. This may be the source of much interest to do the research necessary to find the ingredients of the cake, and it is an excellent way to familiarize one's self with the different books. A lively game may be realized from a study of the Bible Cake. We can vouch for the very delicious quality of the cake, as a sample of it was brought to the office by the enterprising stake offering the recipe.
BIBLE CAKE 4½ cups 1st Kings—Chapter 4 Verse 22. 1 cup of Judges—Chapter 5 Verse 25 (last clause.) 2 cups of Jeremiah—Chapter 6 Verse 20. 241 2 cups of 1st Samuel—Chapter 30 Verse 12. 2 cups of Nahum—Chapter 3 Verse 12. 2 cups of Numbers—Chapter 17 Verse 8. 2 tb. Of 1st Samuel—Chapter 14 Verse 25. ½ t. Of Leviticus—Chapter 2 Verse 13. 6 of Jeremiah—Chapter 17 Verse 11. ½ cup of Judges—Chapter 4 Verse 19. 2 t. Of Amos—Chapter 4 Verse 5. Season to taste with 2nd Chronicles—Chapter 9 Verse 9.
Raft River Stake:
THE great success of the Relief Society Project is in evidence in the Raft River Stake, which has occasioned the composition of poetry, and stimulated wide interest in the study of the scriptures. This stake has found it very satisfactory to limit the study of the Project for the year, as suggested by the General Board. Instructions are given to ward officers at Union Meeting, and each ward is being visited by stake officers; all of these efforts tending to increase the desire for scriptural reading and study. A well prepared talk was given in Sacrament Meeting in each ward, and the importance of the Project has been endorsed by the Priesthood and by the Church membership in general. The Bishops of the wards have done all they could to forward the plan, and have used scriptural readings, stories and talks upon biblical subjects during the regular Sunday evening meetings. In order to keep informed as to what is being done each ward secretary sends to the stake secretary a quarterly report covering the activities in this line. A very successful Visiting Teachers' Convention, and an exhibition 242 of handwork was held in October in connection with the regular Union Meeting. The convention for the teachers occupied the morning hours, and there was a splendid response from ward officers and visiting teachers. The round table discussion of the teachers' duties and problems and opportunities, together with the responsibilities of the hostess proved very stimulating. Luncheon was served to all attending the convention. The repast was furnished by the different wards. The art display, which was a very attractive feature, was extensive and beautiful beyond expectations. Much encouragement and increased interest in the work and business part of the Relief Society program followed this wonderfully fine exhibition.
Utah Stake:
FROM all parts of the Relief Society reports come as to the great benefit our Relief Society people received from their participation in Leadership Week at the Brigham Young University. The following very delightful little account of a division of the work comes from our General Board Member, Sister Jennie B. Knight: "During Leadership Week the Utah Stake Relief Society had a display at the Brigham Young University of many beautiful and practical articles which had been made from old things. Part of their Work and Business Day project for the past year was 'New things for Old.' Mrs. Bessie E. Gourley, Supervisor, gave instructions each afternoon in how to make the various articles. It is her theory that nothing will rest the mind like work with the hands. If one is creating beauty, she is creating happiness. "From the great interest shown by the women who attended the demonstration, it is evident that many things which might have been discarded will be put to practical use and hours of happiness be spent in creating articles of beauty for the comfort and adornment of the home."
San Juan Stake:
FROM another part of our extensive Relief Society field comes an account of the great success of the Project. The following is a brief outline of the methods used by this stake:
1. Placards printed and placed in the Relief Society halls containing similar inscriptions as "Back to the Scriptures," "Seek the Scriptures," etc., etc.
2. Short talks in Relief Society and regular Fast Meetings on Project by returned missionary, older woman, member of Bishopric, etc.
3. Dramatizations in work group or other meetings.
4. Contests: Quotation games, references, etc.,
5. A committee appointed for each book in each ward.
6. Teachers carry message of Project to home and bring in reports of what is being accomplished.
7. Want sisters to know origin, background, etc.
8. Reading done according to abilities of individual family.
9. Have illustrated stories and scrap books for the child.
10. Talks on value of Project in Union and Sacrament Meetings, also reports of what is being done elsewhere.
11. Each ward assigned a pageant on each of the books to be exchanged among all wards will have to be changed to pageants on Old Testament. )
12. We ask for a report from each ward at Union Meeting as to what has been and is being done. We also give other suggestions.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND President First Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emma A. Empey Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Mary Connelly Kimball Manager Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. XXII APRIL, 1935 No. 4
EDITORIAL: When April Comes
EACH month brings its delights and its special days. April is a month of gladness and of new life Each clod seems to quicken under the sun's bright rays, and seeds spring up in verdure. Trees put on their green dresses and their glorious blossoms. The churches give forth their Easter messages and from choirs everywhere the glorious tidings "He is risen" ring out. To the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the month brings its annual Conference. From all the Stakes of the Church and from many Missions come men and women hungering for the bread of life. They have a few days of rejoicing. They hear the Church Leaders give inspired admonition, counsel and direction, then they return to their homes filled and ready to take up life's labors with new courage, because they are better fitted to meet its problems. April also brings the Relief Society Conference. Practically every Stake is represented and this great work given impetus and new life. So we rejoice when April comes with its joyous inspiration and benefits.
Lessons for Next Season
WE are very pleased to announce that in our next issue (May) we shall begin publishing our lessons for next season. We are sure our class teachers, especially, will be glad to have the lessons published so much earlier than we have done heretofore, so that they can read and plan their work during the summer months. They can also see early 244 what the entire course is and make their outlines knowing what will follow. We hope our members whose subscriptions expire in the spring will renew at once, and that those who RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE are not on our mailing list will secure these Magazines as they come out, and that they will put them carefully away so that they will be ready for our study work in the fall.
"Can Nations Be Neighbors?"
WE were honored March 4th to the 6th by a visit from Miss Lena Madesin Phillips, President of the National Council of Women. She spoke on "Can Nations be Neighbors"? Before a large and deeply interested audience in the ballroom of the Hotel Utah on March 4th. She pointed out the cataclysmic changes that have taken place during the last hundred years that have brought the world closer together. Also the present conditions that must be rectified before neighborliness can exist between nations. She paid the West a tribute when she said that she felt sure leadership must come increasingly from its precincts, because the West has kept its standards more than has the East. If the United States would be a good neighbor, she said, it must first set its own house in order and add to its economic security. It must keep peace within its own borders. There are at present 13,000,000 unemployed in this country, one family out of six are on relief of some sort. Surely terrible as is the condition, thinking, determined people can remedy it. If people realized that from 1919 to 1929, 12% of every dollar earned went for taxes, in 1932 20%, in 1933 25-30%, they would pay more attention to what is going on and how the money is being expended. The education of the people is the only hope of a democracy. 200,000 rural schools have been forced to close their doors, twelve and one-quarter million children forced out of school. Greed, fear and a straight spirit of nationalism will cause war. The propaganda of munition makers is also a fruitful source of war. If we would have neighborliness, we must pay the price. We need the courage of our pioneer forefathers. We must recondition our own souls to the ideals that may flower in economic security.
Foreign Mission Lessons
GREAT satisfaction is felt by the General Board and by the officers and members of our foreign mission Relief Societies in the fact that uniform lessons are now provided and have already been sent for next season's work. This is the first time in the history of our organization that this has been done. The lessons for the foreign missions cannot take as much space as those published in our Magazine, so the theological lessons have been abridged. Health lessons similar to those studied last year and literary lessons suitable for each country have been written. We are sure our sisters in foreign lands will be glad to know that they are studying the same theological EDITORIAL lessons as those studied by the Relief Society women throughout the Church, that the same health lessons are being taken in many countries, 245 and they will enjoy studying the literature of their own lands. May every success attend them in this work.
Leadership Week
It is always a joy to participate in the Brigham Young University Leadership Week. It has long been an outstanding event in the lives of thousands who are benefited by it. This year the theme, "The Building of Zion," was beautifully carried out. We deeply appreciate the courtesy extended by the school authorities in having a Relief Society hour each day and a beautiful display of handwork furnished by the Utah Stake. We were glad to meet so many of our Relief Society workers and hope that another year we shall be able to give more assistance in our work than we have ever done before.
A Ripe Old Age
THE "School of Maturates" of Oklahoma City of 800 members, all of whom are 70 years or over, think it is an easy thing to live to a ripe old age if you know how. These are the rules they have outlined: Take a walk in the open air each day. Keep the blood alkalinized by managed diet. Attend church or make a social call at least once a week. Pursue a personal hobby or light daily task. Maintain faith in life, people and the Infinite Goodness. Certainly these rules would make for a happy life and tend to prolong its duration.
Book Notice
THE Strange Adventures of Jimmy Microbe" written by Virginia Budd Jacobsen and Lyman L. Daines, M. D., illustrated by Kay Russon, fascinates children. They want to read it again and again. It is a most valuable aid in the formation of good health habits. Truths it so pleasingly teaches reach the child's inner consciousness and he is willing to embody them in his life. A little girl who had been forced to drink milk, after she had this book read to her, drank it willingly, as she began to realize the value of milk to her. The fact that the book points out the good as well as the bad microbes makes the children all the more alert to be careful and to protect themselves from the injurious ones. No one could read this book without gaining great benefit. Price $1.00. Deseret Book Co.
The Magazine Drive
Reports of Elko and Carlin, of the California Mission, were sent to President Hinckley, but not received by her, hence we publish them herewith: Elko, with 26 members, secured 30 subscriptions—115%. Blanche Jones, Magazine Agent. Carlin, with 16 members, secured 14 magazines—87%. Velda Giles, Magazine Agent. We congratulate these branches on their excellent work.
Lesson Department (First Week in June)
Theology and Testimony
LESSON IX
ZION'S CAMP
1. General Considerations. In order to grasp the full import of the Zion's Camp movement, it will be necessary to bear in mind the general condition of the Church at that time. It will be recalled that Oliver Cowdery and others were sent as missionaries to the Lamanites as early as the autumn of 1830. Enroute the missionaries stopped for a short time in the vicinity of Kirtland, Ohio, and established a branch of the Church. From this place they went to western Missouri where they were joined by the Prophet in July of 1831. Immediately after the arrival of the Prophet the Lord made it known that Independence, Missouri, should become the "center place" of Zion, also that the great temple should be built at that place. (See Doc. And Cov. Sec. 57.)
2. Here the Saints were solemnly commanded to keep the laws of the land, as witness the following: "Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land. Wherefore, be subject to the powers that be, until he reigns whose right it is to reign, and subdues all enemies under his feet." (Doc. And Cov. 58:21, 22.) On the second day of August, 1831, Sidney Rigdon—acting under direction of the Prophet—dedicated the land "unto the Lord for a possession and inheritance for the Saints, and for all the faithful servants of the Lord to the remotest ages of time." (See Hist. Of the Church, Vol. I, p. 196.) The following day the Prophet dedicated the temple site at Independence, and a few days later he and his companions started on their return journey to Kirtland.
3. For a short time the branch of the Church set up at Independence gained rapidly both in numbers and in local influence. The period of well-being, however, was of short duration, for trouble soon arose both from within and without. As pointed out earlier by the Prophet, the general citizenry of western Missouri was none too desirable, consisting as it did in large measure of uncultured frontiersmen, generously sprinkled with individuals seeking to evade the law.
4. Within such an environment the Saints were neither welcome nor at ease. Then too there were certain members of the Church whose wisdom was not beyond criticism. Bad feelings thus soon arose, and in November of 1833 the Saints were compelled at the hands of a merciless mob to flee from their homes in Jackson County and find what shelter they could in the country on the north side of the Missouri River. The weather was unusually severe, and in consequence the suffering was extreme. Twelve hundred souls were thus forced from their homes, many of whom died from exposure and the abuses heaped upon them by the merciless mob.
5. Origin of Zion's Camp. When LESSON DEPARTMENT word of this outrage reached the Prophet at Kirtland, he immediately set about to obtain redress for the stricken Saints. His efforts, however, were apparently of little avail. Farcical efforts were made by certain officials of Missouri to enforce the law, but of course without success.
6. Then, singularly enough, the Lord gave a revelation, in the form of a parable, containing the following: "And the lord of the vineyard said unto one of his servants: Go and gather together the residue of my servants, and take all the strength of mine house, which are my warriors, my young men, and they that are of middle age also among all my servants, who are the strength of mine house, save those only whom I have appointed to tarry; and go ye straightway unto the land of my vineyard, and redeem my vineyard; for it is mine; I have bought it with money. Therefore, get ye straightway unto my land; break down the walls of mine enemies; throw down their tower, and scatter their watchmen. And inasmuch as they gather together against you, avenge me of mine enemies, that by and by I may come with the residue of mine house and possess the land. And the servant said unto his lord: When shall these things be? And he said unto his servant: When I will; go ye straightway, and do all the things whatsoever I have commanded you. * * * And his servant went straightway, and did all the things whatsoever his lord commanded him; and after many days all things were fulfilled." (Doc. And Cov. 101:55-62.)
7. Concerning the number of those who should go up to Zion for the relief of their stricken brethren, the Lord later said: "If you cannot obtain five hundred seek diligently that peradventure you may obtain three hundred. And if ye cannot obtain three hundred, seek diligently that peradventure you may obtain one hundred." (Doc. And Cov. 103:32, 33.) The commandment was given, however, for the party not to leave with numbers less than one hundred.
8. Preparation for the Journey. On the same day that the last quoted revelation was received, namely, February 24, 1834, the High Council of the Church met at Kirtland to listen to the report of Lyman Wight and Parley P. Pratt, who had just arrived from Missouri. After the report had been heard the Prophet arose and announced that he was going to Zion to assist in its redemption. The Council sanctioned his going, and some thirty to forty of those present volunteered to accompany him. Two days thereafter he set out on a long preaching tour to obtain further volunteers, his journey taking him through various parts of Ohio and western New York.
9. On the first day of May, 1834, according to prearranged plan, the initial contingent of some twenty volunteers left Kirtland for New Portage, about fifty miles to the westward. The Prophet with a much larger company joined them at this place on the 6th. The combined companies consisted of more than one hundred thirty men, with twenty wagons for baggage and supplies. At this place the Prophet divided the Camp into groups or companies of twelve, consisting in general of the following: Two cooks, two firemen, two tent men, two watermen, one runner, two wagoners, and horsemen, and one commissary. Each company elected its own captain, who in turn assigned the men to their various posts. Arrangements were made for the Camp to arise at the sound of the morning trumpet at four o'clock. Every morning and evening the men knelt in their tents and implored the Lord for his guidance and blessing.
The March of Zion's Camp. The march of Zion's Camp thus really began from New Portage, May 8, 1834. The wagons were nearly filled with baggage, and accordingly the men had to travel mostly on foot. Moreover, the roads were in extremely poor condition, so much so that in many places it was necessary to fasten ropes to the _ wagons to haul them across rivers, through sloughs, and out of mud holes. Under such conditions progress was necessarily very difficult and slow. 11. Then too, in spite of the fact that strenuous efforts were made to obtain ample and proper food, yet at times the efforts were not successful. Moreover, it will be recalled that the Church had been organized only four years, and therefore that none of the members of the Camp had been prepared through long periods of training to endure hardship without complaint, such as more mature experience would enable them to do. 12. It is not surprising to learn, therefore, that the journey was not unmarked by complaint and dissatisfaction. Indeed on more than one occasion the unrest was sufficiently pronounced to call down a rebuke from the Lord. The Prophet relates that on one occasion discord had arisen between Sylvester Smith and others of the brethren. Although he attempted to placate those involved, yet he was unable to do so. Finding the feeling so intense he told them that misfortunes and hindrances would come upon them before they left that place. The next RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE morning almost every horse in the camp was so badly foundered that they could scarcely be led to water. 13. On one occasion the Prophet climbed to a wagon wheel and exhorted the people to faithfulness and humility. He declared that the Lord had revealed to him that a scourge would come upon the camp in consequence of factions and unruly spirits among them, and that "they would die like sheep with the rot." Nevertheless, if they would repent and humble themselves, the scourge in great measure might be turned away. (See History of the Church, Vol. II, p. 80.) 14. Twenty-one days later, June 24, 1834, cholera, in a most virulent form, broke out in the Camp, and continued its ravages for about four days, during which time fourteen of the sixty-eight saints who were attacked died. The brethren then covenanted that from that time forward they would keep the commandments of God, and the plague was stayed. (See History of Church, Vol. II, p. 120.) 15. Throughout the entire journey, the Prophet maintained the majestic leadership of his calling. Like the prophets of old, he appeared to be able to see the end from the beginning, and repeatedly promised his associates that if they would keep the commandments of God no good thing would be withheld from them. But, as compared with many of his associates he was like a giant oak among saplings. On the other hand it must not be forgotten that many of his companions were stalwart men of God. 16. The Apparent Outcome. Throughout nearly the entire journey the Camp was seriously hampered by enemies. Repeatedly spies came into Camp for the purpose of discovering its purposes and hindering LESSON DEPARTMENT ts progress. Again and again the main route of travel was not followed, so that those who were unfriendly might be avoided. As the destination was approached, conditions became even worse. 17. Meantime the Saints in Missouri had importuned the civil authorities for redress, but largely without avail. At first they were led to believe that they might be permitted to return to Jackson County, but it soon became apparent that' such was not to be the case. 18. Greatly exaggerated reports of the size and purpose of the oncoming Camp had the effect of arousing the enemies of the Church to further acts of violence. Accordingly, as the Camp neared its destination it was divided into a number of small units, and a little later disbanded. Some of its members settled in Missouri, and others returned té their homes in the east. 19. In the expressed judgment of many of those who were not faithful to God and his cause, neither the object for which the Camp was organized nor the purpose for which the journey was made was attained. They had doubtless thought of the redemption of Zion in terms of "blaring trumpets and falling walls," but in all this they were mistaken. Instead, the Camp entered Clay County largely unheralded and unknown, only to quietly disband and return. To the unfaithful this was failure and defeat. 20. The Lord's Purpose. There can be no doubt that the outcome would have been far different if the saints of the Camp and also those residing in Missouri had been faithful to the commandments of God, as witness the following: "Were it not for the transgressions of my people, speaking concerning the Church and not individuals, they 249 might have been redeemed even now. But behold, they have not learned to be obedient to the things which I required at their hands." (Doc. And Cov. 105:2, 3.) The Lord's promises are always contingent upon the faithfulness of those to whom they are made. He says: "I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." (Doc. And Cov. 82:10. See also 124:47.) 21. Then it appears that through the entire matter the Lord also had quite another purpose. Concerning the Camp, whom he characterized as the strength of his house, he says: "Tnasmuch as there are those who have hearkened unto my words, have prepared a blessing and an endowment for them, if they continue faithful. I have heard their prayers, and will accept their offerings; and it ls expedient in me that they should be brought thus far for a trial of their faith. (Doc. And Cov. 105:18, 19.) A year later, when the Twelve Apostles and the First Quorum of the Seventy were about to be called, the Lord directed that they should be chosen from among those who had proved themselves faithful in Zion's Camp. Surely, this alone was ample justification for the entire Zion's Camp movement. God sometimes' moves in most unexpected ways to bring about his purpose. 22. In Conclusion. The facts relating to Zion's Camp would lose much of their value if the student does not apply them to his own life. It is apparent without argument that individuals must be tested and proved before they are ready to be chosen for responsible positions Moreover, the matter of proving an individual is ordinarily most accurately accomplished when he is not aware that the test is being made. 250 Most anyone would act decorously if he knew that a highly coveted award was dependent upon his conduct. It is said that the average individual reaches his best when he is on "parade," and becomes his real self when he thinks that he is unobserved. There is no escape, however, from the omniscience of God. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Explain the justice of God's statement that he is not bound when men do not obey his commandments. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 2. Why would it have been impossible to redeem Zion when the people were unprepared for it? 3. Enumerate the various ways in which the Zion's Camp movement tested the faith of those who participated. 4, Why are tests most reliable when they are made without the individual's knowledge? 5. Have various members of the class give their opinions of the outstanding lessons to be learned from the Zion's Camp movement. Literature (For Third Week in June) LIFE AND LITERATURE THE WORLD OF Books "Dreams, books, are each a world; and books we know Are a substantial world, pure and good. Round these, with tendrils strong as flesh and blood Our pastime and our happiness will grow." N the Book of Literature is recorded "The best that is known and thought in the world." The troubadors and minstrels of the ages have sung of man's deeds of bravery and daring. Golden ages of national expression have been embossed upon the books' eternal pages which like many-hued tapestries depict both men and climes. The cultivation of the human, mind in quest of Truth has been fearlessly pursued, and man endowed with spiritual vision has evolved and recorded systems of hope and _ philosophy. The wisdom of the ages has passed into the beings of master spirits and they have become the truth-tellers of the world. The voices that haunt —Wordsworth. The pages of the "Book of Literature" chant a message to man bidding him "accept the holiness that makes life eternity." "Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul! As the swift seasons roll! Leave thy low-vaulted past! Let each new temple, nobler than the last, Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast, Till thou at length art free, Leaving thine outworn shell by life's unresting sea." —"The Chambered Nautilus." ~ The Adventure, Life Life is man's greatest adventure. LESSON DEPARTMENT As a traveler upon an uncharted road, he meets ever-changing horizons, physical, mental, and spiritual. By power, Man, the adventurer, becomes Man, the conqueror. As such he has sailed beyond the sunset ever in quest of "life to drink to the lees." One by one nations have become conquerors and conquered in turn. The world of thought, ever elusive, has been slowly conquered by man. Truth, the ultimate goal of understanding, has yielded but few of its treasures in conquest. Thinkers like Socrates, Galileo, and Newton have guided man to the supremacy attained in the realm of knowledge. Part of an universal plan, man has sought to understand himself and his place in the divine scheme. To know the meaning of honor, virtue, and morality was but a step in his spiritual progression; to know the ultimate destiny of man was more; "to know God and his purposes was all." From time to time, God has spoken to man of his purposes, always to the end that man attain his own perfection for ''as God is Man may become." Frigates and Chariots "There is no frigate like a book To take us lands away, Nor any courser like a page Of prancing poetry. This traverse may the poorest take Without oppress of toil; How frugal is the chariot That bears the human soul!" The words of Emily Dickenson make books the frigates and chariots of the world of literature. The world of books is a large and beautiful world, opened by the golden door of understanding. Countless have been the expressions of the wealth of this world. Horizons are pushed back as the reader becomes a world 251 citizen. There are new companions always waiting to greet the traveler. In a thousand ways the great passions that move the heart of man are revealed. The secrets of the mind and soul of humanity are awaiting the adventurer. Pleasure, information, and inspiration are the gifts of books as they interpret for us the products of civilization. The words of William Ellery Channing voices an unusual expression of appreciation: "God be thanked for books, they make us heirs of the life of the past. They give to all who will faithfully use them the spiritual presence of the best and greatest of our race. No matter how poor I am; no matter though the prosperous of my time will not enter my obscure dwelling—if Milton will sing of Paradise; and Shakespeare open to me the worlds of imagination and the workings of the human heart; if Franklin will enrich me with his practical wisdom,—I shall not pine for want of intellectual companionship." From the world of books "the soul selects its own society," and from the aspirations and experiences there recorded receives a priceless gift. "Mortal, they softly say, Peace to thy heart! We, too, yes, mortal, Have been as thou art, Hope-lifted, doubt-expressed, Seeing in part, Tried, troubled, tempted, Sustained as thou art." —Goethe. Great literature is animated by a great purpose. "Books of Power" —is the name given to the choicest masterpieces of the world of books. The master-spirits of literature have written for all men of all time. Homer, Dante, Shakespeare, Milton, Goethe, (to mention no others) Zee are a glorious company, their message is universal. Countless travelers have explored the world of Books. Some linger on the way and investigate many trails and paths in search of truth and beauty from the "relic wealth richer than golden nines" from the immortal singers of "the choir invisible," whose music is the gladness of the world. "Companionable Books" is the classification given by Henry Van Dyke, the American literary critic and author, to "books that will bear reading often, and the more slowly you read them the better you enjoy them; books not only tell how things look and how people behave, but also interpret nature and life to you in language of beauty and power touched with the personality of the author so that they have a real voice audible to your spirit in the silence." In a world dominated by commercialism, books are produced to sell. The vogue for "best sellers" has created a strange conflict in the realm of literature. These books may or may not have literary value. Thus, the ordinary reader is lost in the maze of contemporary books. The need for literary guidance, therefore, is a great need. Asa re-. Sult among the past decade many series of essays on books have been published, directing the reader to the choice books of the ages as: ''Companionable Books," '"The Man Behind the Book," Henry Van Dyke; "Much Loved Books," James O. Bennett; "The Delight of Great Books," John Erskine; "Modern English Books of Power," "Comfort Found in Old Books," "Great Spiritual Writers of America," George Hamilton Fitch. The essays in the series discuss the books selected by the author in the language of the layman, thus guiding the reader to understanding and appreciation. On the other hand, there 'motive. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is a definite need for guidance in the field of contemporary literature. The book review sections of many Sunday editions of newspapers and of magazines is helping much in this regard. The fact remains, however, that many such reviews are too critical for the ordinary reader. There is no more genial literary guide for the "common reader," the reader the great Samuel Johnson loved, than William Lyon Phelps. This series of essays on novelists, contemporary, English, American and Russian, are best known. His inonthly reviews of new books "As I Like It' is accepted as a dependable guide-post to follow out of the labyrinth of contemporary publications. "Behind every book is the man." Books as parts of life are never separable from the mind and character of the author. Emerson, the American philosopher and essayist in "The Uses of Great Men," eulogized the greatness of literary men and the nobility of the mission to which they are called. No great literary masterpiece can be born of an unworthy Many motives have directed individuals to authorship: interpretation of life, self-expression, pleasure of the reader, fame, economic benefit. Many masters of literature, while interpreting life, have been obliged to write for bread, while many have died in poverty, pen in hand. One is reminded what a small sum, a few pounds, Milton received for the great epic poem "Paradise Lost" in which he strove to justify the ways of God to man. Also, one remembers with what misgivings Mary Ann Evans beeame George Eliot in order to give a message to the world asking no other~ reward than to "live again in minds made better" for her effort. The most worthy of all motives for authorship must always be to interpret LESSON DEPARTMENT life. From the Greeks we learn that, the poet, his soul attuned to the infinite, received by inspiration his songs. Genius we know never made a poet alone. Today many poets are singing bravely. But the poets singing as with the works of the contemporary dramatists, novelists, essayists and biographers, must meet the standard "To open new windows to the soul" to render a worthy stewardship. The Periodical and Modern Life Modern life owes much of its vigor and versatility to the periodical. Interest in men and their affairs, social problems, science, and literature have grown as civilization has grown in complexity. From a small weekly news-letter exchange between Paris and London early in the eighteenth century the periodical industry has grown to a great commercial enterprize. Not very long since a book or a magazine subscription was a rare treasure. With what care such selections were made. How carefully was the enjoyment, information, or pleasure estimated. Today with a multiplicity of interests to cater to, an amazing service is rendered. It is true that popular demand has much to do in determining the nature and quality of magazine literature. Yet the fact remains that there is so much that is enjoyable and educational which remains for the average reader. An interesting survey conducted by the American Library Association of literary users of magazines reveals the twelve most used magazines to be as follows: American Magazine, Atlantic Monthly, Current History, Good Housekeeping, Harper's, Literary Digest, National Geographic Magazine, Popular Mechanics, St. Nicholas, Scientific American, Scribner's Magazine, World's Work. 253 This list supplemented by the well known English periodicals: Blackwood's Magazine, The Contemporary Review, The Manchester Guardian, The London Times, provide a dependable guide for the reader. An excellent guide to all magazine reading is found in "The Reader's Digest" and "The Magazine Digest" which give digests of the best articles from the chief contemporary magazines. To the Latter-day Saint there is no more worthy expression of idealism than that found in the publications of the different Church organizations. The Mission of Literature If literature is the artistic embodiment of "the best that is known and thought in the world," then its mission is that the life of man may be perfected. Through the centuries man's greatest teacher has been experience. Thus behavior patterns dominate life, national, religious, social, and family patterns. In the interest of individuality, thought and action, men have withdrawn from participation in the world of affairs. Philosophy, science, invention and literature have been enriched by intensive individualism. Today man's world grows in complexity even with each day's dawn. "To see life steadily and see it whole" must ever be the goal of individual and author alike. To be able to select from the complexities of modern life that which will contribute to the individual's highest development is a task heretofore inconceivable in difficulty. What then of the mission of literature in our world? How necessary is it that that which expresses truth or that which is beautiful in itself be chosen. Literature is a living thing, a vitalizing thing. If it is as Carlyle states, "The thought of thinking souls," it 254 is an aspiration and an inspiration. To find and reveal literature to men is the task of literary teachers and interpreters. As "the better part of every man's education is that which he gives himself" what then is the service literature can render to man? "The intelligence of man is coexistent with God." "God from on high lights up the way For man to go that's best; He makes the possibility, And Man must do the rest. "God moves by laws that never pause, In all His wide domain Man must obey the higher law or stay Where lower law doth reign." —George H. Brimhall. Suggestions for a Program This lesson is planned to close the series "Life and Literature." During the study all types of literature, universal and national themes, and many of the great literary masters have been considered. Prophets, teachers, poets, dramatists, novelists and biographers have yielded to us inspiration, information, and enjoyment. Out of intensity of life comes worthy expression. Truly the Latter-day Saints have demonstrated this truth. To their credit much worthy literary expression has recorded their idealism and history. A program selected from this body of literature would be a fitting climax to the series "Life and Literature." On the other hand, a program could be planned using universal or national expression. (Note: Both types of program are planned for in the following outline. ) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I. Music A. 1. "O My Father," Snow. 2. "School Thy Feelings," Penrose. Searching for an answer to the great universal mystery, pre-existence, the Latter-day Saint poetess gave to the world a poem unparalleled in intensity of expression in lyric poetry. Similarly, Charles W. Penrose, out of an experience in self-discipline, was able to pen for all mankind a lesson. B. Selections from the Songs of Robert Burns. Robert Burns, a peasant, born in a cottage, known to the countryside as a philanderer and roysterer, all of a sudden broke into singing. Burns sang of the fields that nurtured him, of the women whose hearts he had broken, and of the firesides that sheltered him. His songs are his living biography. They ring with his laughter, they are marked with his tears, and are tragic records of errors and regrets, rebellion and defeat. As he sang of his own longing unfulfilled, he sang as the nightingale sings, exquisitely, sweetly. II. Reading The Parable of the Talents, New Testament. III. As a Man Thinketh No type of writing comes as directly from the mind of man as does the essay. Its appeal is to thoughtful readers. The essay, a "prose lyric" becomes to the reader an intellectual or emotional excursion with a companionable guide, an essayist. The essay is an ancient form of literature although its greatest development has occurred within the past three centuries. Hebrew literature furnishes many examples of LESSON DEPARTMENT the essay form upon subjects which deal with the problems of life— friendship, wisdom, pride, gossip, vengeance, love. Montaigne, a French lawyer, revived the form in 1580, using it for kindly comments upon the experiences of life. Today the essay is one of the most popular literary forms due largely to the vogue of the magazine into which it fits because of its nature—a short personal treatment of a subject. As the essayist says, I think, 1 feel, I grieve, I joy, I admire, I love. He sings himself as truly in prose as does the poet in lyric form. From the formal essays such titles as the following are noted: "Studies," Bacon; "Seif-Reliance," Emerson; "The Educated Man,' Newman; "American and Briton,' Galsworthy. The informal essay list contains the following of interest: "The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table," Holmes; "Who Owns the Mountains,' Van Dyke; "A Defense of Nonsense,' Chesterton; "On Doors," Morley; "Adventures in Friendship," Grayson; "The SafetyFirst Dragon," Broun. In our own Latter-day Saint literature we have had no more noted essayist than Dr. George H. Brimhall. With the genial informality of Montaigne he has commented upon everyday life and affairs; with the intensity and clarity of the unknown author of the Book of Ecclesiastes he has proclaimed moral and spiritual truths. A. Selections from the essays of Dr. George H. Brimhall, '""Long and Short Arrows:'* 1. Be Bravely Beautiful. 2. Keep Sweet. *Price $1.25, Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City. Ly) 3. Tomorrow. B. Selections from essays listed in the discussion. IV. Reading—A Story Fiction, in one form or another, is the existing, dominant literary type, "Once upon a time" has attracted listeners in all ages and climes. With the desire for pleasure, the art of fiction has grown apace. Today much that is written is nothing more than a "marketable commodity." Yet the contributions of Scott, Thackeray, Eliot, Hawthorne, Dickens, Dumas are still read and enjoyed. Fiction will have a permanent place in life because what is life but Romance and Realism. The necessity is the production of the highest and best forms. The novel has been called "a pocket stage" upon which we see an interpretation of life. Imagination, the faculty of idealization and of realization, plays an important part in the structure of ideals. The value of the novel or story has in its power to give wholesome pleasure—"'intellectual and artistic luxury." A. 1. From the anthologies of our own Latter-day Saint literature select a simple story to be read which reflects the ideals of our people. B. "Quality," John Galsworthy. C. "American, Sir,' Mary Shipman Andrews. In Retrospect The simple course "Life and Literature" is ended. It has aimed to perform a single task, to look at Life through Literature, hoping that the vision of our own destiny may become clearer and that perchance some particular message of comfort may be gleaned for each individual. 256 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Social Service. (Fourth Week in June) LOUIS PASTEUR AND HIS WORK N his introduction to one of the ] biographies of Louis Pasteur, Dr. William Osler quotes approvingly an anonymous statement which had appeared in the Spectator, an English periodical, that Pasteur "was the most perfect man who has ever entered the Kingdom of Science." This assertion was based partly on the method by which the great scientist made his discoveries, partly on the tremendous importance of his discoveries to humanity, but partly also on the fine characteristics of the man himself. Professor Thomas H. Huxley, a great English scientist, told the London Royal Society that "Pasteur's discoveries alone would suffice to cover the war indemnity of five milliards [$975,000,000] paid by France to Germany in 1870." Huxley of course was thinking only of the services of Pasteur to his country in getting rid of the silkworm disease, which had for years been ruining the silk industry, of his study of diseases of beer and wines, and of his work in saving chickens and sheep from cholera. What Pasteur did in saving human lives, by preventive and curative methods, is beyond all human computation. Yet this man, one of the humblest in spite of his great achievements, was content with less in material goods than the average Frenchman of his time. To the Emperor once, in answer to a question as to why he did not make money out of his discoveries, he answered, "In France scientists would consider that they had lowered themselves by doing 3) so. 1. Main Facts in His Life Louis Pasteur was born in 1822, and he died in 1895, at the age of seventy-three. His birth-place was Dole, in the Jura Province, France, but he grew to manhood in Arbois. His father, aman of excellent character and great common sense, was a tanner. "I owe everything to him," said the son. "When I was young, he kept me from bad company and instilled into me the habit of working and the example of the most loyal and best-filled life." Louis obtained his bachelor's degree when he was not yet eighteen years old, and his doctorate when he was twenty-six. On first graduating, he took up teaching, and he continued in that profession till he was called by the government to devote all his time to scientific research on a pension of about two thousand dollars a year. At one time he was dean of the Faculties of Science at Lille University. In his twenty-seventh year he married the daughter of M. Laurent, the Rector of the Academy of Strasburg. Pasteur was not a physician, as he had wished to be at one time in his career, although he was a member of the Medical Academy—the only one without a medical degree. He was a teacher of chemistry, in which he had specialized at school. As a student he was not particularly brilliant, not even in his favorite subject, chemistry; but this was because his mind was slow, painstaking, and accurate. He never made a positive statement till he was sure of his ground. His parents first and then his wife were forever begging him not to kill himself with work; but he himself complained that "the nights are too long for me." An enthusiastic teacher, he had at first LESSON DEPARTMENT many indifferent pupils, whom he stirred up by such concrete remarks as this: 'Where in your families will you find a young man whose curiosity and interest will not immediately be awakened when you put into his hands a potato, when with that potato he may produce sugar, with that sugar alcohol, with that alcohol ether and vinegar?" Like all great men he was fully aware of his superiority of smund. "My plan of study," he wrote to a friend, "is traced for this coming year. I am hoping to develop it shortly in the most successful manner. I think I have already told you that I am on the verge of mysteries, and that the veil which covers them is getting thinner and thinner." He worked for the future, not the present, as is evident by this: '"A man of science should think of what wiil be said of him in the following century, not of the insults or the compliments of one day." This was an obvious allusion to the opposition which he encountered during most of his life. As to his method of work, he says, "When I am in my laboratory, I begin by shutting the door on materialism and _ spiritualism; I observe facts alone; I seek but the scientific conditions under which life manifests itself."' Perhaps the highest tribute ever paid to him was in these words by M. Biot, an illustrious French scientist of his own day: "He throws light upon everything that he touches!" In these times when every one wants to know what the scientist thinks about God, it is interesting to read this from Pasteur: ''I see everywhere the inevitable expression of the Infinite in the world; through it, the supernatural is at the bottom of every heart. The idea of God is a form of the idea of the Infinite. As long as the mystery of the Infinite weighs on human thought, temples 257 will be erected,  and on the pavement of those temples, men will be seen kneeling, prostrated, annihilated in the thought of the Infinite." 2. The Old and the New Order at Grips Few conflicts in history are more thrilling to read about than the one in which Pasteur fought. Only, in his case, the contest was mostly in the mind, rather than on the battlefield. It was a death-struggle between two theories of disease—the old and the new, and the stake was the welfare of the human race. As soon as men, began to think at all about disease, they looked into the body itself for the cause, although they generally sought its cure outside. This idea came to be expressed in the phrase "'spontaneous generation." That is, it was supposed that the disease always had its origin in the body where the disease was to be found. Sometimes it was known as the "interiority" theory. Dr. Le Fort, a celebrated surgeon of Pasteur's time, put it this way: "I believe in the interiority of the principle of purulent [secreting pus] infection in certain patients; that is why I oppose the extension to surgery of the germ theory." This was said before the Medical Academy, in 1878. Another surgeon defended the traditional doctrine in the case of tuberculosis. Acting on this traditional view of disease, which was universally held at the time, surgeons took no pains to wash their hands before going from one infected patient to another, to disinfect their surgical instruments, or to see that the dressings were pure. Asa result mortality, in operation cases, was frightfully high —often as high as sixty percent. “At the very moment when the surgeon's art was emboldened by being able to' disregard pain, it was arrested, disconcerted, terrified by the fatal 258 failures which supervened after almost every operation." For a time certain kinds of operation were forbidden, because they were "among the attributes of the executioner.'"" In the ambulance ward, during the Franco-Prussian war, "pus seemed to germinate everywhere, as if it had been sown by the surgeon." "When an amputation seems necessary," said one surgeon, "think ten times about it, for too often, when we decide upon an operation, we sign the patient's death-warrant." Indeed, as Dr. Reclus declared, there was a tendency to look upon purulent infection "as an almost divinely instituted consequence of any operation!' Supposing that the fatal results of operations were caused by infected air in the hospital, an isolated house was obtained near Paris for the purpose. But it was soon abandoned. Ten women were taken into the place, and ten coffins were carried out. After that it was called, by the ignorant neighbors, the House of Crime! Pasteur believed the spontaneous theory of disease to be a '"'chimera." Instead he taught that "complications and infection of wounds were caused by their giving access to living organisms and _ infectious germs." Not only the surface of things, but the very air, contained germs. His constant motto was, "Seek the microbe!"' One time, when the Academy was discussing the causes of infection in recently delivered women and when one of the most weighty members was eloquently enlarging on the causes of the epidemic in lying-in hospitals, Pasteur interrupted with—'"None of those things cause the epidemic; it is the nursing and medical staff who carry the microbe from an infected *Life cf Pasteur (Vallery-Radot), pp. 234-36. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE woman to a healthy one." The orator answered, sarcastically, "I fear that microbe will never be found!" Pasteur went to the blackboard, drew a picture of the chain-like organism, and exclaimed, "There, that is what it is like!' And he spoke with such conviction as to stupefy the medical men present. It was on this germ-theory of disease that he acted when, in the late sixties, he saved the silk industry not only of France, but in many other silk-producing countries that, in 1873, he saved the cattle industry, or a very large percent of it; that, in 1880, he saved the chicken industry from ultimate' annihilation; and that, ten years before his death, he discovered the remedy for rabies. It was on this germ-theory, also, that he acted when, in the late seventies, he went to the maternity hospital in Paris, culture tube and _ sterilizing pipet in hand, and came out with ideas that were to make child-bearing comparatively safe. And it was on the basis of this theory of disease that the Pasteur Institute in Paris was established, where hydrophobia might be treated after a bite; for the great scientist had demonstrated the efficacy of his method, by saving the lives of 349 persons out of 350 who had been bitten. Gradually the ideas of Pasteur were taken up and applied by physicians and surgeons in France and other countries—elsewhere first, and then in France. One of the first to adopt the Pasteur theory was the celebrated English surgeon, Joseph Lister. ''Allow me," he said in a letter to Pasteur, in 1874, "to take this opportunity to tender you my most cordial thanks for having, by your brilliant researches, demonstrated to me the truth of the germ theory of putrifaction, and thus furnished me with the principle upon which alone the antiseptic system can be carried LESSON DEPARTMENT out. Should you at any time visit Edinburgh, it would, I believe, give you sincere gratification to seeat our hospital how largely mankind is being benefited by your labors. I need hardly add that it would afford me the highest gratification to show you how greatly surgery is indebted to, you." In the end not only medical men everywhere, but intelligent laymen, accepted the theory as a basis for action where sickness and accident of any kind were concerned. "You have done all the good a man could do on earth," declared one person, in a letter to him and signed "A Mother." "If you will, you can surely find a remedy for the horrible disease called diphtheria. Our children, to whom we teach your name as that of a great benefactor, will owe their lives to you. Forthwith Pasteur bent his efforts to that malady. Another woman handed him money enough for four scholarships "for young men _ without means," so that his work might go on after his death. At a public reception given him three years before he died, in response to the honors that rained upon him from almost every nation, the great man said humbly, "I have done what I could!" 3. Pasteur and Public Health It seems strange that not until the nineteenth century was there anything like a public-health conscience in any nation. Ancient peoples were almost oblivious to the need of a program looking to the general health. But then, even if they had had one, they would have lacked the means of satisfying this need. And the Medieval Period, with its eyes turned heavenward, actually encouraged uncleanliness and disease, as a disciplinary measure, The Dyaks of ancient Borneo used 259 to hang a string, decorated with flags, across the stream as a warning against passing into what we should call a quarantined district. In ancient Persia the magi insisted that stray hairs and nail-parings be buried with the dead, to avoid sickness. It was the Romans who first adopted the public water system for sanitary reasons, and the Greeks had the gymnasium in the Academy of Plato, the Lyceum of Aristotle, and the Cynosarges of Antisthenes. The first public measure that had in mind what we now know as public health was the quarantine against the plagues of the Middle Ages. Not, however, till the rise of modern science, when men acquired confidence in their power over nature, were their serious attempts to make the world a safer place in which to live. This confidence came through the work of such men as Cavendish in chemistry, Franklin in physics, Hutton in geology, Buffon in biology, LaPlace in mathematics and astronomy, Baerhaave in medicine, and Frank in the specific field, of health. John Howard and Elizabeth Fry, as we have seen in previous lessons, had a program in the last third of the eighteenth century for sanitary measures in connection with prisons. In the middle of the nineteenth century Lord Ashley (the Earl of Shaftsbury) extended this public health work to factory employees in England. "It was Edwin Chadwick, however," as a wrter in the Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences assures us, whose influence proved most far reaching. In 1838, while serving as secretary of the Poor Law Commission, he was struck with the extent to which sickness was a factor in producing poverty, and raised the question whether such _ sickness might not be preventable. For the first time in history physicians were employed to study systematically 260 those environmental conditions which might contribute to ill health. These investigations led in 1842 to Chadwick's Report on the Sanitary Conditions of the Laboring Population of Great Britain, which made a profound impression upon the public, both in England and abroad. It initiated a world-wide movement for water supply and sewerage and for the cleaning up of the almost unbelievable filth in the midst of which our forefathers lived—and died." These reforms, suggested by Chadwick, were carried out by John Simon, in the middle of the century. Simon himself made a report of what he had done, in 1868, two years before Pasteur established the microbe origin of disease in the silkworm. 'Twelve years after this, in 1882, Koch described the tubercule bacillus—'"thus for the first time establishing the causative agent of an important human disease." From then on progress was rapid. Bacteriological discoveries multiplied, as one scientist put it,° "like corn popping ina pan." In 1890 a public health laboratory was established by Biggs in New, York City. No longer, therefore, did progress depend upon empericism, but rather upon science mainly. "By 1900 it was clearly recognized that wise public policy demanded the creation of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE competent health authorities and the conferring upon them of ample police powers. These powers were exercised in the main along two major lines: the protection of the public against unsanitary environmental conditions and polluted or offensive food-stuffs—the public health of Chadwick; and the protection of the public against the dissemination from person to person of communicable disease—the public health of Pasteur." 1. Discuss the scientific theory discovered by Pasteur in its relation to the control of disease—tuberculosis, diphtheria, typhoid, yellow fever, child-bed fever, for instance, and to our present quarantine regulations. 2. Discuss the provisions for public health in your community or State.. 3. Summarize as nearly as you can the contribution of Pasteur to human welfare. 4, What traits of character possessed by Pasteur are to be found in the other persons discussed in this course? 5. Show that the work of all the men and women treated in this course grew out of that which Jesus did at the beginning of our Era. In what does the spirit of true religion consist? Mission Lessons LESSON IX. HEALTH AND HOME NURSING Home NurRsiNG "It may be safely said, not that the habit of ready and correct observation will by itself make us useful nurses, but that without it we shall be useless with all our devotion."—Florence Nightingale. N caring for the sick, hospitals are not always available, nor are they always desirable, so, much of this work must be done at home. Great strides have been made in home nursing, now it ls possible to care for a sick person at home in the most up-to-date and approved manner. The love and sympathy we feel for a member of the family who LESSON DEPARTMENT is very sick is very helpful in aiding him to a speedy recovery. The best medical care in the world often fails because the home nursing fails, and the person is neglected, kept in a dark room and not properly cared for. While it is true that a kind and sympathetic understanding should always exist between a sick person, and the home nurse, there are other things of vital importance to assist the patient to get well. It takes so much more than a dose of medicine to make a person well. Sanitary surroundings, fresh air, cleanliness and sunshine are of vital importance in promoting physical and mental comfort. The choice of the sick room is important. The room should be well lighted, properly heated, and as quiet as possible. The best room available should be chosen, preferably one located near the bathroom. The furnishings of the sick room should not be elaborate, but rather simple and always clean. All unnecessary articles of furniture, as draperies, pictures and rugs should be removed from the room during a prolonged illness. The linen should be clean and the bed comfortable, for these things are necessary to the physical comfort of the patient. A grate in the sick room adds much to its ventilation. In the winter-time a grate fire is cheerful and serves to burn the papers and the rags containing the discharges of the patient. A small table placed at the bed side well within the reach of the patient, is necessary to hold the small pieces of gauze or paper napkins which can be used as handkerchiefs. On this table a pitcher of water, a clean glass tumbler and articles of a personal nature may be kept. A small paper bag pinned on the side of the bed well within the reach of the patient should contain the rags 261 and other waste articles which only the patient should handle. The appearance of every sick room is greatly enhanced by a bouquet of flowers or a growing plant. A thermometer should hang in the sick room. The proper temperature of the room is vital to the comfort of the patient. This thermometer should be read frequently and a correct temperature maintained. The proper temperature of the room should be between sixty-five and seventy degrees fahrenheit. You cannot tell the temperature of a room by the way it impresses you. Sick people are very susceptible to extremes in temperature. The room should contain the right amount of moisture. Dry heat irritates the nose and throat and is very uncomfortable. The proper amount of moisture in the room may be maintained by keeping a kettle of water on the stove, or an uncovered basin of water on the gas heater or the radiator. On a very hot day the hanging of a wet sheet in the sick room will reduce the temperature of the room and supply moisture. Every sick room should be supplied with plenty of fresh circulating air. By keeping the window partly open at the top and bottom the impure air may escape from the top and the pure air may come in through the bottom opening. Fresh air does not give a person a cold. In most lung diseases and especially in pneumonia, it is necessary to keep the windows wide open, as the patient is only breathing with part of his lung and the air must be fresh and pure even in the coldest weather. At no time, however, should a patient's bed be in a draft. To avoid this it is sometimes necessary to place a blanket over the head of the bed, or to open a window in the adjoining room to secure proper 262 ventilation. Cold air must not blow directly on the patient. Flies must be kept out of the sick room. They carry disease and annoy the patient. Sunlight is a powerful disinfectant, but should never be permitted to shine directly in the eyes of the sick person. If necessary you may bandage the eyes by using a dark silk stocking, thus keeping the light out. Moist cloths should be used in dusting, and should also cover the broom so that the patient is not distressed by air laden with dust. Soiled linen and dirty dishes should not be left in the sick room. The mental comfort of a patient should always be maintained. Whispering or loud talking disturbs his peace. Family discussions and unpleasant observations disturb the patient and retard his recovery. Keep all news away from the patient that you think might upset him. Don't tell the sick person of your troubles, he has plenty of his own. Visitors are often a very disturbing problem. It is true that some sick people seem to thrive on having friends around, but in general guests are disturbing and the fewer visitors sick patients have, the better off they are. There should not be more than two visitors in the sick room at any one time. Members of the family should divide the time allotted to the caring for the patient, among themselves. It is much better that one person be responsible. "What is everybody's business, is nobody's business." A sick person may suffer neglect and confusion when all the members of the family are trying to wait upon him at once.
BATHING THE PATIENT Close the windows of the sick room twenty minutes before exposing the patient for a bath. A sick RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE person must have a daily bath unless otherwise ordered by the doctor. A bath is always refreshing. It aids the skin in getting rid of many impurities. Remember that a bath must include the care of the nose, the mouth, the eyes and the hair. And preparation for the care of these must be made before the daily bath is begun. The teeth must not be neglected, and should be cleaned daily with tooth paste and a good brush. A mouth wash must be provided. A teaspoonful of salt to a glass of water may be used for this purpose. Lemon juice and glycerine added to a glass of water also makes a very acceptable mouth wash, the proportions are lemon juice, one part, to glycerine, two parts. Boric acid solution should be made by adding two teaspoonfuls of boric acid crystals to a glass of hot water, and it can be used as a mouth wash. Rinse the mouth with one of these solutions, using cold water to cleanse the mouth afterwards. To keep the nose clean and free, especially in fever cases, vaseline or cold cream may be applied to the nostrils. If the patient's tongue is coated a mixture of equal parts of boric acid solution and lemon juice can be used to clear up the tongue. Keeping the patient's hair properly combed and brushed adds much to his comfort. This is often neglected. The sick bed should be protected during the bath by a piece of rubber sheeting. If this cannot be procured a pad of newspaper covered by a flour sack or a piece of cloth, makes a very desirable pad, especially if the cloth and the papers are basted together. A hot foot bath in bed is beneficial in case of sore throat, headaches with fever and in some lung LESSON DEPARTMENT conditions. Place the rubber sheeting under the basin. Mustard may be added to the water, not more than one teaspoonful however, which should be mixed in cold water, and added to the foot bath. It is important to keep the knees covered with a blanket while giving a foot bath. The best kind of a bath is a tub bath, but it should not be given without the consent of the doctor. In fever cases and where the patient is very sick a bed bath must be given. In bathing a patient in bed use soap and warm water, but do not allow the water to drip from the washcloth. Cleanse only one portion of the body at a time, dry thoroughly, and keep the rest of the body covered. In bathing the chest or the abdomen use very warm water and keep the unbathed portion covered. An alcohol rub after the bath is very refreshing and helpful to the sick patient. Bed sores are always distressing and painful, and must be avoided. Any sign of redness or bluish discoloration appearing in the region of the back, the shoulder blades, or the end of the spine, is a warning that a bed sore may develop. Such an area requires special treatment. It should be kept dry, rubbed frequently with alcohol, and if possible the pressure should be removed. Turn the patient over frequently, keep the bed free from crumbs and the sheets smooth and without wrinkles. Use talcum powder or olive oil to keep the sick person free from chafing. If the weight of the bed covers is distressing to any part of the body, pressure can be removed. By folding wire netting the shape desired to support the covers. 263 Convalescing patients must be taught early to care for themselves. Eating in bed is always a problem. A very acceptable table, upon which to put a patient's tray containing the food can be made by using the ironing board kept in place by two chairs one on either side of the bed. A grocery box, with the sides removed but the ends intact, may rest on the bed and serve as a bed table. Sick people must have plenty of water—a full glass of water every two hours is not too much for an adult. If a patient is vomiting, cracked ice may be held in the mouth and the thirst will not be so distressing. The question constantly arises as to how to feed the patient. In cases of light fever, it is safe to give plenty of fluids—fruit juices and water. Do not give solid food unless ordered to do so by the doctor. Patients are usually overfed. It is important that the lighter articles of diet be given, such as milk-toast, soups, jello and ice cream. These are easily digested and may be used with safety in some fever conditions. Convalescent patients improve faster if they have something interesting to do. They should be kept occupied. Puzzles, modeling, basketry, drawing, painting, dominoes, checkers, and needlework, are all useful during this important period. The patron saint of all who do home nursing is the great Florence Nightingale. She was first of all a home nurse before she became a professional nurse. Woman's place in the healing art, both at home and in hospitals, was long ago definitely established.
A Bigger Quart Every Bottle of Arden Milk More Butterfat (1.7 Ozs.) More Proteins (1.2 Ozs.) More Milk Sugar (1.7 Ozs.) More Minerals (84.5 Grns.) Call Wasatch 80 for Arden Dairy Energy Food Our fresh bread is so appetizing and nourishing. A real energy food—so rich and wholesome that you can make a total, satisfying meal with it. Try a loaf. 48 So. Main 502 So. Main 1435 So. State 3250 So. State Salt Lake City, Utah Murray, Utah Midvale, Utah Bountiful, Utah
O. P SKAGGS Efficient Service FOOD System "A Surety of Purity"
MOTOR-DRIVEN BRUSH LIGHT—EASY TO HANDLE AGREEABLY QUIET This sensational new Eureka with motor-driven brush is designed to meet the requirements of those who desire a motor-driven brush but recognize the necessity of "High Vacuum" (powerful suction) for the thorough removal of embedded dirt. Unnecessary weight and awkward size have been carefully avoided. It is quiet—agreeably quiet. The demonstration! It is spectacular—sensational—thrilling. Embedded soda fairly "boils" from the rug. Sand dances—how it dances! Surface litter—lint, hair and threads—are instantly removed by its motor-driven brush. This new Eureka cleans faster—cleans better. $5.00 Down—Balance on Easy Terms Phone for Demonstration Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. Salt Lake City, Utah
Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing A Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. m. To 5 p. m Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 177 East Broadway Phone Wasatch 4764
YES! Positions are more plentiful— BUT— The day of self-made men is past. Real opportunities are coming only to those who are prepared. PARENTS: Is your son or your daughter idly waiting for "better times"? That idleness is dangerous! Investigate the training that is offered in your school. Write for the booklet, "Planning Your Future," or visit the school while it is in session. EVERY DAY IS REGISTRATION DAY L.D.S. Business College Salt Lake City (A Department of the L. D. S. College) 70 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah Wasatch 1812
Correctness and Smartness mark all the preparations of the modern Miss for the big event of her life—her marriage. Here you will find wedding stationery entirely in keeping with the present day tempo. And prices are most reasonable. Call or write. Courteous prompt service. The Deseret News Press PIONEER PRINTERS, BINDERS, RULERS, COVER MAKERS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Best Partner in all this World is Your Wife— Plan a definite objective, then build together. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Beneficial Life Insurance is the best known silent partner to carry you on to future success. PROVIDES THE ONE POSITIVE PROGRAM FOR A DEFINITE ESTATE— If you want the best method available, have a Beneficial representative explain the contract best suited to your own desires and financial condition. There is keen satisfaction in this fact— IF IT'S A BENEFICIAL POLICY IT'S THE BEST INSURANCE YOU CAN BUY
HOME OFFICE SALT LAKE CITY J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT AXEL B. C. OHLSON, SECRETARY DAVID O. MCKAY, SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT LEO E. PENROSE, ASSISTANT SECRETARY JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH, DIRECTOR ORVAL W. ADAMS, DIRECTOR E. T. RALPHS, DIRECTOR STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN, DIRECTOR HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT GEORGE J. CANNON, EXECUTIVE VICE-PRESIDENT
Only the GAS REFRIGERATOR Gives You All These Famous Advantages... Low operating cost—permanent silence—no moving parts to wear—savings enough to pay for it—long life! In addition, the new 1935 Gas refrigerator is more beautiful than ever. And of course it has all the worthwhile conveniences that women like. Come in and see the new models. ELECTROLUX THE SERVEL GAS REFRIGERATOR UTAH GAS & COKE CO. OGDEN GAS CO. WASATCH GAS CO. You may buy on easy terms—or with funds obtainable under the Federal Housing Act. Ask for details.
NO WATER CHARMING HOMES A charming home, tastefully furnished and decorated, is an important aid to the development of character and culture. IMPERIAL WASHABLE WALLPAPER Start with the walls. See that they are tastefully covered. IMPERIAL WASHABLE WALLPAPERS come in a matchless assortment of colors and patterns. And they are washable and sun fast... So that they look better and last years longer than ordinary papers. They cost no more. Pratt & Lambert and Lowe Brothers, paint, enamel and varnishes are the best on the market. They cover more surface, look better, wear longer, cost less to apply and cost less in the long run than so-called "cheap" paints. Don't be fooled by the low-cost per gallon fallacy. FREE—"101 QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ABOUT PAINTING AND DECORATING" SALT LAKE GLASS and PAINT CO. HEADQUARTERS FOR PAINTS, WALLPAPER & GLASS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Peerless Laundry SNOW WHITE CLOTHES Exclusive Family Service What a Change! Grandparents would envy the home of today with all its electrical conveniences. Yet there are people today who slave with old fashioned methods. MODERNIZE ELECTRICALLY It's Your Biggest Bargain UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.
Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. m. To 5 p. m. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 1184 E. 21 So. Telephone Wasatch 3286 Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Hy. 2182-2183 29 Bishop's Building
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXII MAY, 1935 No. 5
CONTENTS
Portrait of Kate Montgomery Barker.....Frontispiece A Mother's Tithe...........Carlton Culmsee 265 Kate Montgomery Barker.............Mary C. Kimball 267 The Testing.................Helen Kimball Orgill 269 To a Waiting Spirit..............Roxanna Farnsworth Hase 269 Relief Society Conference.......Julia A. F. Lund 270 Officers' Meeting............ 270 Department Meetings............ 279 General Session (Morning).......... 282 General Session (Afternoon).......... 293 Relief Society Annual Report........Julia A. F. Lund 300 Happenings........Annie Wells Cannon 303 His Father's Son.......Ivy Williams Stone 304 Mother.......Bryce W. Anderson 307 Mothers of Our Nation.......Mabel S. Harmer 308 Mothers' Day.......Prest. Joseph Quinney 311 Mothers' Day (Poem).......May D. Martineau 313 Editorial—April Relief Society Conference.......... 314 Old Testament Readings to be Continued.......... 314 Visitors From Afar.......... 315 "Modern Miracles".......... 315 To Our Subscribers.......... 315 History.......... 316 Interesting Correspondence.......... 316 Lesson Department.......... 317 Mother Dear.......Ida Horne White 331
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Insist on SAN-O-WEB Construction when you buy a LIVING ROOM SUITE. Look for the heavy canvas foundation that supports the springs. BUY NOW and SAVE! DURING BIG SALE GRANITE FURNITURE CO. 1050 EAST 21ST SOUTH Sugar House
NEW HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS FROM FACTORY TO YOU We Solicit Your Mail Orders
No. 88. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style $.65 No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style 1.10 No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double Back 1.35 No. 81. Heavy Wt. Old Style Double Back 1.50
No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles 85 No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style .85 No. 85. Very Special Non-Run Garments—Guaranteed—Not To Run Rayon. New Style Only. Special 1.10
We Mark Garments for 10 cents
Specify when ordering, your bust, trunk and length, whether new or old style, and if men's or ladies'. We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States.
MOSE LEWIS 14 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
L.D.S. GARMENTS, CUTLER VALUES
No. 68 Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton, New Style $.75 No. 68 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton, Old Style 85 No. 500 Super Non-run Rayon Short Sleeve and Knee Length 1.19 No. 74 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Fine Combed Cotton 1.19 No. 73 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton Silk Stripe 1.25 No. 64 Lt. Med. Wt. Bleached Combed Cotton 1.29 No. 62 Med. Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back Combed Cotton 1.65 No. 66 Extra Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back Combed Cotton 1.98 No. 82 33 1/3% Wool 3.15
In ordering garments please state if for men or women, and if old or new styles are wanted; also state bust, height and weight of person. Marking 16c. An additional charge of 20% will be made on orders for persons weighing 210 pounds or over.
CUTLER BROS. SALT LAKE CITY UTAH
57 Years L.D.S. GARMENTS Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid.
No. 144. Light weight cotton, New or Old Style $.85 No. 33 Spring Needle, Lt. Wt. Cot. New or Old Style 1.25 No. 609 Run resist rayon, Ladies New Style Only 1.16 No. 205 Fine rib, Med. Weight, New or Old Style 1.25 No. 405 Run resist rayon, New or Old Style Only 1.35 No. 464 Rib. Knit, Med. Light, New Style Only 1.15 No. 472 Elastic Knit, Light Weight, New Style Only 1.15 No. 758 Ecru or White, Med Heavy and Men's New Style 1.65 No. 428 Ladies rayon, Buttonless, Built-up Shoulder 1.15
BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
For PURITY, Richness and Flavor.... Always in the Lead ARDEN DAIRY
COME to our Stores any time. We are always ready with foods and prices that will really please you. O. P. SKAGGS Efficient Service FOOD System "A Surety of Purity"
The NEW Book For Your Social Service Work Is "Civic Sociology" By Ross Price $1.60—By Mail $1.75 For Your Theological Dept. You Will Still Use Doctrine and Covenants Commentary Price $4.00—Special To Relief Society Workers $3.00 Postpaid. DESERET BOOK COMPANY Salt Lake City, Utah
WE WILL FINANCE YOU! Your New Home OR REMODELLING Your Old One Sugar House Lumber & Hardware Company Hy. 555 M. O. ASHTON, Mgr. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
A Mother's Tithe
None chafes at poverty's sharp-cornered load So bitterly as mothers when they yearn To set their sons and daughters on the road Accoutered and provisioned for the stern Life struggle. No one is so sick at heart, Ashamed, as mothers with no wealth to give, Nothing to give their children for the start But that eternal strength by which we live. Thus it is marvelous that no one feels So wealthy and so proud as mothers do When memories are many and hopes few, If they're repaid a tenth of all the brave Unquestioning affection that they gave. —Carlton Culmsee.
KATE MONTGOMERY BARKER
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXII MAY, 1935 No. 5
Kate Montgomery Barker By Mary C. Kimball
Having refined, understanding, Kate Montgomery Barker comes to the important position of Second Counselor to President Louise Y. Robison well fitted for her responsibility. To associate with her is an inspiration, to know her is to love her. She was born in North Ogden and had the privilege of being one of seven children. Three sisters and a brother are living today. She shows many of the excellent characteristics of both parents. Her father, a true nobleman, was a successful farmer and was noted for his alertness of mind and his analytical powers. He was four times a member of the Territorial Legislature and was a fine public speaker. It is said, "He never spoke for more than fifteen minutes, but he said much in that time." Her mother, while quiet, was a very strong character. She was true to every trust. Nothing was too hard if she felt it was right.
JAMES L. BARKER attended the same grade school as Kate Montgomery. They both attained the highest records in the school for scholarship. He admired the vivacious, winsome girl, and this boy and girl friendship later ripened into love. In her four years at high school Kate's average scholarship was "A." She was especially good in mathematics. Her husband tells that one time they both entered an essay contest, but he laughingly says, "She won and received as a prize one of the first collections of books that came to North Ogden as a nucleus for a library." As a young girl, Kate took delight in dramatics. Indeed her girlhood dream was to be an actress. Even when young, she was noted for her ability to read well. After graduation from the Ogden High School, she taught for four years and was married on her birthday, May 30, 1906, to James L. Barker. Two days later they left for Europe and made their first home in Geneva, Switzerland, where they resided for one and a half years. They came home in 1910 but later returned to Europe where they spent three and a half years. They traveled all over Western Europe and on two of their last trips traveled 40,000 miles by auto. These two who are so ideally mated have a common hobby travel. Again and again have they visited Western Europe. While in Europe Mrs. Barker attended the University of Neuchatel, Switzerland, and the University of Paris and many lectures elsewhere. 268 The marriage of Kate Montgomery and James L. Barker has proven a most happy one. He is as fine a man as she is a woman. They enjoy doing things together. He has proven a well-nigh perfect husband and father. He is such a companion to his son that the boy often says, "Isn't it fine that Dad and I enjoy the same things." Professor Barker is head of the Modern Language Department of the University of Utah and a member of the General Board of the Sunday School. To this couple so happy in their companionship have been born three children. All stand out for intellectual attainments. Nancy is teaching German, French and Spanish in the Weber College. She has her Bachelor's and Master's Degree. Margaret, now Mrs. Mitchell, is taking her Master's Degree this year at the University of Utah. Their son, James Montgomery, is in Junior High. Mrs. Barker loves her home. She is a devoted wife and mother and is most solicitous of their welfare. Her husband says she has to know where everyone is every minute of the day and when they will get home. It is the custom of the family that if either husband or children return and find her not there, before they go away again, they leave a note on the mantel telling where they have gone and when they will return. The Barker family life is most beautiful. They all enjoy intellectual pursuits and travel. They can all be ready on a moment's notice to go anywhere, and they enjoy going together. They cooperate in each other's work. Sister Barker laughingly says her husband tries everything out on her. If she's not too dumb to understand, he thinks he can try it on others. He says, "If there is any loop-hole in my work, Kate always finds it." The Barkers stand out for their generosity and their unselfish devotion to their friends. Nothing is too much trouble for them if it will bring pleasure or comfort to those they love. When sorrow comes, they are among the first to give comfort and assistance. When they were in Paris, Helen was an American student there. Her sister died. The Barkers were not intimate acquaintances of the family, but Sister Barker took Helen into her home and helped her through this time of sorrow. Helen's mother says, "I shall never live long enough to express my gratitude for what this woman, a stranger, did for my daughter." Sister Barker was President of the Primary of the 33rd Ward of Liberty Stake for one year and served on the Relief Society Board of that stake for two years as a class leader, and has been an efficient member of the General Board since April, 1929. She takes an active part in University activities and is a member of the Author's Club. Mrs. Barker learns readily and has a wonderful memory. Every bit of verse she has ever learned she remembers. She reads extensively, her preference being for biography, autobiography and works on social questions. She also enjoys some fiction. She has no sympathy for the dry scholarship that never gets anywhere. Mrs. Barker has a hatred of sham. Her associates recognize her ability to think clearly and logically. She is generous and appreciative of the best. She has the judicial point of view, always seeing both sides of a question. She never judges harshly and has a great sympathy for all classes and all conditions. She sees the problems that beset them and hence understands them. She has an appealing quality that draws all people to her.
TWO POEMS
The Testing By Helen Kimball Orgill
How often when with unremittent grieving, We ponder o'er what life to us hath wrought, When every effort seems to be so futile, We almost doubt the fairness of our lot, We sigh and fret that wrongs done by another Should touch us with the scorching hand of shame. We wonder why, when our hearts have been guileless A dear one's sin should fill our lives with blame. Our Father knows the every why and wherefore; He only bids us still to do the right. For every tear drop has a sacred purpose, Though oftimes it is hidden from our sight. The only thing perforce that really matters, In climbing to that distant shining goal, Is living so that every word and action Bespeak a right condition of the soul.
Thoughts on a Son By Ivy W. Stone
I will not think that he is dead But merely that he's gone ahead— I will not think his life is done But that, with death, it's well begun! With laughing eyes and happy smile He went ahead—a little while. His passing was no idle chance— He gave this life no backward glance; It almost seems as though he knew His days on earth were really through. With just the faintest clasp of hand He slipped into that other land. With kindly deeds and quiet mien I needs must fill the years between. At night I pray "Lord, is he dead?" And answer comes: "Just gone ahead!"
Relief Society Conference April 3 and 4, 1935 By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secy.
THE Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held on April 3 and 4, 1935, in Salt Lake City, Utah, with President Louise Y. Robison presiding. The following sessions were held: An Officers' Meeting for General, Stake and Mission Officers; three Department Meetings—Social Welfare, Work and Business and Choristers' and Organists'; a Reception for Stake and Mission Officers in the Bishop's Building; a Presidents' Breakfast, for Stake and Mission Presidents in the Lion House; two General Sessions in the Tabernacle; an Institute on Handicraft, for Stake Work and Business Leaders. The Conference was attended by enthusiastic workers from all of the Stakes but one; a special delegation of eight members from the Hawaiian Mission, headed by the Mission President; and representatives from nine missions in the United States. It was a record breaking attendance for Relief Society Conference. The attendance at the Officers' Meeting was as follows: Mission Presidents, 10; Branch Presidents, 1; Stake Presidents, 82; Counselors, 115; Secretary-treasurers, 56; Board Members, 331; High Councilmen, 2; making a total attendance of 597. The music was under the direction of the Music Committee of the General Board, and was furnished by the Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the very able leadership of Charlotte O. Sackett, assisted by Frank W. Asper, Alta Cassity and William Hardiman. The three-day institute conducted by Glenn J. Beeley was a practical exhibition of the material which is to be featured in "Handicraft for Every Woman." Each official representative was permitted to make a lamp shade, and there were demonstrations of wood carving, metal and leather tooling, and what can be accomplished with old felt hats. Two hundred rug designs were made and seventy-five chair seats. There was also an example of the new science of home lighting and lamp conversion. In the north window of the Z.C.M.I. A very beautiful exhibition of handicraft was shown during the days of the Conference.
OFFICERS' MEETING Wednesday Morning, April 3, 1935
PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON
WE are happy this morning to greet you dear Relief Society Stake Officers and Board Members and Mission Presidents. We pray that our Heavenly Father will bless us with His Holy Spirit during this Conference, that our meetings will be profitable and enjoyable. As most of you sisters know, our beloved Counselor Julia A. Child passed away on January 23, 1935. It is natural that we are thinking of her this morning for all who were privileged to know Sister Child, and *This book is not yet off the press. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE work with her, loved her dearly. She was a loyal, efficient officer; a loving, courageous friend; and an ideal mother. We shall ever cherish her memory. In order that our work may continue to be carried on successfully the First Presidency has given us another Counselor, and three new Board Members. These sisters' names will not be presented this morning for your sustaining vote, but I believe you will want to know who they are. It gives me great pleasure to present Sister Kate M. Barker, our Second Counselor and Supervisor of Education. The Board Members are Sister Janet M. Thompson, the President of Ensign Stake; Sister Belle Smith Spafford, the First Counselor in Wells Stake, and Sister Donna D. Sorensen, a Stake Board Member of Wells Stake. These sisters are thorough Latter-day Saints, and efficient Relief Society workers. I am confident all branches of our work will go forward and we shall be able to give you greater assistance with your lessons with the help of these sisters. We are most grateful to you splendid officers for the great work you have done in the Magazine drive. There never has been such a successful campaign for Relief Society Magazine. Our subscriptions have increased six thousand. This has taken loyal, enthusiastic, earnest work, and we do thank you. The report from one small branch in the Western States Mission is a sample of those that have come from all over the United States and Hawaii, Canada and Mexico. This branch reports fourteen members with sixteen subscriptions. Many of our sisters have made sacrifice in order to subscribe. I pray that our Father will bless them and compensate them 271 in the information and pleasure they will receive. We regret that the sisters in some of the Wards and Branches have been disappointed because their names and quotas have not been published after they have made excellent records. This has occurred through sending their lists to the Mission or Stake President. The President has probably held these for other reports, and they have not reached the office in time. Stake Presidents and Stake Magazine Agents and Mission Presidents—even if it is only one branch or one ward which has made an excellent record, will you please forward the report at once. The discouragement that comes through disappointment may possibly retard the work another year. Another thing we do hope you will instruct your Magazine Agents to send the names in on our blanks. We have spoken of this so many times, I know you are tired of hearing it, but if you could be in our office and see the manner in which some subscriptions come in—sometimes they are on little pieces of scratch paper, almost unintelligible, and then the names are not interpreted correctly. Will you please take it up in your Union Meetings, and instruct your Ward Presidents and your Ward Magazine Agents to send the orders in on order blanks. They are free, and they make our work so much easier. There is another item for which we would like to thank you, that is your loyalty to the Burial Clothes Department. We are wondering, though, if all of the Stakes and Wards know we offer this service. A Stake Board Member from Idaho was in our office a few days ago, and said she never had an idea we had a Burial Clothes Department. Will you kindly let your people know at 272 the Union Meeting that we do have a Temple and Burial Clothes Department; that we send parcels to any place in the United States or elsewhere, and prepay all postal or express charges. We shall be grateful to have your loyal support where you do not have this service in your own Stake. There is a matter that I feel we should take most seriously, and that is the care of our people. The Government now is doing a wonderful thing in supplying the real material things necessary for those who are on relief. We believe that there are many of our fine L.D.S. People in every one of our communities who have the spirit of the pioneers in them, and who are trying to get along without Federal aid. We are asking you Stake Officers and Stake Board Members to encourage your Ward Presidents to see that these people are not allowed to suffer and are not forced to ask for Federal help if you can help them. There are people in every one of our communities who are not greatly interested in the Church or in Relief Society. These people are well taken care of by the Government, but there are some of the finest people we have in our Church who are now in a position where they need a little help. For ninety-three years Relief Society has been saying that we take care of our needy ones. I wonder if we are leaving it too much to the Government now. We have Sister Amy W. Evans of the Welfare Department, who takes care of our local people. Sister Evans told me a few days ago of a man who was earning $50.00 a month who had five children, and there was no mother in the home. If I remember this case correctly the oldest daughter was fourteen years of age, and was doing her best to keep the home together, but bedding and underwear RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE will wear out, and on fifty dollars a month it is more than a fourteen-year-old girl can do to keep a family together. Is not this a case for the Relief Society President to look into, to see that they have warm bedding, to see that the bedding is clean and comfortable, to see that there is underwear. Are you looking after these cases? That leads up to another item we wish to have mentioned this morning, and that is our Charity Fund. Some of our Wards and Stakes think they do not need a Charity Fund. We have a report from one Ward who had this idea so they turned their Charity Fund into the General Fund and bought furniture with it. More than likely that furniture would add to their comfort, but can you be comfortable with the choicest furniture, if little children and aged people are cold for want of quilts, or hungry for things you could give them? Instead of reducing it, we would encourage you to take active measures to build a larger Charity Fund. Do the men in your Wards make contributions to Relief Society? We have illustrious examples of men who gave to a Charity Fund at our first meeting. Men now pay to Community Chests—our Stake Presidents, High Councilmen, Bishops and others donate generously. When one considers the service given by Relief Society, that every cent donated for charity is used in caring for those in need, the wonder is that men do not give to us at least as much as to other service organizations. We may be to blame because we do not ask. We are told, are we not, to "ask and ye shall receive." It would be interesting to have sent to our office a report of how many of our brethren are contributing to Relief Society. In Ward Conferences we have an excellent opportunity to bring the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Relief Society work before the people of the Ward, especially the brethren, but sometimes the Stake people prepare a fine doctrinal talk, without telling of Relief Society. We hope that you will plan programs for Ward Conferences that will educate the people of the Wards in Relief Society, and what we are doing. A report reached our office that in one Stake, the Visiting Teachers had difficulty in finding the sisters home in the afternoon. The teachers preferred to visit earlier in the day, but understood the General Board advised afternoon visiting. This is a mistake. We advise teachers to visit in the hour of the day best suited to the families visited. A few years ago we pledged ourselves, as Relief Society women, to uphold and sustain the law of quarantine. We feel that it is the mother's place to see that quarantine is strictly enforced. I wonder if our members are careful not to have contagious disease spread, and even if our child has a very slight case of Scarlet Fever that we use every precaution to keep the neighbor's child from getting the disease. We had an incident a few years ago when Scarlet Fever was around, where a woman from Salt Lake wanted to go out into one of the Stakes to a reunion in her Ward. Her child was not very well when she left. She was afraid it had been exposed, but she could not deny herself the pleasure of going to this Ward Reunion. She took the baby to the reunion and before three months had passed there were six little mounds and twelve empty arms in that community. Because she was not careful. Impress upon your women the need of the greatest care, if there is contagion in the family. We are happy to announce that we will begin publishing our lessons 273 for next Fall in our May Magazine. Will you make note of this, and will you take this information back to your Union Meetings, and ask the women to be careful of these magazines. Sometimes through the Summer these numbers get lost or mislaid, but we hope that having the lessons published so far in advance the women will be able to do a great deal of studying during the Summer and be well prepared for their lessons in the Winter. In connection with the lessons I would like to report to you that the Relief Society General Board is now in close contact with all of the Missions, especially the European and foreign Missions, and we have already sent to them the lessons for next year. If we had time this morning I know it would warm your hearts to hear the responses that have come from President Joseph F. Merrill, of the European Mission, from the French, Dutch, German-Austrian Missions, from Sister Murphy of the Hawaiian Mission, and from other Mission Presidents. Our lessons have gone to them now. So that they can be translated and ready in the Fall. President Merrill of the European Mission has asked the Relief Society General Board to take each Mission as we would a new Stake, and we are delighted to do this. Each month we send a Bulletin to the foreign Missions, trying to keep them near to us and are helping them to do the work as it is done at home as far as possible. So now we feel that the Danish Mission is just as close as Millard Stake, and the French Mission as close as Ensign Stake. Annual Dues are coming in very nicely, thanks to you dear Officers. The question of inactive members is always with us. In one Ward with a membership of ninety, only sixty pay Annual Dues. The names of 274 the thirty inactive members are placed on a separate roll and not reported, in order to have one hundred percent paid. We prefer you would not do that. If there are only sixty of the ninety who are paying the Annual Dues, send in the Annual Dues for these sixty, but you still have ninety. Do not throw away thirty fine souls, try and work with them and get them interested. They are still our members. We have members who are far away, possibly on a farm five or six miles away, and it is impossible for them to come to meeting. What are you sisters doing to keep these women interested? Could you assign some of the sisters to write letters to them and tell them about the meetings you are having, what your lessons are, encourage them, and tell them how glad you will be if they will come to meeting when they have an opportunity. My dear Stake Presidents, when people come to your Stakes and say the General Board recommends certain policies or articles, do not take it for granted until you hear officially from us. If you are in doubt, write to the office and we will try and get word to you without delay. Frequently our Stake Secretaries send checks to the office, not indicating what they are for, just enclosing them in an envelope. One Stake sent in a check for forty-two dollars. The bookkeeper credited it as Annual Dues. When I was going over the Burial Clothes accounts I said, "We had better send a letter to this Relief Society and call attention to the Burial Clothes order which has not been paid." Fortunately we did not send the letter, but happened to think of this check for forty-two dollars which had been credited to Annual Dues when it should have been for Burial Clothes. We congratulate Ward and Stake RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Relief Societies for the very fine programs given in celebration of March seventeenth. We believe they were the most successful we have ever had. As a General Board we have written to the General Authorities of the Church thanking them for the courtesy they extended to us in letting us use the great Tabernacle. They gave us the Church hour to broadcast the Relief Society Singing Mothers and send a Relief Society message. I believe in the majority of the Wards the Bishops allowed the Relief Society to have their celebration in Sacrament Meeting. This was a very great compliment, and I want to express appreciation to the brethren who made this possible. The General Board is publishing a book, which we had hoped would be off the press before this Conference. It has been written and arranged by Sister Glenn Johnson Beeley, and is entitled 'Handicraft for Every Woman." We are confident that this book will be of great service in your Work and Business Meeting, as it will give instruction in many phases of handwork. This manual will be made as inexpensive as possible, and will be ready for distribution in a very short time. We hope to have the cooperation of every Stake and Ward in getting this book for your women. I know the Work and Business leaders in the Relief Society have had a very difficult time. We have left them almost alone, and it is remarkable what the Stake leaders have done. A fine example is now shown in the Ensign Stake exhibition at 67 East South Temple Street. Sister Beeley will be on the Fourth Floor of the Bishop's Building again this year, beginning Thursday morning, to teach you handicraft, and tell you about the new book. We have had some new Stakes organized RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE during the last six months. Two of the Presidents have been in and I know how wonderfully they are doing their work. You know the work you are doing is greater than just club work, because you are called and many of you set apart by men holding the Priesthood of God. You have been baptized and have received the Holy 275 Ghost, and you are entitled to the Spirit of the Lord to help you in your work. I pray that God will bless you. I pray He will bless you in your homes that your families will keep well, that you will enjoy your time here, and that you will be able to take helpful messages back to your Stakes. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.. ORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Appointed President Oct., 1934 Gridley Ruthe B. Samson Dec., 1934 New York Lorena C. Fletcher Dec., 1934 Oakland Sara H. Carruth Oct., 1934 Sacramento Olive Lindblad Feb., 1935 San Bernardino Ethel Eugenia Blomquist REORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Released Appointed President Mar., 1935 Carbon Katherine MacKnight Frances Christensen Feb., 1935 Lost River Elizabeth G. Hoggan Vida Nelson Dec., 1934 San Francisco Sara H. Carruth Esther D. Stephens Mar., 1935 Pocatello Vera Rich Horsfall Amy J. Hawkes Missions Released Appointed President California Rose R. Hinckley Florence Smith British Rintha P. Douglas Ramona W. Cannon South Africa East Central Geneve J. Dalton Isabelle C. Jones Edith P. Backman Mrs. Kate W. Kirkham
GENERAL SECRETARY JULIA A. F. LUND
It gives me great pleasure to present to you a brief summary of the Annual Report. The full details will be published in the May issue of the Magazine. This has been a banner year for the Relief Society and I want to congratulate the Secretaries on their very excellent work. We have had more perfect reports this year than ever before, and the little mistakes in the reports were of a minor character. Total balance on hand, January, 1934, $127,601.23; Total receipts during 1934 (cash and merchandise) $230,431.41; Total balance on hand and receipts, $341,785.30; Paid for charitable purposes (cash and merchandise), $75,789.79; Total disbursements, $198,651.57; Total balance, December 31, 1934, $143,133.73; Total assets, $979,012.31; Ward Conferences held 1,392; Number of visits by Visiting Teachers, 972,488; Number Special Visits to Sick and Homebound, 222,630. Membership in 1933, 68,796; in 1934, 70,515; an increase of 1,719. The membership includes: Executive and Special Officers, 15,167; Visiting Teachers, 24,140; Other Members, 31,208. Average attendance 1933, 32,485; 1934, 33,833; an increase of 1,348. Paid for Charitable Purposes in 1933, $83,853.27; 1934, $75,789.79; a decrease of $8,063.48.
276 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
VISITING TEACHERS Elise B. Alder, Member of General Board
VISITING TEACHERS have a distinct and individual work which is really of great importance to the organization, as they meet the women all over the Church, and have one of the greatest privileges of women of the entire Church to show kindness and to do good. As time has advanced and new ideas been conceived, they are expected to measure up to other teachers, and live up to their name—Teacher, which the dictionary tells us is "One who imparts knowledge." With a view of improving and advancing the work, and making a definite place for the work of the teachers in connection with the Ward Relief Society meetings, the General Board in 1928 inaugurated a special forty-five minute meeting, known as "Visiting Teachers' Training Meeting," to be held the first Tuesday of the month preceding the regular Theology and Testimony Meeting. The President presides, and has a wonderful opportunity to not only discuss problems which may arise in the teachers' work, but to teach the fundamentals and the aim of the Society, taking our Handbook as her text book. A class leader was appointed to be in charge of the Teachers' Topic, under the President, and to rank with the other three class leaders in the Society. Her duty is not to give instructions regarding the work, this being entirely the privilege of the President, but to present and discuss an educational topic prepared by the General Board and printed in the Relief Society Magazine, and to assist the Visiting Teachers in preparing this message to be taken to the homes in their districts. The object of the Topic is to stimulate profitable conversation and discussion during the visit of the teachers in the homes, and to leave with the women a message for thought and improvement. Now I feel sure the question arises in some of your minds: How can so much be accomplished in the forty-five minute training meeting? We are often told how much it would improve our minds if we read ten minutes a day—and it is surprising how much can be accomplished in that meeting with systematic effort and preparation, keeping ever in mind the old but true maxim: "Where there's a will there's a way." Help educate the young wives and mothers in our Relief Society work, prepare them to make good teachers, tell them if they will join our Society and enter into the work whole-heartedly, their work in their homes will seem lighter and their influence with their husbands and children will be increased for good. It has been truly said that Relief Society work makes women courageous and able to stand up for their ideals; it gives them peace and poise and grace that stamps our work as work of the Master.
LOYALTY Nettie D. Bradford, Member of General Board
LOYALTY is faithful performance of duty to country, home, institution and principle. Loyalty is regarded as one of the most pleasing as well as one of the most essential attributes of a fine character.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
Loyalty is the virtue of firmly standing by what one believes in. It is the very soul of honesty. President Joseph F. Smith once said: "We must always bear in mind that we are not only citizens of the Kingdom of God, but that we are citizens of the United States and of the States in which we dwell. We have ever been loyal both to our state and nation as well as to the Church of God, and we defy the world to prove to the contrary. We have been willing to fight our country's battles, to defend her honor and to uphold and sustain her good name." A true test of loyalty was proved during the Latter-day Saints' journey to the Rocky Mountains. When the government of the United States called upon the President of the Church to furnish five hundred men to fight on the Mexican border. As the historian has stated: 'The surprise, almost dismay with which the body of the Saints received the startling news, may be imagined. Five hundred able-bodied men, the pick and flower of the camp, wanted—and that too, in an Indian country in the midst of an exodus, unparalleled for dangers, and hardships when every active man was needed. Women, in some instances, had been driving teams and tending stock, owing to the limited number of men available. And yet it was their country calling; that country to which their Pilgrim ancestors had fled; for which their patriot sires had fought and suffered, whose deeds of heroism were among their highest and holiest traditions." What would their leaders decide to do was the question uppermost in the minds of these loyal Pioneers. Not long were they left unanswered. When Captain Allen arrived and made known his errand President Young said: "You shall have your Battalion, and if there are not enough young men, we will take the old men, and if there are not enough old men we will take the women." In three days a force of five hundred forty-nine men reported and were enlisted, organized and ready to march on a journey the like of which had no parallel in the history of the world. A splendid example of family loyalty was shown in the home of the Prophet Joseph Smith. His parents, his brothers and his sisters were all loyal to him in the cause for which he and his brother Hyrum laid down their lives. If everyone would be loyal to his childhood teachings, as was one young girl who emigrated to America from foreign lands, this would be a much better world. This girl said: "I left my home and loved ones for the Gospel's sake. Upon my arrival in America, many temptations beset my path but I could not be disloyal to my mother's teachings. Whenever I was tempted to do wrong her face always seemed to come before me and I was given greater strength to overcome evil." How my heart swells with gratitude to my Heavenly Father for the blessing that is mine in being counted worthy of associating and working with the noble women of the Relief Society—women whose loyalty to our wonderful organization is unquestioned.
THELMA LINDSEY Representing the District of Hawaii, Hawaiian Mission Relief Society
In Hawaii we usually greet, before our talk, with Aloha, which means "How do you do?" I say Aloha to you all.
278
I am a delegate from Hawaii, and am grateful for this privilege of standing before you and telling you of the wonderful work we are doing on the Islands of Hawaii. I am Second Counselor in the District of Hawaii, and we carry out, to the best of our ability, the instructions that are sent from the General Board to Sister Murphy, our President. On the Island there are thirteen different branches, estimating roughly one hundred and seventy-eight members. We do weaving and other things, and work together in harmony, and try our very best to meet twice a month in Union Meetings, where instructions are given. We have the Magazine, and at our last Conference held in my Branch,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the sisters put on the play "The Spirit of the Magazine." It was translated into the Hawaiian language, and was an inspiration to outsiders as well as to members of the Church. I wish to thank President Robison who has called us to speak, for the instructions which have been given. I know the Relief Society sisters on the Island of Hawaii will be glad to hear them. It is a privilege to be here with you all, to see how you carry on Relief Society work. We may be strangers, but in the work of the Lord we are one—brothers and sisters all. We are all God's children, and through the love of God we are assembled here this day. I ask the blessings of the Lord to be upon us all, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
DINA POKINI Representing the District of Kauai, Hawaiian Mission Relief Society
My dear co-workers: We are happy to be here today, and when we are asked to speak we have to obey. The Relief Society on the Island of Kauai is doing a very good work. We have eight different districts, and the members are very active. I am First Counselor on the District Board of the Island of Kauai. I certainly enjoy the Relief Society Magazine, and I have learned a great deal from it. Brother and Sister VERNA H. Murphy have passed through the Island of Kauai from time to time and have tried to put in the minds of the mothers of the islands to take up the lessons of the Relief Society, and we are making progress. I am also glad to be here and to hear what has been taken up this morning. I ask God to bless each and every one of us who are here today, and also those who are not here today, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
MURPHY President. Hawaiian Mission Relief Society
I have been thrilled with the remarks made this morning, and I am also thrilled with the work that is going on in Hawaii. I want to let you know that we are certainly doing our part in Relief Society work, and I will give you a brief summary of our statistical report for the year. Our total disbursements in the Islands of Hawaii were $2,746.50; Cash on Hand, December 31, 1934, $11,368.24. They are all poor people, but are rich in the work of the Lord, and in our charity work. I
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
want to tell you the main reason that they are rich in their treasury is that they give until it hurts. The character of the Hawaiian people, is to give until it hurts. Sister Robison said you should take advantage of the Ward Conferences. I want to tell you in Hawaii we have more than once a year to present Relief Society work. Every fifth Sunday is given over to the Relief Society, and they are putting on programs to bring Relief Society before the brethren, who donate to Relief Society work. This happens very often in Hawaii, We take great joy in reporting to you that we have so many young girls in our Relief Society work. Sister Olivia Waddoups is doing a good work among the young girls, and takes up the Magazine work in its entirety. Our sisters are very grateful for the little one act plays that come out in the Magazine so often. When we have a thing presented to us before our eyes, we glean more from it, and lessons can be put over better
279
by one act plays than in any other way. One way in which I keep in touch with all of my fifty-two Relief Societies is to have monthly reports come to me regularly, and after three years of hard work 100% reports come in to me. Through these I know of all their activities, and from many of the small branches this is the report that comes, seven enrolled, nine present. Not only in the small branches but over in Kauai, forty-four enrolled, forty-four present. I pray my dear brothers and sisters, that we may make this work our work, our individual work, and that we may never tire in the work of the Lord. Your presence here this morning shows to me the eagerness with which you take up your work, and if you should go to Hawaii you would find the same work going on. From Hawaii we give you our Aloha. May the Lord bless us, I ask in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.
DEPARTMENT MEETINGS
SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT
The Social Welfare Department met in the Assembly Hall, April 3, 1935, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, chairman. Invocation by Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Mrs. Marcia K. Howells discussed "Trends in National Legislation" speaking particularly of rural rehabilitation and social security. State Senator, Mrs. Burton W. Musser, said in her talk on "Social Legislation" that "undoubtedly the most decided step forward in the Public Welfare field was the passing of Senate Bill 233, creating a State Welfare Board, the culmination of many years' efforts on the part of the prominent welfare workers in the State, in the front rank of whom we always found your gracious chairman, Mrs. Lyman. The bill does not embody all we hoped for, but it offers a real opportunity for advancement in the field of Social Welfare." There were a great many bills passed to meet new Federal legislation. One important measure was to take the office of Superintendent of Public Instruction out of politics. Mrs. Musser felt that the 1935 Legislature had done earnest, conscientious work. Dean Milton Bennion, of the University of Utah, spoke on "Crime
280
Prevention," and stressed the importance of the home and community in any program for the welfare of youth. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman said that the demand for Social Service Institutes was greater now than when the Relief Society provided subsistence. She asked a number of Stakes to report on educational work done in Union Meetings as a result of these Institutes. Mrs. Amy W. Evans urged that
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Relief Society workers remember that while we live by bread we do not live by bread alone. There are many things for our welfare workers to do in maintaining morale and contributing to the spiritual life of the economically distressed. There are widows with dependent children and many people who are on the margin of dependency and yet who are not eligible for Federal relief, these people need our financial help in their efforts to maintain a normal home life for their children.
TRENDS IN NATIONAL LEGISLATION By Marcia K. Howells
President Roosevelt made this impressive statement, "The security of the men, women and children, must come first." One of the favored measures to bring about this security is Rural Rehabilitation. Today many are living on farms where the soil is poor and the water inadequate. The government calls farms so situated sub-marginal lands, and proffers to move families from them, onto productive land. This poor land is to be purchased by the Government and go back to the forest reserve or the public domain. The Government has recently moved two hundred families from the relief rolls, to Alaska each on forty acres of good land, with a home and farm implements provided. In Colorado one hundred families are asking the Government for just such help, their land gone, covered with sand—dwellings deluged with dust and their cattle starving. These people have been promised help under this Rural Rehabilitation measure. But this is not an individual matter. A large majority of the farmers in any given area, will have to favor the plan, before it can be carried out. Rural Rehabilitation contemplates not only the movement away from poor land, but furnishes the service of a trained and competent agent to help solve the problems in the new location. But it isn't always a case of moving. Sometimes a farmer may need just a little temporary help to overcome his difficulties. To be successful, this must be a long time program, for human beings cannot be moved about as chessmen. Their social position, attitudes, likes and dislikes, their qualifications and chances for success, should be carefully weighed. There must follow considerable guidance for several years, if success is to be assured. The big movement in 1928 and 1929 was away from the farm, and had this continued, the farms would have been almost depopulated. With the coming of the depression, it was observed that people were moving back to the farms. But many of them were poorly advised, and they settled where good farmers had previously failed. With the closing of school, many fine young people, well prepared and ambitious, will be looking for employment. There is always work on,
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
the farm—the farm would take many of these young people from pool-halls, the movies and the city streets, and would surround them with better and healthier conditions, while giving them employment. We are happy to learn that the work for women is receiving increased attention. There is greater opportunity for them to engage in useful and productive work than ever before. Numerous community projects have been launched—such as making mattresses, extending library service, health and recreational work, educational work for the blind and other useful activities. But these services cannot be extended unless requested. Also they must be for the benefit of the community, rather
281
than individual groups—such as a Club or Church group. We can prevent suffering, without destroying souls. We can take the "Sour note out of sweet charity." The feeling of insecurity must be banished from the earth and the teachings of Jesus must find their proper place in the present scheme of things. In all this great work, our Relief Society organization will continue to lead out and help solve these human problems. The effectiveness of the Government measures depends largely on our general understanding of what is being attempted, and how it may be worked out. May God bless our Government and you, my dear sisters.
WORK AND BUSINESS DEPARTMENT Jennie B. Knight, Chairman
The Work and Business Department, with Jennie B. Knight as chairman, held its meeting for Stake Officers, Board Members and Mission Presidents in the Auditorium, Fourth Floor, Bishop's Building, from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m. An eager group of Stake representatives assembled to receive instructions in the practical fields of their work. Following an appropriate address by the chairman, "Conducting Business on the Work and Business Day" was discussed by Nettie D. Bradford. "Value of Handwork—Mental and Spiritual" was ably presented by Dr. Arthur L. Beeley, and the women of Relief Society will have this enlarged in the book which will be off the press very shortly. A preview of the book "Handicraft for Every Woman" was given by Glenn J. Beeley, the author. "How Our Work was Carried out Last Year," by Janet M. Thompson, former President of the Ensign Stake Relief Society, was a fine statement of work accomplished from suggestions obtained at last year's Institute. "Educating the Consumer," by Lalene H. Hart, was a very clear, fine address, and was made very interesting by a demonstration of selling methods.
CHORISTERS' AND ORGANISTS' DEPARTMENT
The department work of the Choristers and Organists was held in Barratt Hall with a large and enthusiastic group participating. Dr. D. W. Henderson gave a very interesting and instructive talk on "The Throat and Voice Production." He stressed proper breathing, proper position, enunciation and the care of the throat in general. Professor Tracy Y. Cannon emphasized the value of the different marks of expression in music interpretation. He explained their meaning and illustrated their application by having the group sing hymns.
282
The hymns and anthems outlined for the coming year 1935-1936 were discussed by Charlotte O. Sackett. A quartette of Relief Society Singing Mothers sang these new songs to illustrate phrasing, pronunciation, shading, rhythm, etc. It is expected that the hymn "As the Dew, from Heaven Distilling," will be learned so that it can be sung as a congregational hymn in October Conference. "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief" is another beautiful hymn to be studied. The suggested anthems are: "The Lord's Prayer—Josephine Forsyth; "O Rest in the Lord" (unison)—Handel; "Lamb of God"—Bizet; "I Waited for the Lord"—Handel. It is suggested that the Choristers select from this number the songs which they can teach to their groups and get good results. These anthems may be obtained from any good music store in local communities.
GENERAL SESSION Thursday Morning
PRESENT CHALLENGE TO WOMEN General Secretary Julia A. F. Lund
The Relief Society Building for Better Living." This aim, expressed as the central theme of the Conference, is but a re-statement of the objective of the organization, now nearly a century old. Literally speaking, humanity is today at the crossroads, and the choice of paths is the most important the world has ever had to make. Those best informed tell us that civilization itself rests upon the decision. From the beginning woman has personified the world's ideals. The finest conceptions of the human mind have always been expressed in feminine form. The Fates, who controlled the life and destiny of man were women; the Graces, from whom came all that is lovely in character, were women; the Muses, from whom came all music, poetry and art, were women. All the noblest aspirations of the human mind were preserved in womanly form—Temperance, Justice, Liberty, Peace, even Wisdom. The earth, through all time and in all languages has been the universal mother. Woman has glorified and sanctified the whole world through the Holy Motherhood of Mary. In the present crisis, when the financial and industrial world is uprooted, women are concerned quite as vitally as are men, and cannot under-estimate the results of these gigantic problems. But what is of vastly more importance to women than anything of a purely economic nature is the result of certain destructive forces at work in the world today. Here are presented real dangers, which threaten to destroy everything that has made human life sacred and beautiful—the disintegration of the family, the disregard of the marriage covenant, and religion thrown into the discard. Is it not in these fields that woman's influence is pre-eminent? If these most holy institutions are threatened, is it not a hostile invasion of woman's own realm? Can there be a more definite objective for building for better living than to prepare to resist such sinister powers? Relief Society women are not skeptics, but believers, nevertheless we must face things as they are, and
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
organize to defend our ideals. Far more important than natural resources or national wealth is the question of how family life is lived. With the added opportunities there can be no lowering of standards; the home is woman's own place, and marriage the most sacred human relationship. Religion is the spirit
283
which giveth light. Our homes and our Church embody for us the finest traditions of the past, and all that we are, and aim to be. That we preserve them in their purity and strength; that we consecrate our lives to their service—this is our challenge.
WORDS Jennie B. Knight
Words are symbols of thoughts. How man acquired expression of thoughts by the use of words is still an unsolved problem. Some have thought that he was created a talking animal, others claim that man's parents were instructed in the use of words by God himself. Others argue that he was born with power within himself by which he developed the use of words. However this may be, the achievement of the use of words by man proclaimed him victor and master over all created things. It is through the medium of words that all the emotions of the human heart and all the concepts of the human brain are conveyed from mind to mind. They are powerful weapons for good or evil, and their influence is as far-reaching as heaven itself. The ability to use words properly and appropriately is a wonderful accomplishment attained only by effort on the part of those who have such power. Relief Society work is so extensive that it requires a great variety of words to give satisfactory expression to all its problems. Therefore the progressive woman must be constantly adding to her vocabulary by study of such lessons as are given in the various courses of the Relief Society program if she would be more efficient. Those who are privileged to be officers, class leaders and visiting teachers have a grave responsibility in their choice of words. They must realize that from the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh and that angry caustic words of criticism should be bridled. Words of truth directed by well prepared teachers will banish ignorance and give knowledge. The words from the lips of those who have faith in God and his son Jesus Christ, coupled with the testimony of the divine mission of Joseph Smith when spoken will do much to substitute confidence and faith for skepticism and doubt. Every woman should have words of warning, tempered with tolerance for the wayward, and words of righteous indignation to be used against all forms of injustice and oppression. No vocabulary can have too many words of loyalty for one's country or state, for one's church or for one's leaders, nor be over supplied with words of sincere appreciation and praise for family, friends, associates and co-workers. Words of flattery end in failures. Relief Society women should specialize in kind, gentle, beautiful words, they are to our language what fragrance is to the flowers, essentially joy giving. If we do our work well, we know that there are lonely hearts that need
284
kind words to be spoken by us to take this loneliness away. There are turbulent hearts seeking peace; and ambitious hearts awaiting our approval. There are children's hearts and aged hearts pining for our words of love. There are breaking hearts that need the benediction of your sympathy and understanding. There are discouraged, weary hearts longing for your word of courage.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Would you find the magic word for all of these? Then search the Word of God and listen to those spoken by his authority here on earth, and build a better life by obedience to their teachings and you will like Aladdin, have found the magic word, "the Open Sesame" to every heart and joy unmeasured for your own.
COOPERATION IN THE HOME Emma A. Empey—Member of General Board
One of the chief objects of the Relief Society is to work for family solidarity and the permanency of the home. One method of attaining this is a better understanding and more cooperation in the home itself. There are many phases to this subject and many forms of helpful and necessary cooperation, but in my brief remarks I shall mention only one—financial cooperation. Many of the breaks and failures in family life are the result of lack of understanding in financial matters. The husband and wife should be partners in financial affairs. The wife should know what the income is, and together they should plan for the spending of it. Where a man withholds this knowledge from his wife, how can he expect her to be as interested as she otherwise would be? In such instances through lack of knowledge she may spend unwisely, and financial disaster may follow. Any woman endowed with good common sense should be willing to live within the family income, but how can she do this if she does not know what it is? When financial reverses come, a man frequently, in his desire to shield his wife from worry, fails to acquaint her with the situation; and she goes on living on the same plane when she could, if she knew conditions, make curtailments on every hand. Every family should have a budget, and where there is a definite income there should be family allowances. A disposition to economize and save on the part of the individual members of the family generally follows the allowance system. The family budget jointly agreed upon insures a square deal for everybody concerned and is conducive to unselfishness. Where family finances and the budget are discussed by the family group and the members all have a part in the discussion and decisions, there is general satisfaction. In the average farm home, while there is not a regular monthly cash income there are still ways in which husband and wife may cooperate in financial matters. When children grow up and earn money of their own, they should be taught that as long as they are a part of the household they should help to maintain it. Even a very small amount from the earnings of the child contributed by him towards the upkeep of the home helps with expenses, and in addition will develop his responsibility and give him a feeling of importance because he is doing his part. A business understanding with the child when he first begins to earn will save arguments
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
and misunderstandings later. A boy or girl should not be encouraged in thinking that because he is earning money it is his to spend, often recklessly, regardless of the needs of other members of the family. I am not unmindful of the fact that many young people are striving desperately to earn an education that will later fit them for the career their hearts are set upon, and this is a worthy ambition which should receive encouragement at home; but at the same time the boy or girl who unselfishly does his part in family responsibility is not likely to be found among those who later in life are
285
willing to shift their family obligations to other people. Relief Society women in their association with one another have an excellent opportunity to discuss these matters and to work for family cooperation and understanding. I want to take this opportunity of again expressing my grateful appreciation for the privilege that has been mine these many years of association with the women of the Relief Society. I know of no finer women, and I know that participation in the activities of the Relief Society will make of us better home makers, better citizens, better women.
THE POWER OF TESTIMONY Annie Wells Cannon—Member of General Board
To have faith is to believe, to have testimony is to know. Among the many beautiful things the Gospel teaches, none is more precious than that God lives and He will give us strength. To have this testimony is to be rich indeed. I wonder sometimes if we mothers in Israel, we women of the Relief Society, cherish this blessing as we should. I wonder if in our pursuit for cultural things we neglect to seek after and retain the spiritual blessings that are ours for the asking, the blessings that comfort in times of sorrow, that uplift and strengthen in times of despair. It was neither wealth nor learning that sustained Job in his afflictions, but his testimony, for he said: "I know that my Redeemer lives and that He shall stand at the latter day upon the earth." When his friends begged Job to curse God and forsake him, he answered "Should I put my cause before the Lord with arguments, He would not plead with me but He would give me strength." Paul of Tarsus, a learned Jew, journeyed towards Damascus to help in the persecutions of the followers of Christ. As he neared the city he fell to the earth enveloped in a great light, and he heard a voice saying: "Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" In that hour Saul knew the Lord. The power of this testimony changed Paul's course of life. It meant poverty, persecution and hatred of men, but it gave him strength for his mission to preach that Christ was the Son of God, to the Gentiles and in the synagogues, even to stand on Mars Hill at Athens and teach the stoics, philosophers and poets. When they scoffed saying "What can this babbling Jew teach us of philosophy?" he answered, "Ye men of Athens when I passed by your devotions I found an altar with this inscription, To The Unknown God, whom ye ignorantly worship, Him I declare unto you." In this latter day the Lord revealed Himself to Joseph Smith, and through Joseph restored the pattern of the Church as it existed when Jesus was on the earth. Thus ful-
286
filling Job's prophecy "That he shall stand in the latter day upon the earth." This testimony was to be taken to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, and for this the Church sends forth missionaries to testify of the Gospel restored. Marvelous are the results of their labors and wonderful are the manifestations of the strength given them by the goodness of the Lord. Men whose names are immortal in "Mormon" history, who introduced the Gospel in foreign lands were blessed with power to make themselves understood even when they had no knowledge of the language of the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
people they taught. This was the case with Erastus Snow in Scandinavia, Franklin D. Richards in Germany, Lorenzo Snow in Italy, George Q. Cannon in Hawaii. So buoyed up were they that they seemed to walk with angels. So we might go on and enumerate for hours and tell some of the glorious stories in connection with this work, but there is a time and place provided for this exchange of spiritual thought and it may and ought to be the most precious and profitable thing in our work, for testimony is knowledge and knowledge is power.
SERVICE Lalene H. Hart—Member of General Board
Man is that he might have joy. Who has contributed most to the joy and happiness of man? What is of greatest worth in the world today? These questions put to a group of college students, if asked of you would you answer as did they—the best fighter, the shrewdest business man, the greatest thinker, and wise leadership? The correctness of these answers depend upon the meaning they wish to convey. Rightly interpreted they are not unworthy of consideration but are imperfect. They alone do not reach that which is fundamental. When Jesus was asked who was greatest, he answered, "Ye know that among the Gentiles the great ones exercise lordship and dominion. It shall not be so among you. If any man would be great among you let him serve. The greatest of all is servant of all." And He was just that. His greatness lay in the simple life he led and the service he rendered mankind. We read that he went about doing good—rebuked the selfish, forgave the sinner, cleansed the leper, calmed the tempest. He took the broken lights of human greatness and set them in their true perspective. He suffered and sacrificed Himself freely for others. With His spiritual weapons of persuasion, instruction, right example, He fought not to destroy human lives but to give life and give it more abundantly. He was shrewd in gaining riches of everlasting value. He became poor that others might be rich. He was a thinker and spoke as no other. "I am the Truth." "I am the Way." In wisdom he led his disciples to that higher and broader plane of social justice and better living. He translated the language of service into terms of life and became the Eternal Servant of that larger good which waits upon the spirit of unselfish devotion. The life of any individual is measured by its power to serve the more permanent interests of society. The one that is endowed with the most spiritual, physical or material wealth can offer much but the one who offers all for humanity serves best. Men and women of all times who have lived in the spirit of the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
book which says, "Whosoever saveth his life shall lose it, but whosoever loseth his life for my sake shall find it," have laid their talents on the altar of service for the Church, Community and Nation. Jesus by his parable of the great supper sought to show the folly of those, who refuse the call to something higher than mere duty. Apply this parable to the Relief Society to which thousands have been invited to partake of the many good things provided. Like the men in the story will she allow things legitimate and praiseworthy to crowd out those of higher value? When they refused the invitation the opportunity passed. The host sent for the poor because they would not be so occupied with their lands and home comforts. The door of opportunity opens but it does not stand ajar always. When a woman accepts the invitation of this big organization to be
287
a member or an officer can she afford to allow anything to stand in the way of her supreme loyalty? Under the guidance of our Heavenly Father the real purpose and meaning of a new life for women has been unfolded. What a glorious opportunity and blessed privilege for the woman who will put aside personal desires and will consistently and conscientiously fight against the insidious things of life, accumulate riches that will not perish with time, express thoughts that stimulate the nobler desires in others, and lead with an understanding heart those who need sympathy, love and encouragement, remembering always that "When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are in the service of God." That service which is of greatest worth and contributes most to the joy and happiness of man.
DO WE COOPERATE? Lotta Paul Baxter—Member General Board
What an achievement it is for people to learn and enjoy cooperation. To do this successfully one learns to know that however good her ideas are, it is sometimes far better to concede a point than to hold out for supremacy. One person's opinion is as good as anothers and only when a recognized principle of right is at stake should one stand absolutely unmoved. It is a helpful thing to often ask ourselves when working in Church or other public activity, "Do we cooperate?" In the ward organizations we would like to feel that the sewing committees stand solidly together in regard to the prices for quilting. On page 190 of the Relief Society handbook we give the minimum price for tied, common and best quilts. No organization should reduce that price unless the work is an outright gift to someone. There is, however, no limitation on the price of quilts requiring a great deal of time and skill, and Relief Society quilters should charge sufficient to repay them for labor and time. We sometimes hear of Relief Society women going to a neighboring ward or stake to get quilting done fifty cents cheaper than her own ward will do it for. We haven't language to express our regret and disappointment at such an act of disloyalty and hope this practice will not continue. It is so far below Relief Society standards. Do we cooperate with the stakes? Sometimes a ward is officered by women with very strong likes and dislikes, who do not work wholeheartedly with the stake officers and
288
are sometimes in direct opposition to the stake plan. This is a most undesirable situation and is a drawback to both ward and stake and a reorganization should be effected without delay. We cannot build better lives without harmony. At the time Theodore Roosevelt was President of the United States, I became interested in listening to and jotting down what people had to say about the chief executive in our loved land. In glancing them over there is not a great deal to point to with pride. In over a quarter of a century I am sure we have had some good men and good statesmen in the White House, whether we believed in their policy or not. It is our privilege to express whatever we wish and I think no one wishes to take that privilege away, but when in a period of many years we can say nothing good of those in authority we are missing an opportunity for building better lives. Let us with the poet, "Be earnest in the search for good and speak of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
all the best we can." In closing I wish to call your attention to a few of the many results of cooperation in our society than which there is none greater for opportunity: 1. An average attendance of over 32,000 heard and took part in the same lessons on the same day. 2. Relief Society Magazine subscriptions grew to over 32,000. 3. Special visits to homebound over 220,000. 4. Visits of Relief Society teachers to homes 836,000. 5. Organization of singing mothers and choruses in almost every ward. 6. The exhibit of the four Ogden Stakes three years ago, the Churchwide exhibit of two years ago, the Ensign exhibit now on South Temple, the crafts demonstration on the fourth floor of the Bishop's Building, and many more too numerous to mention. Let us cooperate and build better lives.
THE INTERPRETATION OF RELIEF SOCIETY WORK IN TERMS OF LIFE Cora L. Bennion—Member of General Board
In the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5:17-22, Jesus said: "I came not to destroy the law or the prophets, but to fulfil." Why should Jesus accept Jewish law and then say: "It is said by them of old time, but I say unto you." Because Jesus wanted to make moral life a thing of the heart and motive as well as outward conduct. He thought of the individual to whom the law applies and how the individual's life could be perfected. In John 8:1-11, we read where the Scribes and Pharisees brought unto Jesus a woman taken in adultery and said: "According to the law of Moses such should be stoned, but what sayest thou?" Jesus said unto them: "He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her." And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one. Jesus said: "Where are those, thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee?" She said: "No man, Lord." Jesus said, "Neither do I condemn thee, go and sin no more." Jesus did not approve of adultery, in fact he made the law binding on our very thoughts, but he thought of the woman, he interpreted the situation in terms of better living.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
He did not approve of sin of any degree but rather condemned even the appearance of wrong doing, yet everywhere he shows the greatest love and concern for the sinner. Jesus showed this same interest in building life in its varied forms. He dined with the sinners, He blessed little children and prayed to his Father in their behalf. He healed the sick, the blind, the deaf and the halt. His aim was to teach people how to live. He desired that they might have life more abundantly. Relief Society is dedicated to the betterment of human life. What are we doing? Our zeal for making one hundred percent visits, attendance records, etc., is admirable, we can approve, even as Jesus accepted the law. But do we sometimes lose track of the object of our visits and our activities? Do we keep in mind the ultimate good of the individual? As teachers and class leaders do we present the lessons with the thought in mind, how will it help the members to improve their lives and the lives
289
of those with whom they come in contact? Will it help them to be more kind and more thoughtful of others? Will it help them to obtain high ideals and high aspirations? Relief Society should be directed toward preserving and creating a spirit of reverence for human life. We are helping to fulfil the law when we love our neighbors and help to better their lives. In the story of the Good Samaritan Jesus wishes to teach us about the good neighbor. It is a beautiful story, rich in suggestion, touching in its sympathy, yet keen in its application. The first great principle or law of spiritual growth comes largely through practice in the real life situation and is found in the words: "It's more blessed to give than to receive." "There is a destiny that makes us brothers, None goes his way alone, All that we send into the lives of others, Comes back into our own."
HEALTH: PHYSICAL AND MENTAL Amy W. Evans—Member of General Board
In any plan to build for better living, health both physical and mental is a fundamental factor, as upon health depends so largely the power to contribute to the abundant life. Good health has always been a standard of our Church. We have the Word of Wisdom and the promises attached to its keeping which are both physical and spiritual. The Relief Society has had for years as a part of its program the conservation and promotion of health, through its hospitals, training of nurses, baby clinics, health centers, wheat interest fund for health purposes and courses of study both in physical and mental health. Now when we are all talking about economic and social security I wonder if we realize the part in it that health plays? The money loss caused by sickness of the average American families whose incomes are $2500 or less a year is $2,400,000,000 per annum, and in normal times from one-third to one-half of all dependency can be traced to the effects of illness, not accounting for the human loss and suffering. These figures show, however, the place that health security takes in any plan for economic security, and there is a medical advisory board to the National Committee on Economic security. Health security has become a national policy. How this is to be obtained is a 290 much discussed question. It is a question I am sure in which Relief Society women are vitally interested and on which they are informing themselves. In this day we cannot consider physical health as separate from mental health and undoubtedly mental illness is as heavy a burden upon humanity as physical illness. As we maintain bodily health to a great extent by obeying the laws of right living and hygiene, so mental health is dependent largely upon the observance of the laws of mental hygiene, the problems of which are those innumerable minor mental maladjustments which hamper all of us in the conduct of our daily lives. Those petty fears, resentments, prejudices, hatreds and jealousies which keep us from perfect inner harmony and adjustment to persons and conditions around us. There is no better guide for that wholesomeness of spirit which is free from these minor maladjustments than the teachings of Jesus. His word was to forgive seventy times seventy, for to hold RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE resentment and anger is a deadly menace to both mental and spiritual health. He said to be charitable in our judgment of others, to think kindly thoughts; to put aside worry and fear, for sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof; to love our enemies, putting hate from the heart. That our thought determines what we are, "As a man thinketh so he is.” And after all it is the spirit which is real and which is essential. We remember the spirit of a man long after his physical characteristics have been forgotten. It is the spirit of the occasion which we carry away and which endures. Someone has said that the basis of a better world must be found in the broad interpretation of the principles of mental health. That when men meet to plan for society without hate, fear, prejudices and selfishness, then and then only will we have security and peace. So healthfulness of mind and spirit and body are fundamental factors in building for better living. PURE RELIGION AND UNDEFILED Rosannah C. Irvine—Member of General Board VERY Relief Society member has a desire to be truly religious. Our creed is embodied in two words, Service and Goodness. The definition of religion given by James the Apostle is particularly applicable to us. "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father, is this. To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." There are two parts to this definition. To visit people in trouble, and to keep the Faith. To be good, and do good. To give service, and be pure in heart. Jesus said, "Blessed are the pure in heart." He also said, "Love thy neighbor as thyself." That we are pure in heart goes without saying. But do we always put the same interpretation on the word Love that Jesus did? We stand for love of mankind. But do we truly love our neighbor as ourselves? There are natures that are antagonistic. Jesus lived above such feelings. Mrs. Blank may be hateful and sharp tongued. Think what miserable company she must be to herself! Why not brighten her up a bit by a friendly visit? Show her how delightful it is to have a sweet disposition. Try giving her a glass of your delicious jelly or a piece of your delectable cake to sweeten her bitterness. The woman across the street never goes out. Let's discover the reason. She has an ailing baby whom she cannot take out nor leave alone. Let's go in and tend the child while the weary mother takes a walk or goes to a meeting that we had expected to attend. We have not only done good, we have built something beautiful in our own character. All Relief Society workers do such things constantly. However, we are not always in the position of workers. But we are always members. And we are always neighbors. It has been said that no one is truly religious until he thinks he is dying. That only with his final breath does he realize how desolate one may be who has nothing to return to his Maker but a puny life full of weakness and conceit. Life is such a pitifully short time in which to accomplish the things we might have done. So short a time in which to overcome the human frailties that hamper our eternal progress. Death may come to us at any time. But while we live, let us continue to be kind and good. Let us seek with greater interest, enthusiasm, and love to be good Relief Society workers. Let us graciously, kindly, gladly live up to our creed and the admonition of James, "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father, is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world."
CHARITY SUFFERETH LONG AND IS KIND Inez K. Allen—Member of General Board
In the breast of each of you there is perhaps some hidden strife, and with it probably a silent prayer. Your individual problems may vary widely. It may be a smile conceals the keenest suffering, because the deepest wounds often are those of which one never speaks. Christ says: "Come unto me all ye that are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest." The motto in our Relief Society Magazine is: "Charity Never Faileth." Paul tells us "Charity suffereth long and is kind." It takes great courage to keep sweet and kind when families must give up their own fireside and return to the home nest to share the earnings and fare of father and mother, sisters and brothers. To accept relief graciously is a great accomplishment. Many are truly sick at heart and need all the tenderness possible. One may give of his means, yet lack charity. Paul says: "Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing." You who have plenty remember "Charity vaunteth not itself and is not puffed up." You who administer relief, are you able to face ingratitude and still be kind? It may be the person with least appreciation needs your help most. You Relief Society women who can accept release from office and continue to be kind and helpful manifest real charity. An elderly woman had barely enough money in a bank to live on. She made her home first with one and then with another of her children, always paying something wherever she lived. None of them had more than they needed. The bank failed, but she was not told about it, and the son who usually cashed her check took it as usual, collected the amount among the family each month, and put it in her hands to do with as she had been accustomed to do, thus sparing her disappointment and preserving her independence. A man whose fortune had greatly shrunken said: "My wife suffered in silence; her kindness has saved my life. During these days of adjustment and struggle she has never met me without a smile. When my nerve failed me, and I spoke sharply, even harshly, her soft answer turned away my wrath. She smothered long cherished hopes about to be realized when reverses came. Although her advice, if it had been followed, would have saved some of our embarrassment, never once did she say, 'I told you so.' She helped us all to see the glory of the commonplace. By her long suffering kindness she has created an atmosphere in which the spirit of the Lord is wont to dwell: a home where we may pray, and where we have come to know the greatest gifts are not purchased without a price." In a home where there is real charity which suffereth long and is kind, each member of the family is helped to do all he can do, just as flowers in spring rise and bloom in the warm sun's rays.
A MUSIC MESSAGE Ida Peterson Beal—Member of General Board
Never was there a time when truly good music was more a need than right now. Encouragement, cheer and spiritual uplift come through an active participation in and listening to good music. Could there be a better training school for these blessings than the home? Music in the home becomes a spiritual anchor that will help many to weather the depression. Music helps to take our minds off the worries of daily life. If it had no other merit this would be enough to recommend it in times like these. Music is an ideal way in which to spend an evening. It will leave one refreshed and happy, with a lingering thought of real entertainment. It makes for the happiness of friends together. In the home we have another agent to help us in our search for good in music. "The advent of the radio broadcast has probably done more to create interest in music for the people of this country than any other medium yet brought before the public." Through the medium of the radio we are privileged to hear the great artists, the pianist, the singer, the violinist, the orchestras; also superb dramatic productions. It helps to cultivate and stimulate our music appreciation and to enhance the value of the great legacies left us by the masters. With our growing musical knowledge, there is no reason why we should not have better singing in our churches, bigger choirs prepared to give us the best in hymns and choral music. Leadership in this direction must be stimulated. The Relief Society has shown its interest in and an appreciation of good music always. Good congregational singing, hymn singing, has been one of its aims. To further this influence singing groups have been organized to produce good choral music. The interest manifested by these groups and the results of their labor have been most gratifying. From far and near, reports have been received praising the work of the Relief Society "Singing Mothers." They are a real asset to the organization. Again the Relief Society urges that serious consideration be given to all the music used in our worship; and the whole music service ought
293
to be such that will cause our people to lay aside what is unworthy and bring them nearer to God. The music constitutes part of the divine worship and should receive just as respectful attention as that given to the speakers. God should be worshipped with the best music we are able to offer, both as to the material we use and the manner of presenting it. Choristers and organists should consider themselves servants of the Lord, and their offices should be filled with a prayerful desire to have music function as one of the saving influences in the lives of the people. Let them be like the minstrels of old to bring solace and comfort in our every day life so that our souls may be open to the true influence of music and drink in its message with understanding hearts.
GENERAL SESSION Thursday Afternoon
Counselor Kate M. Barker
"Nothing is too wonderful to be true."
When research began to reveal the wonders of the universe, Michael Faraday, the physicist, said, "Nothing is too wonderful to be true." Today, as the radio brings us opera from thousands of miles away, we cannot help but say as he did, "Really, nothing is too wonderful to be true." But marvelous as the world is, it was planned for man and his development. Our Father in Heaven planned a world where character could be developed—a world of rigid law where human beings have freedom of choice, a world in which people have to live and work together. The strength of character which our Father in Heaven wishes us to acquire because it leads to greater joy, can only be gained by living and working together. So our big problem today is, as it has always been, one of human relations. The outcomes of our efforts to solve the problem are brought to us daily and, since the unusual is news, we hear more of the failures than of the successes. They are proclaimed by radio and by the press. They receive undue emphasis by "debunking" biographers. They become the prevailing topic of conversation; and we develop the tendency to decry the faults rather than to appreciate the virtues of our fellowmen. Our vision of the divine possibilities of the soul has been dimmed. With short-sighted, imperfect ideals, our realization too has fallen short. Human relationships have become discordant. The sin of the majority is not one of delinquency but of being satisfied with mediocrity. We need a sublimer outlook on the possibilities of humanity. Our education is of value only so far as it increases our consciousness of the divine potentialities of our souls. We marvel at the beauty of nature, but the most wonderful thing in the world is the capacity of the human soul for friendship, kindness and loyalty. We have allowed the world to become poor in these virtues which make life so fine and beautiful, because they make for happy human relations. And yet these things which the world most needs are in the power of every human soul to give if he but will. The Relief Society holds a strategic position. It is the society of the mothers who instill ideals in the children, mould character, and thus shape the whole of society. Let each one of us resolve for the coming year to get a better vision of what we may be as revealed by the life of our Savior. Let us each be a little more honest in our thoughts and actions, take a little more time to be friendly, be a little more kind, a little more loyal to friends, leaders, and principles. If every Relief Society woman would do this in the home and inspire those in the home to practice it in the community, what a great spiritual force we could be, what a wonderful beginning of building a world where the best and highest in man's life would rule. And, from our efforts, the world might get the vision that in the realm of character and human relationships nothing is too wonderful to be true.
BUILDING FOR BETTER LIVING BY MEETING DAILY LIFE THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT OF PERSONALITY Hazel H. Greenwood—Member of General Board
"Personality is used to describe almost everything from the attributes of the soul to those of a new talcum powder. It means the individual as a whole his height and weight and loves and hates and blood pressure and reflexes, his smiles and hopes and bowed legs and enlarged tonsils. It means all that anyone is and all he is trying to become."— Menninger. Personality is made up of an inherited nucleus that is acted upon by various powerful social and economic influences that mold and shape into behavior patterns. The situation is the thing to which the personality has to adjust itself. The phase of life as it is presented at any particular moment. The rules of life are made up of laws that become more and more complicated as the demands of civilization increase. If we might always meet the same situations, life would be less difficult, but new situations are constantly arising that call for new adjustments. "Life sets the conditions, man must do the fitting. Fortune is the great scene shifter and from one act to another in the drama we call life, the actor must adjust to his part. Nothing endures forever, times change, conditions alter. Life is not one voyage but a succession of ventures. The Greek philosophers say we never dip in the same stream twice." This process of adjustment to life is the art of living. A well integrated personality is able to meet life's changing fortunes. It may not be easy. He may have to change the situation or he may change himself and he can do both. By one means and another he can manage successfully. We hear little of the person who meets his difficulties with faith and courage. He says little about it. We see mostly those who have failed to meet their situations. The ability to carry on in spite of discouragements and misfortune demonstrates strong healthy personalities. We know that no one can have a mind and a mental life that is completely in harmony. We are always experiencing conflicts. The mind becomes a battlefield with emotions and forces drawn against each other. Conflict means struggle and friction. The happy person is one who has these conflicts reduced to the minimum, for conflict is painful. The successful individual is the one who has his life so adjusted that instead of wearing himself out by anxiety over personal problems he
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
is able to apply his energy to the lines of successful endeavor outside himself. To meet and overcome conflicts we must recognize their existence and plan our actions and desires clearly and effectively. To be able to face the facts of life, to view ourselves objectively and to really see ourselves as others see us without rationalization or self-deception is truly an art. We all like to forget the unpleasant and painful experiences of life. Some one has said, "Forgetting should be the training of education. The capacity to forget is more important than the capacity to remember. By this we do not mean to forget where we have laid our spectacles, or to pay the grocery man, or to study our Relief Society lesson, but to be able to put out of our minds unpleasant things that are devastating
295
to our personalities. To be able to turn aside from events and situations that arise in our consciousness to vex and harass us. If we are disappointed in having our wishes gratified we instinctively turn to other things to compensate ourselves. Personality is rich according to its many interests. Variety enriches life. There should be an improvement of self, a reaching out for new contacts and opportunity for enrichments. Our organization gives opportunity of developing and maintaining a healthy personality. It comprises the fundamental elements of normal living, spirituality, companionship, recreation, forgetting of self through service to others. May we be able to continue to adjust our lives to the situations of life with courage and hope.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY TODAY Emeline Y. Nebeker Member of General Board
Believing that "The Glory of God is Intelligence," the Relief Society from its earliest days encouraged study; however, it was not until 1914 that the General Board outlined a uniform course. In this year the Bulletin was issued, twelve lessons being printed for the year. A comparison of the first month's lessons in the Bulletin, and the lessons in the Relief Society Magazine for March, 1935, shows, in the main, a remarkable similarity. In the Bulletin we have: First Meeting— Current Topics, Local, National and International; Second Meeting— Genealogy; Third Meeting—Home Ethics: Civic Pride, 20 minutes; Home Gardening for women, 20 minutes; Fourth Meeting—Literature, 30 minutes; Art and Architecture, 10 minutes. The lessons in the last Magazine are: First Meeting—1:15 p. M. Teachers' Topic; 2 p. M. Theology. Second Meeting —Work and Business. Third Meeting—Literature. Fourth Meeting— Social Service. Both stress the importance of the work of the day. Both have the underlying thought that if we are to gain knowledge "the greatest of all time is today; it is the algebraic sum of all our yesterdays, and holds the promise of all our tomorrows." But always both emphasize the fact that the association with Relief Society members strengthens our faith and helps us to strive harder to keep the two great commandments, the first: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind;" and the second: "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself."
296 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
VISION Mary C. Kimball—Member of General Board
Joseph Smith had vision as to the inner urges or impulses of women when he organized the Relief Society. He said, "This charitable Society is according to your natures, it is natural for females to have feelings of charity. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious. If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. * * * This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls. * * * And I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time." On that prophetic and inspirational utterance and with divine power, the organization was effected and has continued to go forth fulfilling its great destiny. Saving souls is one of the most important works God has given to His children. In the Doctrine and Covenants He tells us that if we labor all our days and save but one soul that great shall be our joy with that soul in the kingdom of our Father. In the Relief Society souls are saved by teaching correct principles, by feeding spiritual food in prayer and testimony and study of the Word of God, and by giving opportunities to serve. Each officer and member needs vision to carry on her work. Each needs that inner light that shall guide and direct her into doing the best possible thing in the best possible way. It was said of old, "Where there is no vision the people perish," and Relief Society organizations, if not officered by women having inner light to guide and direct them, will not fulfil their destiny and will lag behind the other organizations. Every officer and member needs to keep in touch with the fast changing events of her day. She should duly value the past, give to the present its meed of attention, and be ready to make needed adjustments for the future. Visiting teachers require vision to see and to understand the ones they visit that they may minister to each one according to her needs. It is necessary for the presiding officers not only to meet the present opportunities but they should seek for the possibilities greater than they are able to attain to today. Every officer and teacher should cultivate the seeing eye and the understanding heart that she may ever see the best way of doing the work assigned to her and see greater possibilities in the future for achievement. She who lives up to the light she has received today, will tomorrow have greater vision. To the one who has vision, nothing can discourage or daunt for long and although few see great distances ahead, to everyone is given light for one or more steps ahead. Just as the inventor, the landscape gardener, the architect, in his vision sees what he is trying to invent, how the garden will look, how the building when completed will appear, so everyone who has anything to do with saving souls must see the possibilities of each of God's children and with this light she will not be discouraged even though the achievement seems small and progress slow.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 297
THE CHURCH IN A CHANGING WORLD Counselor Amy Brown Lyman
We hear a great deal of discussion today about the great changes which have recently taken place in the world; about changes which are now taking place; and about changes which should, or must, take place in the future if the world is to recover itself. We hear about how the world is changing; how Government is changing and must change; how the social and economic order is changing and must change. In fact we hear so much about these things that we almost wonder at times what there is in life that is fundamental, permanent and unchanging; what there is we can depend upon; what there is we can hold to. In a single day recently I noted the following headlines on the editorial pages of several magazines of the current month: "Our Changing World;" "Our Changing Social Order;" "The Old Social Order Has Gone;" "A New Deal for Capitalism;" "Youth in a New World." In all probability many of the changes and many of the proposed changes in world affairs are necessary, and normal people, with a normal outlook on life, and with a long view of things, do not object to changes if such changes would mean development and progress in world affairs; if they would mean more spirituality, more righteousness and more social justice. But questions naturally arise—Why are so many changes and such radical changes necessary? What is wrong with the world? What is wrong with Government? What is wrong with the social and economic order? Without going into present-day conditions and difficulties in detail, I believe we can answer that. Much of the trouble in the world today, and much of the need for changes is due to wrong methods of operation in world affairs based upon wrong ideas, all of which have developed as a result of human selfishness, greed and love of power; secondly, to the ignoring of those basic religious, moral and ethical principles and standards which are fundamental. In other words the world has strayed away from Christian ideals and principles, it has strayed away from God and His ways. Then there is our other question— What can we depend upon? What can we hold to? The answer to this question surely is that we can depend upon the Lord, and upon His word as revealed to us. His word will not change. We can depend upon His Church and its teachings. These are eternal and will not change. We can depend upon and hold to truth, to righteousness, to pure religion, the principles and fundamentals of which never change, even in a changing world. Following this plan may not mean that we can help to control the world, but if we can be only a small factor for good in world affairs it is worth while. All good is far reaching, and nothing good is lost. Even the little pebble dropped in the large pool makes its impression. We can set ourselves in order; we can set our families in order and we can help set our communities in order for we have the franchise and should use it. The Savior set a high standard of life when in answer to the question: "What can one do to inherit eternal life?" He pointed out the law: "Thou shalt love the Lord Thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself." In illustrating as to who one's neighbor is, he gave the parable of the Good Samaritan, which indicated that one's neighbor is anyone who is in trouble and in need. If this one law were observed, and individuals and nations loved the Lord with their hearts and souls and strength and minds, they would serve Him and keep His commandments; they would worship him instead of worshiping worldly idols. And if individuals and nations loved their neighbors as they do themselves, the Golden rule would prevail and such destructive forces as greed, selfishness, poverty and war would be eliminated. This spirit of unselfish love and service is the ideal of Relief Society, and is typified in the work of the faithful members of this organization. It is this ideal which prompts the theme of this conference: "Relief Society Building for Better Living." Joseph Smith also set a high standard of living in his life and teachings, and in the Gospel plan of life and salvation revealed through him—a plan which, if universally adopted, would revolutionize the world. I believe we can therefore proclaim with assurance that our hope for the future lies in the acceptance of, and adoption of religious principles and ideals; in revealed truth;
298
in the teachings of the Savior; in the Gospel plan of life and salvation as given through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Our hope for the future lies in faith in God, and in our willingness to accept His teachings and live His laws. These teachings are eternal and are unchanging in a changing world. These we can depend upon and hold to. In the eternities we must trust our Heavenly Father; why not trust Him here and now? We could not do better than to look to Him for the direction of our life-energy. He can do great things with our lives if we but give them to Him in sincerity. He can make them useful, uplifting, heroic. He never wastes anything. He never forgets anything. He never loses anything. Though He holds the worlds in the hollow of His hand, He will yet remember each of us, and the part we are fitted to play in eternal life. As Latter-day Saints we have much to depend upon, much to hold to. The Lord has spoken in this dispensation, and has instructed us how to live; and if we live fully according to His laws and His teachings, we can still be serene and happy and even helpful in a troubled and changing world. In His great cause our efforts will not be lost.
PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON
We have had so many wonderful subjects treated during our Conference that I felt I would rather review our work for last year, and possibly outline just a bit what there is in the future for us. I would like our women to realize that our organization is a charter member, the National Council of Women, and through Relief Society we are members of the National Council. We have been favored recently by a visit from our National President—Lena Madesin Phillips, I wish you could all have heard her speak. In this News Letter which went to every organization in the United States she spoke of the honor and privilege she had while she was here of speaking with President Heber J. Grant, and having a visit with him. This was one of the outstanding features of her visit here. Quoting her words: "These are peripatetic news notes, prepared as I have traveled through the West. They should bear the fragrance of sage and balsam, the everlasting strength of silent mountains and the vigor and freedom of the plains. The problems which so perplex and trouble us in the East seem absurdly unnecessary and out of place in the natural beauty and grandeur of the West." Have we had this vision? A woman who was here speaking a few years ago said, "Women who can look up to these mountains must have high thoughts and a glorious future." When I know that we have these, we have been baptized and had hands of the brethren who hold the authority of God placed upon them, giving them the gift of the Holy Ghost, added to these elevating things which God has given us, I feel we should never have an impure or selfish or ugly thought. Recently a President of the Relief Society came into the office. She had been a Stake President and now, with just as much love for the Gospel and the Relief Society, is working as a Ward President. She said: "Sister Robison, why cannot women be sensible instead of sensitive?" When we have the wonderful possibilities that have been pointed out to us during this Conference and the many opportunities for service, for building ourselves up by helping others—how can we be over sensitive! How we can have our feelings hurt! We had a very lovely example of what I mean within the last week. The sisters of the General Board were bringing in to the Chairman of our Conference Committee the topics they would speak on during Conference. There was one sister, who is one of God's noble women, through some misunderstanding she did not get her title ready, and the program was printed without it. This was our beloved Sarah M. McLelland, when she found the
299
program printed and her name not on it she said: "It is all right, it does not make a bit of difference. I have my notes ready, but it is all right." Can you carry this spirit in your own homes? Can you show it in your Ward organizations. If we want to live up to the blessings and opportunities our Father has given us we must have it. We cannot have the Spirit of the Lord with us unless we put selfishness and jealousy and envy out of our hearts. I am sure the majority of the sisters do this, but it is one little fault for us to overcome this next year. We should appreciate the natural beauty of our country and help to preserve it. In your Relief Society Magazine for this month there is an article by Rufus D. Johnson on the heritage that we have from our parents in the trees they planted. When they came here it was a barren country, only choke cherries and scrub oak here, and now to look over these valleys, not only Salt Lake but wherever Latter-day Saints live, you see beautiful trees. He calls attention to the fact that we have been rather inclined, in our lives, to plant quick growing trees, and not something that will last a lifetime. Let us have the satisfaction that we have added to the beauty of our lands by planting some fine tree. Why not plant a tree when each child is born, and name it, and let the child know it is his tree, and when he is fifty years old it would bring back the memories of home life with its thrills. Plant good trees. They cost very little. Beautify your homes and make your land wherever you are, a land of Zion. Now, sisters, in going home, take the spirit of this conference with you. I am praying that the spirit of the Lord's prayer will be carried in your hearts, then the Lord will give you the power to inspire others with His glorious Spirit. May the Lord bless you in your homes to sense the great things there are to do, and the wonderful things that are awaiting you. If you feel your work is hard, remember it is not your work, it is the work of the Lord. Go to Him—for He will bear our burdens if we will only take them to Him in the proper Spirit. May the Lord bless you and help you in your work. May you remember that little motto to welcome the task that makes you go beyond yourself if you would grow. One of the speakers said the same thought today, that if you live to the very best you can today you will have added strength tomorrow, and if you will do more than you feel that you can do today, God will give you strength to do more tomorrow. May the Lord bless you. I am so thankful the Lord gave you the means that you could come here, and I
300
hope that you will be strengthened when you go home, and may the Spirit of the Lord always abide in your homes.
Relief Society Annual Report FOR THE YEAR 1934 Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary
Cash Receipts
Balance on Hand January 1, 1934: Charity Fund................................................................. $ 38,373.48 General Fund................................................................ 80,018.75 Donations Received During 1934..................................... 9,209.00 $127,601.23
Charity Fund................................................................ $ 62,367.13 General Fund................................................................ 85,658.08 Other Receipts............................................................. 23,861.54 42,297.32 Total Receipts............................................................. $214,184.07
Total Balance on Hand and Receipts................................. $341,785.30
Cash Disbursements
Paid for Charitable Purposes.......................................... $ 62,608.95 Paid for General Purposes............................................. 89,516.25 Wheat Trust Fund........................................................ 100.00 Remitted to Presiding Bishop's Office.............................. 27,383.92 Annual Dues Paid to General Board and to Stake Boards..... Paid for Other Purposes...............................................
Total Disbursements.................................................... $198,651.57
Balance on Hand December 31, 1934: Charity Fund................................................................ $143,133.73 General Fund................................................................ 13,180.84
Merchandise on Hand.................................................... $ 3,066.50
                                                                $341,785.30
FINANCIAL ACCOUNT
Wheat Trust Fund....................................................... $143,143.54 Total Balance, January 1, 1934..................................... Annual Dues.............................................................. Wheat Trust Fund....................................................... Total Balance, December 31, 1934.................................. Total Disbursements and Balances................................. Balance on Hand........................................................ $341,785.30
RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORT 301
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Assets
Balance on Hand December 31, 1934: Cash........................................................................ $143,143.54 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishop's Office.... 404,087.71 Other Invested Funds.................................................. 34,686.78 Value of Real Estate and Buildings................................. 187,848.01 Value of Furniture and Fixtures.................................... 83,410.51 Other Assets............................................................. 30,560.13 $883,736.68
Stake Board Balances on Hand December 31, 1934............ $ 33,840.34 Other Assets............................................................. 61,435.29 $ 95,275.63
Total Assets............................................................. $979,012.31
Liabilities
Indebtedness............................................................ $ 1,279.63
Balance Net Assets.................................................... $883,736.68 Balance Stake Board Net Assets.................................... 95,275.63
Total Net Assets and Liabilities................................... $979,012.31
STATISTICS
Membership January 1, 1934: Executive Officers..................................................... 11,372 Visiting Teachers...................................................... 24,144 Other Members......................................................... 33,280
Total Membership January 1, 1934................................. 68,796
Increase: Admitted to Membership During Year............................... 9,521
Total Membership and Increase..................................... 78,317
Decrease: Removed or Resigned.................................................. 6,955 Died...................................................................... 847
Total Decrease......................................................... 7,802
Membership December 31, 1934: Executive and Special Officers..................................... 15,167 Visiting Teachers...................................................... 24,140 Other Members......................................................... 31,208
Total Membership December 31, 1934.............................. 70,515
The Total Membership Includes: General Officers and Board Members............................... 23 Stake Officers and Board Members................................. 1,192 Mission Presidents and Officers.................................... 90
Number of Stakes...................................................... 106 Number of Missions.................................................... 30 Number of Relief Society Ward and Branch Organizations...... 1,728
302 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Number of Visiting Teachers' Districts............................ 12,944 Number of L. D. S. Families in Wards............................. 133,353 Number of Relief Society Magazines taken......................... 30,449 Number of Executive Officers taking Relief Society Magazine... 5,736 Number of Meetings held in Wards.................................. 60,075 Number of Stake Meetings Held..................................... 2,326 Number of Stake and Ward Officers' (Union) Meetings Held.... 1,165 Number of Ward Conferences Held................................... 1,392 Average Attendance at Ward Meetings............................. 33,833 Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers............................. 972,488 Number of Families Helped.......................................... 17,284 Number of Days Spent with the Sick................................ 44,397 Number of Special Visits to the Sick and Homebound........... 222,630 Number of Bodies Prepared for Burial.............................. 2,004 Number of Visits to Wards by Stake Officers..................... 6,089
COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS
                                      1932        1933        1934
Paid for Charitable Purposes........... $111,343.23 $83,853.27 $62,608.95 Total or Present Membership............ 67,382 68,796 70,515 No. Of Relief Society Organizations.... 1,567 1,662 1,728 No. Of Relief Society Magazines Taken.. 20,012 24,157 30,449 No. Of Days Spent with the Sick........ 42,313 40,226 44,397 No. Of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound............................. 214,637 220,188 222,630 No. Of Families Helped.................. 22,207 18,498 17,284 No. Of Visits by Relief Society Officers to Wards.................... 5,519 5,985 6,089 No. Of Visits by Relief Society Visiting Teachers.................... 881,436 918,663 972,488
DISTRIBUTION OF MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Stakes Missions Arizona............................... 2,555 Australia......................... 185 California............................ 2,107 Canada............................ 122 Canada................................ 1,307 Europe............................ 4,061 Colorado.............................. 511 Hawaii............................ 178 Idaho................................. 12,414 Mexico............................ 55 Nevada................................ 812 New Zealand....................... 503 Oregon................................ 178 South Africa...................... 325 Utah.................................. 37,419 South America..................... 135 Washington............................ 500 United States..................... 41 Wyoming............................... 1,393
5,818 Total Membership in Stakes............ 56,697 Total Membership in Missions...... 13,818
Total Membership in Stakes and Missions................................. 70,515
(Note: In the foregoing report all funds are held and disbursed in the various Wards, with the exception of the Annual Membership Dues.)
STATISTICS
Membership January 1, 1934: Executive Officers..................................................... 11,372 Visiting Teachers...................................................... 24,144 Other Members......................................................... 33,280
Total Membership January 1, 1934................................. 68,796
Increase: Admitted to Membership During Year............................... 9,521
Total Membership and Increase..................................... 78,317
Decrease: Removed or Resigned.................................................. 6,955 Died...................................................................... 847
Total Decrease......................................................... 7,802
Membership December 31, 1934: Executive and Special Officers..................................... 15,167 Visiting Teachers...................................................... 24,140 Other Members......................................................... 31,208
Total Membership December 31, 1934.............................. 70,515
The Total Membership Includes: General Officers and Board Members............................... 23 Stake Officers and Board Members................................. 1,192 Mission Presidents and Officers.................................... 90
Number of Stakes...................................................... 106 Number of Missions.................................................... 30 Number of Relief Society Ward and Branch Organizations...... 1,728
Number of Visiting Teachers' Districts............................ 12,944 Number of L. D. S. Families in Wards............................. 133,353 Number of Relief Society Magazines taken......................... 30,449 Number of Executive Officers taking Relief Society Magazine... 5,736 Number of Meetings held in Wards.................................. 60,075 Number of Stake Meetings Held..................................... 2,326 Number of Stake and Ward Officers' (Union) Meetings Held.... 1,165 Number of Ward Conferences Held................................... 1,392 Average Attendance at Ward Meetings............................. 33,833 Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers............................. 972,488 Number of Families Helped.......................................... 17,284 Number of Days Spent with the Sick................................ 44,397 Number of Special Visits to the Sick and Homebound........... 222,630 Number of Bodies Prepared for Burial.............................. 2,004 Number of Visits to Wards by Stake Officers..................... 6,089
COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS
                                      1932        1933        1934
Paid for Charitable Purposes........... $111,343.23 $83,853.27 $62,608.95 Total or Present Membership............ 67,382 68,796 70,515 No. Of Relief Society Organizations.... 1,567 1,662 1,728 No. Of Relief Society Magazines Taken.. 20,012 24,157 30,449 No. Of Days Spent with the Sick........ 42,313 40,226 44,397 No. Of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound............................. 214,637 220,188 222,630 No. Of Families Helped.................. 22,207 18,498 17,284 No. Of Visits by Relief Society Officers to Wards.................... 5,519 5,985 6,089 No. Of Visits by Relief Society Visiting Teachers.................... 881,436 918,663 972,488
DISTRIBUTION OF MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Stakes Missions Arizona............................... 2,555 Australia......................... 185 California............................ 2,107 Canada............................ 122 Canada................................ 1,307 Europe............................ 4,061 Colorado.............................. 511 Hawaii............................ 178 Idaho................................. 12,414 Mexico............................ 55 Nevada................................ 812 New Zealand....................... 503 Oregon................................ 178 South Africa...................... 325 Utah.................................. 37,419 South America..................... 135 Washington............................ 500 United States..................... 41 Wyoming............................... 1,393
5,818 Total Membership in Stakes............ 56,697 Total Membership in Missions...... 13,818
Total Membership in Stakes and Missions................................. 70,515
(Note: In the foregoing report all funds are held and disbursed in the various Wards, with the exception of the Annual Membership Dues.)
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
May! Smiles in her flowered beauty.
Susan B. Anthony and Lucretia Mott are two of the noted Americans for whom statues will be placed in New York's Hall of Fame this year.
Evelyn Graham Frost, aviatrix-poet, is to have a statue erected in her memory and placed in the Cathedral of Nevers, France.
Mrs. Julia Wagner Juaregg after four expeditions into the Sahara desert and hitherto unknown parts of Africa has returned with a valuable collection for the Vienna Museum.
Carrie Chapman Catt attended in April the International Alliance of Women for equal rights at Stamboul, Turkey.
Miss Sue Thorn, anthropologist of California, has gone to the far north. She plans to make a thorough study of the Eskimos, their language, habits, customs, and folklore. She will have native guides but will be the sole scientist in the party.
Queen Helena, of Italy, is deeply interested in lethargic illness. She has recently sponsored clinics in Bologna, Rome and Pisa exclusively for the care of cases of sleeping sickness.
Malvina Hoffman has completed the amazing task of presenting in sculpture all the types of man existing in the world. This stupendous work was a commission for the field museum at Chicago.
Miss Antonia Brico, of New York, conducts the only known women's symphony orchestra. It is composed of 86 skilled musicians.
King George and Queen Mary held their first court late in March this year when ten very beautiful, very young, and very rich American girls were presented.
Ingrid, beautiful Swedish princess, is betrothed to Prince Frederic of Denmark. It is said this marriage eliminates the last eligible bride for Wales.
Miss Susie Murphy was elected mayor of New Albany, Kan., in April. Every city office is held by women.
Anna Louise Strong, editor of the Moscow Daily News, the only English newspaper printed in Russia, has recently written a novel entitled "I Change Worlds."
Ruth Bryan Owen, lady minister, has written a charming little book descriptive of her semiofficial trip to Greenland.
Ilo Linke, has written a straightforward story of her own experiences during and after the World War. She was a leader among the Youth Movement in Germany, now exiled.
Mrs. H. M. Hamilton, pen name Dorothy McCleary, won a $1,000 prize for her first novel, "Not For Heaven." She was an indigent mother and said her first purchase would be a pair of shoes for her 8 year old boy.
Mrs. Ella J. Coulam, a writer of verse for the Relief Society Magazine, has been asked to permit her poem Happiness to be included in an anthology for 1935, published by the Pae-Bar Co.
Louise Redfield Peattie has published a new novel, "Fugitive," to which the critics give high praise.
His Father's Son By Ivy Williams Stone
CHAPTER 9
Upon a beautiful morning in June, Kareen wakened her son unusually early and smiled happily into his half comprehending eyes. "Richard," she cried gaily, "Richard, wake up! This is your birthday! You are twenty-one today! We are going out to the farm, and to Father Haven's; and then to the lawyer's office; and there you will receive the second installment of your father's will. And while we are there, we might as well make a day of legal transaction, and prepare the deed to the Japanese farmers, and get the money and come back and start to pack. We are going to Europe!" "Uncle Oliver and Aunt Esther have a pair of twin girls," announced Richard nonchalantly, now fully awake. "I saw Uncle in the market yesterday. He's got a stall of his own now, and more people came to his place last Saturday than to all the others put together. He sells dressed chickens, and asparagus and spinach, Burbank's white blackberries, and everbearing strawberries. He'll have the first cucumbers and watermelons. I'd like to run the stand. It has a sign reading "Haven Farms, Incorporated." "We're going to Europe, Richard!" Kareen's lap was full of steamship literature and travelogues. "I've been writing to a collector, and there is a genuine Stradivari to be sold at auction in London this summer. If we sail from New York on July 1st we can get there in time. Think of it, son, you are about to possess one of the five hundred forty originals!" "Uncle Oliver has found that the meadow land is ideal for growing celery," Richard looked more than his twenty-one years. He had the characteristic erect head and squared shoulders of the Havens, although his hair was golden instead of black. "And Mr. Peter says it would not be wise to go to Europe now. It's all war torn. And I guess I won't let those Japs buy my farm for what they please!" By ten o'clock the little party of three were on their momentous journey back to the Haven farm, which Kareen had not visited since her hasty departure ten years before. By common consent Mr. Peter Smith was included with the party. He had become an inseparable part of the life of Richard and Kareen. It was he who smoothed out the troubles when Richard became too farm minded; he who suggested patience when Kareen became too eager for the proposed life in Europe. "Ah, Madam," he had reminded her," you see Europe only through the pages of an enthusiastic student of music. You read only of the conservatories and the masters. All this was written before the terrible war. You have not seen the sorrow and the suffering and the hunger— as I saw it. Music is wonderful; it is my life—but Richard is right. People must be fed." With Richard's mind full of plans and dreams for the enlargement and betterment of his farm, with Kareen's mind focused upon an ocean voyage and the auction of the famous violin, with the gentle Peter Smith acting as mediator between these two divergent minds, the little party journeyed back to the Haven Farms. Mother Haven served a bounteous meal. Richard ate vociferously, talked incessantly, squeezed his grandmother until her placid face flushed with pleasure, and as a crowning joy measured himself and his grandfather against the door jam, to find that they were now the same height. "At last," he cried gaily, "I have achieved my ambition. I used to think there could be nothing grander in all the world than to be as tall as my father and grandfather!" After dinner Richard played for his grandparents, while Kareen accompanied him on the old square piano, in the parlor with the "closed up" odor. To Kareen the youth played of castles and soldiers, maidens and lovers. But to Peter Smith, who knew the boy's every mood, he played only of running water, lowing cattle, blooming fields and autumn harvests. Later they went over to the house where Oliver and Esther lived—the house of brick, built to endure by Richard Haven the second. There Esther and Oliver, in the keen joy of belated parenthood, proudly watched the family inspect the precious twins. "Did you ever see such raven black hair?" cried Richard gaily, touching the tiny, clinched hand of one of his little cousins. "Was I ever that small? Do they sleep all day long, Aunt Esther? Don't new babies have teeth? When can they ride to town with me on the truck?" The mystery of the first small infants he had ever seen intimately puzzled the boy whose life had been circumscribed by one objective. "It's too bad they were not boys, Father," Kareen smiled at the tiny morsels of humanity. "Oliver deserves 305 serves a son. You need boys to carry on the farm." Father Haven smiled compassionately at Kareen. "We have a son," he answered. "Richard Haven the third is all that we could ask." "Richard is selling his farm—today—to the Japs," cried Kareen, all indignation that these people could be so obtuse. "The Japs have offered twenty thousand dollars for Richard's farm! Think of it, father twenty thousand dollars for a piece of ground!" RESENTLY the little party gathered in the old, dingy office of the country lawyer. The windows looked as though they had not been washed since their last meeting there. Flies buzzed about. Looking not one day older, lawyer Sleed moved with maddening slowness and drawled his words in the same old monotone. "Here are the papers," he produced another large envelope from the old-fashioned safe. He handed the envelope to Richard Haven the third who read the instructions. "To be opened by my son, Richard Haven the ITT, on his twenty-first birthday." The youth's face paled as he hastily scanned the written sheets. It was as though he heard the voice of his father, silent for ten years. As though Richard Haven the II had had clairvoyant powers; as though he had looked down a kaleidoscopic vista into the future of his son. "You will have an opportunity to sell your farm. Your mother will wish you to sell it. She is planning a tour of Europe. You are to be kind to her, but do not go. You are not to sell your land. Never sell it. Keep it, to pass on to your children's children. It is now time your mother should know all about her parents. Lawyer Sleed has the trunk with things in it which came with the. Baby Kareen from Europe. Open it for her. Never cut down a tree without planting a seedling to take its place. After a winter 306 of heavy snowfall, you can raise good wheat on the dry farm. You and Oliver will make a good deal of money trucking garden stuff to the city markets. Buy water rights whenever you can. Rotate your crops. Follow Burbank. You will love your land. You are a Haven born. "Richard Haven II." ONLY the buzzing flies broke the tense silence as the boy stopped, his voice husky, his eyes dimmed. Finally Peter Smith broke the spell of conflicting emotions. "Mr. Haven," he cried, "if you would be so kind as to open the trunk. After all these years, Mrs. Kareen has the right to know about her parentage." The elaborately carved key was inserted into the lock of the ancient trunk, which the duenna had always kept 'away from the curious child Kareen, and which Richard Haven had carried to the lawyer's office before his marriage. The lid was thrown back, revealing a violin case, shiny and old with age, and a small black "strong box," elaborately carved and decorated. With reverent fingers young Richard opened this box, revealing a portrait of a young woman who might have been his own mother in her youth, and a gold-framed oil painting of an austere old man. The silence of the little audience was suddenly broken by a cry from the lips of the gentle, soft-spoken Peter Smith. He almost fell into the trunk in his eagerness to extract the violin case. "My beloved," he cried, tears coursing down the delicately formed cheeks. "My lost is found. My Stradivari!" He threw open the lid and there lay within an old violin. To the eyes of the uninitiated, it was only another fiddle; but to the gaze of Peter Smith it was an unsurpassable treasure. The orange red of the secret varnish, known only to Stradivari, was still there; the beautiful long arch of the body, which distinguished it from all its predecessors. "Look! See!" cried RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the old violinist. "My search is ended! My beloved Parke! The name—the genuine name of Stradivari! The word 'after Stradivari' which is written upon thousands of imitations, is missing. Not after, but 'Stradivari' is written within! It would bring much money. Museums would pay a fortune for this one violin!" He hugged it to his breast, crying unrestrainedly like a child over a recovered toy. "Kareen Olga Marie Christiana," droned the voice of the old lawyer, reading the inscription under the portrait of the beautiful young woman. "Daughter of prince Rupert Karl Gorgas, of the principality of Ruthiniana." "My wife!" again the voice of Peter Smith vibrated through the hot, unlovely old office. '"My wife, who died in a convent, never knowing what had become of her husband or child! Her father," he waved a deprecating hand toward the other portrait, "who condemned me to life exile in the Siberian coal mines, because, being hired to teach the lovely young princess to play, I dared to marry her secretly! Duenna told me," he added passionately, "That she was ordered to bring the child to America and stay until she had been married to a farmer! But she did not tell me that my beloved violin came with her. I have hunted through all the museums, but never could find a trace of it. My daughter," he turned to Kareen, "I came purposely to the apartment where you lived. I have trained this boy, because he was my daughter's son!" The old man made a sweeping, courtly bow, never loosening his firm grasp upon the treasured violin. Within a short while the old yellowed papers which lay in the box had been read. An old man, prince of a very small principality in Europe, had been so incensed over the HIS FATHER'S SON clandestine marriage of his daughter that he had banished the bridegroom to Siberia, put the young mother in a convent for life, and had sent the small baby to America in the care of a trusted servant. Kareen sat nonplussed over the strange revelations. At length she spoke. "We now have more reason than ever to return to Europe. My grandfather's castle will be a fitting environment for Richard's future studies. This marvelous—" 'My daughter," cried the old man, "there is no castle. It was shot to pieces. I made a happy escape from a life of slavery! Stay, my beloved, here in this marvelous land of plenty. Stay in peace and contentment with your son. Stay on the farm!" Kareen turned confidently toward her boy. "It is something to be the great grandson of a prince," she added. Then young Richard Haven the III, came into his full inheritance, spoke to the little group who hung upon his every word. 307 "I am a farmer born," he said in slow, even words. "I love music as a hobby, but my life work will be to carry on, as my father willed. Better that I become a wonderful farmer than to be a mediocre musician. I am my father's son." "THE flies buzzed in the windows. An expression of ineffable peace marked the features of Richard Haven the first, while the old musician wrapped his arms affectionately around his daughter Kareen. 'Peace and acceptance, my daughter," he whispered. "God's will be done! The boy must be as God willed him to be! Peace and happiness for all. The boy with earth and gardens; you and I with the beloved Stradivari!" He wiped away Kareen's tears as he spoke, and she, making the great supreme effort of her life, made answer: "T have known always, Richard— that you were your father's son. You must be as Henley wrote in his 'Invictus —'Captain of your Soul!' " THE End Mother By Bryce W. Anderson I have watched the white threads creep into your hair; I have watched the wrinkles line your face. I have watched and sorrowed—for I put them there: Worried marks that love cannot erase. I have spoken harshly; I have been unkind; I can only guess how you have cared. I can only guess how you have grieved and pined, How each joy and fear of mine you've shared. Has your heart been broken, back along the years? © Has your son lost sight of what you taught? Seldom do I pause to thank you, mother dear. Am I worth the battle that you fought? Mothers of Our Nation (A Pageant for Mother's Day) By Mabel S. Harmer I. Pilgrim. II. Washington's Farewell to his Mother. Minuet. Pioneer. III. IV. V. Civil War. VI. World War. VII. Finale. Each scene is introduced by a reader. Considerable leeway is allowed in the arrangement of the scenes. The director may use her own ingenuity and the resources at her command. Appropriate music should be played or sung during the scenes. I. THE PILGRIM MOTHER. Reader She braved a wild and stormy sea To face an unknown shore. She braved a hidden enemy That lurked outside her door. She spun the cloth to make her gown, Wrought wax for candle light, She learned to take a rifle down And prime it for a fight. She did not seek reward of gold Upon this foreign sod, She sought with others brave and bold Freedom to worship God. The scene may be a pilgrim mother seated at a spinning wheel with one or two children playing about, or a group of pilgrims passing by on their way to church. II. WASHINGTON's FAREWELL TO His Mother. Reader ) On the fourteenth day of April, 1789, when Washington was notified of his election to the office of Chief Magistrate of our country, he waited only for a hasty ride to Fredericksburg to bid farewell to his aged mother before starting for New York. He noted with sorrow the ravages which disease had made. Upon the aged frame, and it was with a heavy heart that he addressed her: "The people, Madam, have been pleased to elect me to the Chief Magistracy of the United States, but before I can assume the functions of my office, I have come to bid you an affectionate farewell. So soon as the weight of public business can be disposed of, I shall hasten to Virginia, and''—here the matron interrupted with—"And you shall see me no more; my great age and disease warn me that I shall not be long for this world. But go, my son, and may Heaven's and a mother's blessing be with you always." The scene is a reproduction of the picture, "Washington's Farewell to his Mother." III. The Minuet Reader The gay colonial dame, with dainty step Tripped forward in the stately minuet. Her powdered wig with curls and twists stood high. Correct was every gesture and quite demure her eye. Her flowered gown with many a fold draped o'er Her silken petticoats that touched the floor. And thus she came along with dainty step To enter in the stately minuet. Scene: The minuet, using as many couples as is desired. Directions for a MOTHERS OF simple minuet can be found in ''Physical pas for Elementary Schools," by Clark. IV. Tue PIONEER MOTHER. Reader With aching heart she left that loved home Her hands had helped with stringent toil to build, And walked upon the prairie's vast expanse To face whatever dangers it might yield. With courage born of faith and high resolve She met the rigid hardships of each day. She gave the hungry of her frugal store And helped a weary neighbor on her way. At eventide she sought the campfire's gleam, God's mercies and His blessings there to tell; She nestled close her babe within her arms And with unwavering voice sang, "All is Well." Scene: A pioneer camp at evening. The women may be preparing the evening meal, mending clothing and caring for the children. Some children may be playing "Indian" with bows and arrows. The scene may end with a Virginia Reel and the singing of "Come, Come, Ye Saints." Conversation may be introduced as desired. V. THE CIVIL War. Reader Who but a mother knew the agony Of sending one in blue and one in grey To fight upon the fields of our loved land, And meet forbidding battle's stern demand. What joy must then have filled the mother's heart OUR NATION 309 When strife was o'er, when North and South were one, And the flag that was rent in twain Was whole again, and without a stain.: Scene: A mother of the Civil War period seated and holding the American flag upon her lap. At each side kneels a soldier, one in the uniform of the Union and the other in the grey of the Confederacy. The song offstage might be "The Flag Without a Stain." VI. THE WORLD WAR MOTHER. Reader Again war vexed the land with its sad strife. The mother sought with all the courage life Could give, to help an ailing world. Hers the deft hands and willing heart that shared The burdens left behind—that dared to sing When darkening clouds hung low. Hers was the faith that smiled throughout uncertainty; The gratitude that shed a tear in victory— Hers, the unfaltering prayers. Scene: A group of women in Red Cross uniforms making bandages and surgical. Dressings. The accompanying music is "Over There," "Keep the Home Fires Burning," or some other familiar war song. VII. FINAL Reader. MOTHER Her strength has been gathered from mountains Where granite of ages stands high; Her beauty of purpose from valleys Enriched by an azure sky. The desert had yielded its lesson, It nurtured the seed that was sown, And the rose that it bore has imparted Its sweetness to use for her own. 310 As streams from the hills send their freshness To streams lying thirsty below, Her comfort and help to the needy Abundantly ever flows. Her efforts may often be humble, But help need not come from the strong— The dew which has fled with the sunrise Has moistened the lily at dawn. I \ es as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE She has conquered the perils of ocean, The terrors that stalk on the plain. She has softened the heart of the desert, A home for her loved ones to gain. She has pillowed the head of the weary, Given surcease to many in pain; She has added her songs to the joyful, All praise to her lovely name! Mothers' Day Part OF AN ADDRESS DELIVERED ON May 13th, 1934 By President Joseph Quinney KNOW of nothing in life that reflects the noblest and highest in virtue so well as a true and devoted mother. "With tender recollections of a mother's love and the memory of a precious home, I come to offer the tribute of a grateful heart. If I could gather the most beautiful adjectives from the languages of the world, and with the skill of an orator fashion them into beautiful garlands of rhetoric, I should fail in my greatest effort to do justice to her grandeur and glory."—-Homer J. Wilson. Ox From the hearth-stone around which linger the recollections of our mother: from the fireside where our wife awaits us, come all the purity, all the hope, and all the courage with which we fight the battles of life. The man who is not thus inspired, but who labors more to secure the applause of the world than the solid and more precious approval of his home accomplishes little of good for others, or of honor for himself. We come into being through the abiding and deep love of mother, she faces maternity with a feeling of the highest faith, with a tenderness that is so strongly developed that its touch mellows and softens the most uncouth, "It is a tenderness that reaches out and up for God's great love and truth. A tenderness that is divine and beautiful." No language ever used or spoken can impress us with the deep obligation we owe to our mothers, we must feel it in our very souls. Perhaps the greatest story ever spoken, the finest story ever written, is contained in the Book of Ruth. We are impressed beyond our power to fully appreciate the true and genuine affection between Ruth and Naomi. "Entreat me not to leave thee or to return from following after thee: for whither thou goest, I will go: and where thou lodgest, I will lodge: thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God: Where thou diest, I will die, and there will I be buried: the Lord do so to me, and more also, if aught but death part thee and me." Here is a daughter's love intensified, ' mother's love dignified and gloried. Upon this quality of virtue, the very foundation of our moral, social, religious and civic structure rests: without it, we fall into decay; we disintegrate and are finally lost. The home relationship should be deep, sincere and confidential. The love of the home must be holy so that our very civilization can be secure. The' need of strong men and women is now. The need of strong and powerful leadership is upon us, and will continue to be upon us and our children after us. Strong characters must be built within the lives of our offspring so that they can carry on after we are laid to rest. Bancroft tells us: "The material world does not change in its masses or in its powers. The stars shine with no more luster than when they first sang together in the glory of their birth. The flowers that gemmed the fields and the forests before America. Was discovered, now bloom around us in their season. The sun that shone on Homer shines on us in unchanging luster: the bow that beamed on the patriarch still glitters in the clouds. Nature is the same. 4 For her, no new forces are generated, no new capacities are discovered. The earth turns on its axis and. Perfects its revolutions, and renews its seasons without increase or advancement." But, men operated on by the light and power of God's holy spirit, made possible through virtuous living, have been able to control some of the forces of nature and as a result, have brought into being some of the marvelous things we see and feel about us. The impossible of yesterday, becomes the possible of today. In the great laboratories of the world, human thought is at work making great discoveries. Human bodies are being dissected. Relative values of the anatomy are being understood. Through the use of radium it is now possible to detect any foreign substance within the body and in thousands of cases, find the causes of ailments so that human life is being extended, not by weeks or months, but by years. We must, of necessity, connect up in one eternal chain these marvelous discoveries to a religious and spiritual life. Our religious life must deal religiously with sacred things. We must associate this day and all that belongs to it with the Redeemer, Jesus Christ. He is the highest and best we know. Our religious life should rest upon this great principle of virtue in carrying out the purposes upon which our great government rests. "When men and women are moved by religious impulse, it is the greatest and strongest force in human life. Anything built upon the principle of truth must stand. All things gravitate to truth. It must be so. So, if we are seeking truth, we cultivate virtue, sweetness, calmness, trust, generosity, justice, loyalty and nobility—make them vitally active in our characters and by these qualities we are constantly affecting the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE world." The moral obligation resting on us is to look up and not down, to contribute to our fellowmen the best within us. The joy that we experience here is an eternal joy, notwithstanding the fact that it may be mingled with sorrow: I am sure that the hopes we have within us of the spiritual life ahead, and the faith that God's children have been taught to feel, is a joy. Indeed, "Man is that he might have joy." It may flow to us from unseen sources; it may arise out of the proceedings of this day. Indeed, there is a joy in the hope that we will be associated with those who have gone on before, we trust, in the quest of everlasting truth. That we will find our place there, there is no question. That we will ever be on the search for knowledge, there can be no doubt. The road of eternal progression is before us. It sometimes happens that many offer their appreciation only when they are deprived of the companionship of either, or both father and mother. They come to their defense when they are absent from them more than they do when they are with them. As a matter of justice and right, we should sing to them our praises while they are yet alive and full of vitality, health and strength, and not wait until their eyes are closed in death. There are vast sums of money spent to-buy beautiful caskets in which to place mothers and then the caskets are bedecked with garlands of the choicest flowers to have people know that their children are mindful of their virtues. They should receive the flowers while yet alive. They should have love, words of gratitude, full and complete appreciation while, with their virtues, they grace the home. Many men and women receive the plaudits of the world for MOTHER'S DAY their achievements and _ victories while the patient and loving mother remains in the background. She in all probability, was largely responsible for the glory her offspring was receiving from an unknowing world. How many remember her in the hour of triumph and glory? Using, with a slight change, the language of John Henry Graves in his great address in which he eulogizes the life of John Temple Graves —'"If I should seek to touch the inward source of all of a mother's greatness, I would lay my hand upon her heart. Of my own mother I would say, love bears her messages to all who come within the range of her acquaintance, and the honest throb of human sympathies keep her responsive to all things great and 313 true." I could say the same thing about every true and devoted mother. "We are living in a day of grandeur and eloquence, in a day of splendor and glory, surrounded with untold blessings, all of which, we should appreciate. But the grandest thing next to the radiance that flows from the Almighty's throne, is the light of a noble and beautiful life, wrapping itself in tender benediction round the destinies of men, and finding its home in the bosom of the everlasting God." What an eulogy, what a benediction! The summation of a true mother's virtue is, after all, the foundation of our moral, religious and spiritual life. She is not only virtuous, but VIRTUE. Let us have her name ring loud and stir the hearts of men everywhere as the mighty name of mother deserves. Mothers' Day By May D. I did not know last Mothers' Day Such joy sublime. How could I when for eight long years Our home, our hearts, despite our prayers, were barren Of the gift divine? I had not felt last Mothers' Day Such joy intense. Longing and envy filled my soul, That all but I had rightly won the tributes paid In recompense. Martineau The flowers they gave last Mothers' Day In sympathy To me were given, or so it seemed To one whose heart was sorely tried and could not keep In harmony. But Ah! The joy this Mothers' Day, My cup runs over. No more I weep; I am at peace, For tenderly within my arms I hold so close My foster daughter. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN:: KATE M. BARKER: MRS, JULIA A. F. LUND: Ethel Reynolds Smith 3 o President First Counselor:: Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Janet M. Thompson Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Belle S. Spafford Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Ida P. Real Mrs. Donna Durrant Sorenson RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Mary Connelly Kimball Manager: Louise Y., Robison Assistant Managed! Amy Brown Lyman VOL. XXII MAY, 1935 No. 5 EDITORIAL April Relief Society Conference HE April Conference of the Relief Society was largely attended and was characterized by a very fine spirit. The program was carefully planned, prepared and carried out. Each session was an inspiration and the social features were a delight. It is a joy to meet workers engaged in the same organization and to talk of problems and to receive instructions as to future activities. A feature of this Conference was the announcement by Robison that Sister Kate Montgomery Barker would serve as Second Counselor and that Janet Murdoch Thompson, Belle Smith Spafford and Donna Durrant Sorenson had been selected as new Board Members. All of these women come to President their new duties ripe' in experience in Relief Society work and having shown their ability to do it well. Sister Barker is known by most of our workers having served for years on the General Board. Sister Thompson has been the very efficient President of Ensign Stake Relief Society, Sister Spafford was First Counselor in the Wells Stake and Sister Sorenson served on the Board of that Stake. Sister Thompson is a talented musician and both Sisters Spafford and Sorenson have shown outstanding ability in the teaching field. To know these beautiful refined women is to love them. We welcome them and wish them every success in their new callings. Old Testament Reading to be Continued WE are delighted with the great interest shown by our officers and members in the Project. So many requests have come in asking that the Old Testament reading be continued that the General Board Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Marcia K. Howells EDITORIAL has decided that the organizations shall be asked to continue their Old 315 Testament studies for another year. TEACHERS TOPIC FOR JUNE It is suggested that The Project furnish the material for the Teachers' Topic for June. Visitors From Afar N attendance at our April Conference was Mrs. Verna F. Murphy, President of the Relief Societies in Hawaii, accompanied by a party of Hawaiians including Mrs. Thelma Lindsey, Mrs. Diana Pokini, Mrs. Lillie Cummings Deering, Rachel Kinney Johnson and Elders David Mokuilima, David Kailiponi, William Deering, Paul Ilia and little Marvel Murphy. This is the first time representatives have been sent from the Islands to a Conference. Many social gatherings were given in honor of these far-away visitors. They greatly enjoyed their visit and will take back to their organization many helpful suggestions. They intended to stay for the June Conference but will return home in May to be present when a Stake is to be organized in Hawaii. We wish them a safe return home and hope their work will have added impetus through the visit to headquarters. "Modern Miracles" By Jeremiah Stokes 'THIS little volume gives a record of many modern miracles and is very faith-promoting. Brother Stokes dedicates the volume "'to the youth of the Church, who are beset and sorely perplexed by theories and philosophies that strike at the heart of religion, the divinity of Christ and the existence of God." He hopes it will "prove an anchor to their faith and a rock of safety, comfort and joy to their souls." The incidents related are well authenticated and the appendix contains a list of miracles wrought in the New Testament and Book of Mormon times. Price $1.00. Deseret Book Company, distributors. To Our Subscribers F for any reason a subscriber does not receive her Magazine after it has been mailed, it should be reported to this office immediately. If this is not reported for two or three months, very often our supply is exhausted and we are unable to furnish extra copies. T is the responsibility of each subscriber to see that her change of address is sent to this office, giving old as well as new address. This should be sent in just as soon as possible so no numbers will be missed. Second class matter is not forwarded by the post office unless extra postage is sent to the postmaster. 316 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Note WE again call the attention of our readers to the fact that the lessons for next October are to be found in this Magazine. We urge that it be carefully put away where it can be found when the lessons it contains are being given in the meetings. Interesting Correspondence WE are in receipt of the following letter and are delighted to see how eager these teachers were to enrich their work: 110 N. 10th Ave., Phoenix, Arizona, March 27, 1935. The Editor, Relief Society Magazine, No. 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.; "Anticipating the Social Service lesson for April in which Jane Addams and Settlement Work is the topic, Mrs. Ethel Peterson and myself had a personal interview with Miss Jane Addams at her cottage at the Biltmore Hotel, where she has spent the winter. The accompanying letter and photograph came at my request that she send a letter of greeting to the members of the Relief Society through your magazine. As social service class leaders of the Phoenix Wards, Mrs. Peterson and I feel that it was a real privilege to contact Miss Addams, and we trust that you will find room in your magazine for her letter and photograph. Respectfully yours, Esta E. Sarager." "My dear Mrs. Sarager: "I am much impressed with the care with which your organization MISS JANE ADDAMS is studying the problems of relief and rehabilitation, as I was years ago so favorably impressed with the work of Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells whom I had the pleasure of knowing. With sincere congratulations and with all good wishes, I am "Faithfully yours, "Jane Addams." March 26, 1935. Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (For First Week in October) LESSON I CHOOSING THE FIRST PRESIDENCY AND THE TWELVE 1. Review of Last Lesson. It is only fitting at the commencement of a new year's work that the closing lesson of last year should be briefly reviewed. The lesson title was "Zion's Camp," and the subject matter was concerned chiefly with a description of the organization and movements of a group of men, under the leadership of Joseph Smith, brought together for the apparent purpose of going to the assistance of their persecuted brethren in Missouri. The journey from Kirtland to western Missouri (only slightly shorter than that made by the Mormon pioneers from Winter Quarters to Salt Lake City) was a long and trying one, full of hardships and temptations. Complaint and dissatisfaction were by no means unknown. Indeed, some of the brethren must have tried the Prophet's patience almost to the breaking point. But like the great leader that he was, he led the Camp steadily forward, and on the 22nd day of July, 1834, six weeks after the march began, he and his party encamped at Fishing River, only a short distance from the journey's end. Three days later, at Rush Creek, the Camp was separated into small groups and disbanded, doubtless much to the disappointment of some of its members. On the third of July, 1834, a discharge was ordered given to every man of the Camp who had proved himself faithful, certifying to this fact and granting him permission to return home. 2. At Fishing River, the Prophet received a revelation in which the Lord declared that even though not all of the members of the Camp had obeyed his commandments, yet "Inasmuch as there are those who have hearkened unto my words, I have prepared a blessing and an endowment for them, if they continue faithful. I have heard their prayers, and will accept their offering; and it is expedient in me that they should be brought thus far for a trial of their faith. (D. And C. 105:18, 19) The manner in which these promises were fulfilled is pointed out in a later section of this lesson. 3. By way of parenthesis, it should also be observed that if the members of Zion's Camp and the Church generally had kept the commandments of God, his people would already have been redeemed, as witness the following: "Were it not for the transgressions of my people, speaking concerning the church and not individuals, they might have been redeemed even now. But behold, they have not learned to be obedient to the things which I required at their hands, and are not united according to the union required by the law of the celestial kingdom; and Zion cannot be built up unless it is by the principles of the law of the celestial kingdom. My people must needs be chastened until they 318 learn obedience, if it must needs be, by the things which they suffer. Therefore it is expedient in me that mine elders should wait for a little season, for the redemption of Zion." (D. And C. 105:2-13) 4. Selection and Ordination of the First Presidency. It will be recalled that as early as April 6, 1830, at the time of the organization of the Church, Joseph Smith was accepted by the unanimous vote of those present as their teacher and leader in the Kingdom of God. At this time he was ordained an elder by Oliver Cowdery, who in turn was similarly ordained by the Prophet. (See History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 75) If any doubt exists concerning the dignity and power of Joseph's calling, the word of the Lord touching this matter should quickly dispel it. The Lord directed that in the record that was to be kept in the Church Joseph was to be designated as "a seer, a translator, a prophet, an apostle of Jesus Christ, an elder of the church through the will of God the father, and the Grace of your Lord Jesus Christ." (D. And C. 21:1) Speaking to the Church concerning Joseph, the Lord further said: "Thou shalt give heed unto all his words and commandments which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, walking in all holiness before me; for his word ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith.' To those who thus heed his anointed prophet the Lord promised: "The gates of hell shall not prevail against you; yea, and the Lord God will disperse the powers of darkness from before you, and cause the heavens to shake for your good, and his name's glory." (See D. And C. 21:4-6) Truly a most marvelous promise! 5. Some three years later on the eighteenth of March, 1833, the First Presidency of the Church was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE organized with Joseph Smith, president, Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams, counselors. This action was the result of a revelation received ten days earlier, in which the Lord not only reaffirmed the Prophet's position as leader of the Church, but designated certain individuals as his aides. Speaking to Joseph Smith the Lord said: "Thou art blessed from henceforth that bear the keys of the kingdom given unto you; which kingdom is coming forth for the last time. Verily I say unto you, the keys of this kingdom shall never be taken from you, while thou art in the world, neither in the world to come; nevertheless, through you shall the oracles be given to another, yea, even unto the Church." Again: "Verily I say unto you, thy brethren, 'Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams, their sins are forgiven them also, and they are accounted as equal with thee in holding the keys of this last kingdom." (D. And C. 90:2-4, 6) Indeed, a year earlier, Frederick G. Williams was called to be a counselor to Joseph Smith in the "Presidency of the High Priesthood." (See D. And C. 81:1-3) 6. The organization of the First Presidency was effected at a meeting of the High Priests at Kirtland, Ohio; held in the school room of the Prophets. Of this the Prophet says: 'I laid my hands on Brothers Sidney and Frederick, and ordained them to take part with me in holding the keys of this last kingdom, and to assist in the Presidency of the High Priesthood, as my _ counselors." (History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 334) It is interesting to observe that slightly less than two years later, December 5, 1834, Oliver Cowdery, the "second elder" of the church, was ordained by the Prophet as assistant president whose duty was "'to assist in presiding over the whole Church, and to officiate in the LESSON DEPARTMENT absence of the President, according to his rank and appointment, viz.: President Cowdery, first; President Rigdon, second; and President Williams, third, as they were severally called." (Essentials in Church History, p. 180). The minutes of the meeting at which this ordination took place makes the explanation that prior to that time Oliver Cowdery had not been able to act in his calling as second elder in the Church because of necessary absence in Missouri and, accordingly, that others had been appointed while he was away. (See History of the Church, Vol. II, p. 176) 7. Calling the Twelve. As pointed out at the beginning of this lesson, the year 1834 witnessed the memorable march of Zion's Camp from Ohio to Missouri, seemingly for the purpose of giving aid to their persecuted brethren. As measured, however, by its limited accomplishments in this direction, the undertaking might easily be regarded as a failure. But when viewed in the light of a preparatory training for more important responsibilities ahead, it may properly be looked upon as one of the most important events in the early history of the church. As witness the following: 8. Slightly less than one year after Zion's Camp was abandoned, a meeting was called, by direction of the Prophet, of all its members, together with such others as were disposed to attend. The meeting was held at Kirtland, Ohio, February 14, 1835, in "the new school house under the printing press." The Prophet, who presided, called upon all the members of the Camp to take their seats together in a part of the building. After recounting the hardships endured by the members of the Camp and commending those who were faithful in the performance of their duty, the Prophet explained at some 319 length that the meeting had been called by command of God primarily for the selection of the Twelve, which had been provided for as early as June of 1829. (See D. And C. 18:37) The meeting was then adjourned for one hour. 9. After the meeting was reconvened, the Prophet explained that the Three Witnesses to the Book of Mormon would each pray in turn and then proceed to the selection of the Twelve. After the Witnesses had united in prayer, they were blessed by the laying on of hands of the First Presidency. According to instruction, they then proceeded to the selection of the Twelve, as follows, named in the order of their selection: Lyman E. Johnson Brigham Young. Heber C. Kimball. Orson Hyde. David W. Patten. Luke S. Johnson. William E. M'Lellin. John F. Boynton. Orson Pratt. 10. William Smith. 11. Thomas B. Marsh. 12. Parley P. Pratt. 10. They were later rearranged in order of seniority according to age as follows: 1. Thomas B. Marsh. 2. David W. Patten. 3. Brigham Young. 4.Heber C. Kimball. 5. Orson Hyde. 6. William E. M'Lellin. 7. Parley P. Pratt. 8. Luke S. Johnson. 9. William Smith. 10. Orson Pratt. 11. John F. Boynton. 12. Lyman E. Johnson. 11. The brethren thus chosen were ordained by the Three Witnesses 320 and the blessings confirmed by the First Presidency. (For a complete discussion of the entire proceedings, see History of the Church, Vol. II, pp. 190-200) Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Why is the strength of an individual's' integrity best determined when he is not aware that the test is being made? Give illustrations. 2. Enumerate numerous hardships encountered by the members of Zion's Camp. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 3. Recite in detail the conditions under which Joseph Smith was ordained the first elder of the Church. 4. Show to what extent the word of God revealed through Joseph Smith is binding upon the Latter-day Saints. 5. What became of Oliver Cowdery? Sidney Rigdon? Frederick G. Williams? 6. Why was it very fitting that the Twelve should be chosen from among the "'members of Zion's Camp'? 7. What are the principal duties of the Twelve? Teachers' Topic (Lessons will be published in later issues of the Magazine) Literature (For Third Week in October) ADVENTURES IN READING FOREWORD HE course of study, "Adventures in Reading," has been planned to meet the ideals of the educational program of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. The objective of this course of study is to provide pleasure and profit for the reader through the consideration of some scenes and experiences found in the world of books. The point of view throughout will be that of the ordinary reader. The interest will be in renewing book acquaintances and making new ones. We have had in mind in choosing the selections that the priceless attainment of culture is that it contributes to the making of well-balanced, many-sided individuals. No text book or prescribed outline has been followed in planning this course of study. Careful consideration has been given to the following problems: the availability of the literary material, the different educational opportunities of the study groups, the geographical and social differences of the member societies. The topics and selections have been chosen to fit many experiences and use all types of literature. Recognizing the great need of most of the members for guidance in reading, each lesson will be supplemented by a guide to selections of the same interest as that created by the lesson. There is an art in the enjoyment LESSON DEPARTMENT of literature. The choice of great books must be an individual one else reading becomes a discipline and not a delight. As "in the house of art there are many mansions," so in the 32] world of books there is a niche for every reader. To seek it is the adventure of reading, to find it is the delight. THE ROMANCE OF Long Aco "All that Mankind has done, thought, gained or been; it is lying as in magic preservation in the pages of Books."—Carlyle. READING is an introduction to R a world of adventure. The reader's world, the world of books, is a wonderful world. The records of men that have preserved the truth and beauty of the ages are waiting to serve as the genius of the lamp served Aladdin. As the "charmed magic casements open" to the reader many lands and times lie revealed; fancy and imagination create book-people and we become citizens of the world. As we explore the pleasant land of books, where countless pilgrims have gone before us, we shall do well to linger on the way and select a goodly company of book friends to laugh, love, and dream with on the journey of life. The Romance of Long Ago Literature recalls the past and makes it an ever-living present. When fortune smiled upon primitive man it stimulated his imagination to dream and plan for more gifts. Because of his limited understanding he accepted a supernatural source for his success. Thus the fairy tale was born as the name implies "magic or supernatural." The acceptance of the supernatural elements in life in many lands became the origin of racial ceremonials and later religious rites. Such was the source of the great Greek festival of Dionysus held in the spring of the year to accept the miraculous awakening of life. A picture of the folk-lore of two continents, Europe and Asia, reveals some interesting details. In the literature of the Orient elements of the stories of Aladdin, Ali Baba, and Sinbad are found in many countries. Likewise in the literature of Western Europe, the dragon and the magic sword are enduring elements. Medieval life in Europe became an excellent nursery for the "fairy" element in literature. The early growth of Christianity is responsible for the Grail legends that have endured in "Lohengrin" and "The Golden Legend." Only a small portion of the exotic fairy lore of the Orient came to us until recent years. Arabic, Persian, and Egyptian literature came to us first. Today new translations of Sanskrit, Chinese, and Japanese literature are received eagerly, because through these simple tales the hidden secrets of the origins of social and religious philosophy are revealed. Today when all men are neighbors the past glows with a newer romance. Charles Kingsley expresses the universal interest of man for man: "Except a living man there is nothing more wonderful than a book!—a message from human souls whom we never saw, who lived perhaps thousands of miles away—they speak to us, amuse us, inspire us, teach us, open their hearts to us as brothers." The Thousand and One Nights The strange alluring, exotic life of the Orient is embodied in the tales commonly called "The Arabian Nights." Written in the fourteenth O22 century, the tales came to us four hundred years later. It is said that the younger men are, the older men are, they find an inexplainable delight in the tales Scheherezade (Sharazad) told to save her life. Ass Charles Dudley Warner explains in "Being A Boy," "There were no chores in 'Arabian Nights," the boy had but to rub a ring and summon a genii who would hunt the calves and bring in the wood in a minute." As we read the tales we see more than the genii and the magic carpet; we note the characteristics of the Arab, a mixture of childishness and astuteness; we understand the democracy of the Orient when a poor boy marries a princess; we respect the customs and beliefs of the Mohammedan world. Hans Anderson, The Ugly Duckling In modern literature the fairy tales of Hans Christian Anderson, Danish story teller, are the universal favorites. The tale of the ugly duckling is a parable on the storyteller's life. The fourteen-year-old boy who came to Copenhagen in 1819 in a suit made out of his dead father's overcoat lived to become a welcome guest in the king's carriage. It is not merely the imagination, humor, and delicate language that make the tales loved by childhood the world over. The beauty and pity of "The Steadfast Tin Soldier" reveals the secret, it is the "heart" of the tales. The Clay Cart—Sanskrit Until very recent years the depth and beauty of the literature of India has been unavailable. A veritable awakening to a vast body of literature came through the activities of the many translators of Sanskrit. The writings of a contemporary poet, native of India, Rabindranath RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Tagore, marked as they are by deep culture and rare expression have increased the interest in the literature of India. "The Clay Cart" the earliest Sanskrit drama is attributed to King Sudraka of the first century B. C. Since the first English translation of the drama in 1889 by Sir Monier Williams an Anglo-Indian scholar, the play has been successfully produced in England and America. The drama reflects the influence of Greek form. It reveals with subtlety the great Hindu problem of the age, the early conflict between Brahminism and Buddhism. The setting of the play gives in elaborate manner the details of Hindu life. The tragedy is the vicious love of the king's brother-in-law, a Brahmin, for the beautiful Vasenta, beloved by Caradutta, a nobleman of the king's court. Vasenta is killed by the servants of the villain. Caradutta is accused of the crime, the evidence being the little clay cart belonging to his son. Vasenta had placed her jewels in the cart to please the child a few hours before her capture. A mendicant Buddhist to whom Caradutta had been most kind uncovers the guilt for which he is rewarded by the king by being exalted to the headship of all the Buddhist monasteries. The Soul of the Great Bell The life of Lafcadio (lef ka de 'a) Hearn is a romantic story of adventure. Born in Greece the son of a Greek mother and a British surgeon-major he later was left without home and family. After a few years of journalistic endeavor in New Orleans he went to Japan. Slowly the spirit of Japan took possession of him and he became a citizen of that country and also a Buddhist. Hearn became an interpreter to them of the Western World LESSON DEPARTMENT through his books and teaching. As author and literary critic his work is marked by vivid imagination and poetic prose. Through his intimate contacts with Chinese and Japanese life Lofcadio Hearn has brought to us a beautiful and revealing legend: The august ruler of the Ming dynasty ordered a bell to be cast so great that the sound might reach throughout the kingdom. The master-molder made two attempts to cast the bell and failed; the metals refused to blend. A third attempt was ordered by the Great One. Kouan-Yu, the molder, sought the advice of a great astrologer, fearing another failure. "Gold and silver will never mix in the crucible unless they be blended by the blood of a virgin," was the message. Ko-Negai, the beautiful daughter of the molder heard the words. The day of the third casting came and Ko-Ngai and her maidens went to the great event. The molten metal was ready to pour, the signal was given to cast. Ko-Ngai plunged into the glowing mass, crying, "For thy sake, O my father!" The bell was cast, perfect in form and beautiful in sound. It seemed that each time it rang a vast voice uttered the name of Ko-Ngai. Chinese mothers today note the low moaning of the bell and between the mighty strokes whisper to their little ones, "Ko-Ngai is calling." Evangeline—Henry Wadsworth Longfellow Evangeline, a tale of love in Arcadia, as told by the poet Longfellow is still murmured by the mournful pines of the forest as a testimony of a woman's devotion In the Arcadian land on the peninsula of Nova Scotia was the little village of Grand-Pre. Fruitful valleys and green pastures had taken the place of the forests of old by 329 the year 1713. It was a tranquil evening when the tale began to unfold. Softly the Angelus had sounded the hour of peace upon the village. The Arcadian farmers lived in harmony with God and man in this new home. As Father Felician passed down the street this evening, the maidens hastened to curtsey and the children to kiss the hand of the priest they loved so well. It was a momentous evening at the home of Benedict Bellefontaine, the wealthiest farmer of Grand Pre, for his daughter Evangeline was to be betrothed to Gabriel, the son of his old friend, Basil the blacksmith. While the fathers discussed the business of moment, the lovers lingered aside awaiting the arrival of the notary. Rene Le Blanc, the notary, brought more than his papers that evening, the news of the village. A mandate had been delivered from the King ordering all men to assemble at the church on the morrow. The evening passed and the curfew sounded the departure of the guests. Evangeline went to her chamber to view the dower she would bring to her husband, fine linens and woolens all by her own hands; Gabriel lingered alone on the homeward way in silent thanksgiving for his love; while the blacksmith and the notary discussed the news of the mandate in troubled tones. The morning broke in beauty and the betrothal guests assembled to the music of Michael, the fiddler. Too soon the bell of the church summoned the men of the village. "Obey the will of the English king, or be transported to other lands," was the mandate pronounced. Frenzy and tumult rang through the house of prayer, when the France-loving Arcadians heard the words. Into the strife entered Father Felician with the rebuke and forgiveness: "Have you so soon forgotten all 324 lessons of love and forgiveness? Forty years of my life have I labored among you and taught you, not in word alone, but in deed, to love one another." In silence the men of Arcadia accepted without violence the sentence. In the village the women waited anxiously, but none so longingly as Evangeline for Gabriel. Four days passed and the Arcadian farmers assembled on the seashore awaiting the ships of the English king. Suddenly the autumn sky became blood-red, and the evening breeze bore in the smoke and flashes of flame from the burning homes. Overwhelmed with grief, Benedict Bellefontaine fell motionless, and failed to revive to the ministering of the priest or the call of his daughter. As Gabriel was hurried away in the transport, Evangeline could but whisper, "Gabriel, be of good cheer, for if we love one another nothing in truth can harm us, whatever mischances may happen." Many years passed, and the Arcadian farmers sought earnestly to find one another in exile. Following rumor or hearsay, Evangeline continued a restless search for Gabriel. To the lowlands of Louisiana had Basil and his family been taken. One day from the trappers of the Wabash the maiden and her: protector, the faithful priest, learned the whereabouts of their people. Slowly they passed on to the goal. To the new Arcadian home they came at length. Out of the tears of welcome came to Evangeline, "Gabriel has gone, gone to seek thee." A few days with the dear ones sought so long and the quest began anew, this time with Basil for guide. Pausing at the camps of the trappers and the wayside missions they sought word of Gabriel. On to the prairies of the unknown West they RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE passed along the great waterways. Once Gabriel had passed on but a day before, another but six days had passed since he had left the inn to return in the spring. So Evangeline awaited her lover alone and Basil returned to his people. Days, weeks, months passed; then the autumn, and the winter. On the breath of spring came the rumor where Gabriel had his camp. On alone over perilous ways went Evangeline, only to find the hunter's cabin deserted. The years glided by and still Evangeline sought Gabriel. At length she came to the city of the Quakers. For many years she lived as a Sister of Mercy ministering to the lonely and the suffering. A grave pestilence came to the city, and wealth had no power to stay the grim enemy. The homeless crowded to the almshouses when stricken with the scourge. Evangeline paused not in her service day after day. Ona Sabbath morning she entered the home of suffering, stooping to whisper a word of comfort to many a lonely sufferer. At the pallet of a stranger she paused, an old man spent and dying. A smile, a whisper, "Gabriel! O my beloved! All was over now, and as the life sank away from her lover meekly Evangeline murmured, "Father, I thank Thee!" Guide to Preparation A. Suggested topics for lesson assignments. 1. Reading an Adventure. 2. The Magic of Imagination. 3. The Origin of Fairy Lore. A. The Thousand and One Nights. B. Hans Christian Anderson, The Ugly Duckling. C. The Wonder Tales of Norse Literature. 1. The Rhine Gold—Old German. LESSON DEPARTMENT 4. The Gifts of Modern Translations. A. The Clay Cart—Sanskrit. B. The Soul of the Great Bell —Chinese. 5. Some Old Ballads. B. Program Variation and Enrichment. 1. Romantic Figures in Other Days. A. Evangeline—American. Guide to Reading A. The Land of the Blue Flower— Henry Van Dyke. A beautiful story of the early days of Christianity by a writer whose understanding of Bible life and times is outstanding. B. Norse Stories Retold—Hamilton Mabie. The world is indebted to this author for his preservation of the old Norse tales by his delightful interpretations. Wagner's great operas of "The Ring of the Nibelung" 325 present the whole story of the Rhine Gold. C. The Oxford Book of Ballads edited by Sir Arthur Quiller— Couch. This marvelous collection includes tales of the supernatural, romance history, Robin Hood and the Scottish border. D. The Boy Knight of Rheims— The Trumpeter of Cracon— Toundsbury. These are excellent stories for the family circle. Stories of boys who lived in the days of the guild, the days of the building of the magnificent cathedrals and lordly castles of Europe. NOTE This lesson covers a great deal of material. Class leaders should select the parts they can best use. It is not expected that any one class can cover all the material here printed. Social Service A STUDY OF CIVIC SOCIOLOGY AS A FOUNDATION FOR INTELLIGENT LIVING INTRODUCTION ae forward to new experiences, new activities, new thrills in thought, emotion, and action is the spirit of youth. The backward glance, ever dwelling on the thoughts, achievements, and happenings of the past is the static consolation of old age. We age just as fast as our thoughts find satisfaction in dwelling upon the past. The inertia of public opinion is a great stumbling block to social advancement. The challenge of the day is to determine how to live together in better and finer ways to achieve better living conditions and progress toward the goal of the good life for all. In spite of our centuries of experience our human relations are, perhaps, in a more chaotic and unsatisfactory condition than ever before. The misery of the world, the crime, poverty, economic insecurity, and lack of intelligent faith and trust in a Divine Providence have not been lessened through man's ages of experience. With the spirit of youth, and as unbiased individuals, we should face the social problems of adjusting to an ever-changing world and of living among our fellow men. GENERAL PURPOSES OF THE COURSE OF STUDY In this department the lessons prepared for the season 1935-36 are 326 drawn from the field of Sociology and Modern Social Problems. Education along these particular lines is sought. The goal in connection with each lesson should be kept in mind by class leaders. The lesson material should be so studied and discussed that it will contribute to the general aims. Individual lessons will have specific purposes to be developed within the given lesson. The lessons are based upon the text, "Civic Sociology,” by Edward A. Ross, World Book Co., 1934. This text draws primarily for illustrative material upon social and civic situations in the United States. However, readers living in Canada, Mexico, or other countries will find that the basic principles involved are equally applicable to conditions in their own lands. The text should be in the hands of every class leader and of as many of the individual members as possible. As far as they are in harmony with the teachings RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the Latter-day Saint Church, the social principles of the text are to be applied to conditions of living among our own people. The general purposes are as follows: 1. To develop spiritually through the promotion of human welfare. 2. To realize that the study of sociology contributes to the understanding of the great social problem of living well together. 3. To acquire a knowledge of human relations leading up to our present form of social organization. 4. To teach the individual her relations and duties toward social institutions. 5. To develop the habit of investigation and of active participation in the solution of individual and social welfare problems. 6. To realize that social evils do not happen without just cause. 7. To develop an intelligent attitude toward participation in all civic affairs. LESSON I. TRENDS IN POPULATION CHANGES (Fourth Week in October) Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross CHAPTER I WO purposes should be kept in mind in this lesson: 1. To develop an appreciation for the sturdy physical and mental qualities contributed by pioneer ancestry. 2. To understand at what great cost the blessings of life have been achieved. These purposes can be accomplished by a study of the facts in the settlement of any new country. The tremendous cost in human life and suffering in the settling of all frontiers finds a very close parallel in the stories of privation and hardship which the Mormon pioneers underwent in their settlement of western America. The stern sifting out of those souls who had neither the physical strength nor the mental stamina to meet the barren wilderness has left us heir to qualities and responsibilities which should not be forgotten. An incident illustrating -the extreme difficulties through which many of the early Saints passed is told in the following excerpt: "Tt was at the ford on the North Platte that the company experienced the most terrible hardships. On reaching this point, the company could go no farther, and there the starving and frozen emigrants were compelled to remain until aid from Salt Lake City reached them. Crossing LESSON DEPARTMENT the river, the storm broke in all its fury, and the company was compelled to go into camp to await relief. Four ounces of flour per day were at first doled out to the famished people, but the flour soon was exhausted, and they were dependent on what animals they could kill. Deaths began to multiply, until a "burying squad" was appointed, it being the duty of those men to prepare graves as the members of the company passed away. People were actually known to sit on dead bodies to keep warm, until the bodies became cold. But the company pushed on, and the Salt Lake Valley was reached on November 30. The actual loss of life was about 150 souls. "This was the last company of the season. It was a remarkable collection of people. From different parts of England and Scotland, there were three veterans of the battle of Waterloo, between seventy-five and eighty years of age, and soldiers who had been members of the Queen's Life Guards in London and Scotland. It was mostly the older men who died, along with a few of the children. Had it not been for the exceptionally hard and early winter, fewer people would have succumbed to the hardships of the journey.'"—The Founding of Utah, Young, pp. 148-149. Assign for topical study and report to class the story of the Mormon Pioneers during their first few years in Utah. One Hundred Years of Mormonism, Evans, pp. 457-458. The facts developed in the text showing the declining birth rate among the better classes of society may be explained in part by the following general social conditions. The decrease in the size of such families, and therefore of certain elements of the population, reacts directly on the type of life that exists in such sections of the population. 327 The size of families and the resultant population is not a matter of chance, but is related to certain fundamental elements. As the natural conditions which support human life, such as available fertile lands, becomes limited, the population itself becomes limited. Likewise the manner by which the people take their living from the land affects the size of its population. The pioneer settlers, because of their greater technical knowledge and superior ways, could support more children than the Indians who roamed the same sections. But, as people raise their standard of living the number of children born into a family decreases. However, this psychological reaction may be adjusted through a better understanding of the principles of social education. This psychological reaction has been described in one of the general trends of population: "population varies inversely with a tendency to rise in the plane of social life." The maintenance of the sturdy qualities of our pioneer ancestry for the good of our Church as well as the future security of the nation is more than desirable; it is imperative. A normal rate of growth is indicative of a healthy state of society. If the desirable qualities of leadership, so noticeable among the founders of our nation and our Church, are to continue to direct our social life; then reproduction must continue in normal numbers. Our own Church teaches that complete living and glory in the hereafter depends upon the presence of children in a normal family life. "For we without them (children) cannot be made perfect; neither can they without us be made™ perfect." (Doctrine and Covenants, 128:18.) With the restriction of the increase in population, because of the disappearance 328 of the western frontier and its abundant supply of new land, immigration, as a factor in the increase of population, is now negligible. A summary of its decline is told by Wallis and Wallis, Our Social World, pp. 68-69. "At first there was no regulation of immigration. The first step in the regulation of immigration was the exclusion of those of criminal record, those afflicted with contagious diseases, and those who had no visible means of support. In addition, a head tax was imposed upon all who entered. Finally, there was restriction of immigration by imposing a literacy test and a mental test.... "The law of 1921 provided that the maximum immigration of any one nationality during a year should be limited to 3 per cent of the total number of that nationality group in this country as reported in the census of 1890; it excluded entirely all aliens not eligible to citizenship, such. As the Chinese, Japanese, and the peoples of India. "The National Origins which was passed by Congress in 1927, and went into effect in 1929, limits the total immigration in any one year to 150,000. This 150,000 is now apportioned among the various nationalities according to the proportions of the respective nationalities in this country as given by the 1920 census. Thus, if 10 per cent of the people in the United States according to the 1920 census are from a certain country, the number of immigrants allotted that country each year is 10 per cent of 150,000, or 15,000. The minimum quota of any nationality, however, is 100. "A clause of the 1927 law authorizes the United States consul in a foreign country to refuse immigration papers to an applicant who is likely to become a public charge if admitted into this country. Under Plan,. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE power of this clause, the President, in 1931, closed all immigration for an indefinite period beginning June 1, 1931. During the latter half of 1931 the number of former immigrants who left the country exceeded the number admitted. This temporary exclusion of all immigrants was the result of the economic depression in this country in 1931. "Discussions of immigration measure before Congress during the last decade have made it evident that the majority of the American people believe restriction of immigration desirable. Many who are concerned about the welfare of the present population believe that America cannot maintain her standards of living if subjected to the increases in population occasioned by unrestricted immigration. But although the desirability of restriction is generally accepted in this country, there is much difference of opinion regarding the best basis for restriction." The immigration problem in Canada has not been comparable to the situation in the United States. By far the greatest proportion of immigrants has come from the United States and the United Kingdom. The nationality and the training of the immigrants make them more easily adjustable to conditions within the country. The statistics for the years 1934 and 1935 are as follows: 1933 From the United Kingdom.... 3,097 From the United States........13,196 From. All other countries........ 3,589 1934 From the United Kingdom.... 2,260 From the United States........ 7,740 From all other countries........3,589 Total…19,782) 1934 From the United Kingdom…2,260 From the United States…7,740 Total…3,903—World Almanac, 1935From all other countries…3,903LESSON DEPARTMENT The problem in Mexico is not of enough importance to warrant major consideration. ACTIVITIES 1. Make a survey of the class and determine in how many cases parents were born into families larger than those which are being left to carry on the parental name and work. Where a reduction of children per family is found discuss its relation to the future welfare of HEALTH LESSONS 329 the church and nation, in the light of preserving pioneer traits and fortitude. What obligation on our part is initiated by the survey? 2. Compare the birth and death rates in families of class members with that in families from which they came. Compare the results with the diagram found on page 13. Discuss the significance of the findings. Are mothers of today on the average leaving as many children to carry on their work as was true a generation ago? 1935-1936 LESSON I. BATHING IN the structure of our skin nature has provided a protective arrangement much like the shingles the carpenter puts on the roof to shed off the rain. Thin scaly cells, known as epithelium other at the edges, just as the shingled do on the roof. They are constantly dying and being replaced by the new ones. If a limb be covered so that nothing can rub against the skin, a thick layer of this cast-off epithelium will accumulate. The skin has numerous oil glands in its structure to furnish the oil which keeps it supple and soft; it has also sweat glands which dispose the excess of water which the kidneys cannot handle, and eliminate certain poisons from the system which would be detrimental to our health if retained. If we fail to bathe the skin, the oil and epithelium, and products of the sweat glands, will accumulation properly. Kinds may be added to further impair the function of the skin, and make us disgusting to our fellows. The presence of filth on the skin, except during the hours of labor, when it cannot be removed, is 2 mark of low breeding, which will rate us downward in the eyes of respectable The saying "Cleanliness ls poisons from our system, and they will be retained in our blood to overdo other organs of elimination and to breed disease. We would be more healthy and cheerful if we could bathe the body complete once 4 day. Well-to-do class bathe that often, and get a reward in their betterment of feeling. . The toilers, although the need with them is greater, may not be able to bathe so often. The sense of fatigue would be very much diminished by 4 hot bath, they may not be able to spare the time or In this case twice a week or even once a week might be as often as they think they can afford it. Any interval longer 330 that once a week would entail detriment to the physiology of the body, and put a damper on the spirits. Where practicable, a full warm bath is most desirable. With enough warm water to immerse the body, and plenty of soap, the cleansing process will not only be more effectual, but the mental pleasure will be greater. The temperature of the water should be adjusted to the preference of the individual. Some people wish it very hot, and some prefer it luke warm. If taken at bed-time the warm or hot bath is very soothing to the nervous system, and tends to promote refreshing sleep. Doctors prescribe the hot bath for insomnia, and in institutions where people with mental unbalance are treated, it is one of the effectual methods of quelling nerve storms. Of course one should not go immediately out in the cold after a hot bath. Because of lack of facilities for the full bath many people have to content themselves with the sponge bath. For cleansing purposes this may be very satisfactory, but we would miss the mental effect that we get in the full tub bath. With soap and warm water the body can be well cleansed in this way, and where it can be afforded a rub with some cheap form of alcohol is refreshing. The cold bath is not recommended as the best method of cleansing the body, but it has its use for quite another purpose. To the one who reacts to it promptly, it brings a glow of accelerated vitality that is very refreshing. The blood comes to the surface of the body, the brain becomes more active and there is a general feeling of wellbeing that lasts quite a period of time. Some people do not get this pleasing reaction, and they are the ones who should not indulge in cold bathing. If one lives by the ocean, or any RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE body of clean water, the cold bath could most easily take the form of a bath in the open. Otherwise it is most conveniently applied as a shower bath. After the warm bath, a cool spray is not only refreshing, but it overcomes the relaxation of the skin and makes one less likely to take cold. Cleanliness of the hands should be imperative, not only for the looks of things, but for the bearing it might have on our own health and the health of others. The careful physician never goes from one patient to another without scrubbing his hands thoroughly with soap and water. He knows the danger of carrying the germs of disease from the sick to the healthy. When he is preparing to make an open surgical wound he takes no end of pains in this cleansing-process. That is what has made his surgical operation safe from infection. Especially should the one who cooks and handles our food have great care in keeping the hands scrupulously clean. The woman who prepares food when her hands are all soiled by the contact of dirty clothing, is not only disgusting but dangerous. Before handling any foods, or the utensils used in their serving, the hands should be made scrupulously clean with soap and water. What a disgusting sight it would be to see the housewife put dirty hands in the dough, or handle anything that has to do with preparing or serving our food with unwashed hands! Not only is it disgusting from the standpoint of cleanliness, but it is positively dangerous. Infecting germs flourish in filth.. That is the reason the surgeon has to be so exact about cleanliness. Instinct protects us from many infections that would make us ill, by implanting in our minds an abhorrence of filth. LESSON DEPARTMENT Questions Describe the epithelium which covers our skin. What is its purpose? What injury does it do us when it is allowed to accumulate after it is shed? What kind of glands are in the skin? Describe how. Their would clog the pores. What damage is done when the secretion 331 skin does not function properly? What is the preferred kind of bath for cleanliness? What other benefit has the bath besides cleansing the skin? Why is the surgeon so particular about cleansing his hands? Why should we be so careful about washing our hands before handling food, and the utensils used in cooking and serving it? About how often should the body be bathed? Mother Dear By Ida Horne White (May be sung to "Londonderry Air') Oh, mother dear, your love has been my beacon light, To guide my steps and lead me through the years; To temper grief and keep my pathway clear and bright And shield me ever from the way of tears. Your love endures, your faith will carry to the end, Support and cheer me when the skies are gray; Oh, mother dear, your prayers for me will oft ascend To be an anchor when my footsteps think to stray. Oh, mother dear, your tenderness enfolds me; I feel your guiding care for me each day. My soul responds and blesses you unceasingly, The tender ties of home will round me stay. My memories of you will ever linger; When if perchance I from the threshold roam, I'll send a song of love by angel singers To greet you, Mother, when I think of you and home. HANDICRAFT For Every Woman By Glenn Johnson Beeley Published by the General Board of the Relief Society To give help in the Handiwork Department of the organization Every Warp SHOULD SECURE A Copy Price $1.50 Postpaid EXO Send orders to Julia A. F. Lund Room 28 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah
Off the Press May 15, 1935
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. Training Doesn't Cost—IT PAYS!
PARENTS: You cannot fight your children's battles—But you can help them win! Give them the training that will lead to victory in the world of industry and commerce. The booklet, "Planning Your Future," will tell you about our courses.
L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City
Correctness and Smartness mark all the preparations of the modern Miss for the big event of her life—her marriage. Here you will find wedding stationery entirely in keeping with the present day tempo. And prices are most reasonable. Call or write. Courteous prompt service.
The Deseret News Press PIONEER PRINTERS, BINDERS, RULERS, COVER MAKERS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
70 North Main Street Wasatch 1812
ARE THEY PREPARED FOR MARRIAGE?
PROTECTION IN THE FULLEST DEGREE Comes Through Beneficial Life Insurance
COMMENCE LIFE WITH YOUR HOUSE IN ORDER TO ASSURE FUTURE HAPPINESS
The most substantial foundation on which any family can build is Beneficial Life Insurance. The silent partner that provides immediately a cash estate—which accumulates interest and dividends while you live—steps in should you step out.
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
HOME OFFICE
HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT
DAVID O. MCKAY, SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT GEORGE J. CANNON, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN, DIRECTOR E. T. RALPHS, DIRECTOR JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH, DIRECTOR ORVAL W. ADAMS, DIRECTOR AXEL B. C. OHLSON, SECRETARY LEO E. PENROSE, ASSISTANT SECRETARY
For the Advancement of the Intermountain Region
The manufacturer of Pep 88 gasoline and Vico motor oil does more than provide employment for thousands of workers in Utah and Idaho. It also helps develop increased travel to the many outstanding scenic and historic attractions of this area—helps Utah and Idaho people to know their own region better.
Ask for a free copy of the new 1935 edition of "Travel Hints"—at any Pep 88 and Vico service station.
Pep 88 Vico MOTOR OIL
UTAH OIL REFINING CO. 400 Service Stations in Utah and Idaho Distributors of Atlas Tires and Batteries
UTAH FRUITS UTAH SUGAR —An Unbeatable Combination—
SUPPORT UTAH FARMS SUPPORT UTAH LABOR
SUPPORT UTAH INDUSTRIES
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
HANDICRAFT For Every Woman
By Glenn Johnson Beeley
Published by the General Board of the Relief Society
To give help in the Handiwork Department of the organization
Every Ward SHOULD SECURE A Copy Price $1.50 Postpaid
Send orders to Julia A. F. LUND Room 28 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah
Off the Press May 15, 1935
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
VOL. XXII JUNE, 1935 No. 6
CONTENTS
Portrait of Sarah M. McLelland.................................Frontispiece Similitude.......................................Alberta Huish Christensen 333 Greetings to the Relief Society..................Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley 335 Not Bread Alone.................................Elsie Chamberlain Carroll 339 To Blanche.........................................Weston N. Nordgren 343 Sarah M. McLelland...................................Mary C. Kimball 344 The Prevention of Crime..............................Dean Milton Bennion 346 Janet Murdoch Thompson.............................Margaret C. Pickering 348 A Letter to Tomorrow.................................Elsie I. Barrett 350 Happenings.........................................Annie Wells Cannon 351 Our Shrines in the Holy Land...........................Leah D. Widtsoe 352 Belle Smith Spafford..................................Leone G. Layton 356 Donna Durrant Sorensen...............................Marie H. Tanner 359 The Kindness of Brigham Young....................Brigham Frederick Grant 362 Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life..............Lella Marler Hoggan 367 A Prayer....................................Terrance Sylvester Glennamaddy 370 Notes from the Field..................................Julia A. F. Lund 371 Editorials—Maria Y. Dougall.............................................. 374 The Social Year Book........................................................ 375 President Robison Honored................................................... 375 Magazine Agents........................................................... 375 Lesson Department......................................................... 376 Home..........................................................Bertha M. Rosvear 392 To a Waiting Spirit.................................Roxanna Farnsworth Hase 392 They......................................................Merling D. Clyde 392
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
ROUND OAK RANGE THE NORGE REFRIGERATOR
GRANITE FURNITURE CO. Sugar House
HEADQUARTERS FOR NEW LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS
No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles........................$ .85 No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style.............. .85
No. 85. Very Special Non-Run Garments—Guaranteed—Not To Run. Rayon. New Style Only. Special.................................................. 1.10 No. 88. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style.................. .65 No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style................ 1.10 No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double Back......................... 1.35 No. 81. Heavy Wt. Old Style Double Back.................... 1.50
We Mark Garments for 10 cents
Specify when ordering, your bust, trunk and length, whether new or old style, and if men's or ladies'.
We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States.
MOSE LEWIS SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 A. M. To 5 P. M. Salt Lake City, Utah
Telephone Wasatch 3286 We Solicit Your Mail Orders
FROM FACTORY TO YOU We Pay the Postage
If you live out of Salt Lake City, let Margot Manners shop for you at Z. C. M. I.
No matter where you live you can have the advantage of Z. C. M. I. Matchless values and varieties, if you do as so many hundreds of others are doing. Simply write your needs to our personal shopping bureau and see how prompt, how thoughtful and efficient our service is.
Perfection Kerosene Refrigerator FOR COUNTRY USE
Sizes: 5, 6 and 8 cubic feet capacity
Burns Kerosene. Light the lamp once a day—no matter how hot the weather your food, milk, butter, etc., is protected, also plenty of ice cubes. Sold on reasonable terms. Get one now.
LANDES TRACTOR & EQUIPMENT CO. 245 West South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
NATIONALLY ADVERTISED
The following are some of the nationally advertised brands of foods featured in our stores:
"Del Monte" canned fruits and vegetables "Best Foods" Products
"Kraft" Products "H. J. Heinz" Products "Gerber's" Strained Vegetables "Campbell's" Soups
SKAGGS FOOD STORES "A Surety of Purity"
MOTOR-DRIVEN BRUSH LIGHT—EASY TO HANDLE AGREEABLY QUIET
This sensational new Eureka with motor-driven brush is designed to meet the requirements of those who desire a motor-driven brush but recognize the necessity of "High Vacuum" (powerful suction) for the thorough removal of embedded dirt. Unnecessary weight and awkward size have been carefully avoided. It is quiet—agreeably quiet.
The demonstration! It is spectacular—sensational—thrilling. Embedded soda fairly "boils" from the rug. Sand dances—how it dances! Surface litter—lint, hair and threads—are instantly removed by its motor-driven brush. This new Eureka cleans faster—cleans better.
$5.00 Down—Balance on Easy Terms Phone for Demonstration
Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. Salt Lake City, Utah
Ask your milkman to tell you about extra heavy cream.
WARDEN DAIRY 177 East Broadway Phone Wasatch 4764
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Similitude By Alberta Huish Christensen
So much I find of springtime in the smile Of joyous youth; for each in rapturous glee Forecasts fulfillment of its promise As surging waves foretell an angry sea.
So much my heart is like the sobbing rain In autumn, when the leaves are dead and sear; Calm and subdued but with a plaintive note— Perhaps the feverish echo of some fear.
And yet oftimes like birds that herald dawn, My soul breaks forth in wild, exotic strain, Blithesome and boundless with that love of life Which permeates the woodland after rain.
We dwell apart, and songs so much akin On our deaf ears are lost, they are not heard; Yet are they not alike, in God's great world Yes much alike this man and flower and bird?
The Relief Society Magazine
VOL. XXII JUNE, 1935 No. 6
Greetings to the Relief Society
Address given at Relief Society Conference April 4, 1935, By Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley, Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles.
This is an absolutely new picture for me to look into this sea of faces—faces of the mothers of Israel, and I am thrilled through and through. My innermost desire is that the Lord will cause me to say something that will comfort, that will strengthen you, that will take away care, that will soothe you and free you from any anxiety and inspire you with the assurance that the Lord is at the helm, and that His work moves on gloriously, and that we are a select people, people of the Most High God, not a people that are vain, not a people who take unto themselves any feeling of superiority, but a people who are favored, a people who know the Lord's program, a people unto whom He has revealed knowledge that has been withheld from the world, not knowledge that we like to withhold from the world, but knowledge that is withheld from the world because they cannot understand it.
I just came out of the Temple. I received my assignment to come to you, just a few minutes ago, in time enough to walk across and into this meeting. I sat in that Holy House today in deep meditation. I have listened to the prayers of men—chosen men—who knelt before the altar of the Lord and pled the cause of Zion—not only the cause of Zion, but the cause of the world. They plead, if it were possible, that God would withdraw the world from the approaching dismal depths of a world war; that He would particularly guard, guide and direct the destinies of this great nation of which we form a part; that He would make His people—the people of this Church—the light upon a hill; that He would, through the channel that has been appointed speak His word, reveal His mind, offer His warning, and care for His own.
To whom and upon whom do we depend? I know the answer first would be "the Lord." The answer is right, but I must add to it also—those who speak by divine authority, the Priesthood, upon the mothers, upon the wives, the sisters, those who love peace, who cleave to righteousness, those whose hearts are inclined to God.
I greet this great organization. The parent of all auxiliaries in the Church, one of the greatest of all the organizations. I am fresh from the mission field—I feel and sense the importance of Relief Society work better than I ever have at any other time in my life, as a converting factor, as a stabilizing factor, as an administering organization. We had a very practical, a very fine man come out in the mission, he was a High Councilman, he was a man of force, and his first introduction of himself was something like this: "I am here, I am available, I will give the best that is in me, but it is not my training, it is not my experience to quote the Scriptures, the Word of God. Converted—yes, in every fibre of my body. I am acquainted with men and women and their manner of life, and with the world. I know how to meet people; I love all my contact with men and women, but what shall I do in this brief period of time out in the mission?"—"Brother, you are old enough, you are experienced enough, you are sound enough in all of your fundamentals. We will just vary the mission rule to this extent, we will not tie you down to the responsibility of traveling two and two. Go out into this unbelieving world, find a way to offer to them the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and to testify to the fact that you are out here appointed and commissioned to speak in the name of the Lord, sent as an ambassador of the Lord Jesus Christ."
He went out and did not try, in the brief time he was there, to acquaint himself with chapter and verse of the Holy Scripture, and to teach people, if it were possible, the difference between the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, as it has been restored and the Gospel as they have it and teach it in the world, but he said: "I was led. Some women had given notice that they were holding a meeting, and that they were discussing the question: 'What can we do to throw a safeguard around our children and bring them into the Church and into the service of our Father?' He said men were invited, although it was a ladies' organization. A few men were courageous enough to venture into that meeting. Women arose and discussed and offered suggestions; "finally," said he, "I felt constrained, I felt impressed that I should stand up and say what we do and what we are doing. So with an explanation of how we meet the situation with trained mothers, how we train the mothers and prepare them to care for the children, I launched out and gave them an outline of Relief Society work. We save, we conserve to the Church the best that there is, that which is born in it, and that which grows up with it, and we do it through these mothers."—"Then give us your views on how to train children," I was asked. "I was acquainted with the Primary work, and I gave the explanation." He was invited here and there, to clubs, to societies, to those who were seeking, and all he gave was as best he could the outline, the efforts put forth in this Church through these auxiliary organizations. He had more invitations to speak and explain than he could fill. He came back saying, "I will tell you what we need in the mission more than anything else. The world is full of theory, the world is anxious to see something in operation, something that works, something that is tangible. If we had it so that we could put it on a reel, if we could film it, and could show the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to the world as it is actually functioning and operating, it would do more than all the tracts you can distribute, it would do more than all the visits which the Elders make from time to time."
The Church in its organization is perfect, teaching every soul from the aged to those in the cradle. We know the way is perfect but the Lord deals with the imperfections with which we are beset. The great question, the question we must all answer is: How do we, in the places we are appointed to fill, acquit ourselves? To you, the question is: Is there a due appreciation in the heart of every mother, of her home? Does she know that her highest relationship is to be a true mother in Israel? Does she love her relationship standing by a righteous man? Does she love her responsibility leaning over a cradle? Is she a queen as she moves about in her home? Are her children jewels? Is she saintly and sweet in their sight? To her husband, does she furnish a companionship and maintain a sweet relationship that brings heaven into a home and makes every soul therein happy? Has she ceased to court? Is the day of married life a drudgery or is it a holy consummation? Does she rise up and call her husband blessed? Does he put his hand under her chin and look into her care-worn face and pronounce her beautiful? Does he praise her as the comrade of his youth, as the wife of his bosom—as an eternal part of him? Are they "one," each a complement to the other? Is motherhood the greatest blessing that can come? Are children truly the heritage of the Lord? Has the Lord designated it as it should be? Does a man cleave unto his wife and none other? Does she find joy in all the good that comes to her husband? Does he know that back of him, that opens up all these possibilities, is a sweet power, a righteous power, a saving power, a chaste, virtuous, faithful, untiring soul—a wife?
It has been my high privilege to travel over land and sea. Never did the sun go down without in my heart I could feel, and in the vision of my mind I could see the children in my own home, not by compulsion, but with tenderness and sweetness, drawn to the knee of their mother where they lisped their prayers, and looked to God for help. That is as it should be.
The qualifications for living and for service in a woman or a man are identical. When the Lord declared to the father of Joseph the Prophet—that father who had such great faith, said to his son, after the son had reported the visit of Moroni to him, "The thing is of God," and he knew it from then henceforth. He came to his son and said: "Inquire of the Lord what there is for me to do." I think perhaps I could not do better than to turn for a moment and read to you the glorious words the Lord gave in answer to this inquiry:
"Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men.
"Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day.
"Therefore, if ye have desires to serve God ye are called to the work:
"For behold the field is white already to harvest; and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perisheth not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; and faith, hope, charity and love with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work."
These qualifications you may apply to women as to men. These are the qualifications for every sister within the sound of my voice—they are the unchanging things, of which Sister Lyman has talked to you. Truth never changes, God's Word never fails. These qualities that He names in this revelation are qualities that endure forever. Faith—is there a mother here who cannot go with full trust unto her Father in Heaven, knowing that He hears and answers prayers. We turn to God with faith—faith, hope, charity. This is the great institution of charity. Charity is in part physical, but that is only a small part. To see me with my struggles, to see me with my weakness and know my weakness and whisper hope to me—that is charity. Charity and love with an eye single to the glory of God. Do not be looking for praise. Yours is a more holy duty than that. Yours is silence, yours is unseen, yours is service, beautiful service, and the reward that comes is that which speaks to the soul. The Lord says that it shall be single to the glory of God.
Remember faith. Oh, I would like to preach faith, virtue, knowledge. Virtue before knowledge? I think He revealed in another revelation "Let virtue garnish your thoughts unceasingly, then shall the doctrine of the priesthood distill upon your souls as the dews from heaven." God's way is perfect. We are right, we know it. Let this great organization—the first of the auxiliary organizations—never neglect the old, bless their souls, but the young are the problems, the young that have been brought in out of life's highway, and are shut out. The young women who have the thousand cares; the young women who think the world has forgotten and is moving on without them and they feel lonely, and would like to be in the marching procession. Draw them into your great organization, enhance the beauty of your organization with their youth, their zest, with their understanding, and still let tenderness and sweetness be ministered unto those who are older. Let this organization be one among others, that shall build up faith. I want to leave this finally and last: Faith in whom? Faith in God our Father, faith in Jesus Christ our Lord. Closer than that, faith in those whom the Lord our God has called. Closer than that, faith in your husbands who bear the Holy Priesthood; faith in your son who is called into the ministry, and faith of a mother in the dignity of the calling of a son, a faith that would have him feel at the age of twelve years as Jesus felt when he answered Mary, his mother: "Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?"
I beg of you mothers warn your sons and prepare them for the day when God shall give them a ministry and by the laying on of hands, they shall receive the Holy Priesthood, and let them feel the spirit that came to the Lord our God, "I must be about my Father's business." Such will bring you glory that the world can never offer. Any woman whose son can stand and look her in the face and call her blessed, and she can look upon her son and say, "The Lord hath given me a son, a man, in His own image, after His own heart" is greatly blessed.
Do not look for the passing thrills of life. They will not bring you enduring joy, they will fade into insignificance, but these Holy things will endure forever. God bless you in your organization, your leadership, all of you in your ministry, in your sweet singing, and all who contribute to the building of the Church and Kingdom of God upon the earth, that eternal institution which endures forever, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
Not Bread Alone By Elsie Chamberlain Carroll
"Linda, must I wait until you have seen your uncle?" Henry Bowers' serious dark eyes looked pleadingly across the cafeteria table, and his hand closed over the girl's slim fingers toying nervously with a paper napkin.
Linda Borchard nodded, but she couldn't quite bring her blue eyes to look into Henry's. She was afraid of yielding to their appeal.
"But you love me, and you've said that you'd rather get married than to finish college or go on with your music. What else matters?"
"Henry, when you've met Uncle Peter, I believe you'll understand why I have to talk it over with him. You see, darling, he's been my father and my mother both for a long time, and things I do mean everything to him."
"Of course. I can understand that. But from all I gather about him, his one big concern is your happiness. We love each other and want to be married. So why can't we be engaged—now, before I have to leave?"
"I'm sorry to make things harder for you, dear, at a time like this. But I believe Uncle Peter will be here before your train leaves. I told him I had to see him. I know it seems strange to you that it matters so much, but I must talk to him first. I—I—Henry, I don't quite understand myself. I'm sure he can help me to see—things straight."
"But what if he shouldn't get here? And what if Dad—doesn't get better? If anything—happens, I can't come back to school you know."
Linda patted Henry's hand and bent nearer to him across the table. "I'm so sorry about your father, dear. Would it—change everything—if—"
"Everything. Dad was the only one who could understand at all my wanting to come to college. Mother's not very well, and she—well, she's sort of lost her grip on things. Troubles she's had—I told you about Effie. She's never got over that. And I've told you what a sap. My brother Melville thinks I am even to want to go to school."
A waitress came to clear the table. The two got up and walked through the outer hall of the Commons to the quad. Linda's blond curly head lacked a foot of coming to the top of Henry's shoulder, and the slenderness of her straight little figure was emphasized by the breadth and thickness of his well-formed body. She put her hand through his arm as they walked toward Perkins Hall, the girls' dormitory, and he pressed it close against his side.
"How far is it to your Uncle's place?" he asked.
"Only eighty miles. But it's a real country place—part of the way is by bus. When you come back you must go out with me for a weekend. It's strange how Uncle Peter hates the city when he loves so much the things that are usually found in cities—music, painting, books. But I don't blame him for loving The Hutch. He gave the place that name when he took it after he came from the War—shell-shocked—and we've always called it that."
"What if he doesn't get here, Linda?" Henry was looking at his watch. "It's after one and my train leaves at three twenty."
"I told him it was very important, and I know he'll come."
"What if he doesn't like me? What if he won't give his consent?"
"He'll like you, darling. I'm not afraid of that. But—"
Henry looked down at her puzzled at what was troubling her.
"He'll have a lot of things to ask us," she went on slowly, "and maybe—his questions will help me to see some things straight that I can't be right sure about now."
"Linda, what? Don't you know for sure that you love me?"
"Silly! I was never so sure of anything else in my whole life."
"Then what else is there to worry about?"
As they walked up the steps to the dormitory hall, a girl with a tennis racquet under her arm passed them and said, "Linda, your uncle is waiting for you in the lounge."
Linda pulled Henry after her and threw herself into the arms of the slender old gentleman whose worried grey eyes peered up at Henry over her shoulders. "Uncle Peter, this is Henry. Come on over here, both of you, where we can be by ourselves."
The two men shook hands and followed her to the alcove by the window. When they were seated, Linda reached for a hand of each and bent toward them.
"Henry's father is very ill, Uncle Peter. He had a stroke last night and they're afraid—he won't get—well. Henry has to leave on the three-twenty. That's why I had to see you at once."
Peter Marks' penetrating grey eyes looked understandingly from one to the other. He smoothed his thin mustache. "I'm sorry," he said to Henry. "But sometimes strokes are not as fatal as they seem at first." Then he waited, looking at Linda.
Henry cleared his throat. "You see, Mr. Marks, Linda and I love each other. We want to be married. At least I do, as soon as possible; but she wants to talk things over with you before we—really become engaged."
The old man swallowed quickly and his fingers closed gently over the girl's hand. He searched her face for affirmation.
"We do love each other, Uncle Peter,—very much. But I—I—don't know what I ought—what I want to do. You've been so good to me, giving me all my music and this chance to go through college. And Professor Dione has been encouraging me a lot about my work. He wants me to apply for one of the Julliard music scholarships and go to New York for a year. He really says that he thinks I'll make good at teaching. So you see, Uncle Peter, I can't tell what to do." Linda paused, looking uncertainly from one to the other.
Peter Marks transferred his gaze from Linda's face to Henry's. For a few seconds he deliberated, then he spoke slowly: "Must a question so important to—all of us be decided at once?"
"You see, sir," Henry quickly explained, "if my father—doesn't get well, I won't be back to college, and it would mean—well, just everything to me to know that we could be married soon; or at least to know that we're engaged."
Linda's eyes were bright with love for Henry, but her fingers clung to her uncle's.
"Is it just that you feel that you should go on with your education and your music because we've talked about it so long and worked so hard for it that you can't decide, Linnie? Is it because you imagine you are obligated in some way to me—and to your mother—to go on?"
"Oh, Uncle Peter, I don't know. That's what I can't tell. I love my music and want to go on. And I love Henry and want to be married." She took her handkerchief from her bag and dabbed at the tears in her eyes.
"Then the question can't be settled now," Peter Marks said with finality. He turned to Henry and put his hand sympathetically on his knee. "I'm sorry, my boy, but you'll have to give Linnie more time. This is something you can't settle by flipping up a coin and saying, 'heads I marry and tails I finish school!' It means the happiness or the unhappiness of too many lives."
Henry was disappointed, but he said nothing.
"If you must leave soon for the train, I'll walk to the station with you while Linda arranges to go home with me for the night. There are a lot of things to be considered in a question as important as this; even an old bachelor like myself realizes that."
They all stood up. "I left my bag in the administration building across the quad. We can pass that way," Henry said.
Peter Marks walked toward the door leaving the young people for their goodbye.
"Linda, does it have to be this way?" Henry's arms were around her and she was weeping against his sleeve. "When we know that we care like we do, is anything else important? I can't understand your not being sure if you really love me as I love you."
"I do, Henry. You must believe that. And I'll never love anyone else in the world. But I must have a little time." She clung to him and his arms tightened. Their lips met. Linda continued to sob as they moved toward the door.
That evening Linda sat with her uncle under the pear tree near the vine-covered cottage he called the Hutch. It was a moonlit evening and the spring breezes sifted showers of petals over the rustic bench upon which they sat. Neither during their journey home nor while they had prepared and eaten their supper, had they mentioned the problem about which they were both thinking and which had brought them together. After the dishes were washed and Linda had hung her apron behind the door, they had come as by habit to the pear tree. It was here that Linda had been comforted after her mother's death and made to feel certain that death was not the final, tragic thing it seemed. It was here, also, that she had learned from the man beside her the things she needed to know when she was changing from girlhood to womanhood and there was no mother to perform the office. It was here they had spent long hours reading together, enjoying sunsets and moonrises, and planning her future.
For a little time they sat without words, enjoying the bond which held them so close together. They watched the moon rising higher over Blue Hill and felt the waxen pear petals falling upon them.
Peter Marks touched the girl's soft curls with his long fingers and looked down at her pointed chin. "The first question, Linnie," he began slowly, and she knew by the look in his eyes how much her going away with Henry was going to mean to him, "and of course the biggest question is, are you sure you love this boy?"
Linda reached for his hand and held it in both of hers. How precious he had always been to her. "I do love him, Uncle Peter. I love him so much it hurts. I love him as much as I do you and Mommy—only it's different."
"I understand that, honey. It's natural and right that this different kind of love should come to you. Our problem is to find out if it is the genuine article and also to look into a few other things—that might stand in the way of your happiness."
"Henry is wonderful, Uncle Peter. I wish you knew him. He's not just big and strong and good to look at; he's ambitious and clean and fine in every way. I know you'll like him when you get to know him."
"I like him already. That isn't the problem. What worries me, Linnie, if you really love him, and I think you do, is whether or not the handicaps of his—well, I suppose I may call it background, have robbed him of some of the things that will be very necessary for the complete happiness of a girl like you."
"I don't know what you mean, Uncle Peter."
"And I'm not sure that I can explain." He searched for words. It was several seconds before he spoke, then he said impressively, "It is not by bread alone that man lives. There must be something else for full living—beauty, I suppose it is—beauty in some form—to feed the soul as bread feeds the body."
"You mustn't think, Uncle Peter, that just because Henry was raised on a farm that he can't appreciate—other things. He does. I've seen his eyes fill with tears when he's been listening to me play."
"I don't want to seem hard, honey. But were you sure he was listening to your playing, or watching you play? Two kinds of beauty would be involved there, and I have no doubt in the world that he could sense the one to the fullest."
Linda looked at him wondering if she understood. Her uncle continued: "You were born with a good deal more idealism than the average girl. I am not saying it is the best thing in an age like this. At least, it's not the most comfortable inheritance one might receive. But you have it—just as much a part of you as your blue eyes and your pointed chin and your impulse to stamp your feet when things don't go right. It's a part of your Grandmother Marks who was the talk of this whole part of the country in pioneer days because she refused to leave her organ when she crossed the plains, and because she went barefoot for two years so she could buy a set of Shakespeare's plays. Your mother had it, and it made her give up a life of luxury and ease and come back to poverty and hard work so that she might be more sure of giving you the things she thought were more precious than the bread of life."
"But I know about my father, Uncle Peter—that he wasn't the kind of man Mommy could go on with. You don't think Henry—"
"No, no, honey! Not that. I'm sure Henry is good and straight-forward and clean and fine as you say. He'll never be rich, perhaps, but I think he'll always be able to supply his wife and children with shelter and clothing and food—with the bread of life. But those are not all of the essentials to living; they are not even the main things for people like your Grandmother Marks and your mother, and—you and me, Linnie."
"I know what you mean, darling. Music, poetry—Just sitting quiet under a pear tree and thrilling over the kiss of cool petals against our cheeks and the lights and shadows the moon is making on Blue Hill. But can't people have such things, if they want them, even out in Cedar Basin?"
"I suppose if people want such things badly enough, they can have them anywhere. Your Grandmother Marks proved that. But it's much harder in some environments than in others and among people who do not consider such things essential. Henry told me that there isn't a public library within three hundred miles of his home, and that the nearest high school is thirty miles away. People do not have lawns and flower gardens around their homes—they're too busy with their fields and the water is scarce. And Linnie, there isn't a piano in the entire community." He paused and looked down at her bent head. "I know all those things. That's why I had to talk to you before I answered Henry. I couldn't be sure whether such things were important. But people don't have to live like that; you've just said so yourself. Henry and I wouldn't have to. We could have our books and music—and there are glorious sunsets and moonlight and streams of water everywhere. We could find or make those things, couldn't we, Uncle Peter?"
"To an extent, yes, if they mean enough to you, and—if there aren't too many other forces against you."
"I know I'll have to give up some things. I can't go on with my music and there won't be lectures and concerts. And worst of all, I'll be miles and miles away from you. But there would be other things—I love Henry. I can't think of going on without him. I guess you don't know how—feeling that way about someone is."
The old man's fingers tightened over hers. "Yes, I think I do, Linnie. But sometimes—we have to go on—even while thinking we can't."
Impulsively her arms went around him. She remembered the photograph of a young girl which had always stood on his dresser. "I'm so sorry. Forgive me, darling."
He patted her shoulders. "That's all right, honey. It wasn't so hard after you came. And if you are sure you feel like that, the other things don't matter so much. If you feel that you can't go on without your Henry, go and write and tell him so, and we'll hope for the best."
"Thank you, darling. Thank you." She sprang up and kissed him, then ran toward the house, leaving Peter Marks in the moonlight praying that she would find through her love much more than the bread of life.
(To be continued)
To Blanche By Weston N. Nordgren
You made me see the life divine— You made me understand. You gave your tender heart to mine— And gave to me your hand!
You lighted up my world for me, With your sweet dimpling smile; You taught me love's religion;—and You feared it all the while!
You're brave and noble, little girl— You feel the depths of life; Your sweet, pure grace—your beauty, too— Has conquered over strife!
I see the full-blown rose of youth When 'ere I see your face; And in my heart you are enshrined, Deep in its Holy Place!
Sarah M. McLelland By Mary C. Kimball
One of the great blessings of a long and useful life is to have a storehouse of memories of service well done and of a life filled with good deeds. Now, when Sarah M. McLelland can no longer be as active as she was of yore, she has such a storehouse of memories to draw from, for from her early girlhood she has been busily engaged in her Father's service.
Sarah M. McLelland comes of sturdy Scotch Irish lineage. Her parents, Thomas and Elizabeth McLelland, received the Gospel in Scotland in 1841. They gave devoted service to the Church in their native land from the time they joined until, impelled by their desire to meet the Prophet Joseph Smith, they emigrated to the United States on their wedding day in 1844. When they saw the Prophet Joseph Smith and his wife, Emma, and heard him speak with power on the Godhead, they said they felt repaid for their journey and when Brother McLelland shook hands with the Prophet a thrill went through him and he felt to say like Ruth of old, "Whither thou goest, I will go; and where thou lodgest, I will lodge: thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God." Brother McLelland worked as a stone cutter on the Nauvoo Temple and rejoiced in the completion of the House of the Lord. He was a member of the Nauvoo Legion. He and his wife passed through the hardships entailed by the expulsion of the Saints from Nauvoo. They arrived in Salt Lake in 1848. He assisted in building the Salt Lake Temple and also served for many years as Bishop and his wife as President of the Relief Society in the 7th Ward. ONE of the blessings of a long He served as a member of the City Council in 1870. It is not to be wondered then that the daughter of this faithful couple, born ten days after the Saints returned from camping on Utah Lake after Johnston's Army had marched through the city and established themselves at Camp Floyd, should devote her talents and energies to furthering the great Latter-day work. After attending the school of Franklin D. Richards and later that of Dr. Karl G. Maeser, she began her Church service as a Sunday School teacher in the first Farmer's Ward Sabbath School in 1876. She has been a bulwark of strength to that Ward ever since serving in its various organizations. For 10 years she was counselor and for 5 years class leader in the Y. W. M. I. A. For 4 years she served as a Stake Board member in the Granite Stake and was called to be Stake President of the Y. W. M. I. A., but was released from this obligation to become a member of the General Board of Relief Society May 12, 1911. During the years 1909 and 1910 she labored as a missionary in the Central States. When she received the call she thought, "Where shall I go for encouragement?" She opened her Bible and read, "Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness." Strengthened by these lines she went forward and the mission gave her the testimony Job received when he said, "I know that my redeemer lives." President Samuel O. Bennion said that in his long experience SARAH M,. McLelland there had been no better missionary than Sister McLelland. He said she came to the study period early in the morning well attired from her well-kept hair to her polished shoes. She was always ready for her work. She met the public graciously. She knew the Scriptures and how to use them. She was a worthy example to all women missionaries of her time and those who followed her. In 1911 she did missionary work on the Temple Block. In 1914 she took the Red Cross work given by the Relief Society. For 6 years she was a most successful teacher in the Senior and Theological classes in her Ward and also assisted at that time in the Teacher Training classes. For 24 years she was a most valued member of the General Board of Relief Society. She visited the organizations frequently, indeed, she has the highest number of visits made to Stakes of any member of her Board. In 1891 her twin brother's wife died, leaving six children under twelve years of age. Sarah assisted her mother in raising this family and when in 1900 her mother passed away, she cared for the children until her brother married again in 1907. They loved her as though she were their real mother. Most of them married from her home. She saw to it that all had the opportunity of a good education. She says she never permitted one of them to go to bed feeling badly towards her. Everything was always made right before they and she slept. She said, "children never hold anything against you; they forgive easily. It was Sister McLelland's privilege to attend the National Council of Women with President Emmeline B. Wells in 1913, the session being held in New York. She also went to the meetings held in St. Louis in 1918 in company with Julina Smith and Amy B. Lyman. She holds a 345 life membership in the Daughters of the Pioneers and is a member of the Genealogical Society of Utah. Although she has done so much public work, Sister McLelland has always been a good home maker. She is an expert needle woman. For years she earned her living as a dressmaker and later was a most efficient and charming clerk in Z. C. M. I. She delights in Scripture study. She observes closely, her information is always authentic, and she makes accurate deductions. She has always evidenced loyalty to the Church and its leadership and has conformed her life to its teachings. Her Ward Relief Society President says that she is always able to meet every situation and her presence lifts all to a higher level. While she is broad-minded and tolerant and exacting in herself, she is generous in her judgment of others. She says, that while Noah did get drunk he also built the Ark. Always willing to serve, the performance of her duty has been characterized by cheerfulness and efficiency. N. J. Teerlink, the Superintendent of the Sabbath School of her Ward, says, "One does not need to manufacture thoughts in an exaggerated way when one speaks of Sister McLelland, as her character stands out based on good deeds and example. "As a class instructor she has been unsurpassed, not only in regard to a knowledge of the Gospel, but with a perfect command of her audience or class, backed by proper enunciation and good articulation. She has always been able to control a group of younger folks, even those who were frequently uncontrollable by men teachers. "TI have heard her speak on programs as an extemporaneous speaker, and her talks always surpassed the ones given by those who were well prepared, both in material and delivery. 346 "Without flattery she is the Eliza Rk. Snow of our community, as far as leadership and dignity is concerned, qualified for any position that a woman can hold. "From her Sunday School classes have come some of the most prominent men and women in our city, including a Stake President, Bishops, heads of auxiliary organizations, and many missionaries. "To very few can the following tribute of President David O. McKay be given, but to me Sister Sarah McLelland has earned the following words to the letter, The religious teacher's duty is to lead her pupils over moral and ethical hills to the glorious heights of spirituality, where the Spirit of man may receive the illumination of God's Holy Spirit." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Sister McLelland has never sought office but has always responded to every call that has been made upon her, giving to each duty the best that was in her. She feels that her experience in the Relief Society work has greatly enriched her life for it has given her the opportunity of learning to serve by serving. Feeling that her health would no longer permit her to fulfill the duties of being on the General Board of Relief Society, she showed the right spirit in asking to be released so that another might be put in her place who could do the necessary work. Her request was granted and while Sister McLelland cannot longer actively participate in the work of the General Board she will never lose her interest in the great Relief Society Cause. The Prevention of Crime Address delivered at the Relief Society Conference, April 3, 1935 By Dean Milton Bennion RIME cannot be overcome by C repressive measures alone, but rather by a constructive program of character education in the home, the church, the school and the community at large. _ This constructive program involves not only development of high individual and social ideals, but also reconstruction of the forms and functions of organized society that all may share in the work of the world and thereby be lifted above beggary and want; these are among the breeders of crime. Honest work and a just share in its rewards are great stabilizing factors in life. Justice calls for a society so organized as to provide all with opportunity to work. This follows from the principles laid down by the fathers of our country in the Declaration of Independence. The right to life carries with it the right to an opportunity to make a living. Liberty without opportunity is an empty term, and pursuit of happiness is a great illusion for millions of Americans today. For these the right to work is more urgent than are the general abstract rights embodied in American patriotic oratory. There should be cooperation of all social agencies of a community to make that community an ideal place for young people to grow into responsible, law-abiding citizens. The power of example is not restricted to the home, it is also a most important factor in community life. If the adult population practices or tolerates vice and dissipation what can be expected of the youth of the community? Yet many adults bemoan THE PREVENTION OF CRIME the sins of youth without seeing that these sins are in large measure due to the example of their elders and the general indifference of adult citizens toward community morality. The first step, therefore, in the prevention of crime is a thoroughgoing community house cleaning. Right now is an opportune time to put out of business the dance halls, the beer gardens, and such other places that have taken advantage of beer-selling privileges to engage in more lucrative and questionable sidelines. Why should anyone be allowed to profit either directly or indirectly by any business that contributes in any way toward the corruption of youth? Only business that renders a real service should be tolerated. "THE normal human being is natturally social; this characteristic is strongly manifest in children and youths and is expressed in their gangs, clubs, and societies; these may become agencies for either good or evil. Organized adult society should see that these junior organizations are under leadership that will make them agencies for social good. Keep in close, sympathetic touch with the leaders of these groups. Help them to develop high group standards by which individual standards and practices are largely determined. Lead the youth to foresee the consequences of various types of conduct and thus enable him to direct his own course intelligently. This applies to groups as well as to individuals. Cultivation of the moral imagination is a much neglected phase of 347 education. It should begin in the home. Lead children early to foresee the possible consequences of certain activities and so to refrain from doing things that are likely to turn out unhappily for either themselves or others. This will forestall much evil doing and shut off one approach to crime. Ig is not enough to be a student of child nature in general. Every one responsible for child training should study the nature of each individual. Mothers know very well that no two are alike. Adults should have regard for the interests of the child and not make unnecessary demands that run counter to his purposes. As every adult should be treated as an end in himself and never as a means, so also should the child. This principle should determine what kinds and how much work may be assigned children at various age levels; it should also be the determining factor in child labor legislation.. Treat the child sympathetically but firmly. A wavering parent loses control. Nevertheless a mistake on the part of the parent should be readily admitted and corrected; but be careful always to avoid hasty judgments, often based upon inadequate information or on mere emotional upset. Take account of the transition from childhood to youth. Do not continue to treat the youth as though he were a child. He resents it. Give him a chance to grow up mentally and morally as well as physically. Janet Murdoch Thompson By Margaret C. Pickering
"A good heart, benevolent feelings, and a balanced mind, lie at the foundation of character. Other things may be deemed fortuitous; they may come and go; but character is that which lives and abides, and is admired long after its possessor has left the earth."—John Todd.
JANET MURDOCH THOMPSON is the eldest daughter in a family of five living children of the late David Lennox and Elizabeth Thyne Murdoch. She was born August 8, 1884, in a house built by Dr. Karl G. Maeser, the great pioneer educator, at 69 G Street, Salt Lake City, and she has lived there the greater part of her life. It has always seemed to the Murdoch family that the exalted spirit of the builder remained in that home and served as an inspiration to them. Both parents of Mrs. Thompson were born in Scotland and were married there. Following their arrival in Salt Lake, they were reunited in the Endowment House. Mr. Murdoch enjoyed a long and distinguished career in business and religious affairs. At the time he joined the Church, he was serving in London as secretary to Mr. Wm. W. Whitelaw, member of parliament. He was widely known as a man of scholarly attainments and notable integrity. In 1905 Mr. Murdoch returned to his native land to preach the gospel. In 1907 Mrs. Murdoch and Janet went abroad to join him. On this trip Mrs. Thompson had the pleasure of accompanying her parents on a visit to their birthplaces. As a girl, Mrs. Murdoch attended Dollar Academy near Glasgow and was an accomplished pianist, having mastered that instrument she was also a member for years of the Glasgow Choral Society in the early days of its development. Reared in an atmosphere of stability and refinement, Mrs. Thompson reflects these qualities. In her the practical and the aesthetic are ideally blended.
Mrs. Thompson was educated in the Salt Lake City schools and the L. D. S. College. She is well known as a musician and has given generously of her talent. She was married to Jerrold E. Thompson September 29, 1909, in the Salt Lake Temple, and from him has received whole-hearted support and encouragement in all her activities. This same attitude of loyalty is shown by her sister, Mary, who makes her home with them. They have no children but their home has always been a popular gathering-place for their many nephews and nieces. Mr. And Mrs. Thompson are lovers of the outdoors and for many years their vacations have been spent in motoring to points of interest throughout the country.
Since she was old enough to do so, Mrs. Thompson has taken an active part in Church work. Her first official duties were in the Sunday School, followed by work in Mutual and Primary, both as teacher and organist. She was Ward President of the Primary Association in the 20th Ward for years. She served for thirteen years in the presidency of the Ensign Stake Primary Association. Seven years ago she became a member of the Relief Society board of Ensign Stake acting as organist. In 1931 she became president. Her administration has been characterized by a well-balanced program along both practical and aesthetic lines. On the practical side she has sought to standardize relief to the needy, to develop their strength and raise their morale; to relieve ward presidents of responsibilities that could be assumed by others. On the aesthetic side a cultural program was planned whereby all who wished to do so could participate. On "work" day, new forms of handcraft and home decoration were developed with a view to bringing more comfort and beauty into the homes of the members. A demonstration of this work was given by Ensign Stake during the recent general Relief Society Conference.
Believing that "language is a temple in which the soul of those who speak it is enshrined"—a class in speech and vocabulary building was given in each ward last year. This year a class in social culture has been conducted with a view to making daily contact easier and more agreeable and life more beautiful and impressive.
Mrs. Thompson is blessed with a sunny disposition, alertness, integrity and a wealth of common sense. She has the ability to draw people to her and to inspire them to function at their best. Reinforced by humility—the essence of true religion—she goes forth to her work on the General Board eminently qualified. The love and good wishes of her many friends accompany her.
A Letter to Tomorrow
Tomorrow you must know each dream and hope, The poor performances with which we'll cope; You may hold sorrows keen, and bitter tears, Which now are masked to salve our trembling fears.
Perhaps Tomorrow, friends may fail—betray, And still you beckon us—nor can we stay, Because you are akin and have the key To days that follow days so endlessly.
Perhaps you think it best, we do not know, Because what's in your day will help us grow. With wondering we'll meet your roseate dawn, And as by magnet through each hour be drawn—
For good or evil, faith or negligence, Our hurts and scars a vast experience. Then you, TOMORROW, pass to claim your own, While we go on to reap what we have sown.
—Elsie I. Barrett.
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
June—Earth clothed in her loveliest garb invites exultant youth to new adventures.
Queen Mary was never more regal than when in all her court splendor she greeted alike the humblest and proudest of her people during the silver jubilee of her reign.
Lady Astor, one of the most publicized leaders of the British Parliament, was a forceful speaker in behalf of equality for women at the conference of the Suffrage Alliance held in Istanbul.
Pandita Ramabai 40 years ago attended the World's Congress of Women in America and made an impassioned plea in behalf of the children of India. Is her work forgotten? Now, after years of grace, Mother India is again permitting mass child marriage ceremony.
Ethiopian women are being drafted to serve in the war now threatened between Italy and Abyssinia.
Josephine Winslow Johnson, Zoe Akins, both of Missouri, and Aileen Orlip of New Jersey, are three women Pulitzer prize award winners for 1934. Miss Johnson won the $1,000 award for her first novel, "Now In November," Miss Akins for her play, "Old Maid," $1,000. And Miss Orlip the annual art scholarship of $1,500.
Jane Addams who died May 21st, received distinct homage in the first world round peace broadcast last month from many noted people. Mrs. Roosevelt gave a reception and dinner in Miss Addams honor at the White House, where she was hailed as "The truest American and none braver."
Lady Duff Gordon, leader in style creation and designer of Lucile models, died last April in London.
Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall, daughter of the great pioneer, Brigham Young, died last month. She was prominent in civic and church circles and much beloved for her many graces.
Amy Mollinson, intrepid aviatrix, feels much safer in the air. Her only accident thus far was while riding in an auto.
Helen Stephens, a high school girl of Missouri, threatens to take the laurels from "Babe Didriksen in the Olympics this year. She is the latest athletic woman star.
Kirsten Flagstad, the Norwegian soprano of the Metropolitan, is said to be the biggest attraction since the retirement of Geraldine Farrar.
Mary Garden, famous operatic star, has accepted an appointment on the faculty of the Chicago Musical College.
Maria Jeritza, a Viennese opera star's latest honor is not for singing but cooking. She received a silver medal for the best Hungarian goulash.
Margaret Deland's new book, "If This Be I (As I Suppose It Be)." records memories of her own childhood and is delightful reading.
Our Shrines in the Holy Land By Leah D. Widtsoe
To a member of this Church, no trip to the Holy Land is complete without a visit to the final resting places of our dear and valiant sons who have laid down their lives while serving their fellow men in behalf of the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ. A deeply appreciated visit was made to this interesting country by Brother John A. Widtsoe in the summer of 1933, while he was serving as president of the European Mission. The visit had a two fold purpose. President Joseph Wilford Booth, who had spent the best years of his manhood in this mission, was suddenly called Home to the great Beyond on December 5, 1928. He was on a visit to the members of the Church in Aleppo, a city in Syria, when the "call" came to him very suddenly, through a heart attack. That country since the war has been under the mandate of France, and according to law, no body may be removed within a year of death. So the people buried their beloved president and deeply mourned his passing. Sister Booth, the capable and loving wife of the president, closed the affairs of the mission as best she could with the help of Brother Ralph V. Chisholm, a secretary of the European Mission, who had just been released and was sent to assist her in this great crisis of her life. She returned to her home, and during the year the family of President Booth decided to leave his remains in the country which he had served so valiantly and amongst the people whom he loved so well. The Church decided to place a suitable monument over his final resting place and Brother Widtsoe was commissioned to see that one was prepared and installed with fitting ceremonies.
A New President For The Mission
Meantime the mission had been without a president since the passing of Brother Booth. Finally, in the latter part of 1932, Brother Badwagen Piranian, a native Armenian, born in Turkey, but later a resident of Switzerland and a stalwart Latter-day Saint, was chosen to fill this important position. So Brother Widtsoe's commission was two-fold: to dedicate President Booth's monument and to install a new president of the Palestine-Syrian Mission. The way was opened for the writer also to visit this mission, and a life-time of extra service will be but slight repayment for this glorious privilege.
Joseph Wilford Booth
President Booth was called as a young man on his first mission to the Turkish Mission, as it was then called, in August, 1898, where he remained until May, 1902. His second mission was from August, 1903, to November, 1909; and his last mission was from September, 1921, until his death in 1928—a total of more than eighteen years of active, intelligent and devoted service in behalf of the spread of Truth amongst these ancient peoples. The name was later changed to the Armenian Mission because most of the members of the Church there were of that race. He was made president of the mission for his last two terms of service. During most of the time of the last two missions his devoted wife, Mary Rebecca Moyle Booth, was with him, and for many years they were the only missionaries from Zion to labor with these millions of Arabs, Turks, Jews and Armenians in whose land this mission was established. His labors took him into the countries of Turkey, Armenia, Syria, Greece and Palestine. Indeed, during his travels he covered most of the country traversed by our Savior and his Apostles, and in all of them he labored as diligently and faithfully as did any of the missionaries of old. This wide experience combined with his intensely studious habits enabled him to become a recognized authority on matters pertaining to the Holy Land and the Near East as a whole. In fact, the last mission of Brother Booth was undertaken under an appointment to care for the disbursement of the funds and clothing gathered by the Church to alleviate the suffering of the Near-East refugees who were so cruelly treated by the Turks during the late World War. No better man could have been chosen, and he performed his many labors so successfully that he became the ideal of manhood for these down-trodden peoples. His photograph is placed beside that of the Prophet Joseph in most of the humble homes of our Armenian people today. They love and honor him as a real man of God. They love his wife also, for she was always his loyal and devoted companion in all his work. In his Journal of May 1, 1905, while at Aintab, Turkey, Brother Booth writes:
"May 1, 1905—At Aintab, Turkey. Reba (his pet name for his wife) and I took a walk through the cemetery where there were multitudes of people. I estimated them at from 15,000 to 20,000 people. We visited Elder Simmons' grave and then wandered around among the tombs and met many friends and held conversation with some of them. * * *
"What a difference of feeling among the people toward us from what there was about 6 years ago, when Elder Phil Maycock and I were driven from these grounds under a shower of stones. Now we have hundreds of friends among them. During the day a number of friends called to see us. Professor John E. Merrill was among them, and I talked with him two or three hours on the Mormon question.
"Ate supper at Nersis Kuljians and enjoyed the evening.
"This May Day has been a beautiful one, for the weather was almost ideal, and we have had the pleasure of meeting so many of our friends whom we trust will some day be counted as our brethren and sisters."
What a delightful insight into his heart and labor is afforded us by this simple recital! He was truly a great missionary. President Booth was a dear and loved brother of Sister James E. Talmage, who was always loyal and helpful to him during his long missionary labors. She took a most active interest in the welfare of the Armenian people and for many years, at a great cost of time and labor on her part, undertook to sell to friends and neighbors, some of the handiwork of these far-away members of our Church. The Armenian people love Sister Talmage for her unselfish labor on their behalf. Apostle Talmage while president of the European Missions visited President Booth in Palestine and was instrumental with him in moving the headquarters of the mission to Haifa where they are now located. He, too, was always interested in the Armenian Mission as it was once called. The name has now been changed to the Palestine-Syrian Mission, for it is hoped that many people other than Armenians may hear the voice of the true Shepherd and may accept restored Truth.
The Monument and Resting Place
The cemetery at Aleppo, in Syria, where President Booth died, is out of town and beautifully situated on a hillside overlooking the country for miles around. The Armenian part faces the west, and Brother Booth's resting place is high up toward the upper boundary of the enclosure. The view of the rolling hills toward the setting sun is most inspiring, even though the country is arid and devoid of trees and vegetation in the summer. During the rainy season a carpet of wild flowers everywhere makes up in loveliness for the heat and drought of summer. The members of the Church had built a modest headstone and a large slab of concrete to cover the grave and to express their lasting gratitude for his devotion to their welfare. The large monument later installed by the Church is a fitting memorial, built of the best Scotch granite, and made in Liverpool, England. It is easily the most imposing in the Armenian section, and one of the best in the entire cemetery. On the monument, in enduring lead which will not rust nor corrode, is written the following:
JOSEPH WILFORD BOOTH President of the Armenian Mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Born at Alpine, Utah, U. S. A. 14th August, 1866 Died at Aleppo, Syria 5th December, 1928
For Eighteen Years He served faithfully as a missionary Elder in Turkey, Greece, Syria and Palestine
Though dead he lives in the hearts Of a host who hold him In honorable and loving remembrance
"Whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it."
When the larger monument was placed, the small headstone of the members was put back of the larger one, so that their expressed loyalty might be permanent also.
Dedicatory Service
On a hot Sunday afternoon, June 18, 1933, the dedicatory service over the grave and monument of President Booth was held. Present were all the members of the Branch and some friends, about fifty in number. The service was held in the late afternoon to avoid the heat of the day. Because of the scarcity of water, few flowers were to be had; but a large bouquet was purchased, and all the Saints who desired were asked to bring their tribute, even though it were but one green twig or leaf. Brother Garabed Sulahian brought an enlarged picture of their much loved past president, and the few flowers and greenery were placed around this, in evidence of their devotion. After singing, in English, "Come Listen to a Prophet's Voice," in which most of the people participated, prayer was offered by the Branch President, Brother Nazar Bezzian. Sister Booth had sent a pressed bouquet of flowers which grew over their doorway at Alpine, Utah, requesting that "they should be placed on Wilford's grave." This was done by Sister Widtsoe after the opening exercises. They were later placed under the small headstone so that they could not be blown away. Just as the sun was setting, Brother Widtsoe made a few remarks, and then gave a beautiful dedicatory prayer, after which all sang "We Thank Thee O God for a Prophet." President Piranian dismissed the service. Soon the people scattered, and we were left alone in the brief twilight to enjoy the spirit of peace, which pervaded the scene. Thank God for the knowledge that our friend is a busy missionary Over There, even though his body is waiting in a quiet, somewhat lonely spot in the hallowed land of our Savior's ministry.
Other Shrines
Unfortunately, there are several of our young missionaries who have laid down their lives in this far away land. Amongst the number is Brother Edgar Simmons, who died in 1889, and is buried in Aintab, Turkey. We have noted President Booth's visit to his grave in 1905. While in Aleppo we also visited the resting place of Brother Emil J. Huber, who died in May, 1908. There, too, we placed some flowers and gave a silent prayer of gratitude for his service and sacrifice. In the Haifa cemetery we visited the tombs of two more of our valiant sons whose remains lie peacefully in the Holy Land. Brother Adolph Haag, who passed away in October, 1892, and Brother John A. Clark in February, 1895. Here, too, we placed some flowers in memory of their devotion to the Gospel. In each case our thoughts went out to the families of these dear lads, and our prayers for the continued comfort and blessing of their dear ones yet on earth were heartfelt and sincere. We sensed again, most keenly, that Greater love hath no man than that he is willing to lay down his life for the welfare of fellow-man.
The Prospect Today
To the mothers of future missionaries who may be called to this most interesting mission, may I pass a reassuring word. The scourge of small pox which carried off some of these missionaries is largely conquered today. If a young man is healthy when he leaves home, if he will care for himself hygienically and live on simple foods, as do the native peoples—which is but living the Word of Wisdom in its positive as well as in its negative aspects—he will be as safe in this as in any other mission on earth. However, here obedience to this wise law of health is imperative. There is a great work in these lands awaiting the messengers of the true Gospel of Christ. The Jews are there in great numbers, and one day will hear "the call of the Shepherd." The countless descendants of Ishmael must also hear the message of Truth, for they too are God's children. Verily, is the field white for the harvest. May our Father bless and prosper this mighty work in the Holy Land, as elsewhere upon earth!
Belle Smith Spafford By Leone G. Layton
We all have favorite quotations which we feel express our inmost desires of accomplishment in life. "Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might"—Bible; "Have a purpose in life, and having it, throw into your work such strength of mind and muscle as God has given you"—Carlyle; were selected some years ago by Sister Spafford as typifying her creed. We who have been her close associates can testify to her success in living up to them. No matter what she has been called upon to do, she has given the best she had. Her standards have been high, and through her example others have been encouraged to try to reach them, for she has the happy faculty of seeing the good in all, giving commendation and encouragement wherever she has gone. In her Relief Society work she has won the love of all the women she has contacted, and her clear vision has been instrumental in helping a number of women solve difficult problems in their organizations. She has the quality of understanding and because of her friendly interest in all, she is sought after constantly for comfort and advice.
Sister Spafford is the daughter of John G. And Hester Sims Smith. She was born in Salt Lake City and has spent most of her life here. Mr. Smith died before Mrs. Spafford's birth and Mrs. Smith was left to rear her family alone. Never faltering, she made a home for her children, and her strength of character, devotion to the right, and great appreciation of the cultural values of life, have had a marked influence on the lives of all who have known her. A carefree, happy childhood is the memory of Sister Spafford. She attended the Salt Lake City Public Schools and later the L. D. S. High School and the University of Utah. Her first teaching experience was gained in the Salt Lake Public Schools. Here her interest was stimulated in childhood, its experiences and reactions and the studies of psychology and Sociology became her guide. Later she went to the Brigham Young University where she became a grade supervisor in the Training School. Her experience here in lesson-planning and analysis have been invaluable to the organizations in which she has since labored.
While teaching in Provo she met and married W. Earl Spafford. Returning to the B. Y. U. She conducted a special group in Remedial Work. The year brought some excellent results and further challenged her interest in the study of Psychology. Here she obtained experience which was to stand her in good stead in her Relief Society Work.
Her earliest Church activities were centered in Mutual Improvement work, and as a Junior Girl she won the Church Award in Retold Story. At the age of eighteen she was called to preside over the Mutual in her ward and remained in this work both in Salt Lake City and in Provo for a number of years. She was also interested in Religion Class, and while a Stake Board Member assisted in formulating a course of study for this Organization. In 1926 Mr. Spafford's business interests necessitated the removal of his family to Salt Lake City. Here Sister Spafford was first introduced to Relief Society as counselor in the Belvedere Ward. She was assigned Classwork as her division of responsibility, and here her wide social and educational contacts proved useful. Under her direction the classleaders were stimulated to a realization of the responsibility that was theirs in occupying the time of a group of busy women, resulting in an increase of teaching efficiency. Her extensive reading and her understanding appreciation of a well taught lesson created in the leaders a desire to measure up to her lesson standards. Though the mother of two small children, she was never too busy to give her associates such help and encouragement as they required, at the same time keeping up her home interests. The Social Service Course challenged her interest because of her studies in Psychology. Realizing the need of such a background in a stake leader, she was called to the Grant Stake Relief Society Board in 1932. Her splendid lesson preparation, her provision of lesson enrichment for ward leaders created great interest in the department. Leaders not of this Stake became regular attendants, and the quality of work presented in the wards was improved. With the Organization of Wells Stake, Sister Spafford was called as first Counselor to Sister Marie Tanner who says of her, "Sister Spafford possesses an unusual and logical mind, she is a natural leader, her poise gives calm and peace. Rich in life's greatest assets, she is honest, outspoken, and straight-forward. Loyal to every trust, gentle and kind, her fine soul qualities inspire respect and confidence in the hearts of her associates. She gives obedience to authority. The sisters of Wells Stake love and honor her." To her new work Sister Spafford brings an intimate knowledge of Relief Society and its problems, a clear vision of its aims and purposes, a spirit of humility and willingness to serve with all her strength wherever she is placed, and an abundant store of knowledge, coupled with rare ability to use that knowledge with wisdom and understanding.
Donna Durrant Sorensen By Marie H. Tanner
Donna Durrant Sorensen was born in Spanish Fork, Utah County, Utah, December 24, 1904. She is the daughter of Agnes Lewis of Spanish Fork and of the late Lorenzo J. Durrant of American Fork. Her grandparents on both sides were converts from the British Isles and crossed the plains shortly after the original pioneers. She has ever complied with the fifth commandment: "Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." This love and loyalty to her parents is also expressed in the verse:
"If I could give you just one gift, I'd try to make your dreams come true, I'd see that my life was so spent That I would be a monument, commemorating you."
When Donna was eight years old, her family moved to Thatcher, Idaho, engaging in the Creamery Business but when she was in the sixth grade, her father moved his family to Provo that they might have the educational advantages of a Church school. Donna entered the sixth grade of the B. Y. University training school continuing until she graduated from the college in 1927.
She gave efficient service as a Sunday School teacher and was called to labor in the Central States Mission from June, 1924, until June, 1926. Sister Lottie T. Bennion, who was mission mother during this time, says: "Donna was a remarkably outstanding missionary. She has a pleasing personality, was a staunch student, was very spiritual and had a broad understanding of the Gospel. She could enter many homes where others failed. Sister Sorensen was especially kind and interested in the new missionaries and was very agreeable with all her companions. She labored around St. Louis and Kansas City and spent one year at the Independence office doing clerical work. She never missed an opportunity of bearing her testimony and with her musical ability, was a great help in the conference. She was a ray of sunshine in the mission home."
Upon her return from her mission, she taught English and speech in the American Fork High School for two years. While there she worked in the Mutual Improvement Association teaching in the Bee Hive group. She has also taught the Gleaner and Senior Departments and was counselor to the President of the Y. W. M. I. A. Of the Capitol Hill Ward. She served as secretary of the Utah State Returned Missionaries for three years. Part of her duty was to arrange for their Sunday appointments and to plan their programs. Sister Sorensen was married to Wesley A. Sorensen in the Salt Lake Temple, October, 1929. Brother Sorensen is very solicitous in his anxiety to be of assistance to her. She has his faith and support in all her labors and perfect love and harmony exists in their home.
The art of teaching is an inherent bent of her nature. She was the Theology class leader in the Jefferson Ward during the winter of 1933 and '34. Her Relief Society President said: "Sister Sorensen inspired the Sisters to look their best and to come better prepared on that day than any other." Sister Sorensen was called to be the Social Service Class Leader of the Wells Stake Relief Society in the summer of 1934. She felt this was a new line of work and in order to prepare for the winter program, she attended many lectures in the extension work of the University of Southern California during her vacation there. She also made good use of their wonderful library. Sister Sorensen took the Welfare course under Sister Lyman to broaden her field for this particular calling; she also visited all the State and private institutions for the physically and mentally handicapped. While listening to a radio talk, she learned of a new book written by Laura E. Richards of the life of her father, Samuel Gridly Howe. She used this book as supplementary reading for her lesson on the handicapped child. She wrote to Mrs. Richards and received a gracious answer. These letters were recently published in the Relief Society Magazine. There are two kinds of teachers, those who come prepared and those who come with excuses. She led with an assurance that comes only with preparation and a love for her work. All her work has been done joyously, and all who have come in contact with her, have felt radiating from her a spirit of delight that characterizes only those who love deeply and sincerely the work they are doing. The greatest service you can render anyone, is that which helps the person to help himself. Class leaders who have visited her department have come to learn to use the material they have gathered. Sister Sorensen inspires others to do their part well; she has the ability to see and appreciate in others what is good and beautiful and as a result, she has the power to attract love and devotion. She is modest and unassuming and has charm and personality. She has honored and dignified every calling. She has great strength of character and a will to do the right. Undoubtedly the greatest thing in her life that colored her whole existence, the thing that is life to her, is the Gospel. She is a true Latter-day Saint, living up to the requirements of the Gospel and putting into practice those things she is to advocate to others. Sister Sorensen will fill her new position with grace and inspiration while acknowledging her constant dependence on that divine guidance which she has ever sought and found.
It is a divine command to read good books. He who loves books is richer culturally than he who merely owns a library full of them. The poor man enjoys their contents as much as the rich. Not what we read but what we remember makes us cultured. There is no magazine on the market more wholesome than the Relief Society Magazine. —Sarah M. McLelland.
The Kindness of Brigham Young By Brigham Frederick Grant
My father died when I was only a few weeks old. Mother made moccasins out of deer skins, and sold them to the stores at a very small margin of revenue to her. She did housework for different families when it was obtainable. When I was two years old, mother married outside of the Mormon Church. As she was going to Denver, Colorado, to live, grandmother persuaded her to leave me in her care. Grandmother was a cripple. It was difficult for her to care for a little boy and so after a time, she gave me to Beason Lewis, who lived in Richmond, Cache Valley. I remained with this family until I was between eleven and twelve years old. About this time mines were discovered in Montana and trains passed through Utah buying flour, butter, eggs, etc., to be carried to the Montana mines. One of these trains stopped at the Lewis place for a few months to make repairs to their wagons. I made arrangements to run away from home and go with this train to Montana. I remained there until I was 14. The terminus of the Union Pacific was located at Corinne, where the freight from Montana was delivered. I met one of the freighters, who, learning that I was a son of Jedediah M. Grant, invited me to go back to Utah with him. I returned to Salt Lake City when I was between fourteen and fifteen years of age. I went to work in a coal and wood yard.
I had been in Salt Lake City only a short time when in some way President Young learned where I was and what I was doing. President Young's son, Feramorz, and my brother Heber, at the request of President Young, searched me out and informed me that the President wanted to see me. The next day I called on him at his office, and he happened to be alone. I told him who I was, and he did not merely reach out his hand to shake mine, but he arose from his chair and gave me a father's handshake. In so doing he discovered that the callouses on my hands were thick and hard, and he remarked, "My boy, what kind of work are you doing?" I replied, "I am unloading coal and chopping wood." He then resumed his seat and continued his inquiry regarding my past life and what I had been doing. He remarked, "Isn't it pretty heavy work, shoveling coal and chopping wood, for a boy of your age?" I replied, "No, sir, I have been used to hard work all of my life." He answered, "Wouldn't you like to have something easier than your present work, for instance, a position in a store?" I replied, "I haven't got sense enough to work in a store." He said, "What do you mean by that?" I replied, "I can neither read nor write." I discovered this good and great man's heart was touched by this remark; I saw tears rolling down his cheek, and he took his handkerchief and wiped them off and said, "My boy, come and live with me; I will give you a home; I will clothe you; I will send you to school; and you can work during the vacation for me." I accepted his kind offer. He became a father to me. He furnished me a home; he clothed me; and provided an opportunity for me to attend school; and gave me $5.00 a week for spending money, which was a very princely allowance in those days of hardship and trials. His own sons would laughingly tell me they thought I was their father's pet.
Soon after I went to live with President Young, I was given a team and was doing general work on his farm and performing other duties incident to Pioneer life. Many a time I have passed him on the road with a load of gravel, sand or other materials, and I don't remember an instance in my life that this great man, if he saw me, ever failed to recognize me by waving his hand. I cannot help but think, where in the world could you find another man of his importance and busy life who would condescend to recognize or speak to a boy such as I?
In addition to his large family at the time I was living with him, there were six orphaned boys and girls who were being cared for by him. I lived with one of his families and was treated most royally by all the members; in fact, I felt I was indeed a real member of the family so far as treatment was concerned.
During the vacation when I was driving a team, at times breakfast would be served a little late. There was a certain time when every team was supposed to be hooked up and going to its work. When breakfast was late I could not always be on time with my team. The foreman complained to me about this and I told him that I milked the cows and fed the pigs and did the chores, but could not go to work without my breakfast. One morning he became angry and told me if I couldn't get out on time to quit. I, boy like, took his advice without calling on President Young, left, and went to work at the coal yard again.
President Young was soon informed of this and sent for me. When I went into his office he shook my hand and wanted to know why I left home. I told him the boss had discharged me. "Oh," he said, "the boss? Who is he?" I gave the foreman's name. He laughed, and said, "No, my boy, I am the boss. Didn't I make arrangements for you to come and live with me?" I replied, "Yes, sir." He then said, "Remember, when you are discharged I will attend to it myself; now, go back, get your team and go to work." I replied, "I don't know whether he will allow me to go to work now." "Never mind, my boy," he assured me, "I'll attend to it myself." The next morning when I went to the barn to get my team I found there was a new foreman. I never did learn why this change was made, but I had a boy's suspicion.
On special occasions, I drove President Young's carriage, and I can assure you that when these opportunities came I was all puffed up and thought I was some boy!
The house where I was born stood where the Z. C. M. I. Now stands. I helped to tear down the old home, and plowed the first furrow marking the place for the foundation of the Z. C. M. I., with President Young, cane in hand, pointing the line for me to follow.
In those early days President Young established woolen mills, flour mills and other institutions to supply such much needed materials and food supplies. Men working for him received merchandise orders on his store for part of their wages. The Z. C. M. I. At this time was issuing what was known as "Z. C. M. I. Scrip" or "orders," and the employees received these orders as wages. An amusing incident happened to me with my first pay day. I received these orders but not being able to read or write I did not detect that part of the orders were on his store for cloth and flour and other supplies used in a home, and jumped to the conclusion they were all on the Z. C. M. I., I went to the store, bought some things and passed my order out. The clerk looked at it and remarked, "This order isn't any good." I said, "Don't you take your own orders?" He replied, "Yes, can't you read? This order is on President Young's store." I said, "I guess they have made a mistake." I went back to the bookkeeper and told him they had made a mistake and given me the wrong orders. "No," he remarked, "that is what we all receive." "Well," I said, "I can't use the B. Y. Orders." He replied, "If there is any change made, President Young will have to make it himself, I can't." I then went to the President's office and explained to him what had happened. He smiled and said, "I guess, my boy, you could not use them." He arose from his chair, went from his office into the main business office and instructed the bookkeeper to pay me in cash. From that time I did not receive any more orders, but it became a sort of a "hiss and a byword" with the bookkeeper and others in the office, who made this significant remark in my presence: "He's the only one who receives all cash"—which was a fact.
During the holidays and cold winters, many a time I was sent with my team to President Young's store where my wagon was loaded with cloth, flour, coal and vegetables. Then I was given a list of widowed women and told to deliver the goods to these women with President Young's blessing and kind remembrance. At times when his store house was depleted, I was sent to the general tithing office where I obtained such supplies as they had in the way of vegetables and other food stuffs and delivered them to these widowed mothers and their families. Some people who, I am sure, were not possessed of the spirit of giving, and lacking proper information, made the remark that President Young was kind to the widows but it was with the general tithing funds that did not belong to him. I desire, out of respect for this good man and the sympathy in his heart for widows and orphans, to say that never, during the time that I lived with him, did I ever receive one single, solitary article from the tithing office without getting a memorandum of all goods I received, and this ticket was delivered by me in the business office of President Young to be checked with the one coming from the general tithing office.
Having a great desire to get out and see something of the world, I conceived the idea of going to California, where I had a friend about my age. He informed me that by working in the saw mills in the summer time and the placer mines in the winter time there would be steady employment, and that they were paying $100.00 a month in gold. At that time currency was worth from 65c to 75c on the dollar. At this time I was just starting in the grammar grade in the school. Not realizing the importance of continuing at school, I decided to go to California. I called on President Young and explained to him what I intended doing. He replied, "My boy, haven't you had enough ups and downs in life to know that the most important thing for you to do is to remain in school? You should know from your past experience that in this cold world no one will have any personal interest in you. Remember, that I am your friend, and you had better remain with me." After this kind, fatherly talk and advice, I decided to remain; but it was only for a short time. I was receiving letters from my boy friends in California telling of the wonderful opportunities for making money in the mines and saw mills. I again went to President Young and told him I had changed my mind and was going to California. He tried, I believe with more persistency than most fathers would use with their own boys, to explain to me what a mistake it would be to leave school and the home he had provided for me; but I was determined to go. When he saw this, he arranged for his wife Amelia and myself to meet him in his office. There he explained to her that I was going to leave home, and told her to go with me to the Z. C. M. I. And buy whatever she thought I would need and have them send the bill to him. I went with Mrs. Young to Z. C. M. I. And she certainly fitted me out royally. She started with a trunk and had it filled with wearing apparel and all that could be crowded into it. I have no idea what the cost was but it must have been quite a considerable amount for those days. I remember the night before I was leaving for California. Family prayers were held in the Lion House, and on this particular occasion special care was taken to notify the boys and girls that I was going to leave for California and for them to be present at the evening prayer service. At that time I did not understand the object of this meeting. President Young took occasion, I can now see, to talk to me in the presence of his boys and girls, and impress upon them what it would mean RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for a boy or a girl to leave home. | never listened to another such talk in my life, nor do I expect to hear another like it. There was not a dry eye in the room, and I am sure it must have made a lasting impression on the hearts of his children, as it did on me. But with all that it did not change my plans to leave the next day for California. HE told me before leaving to come into the office and bid him goodbye. I did so, and he gave me another of those kind fatherly talks with advice suited to a boy in my condition. His last message to me was, "Now, my boy, you are going out into a cold world, and you will meet with many hardships and rebuffs. You will go to California and then return. You will return worse off than when you go, but remember that Brother Brigham is your friend and if you want to come home and haven't the money, write to me and I'll send it to you." When he shook hands with me, he left a $100.00 greenback in my hand. I broke down and wept. He put his arm around me as he would one of his own sons, and said, "Goodbye, God bless you, my boy." That was the last time I ever saw President Young. He died while I was in California. His words, that I would go to California and return, were literally fulfilled. I went and returned some years later, owing my step-father $300,00, and I did not owe a soul in the world a penny when he made this prediction at the time I left Salt Lake City for California. MY recollection of President Young, as a boy, was that he had two great outstanding personalities: one a very stern and positive way of saying and doing things, and at other times he had a kind and loving KEEPSAKES FOR THI TREASURE CHEST OF LIFE 367 way that would be worthy of a loving mother for her child. However, he was possessed of that wonderful spirit of discernment that it seemed to me, at all times he was able to decide which of these attitudes to use in order that justice and right should prevail. With this narrative of my remembrance and experiences of and with President Young, I can only say in conclusion, that I would to God I had the ability and words to express my great appreciation and love for this great Pioneer who led his people, under the inspiration and direction of Almighty God, from the Missouri River over an almost trackless plain to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake. Never can any of us forget how when he raised himself on his arm from a sickbed and looked on the Valley of the Great Salt Lake for the first time, he remarked prophetically, "Drive on, this is the place." God bless his memory and posterity to the last generation of time. Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life By Lella Marler Hoggan Would’st hear the angel at thy door? Be still, little heart of mine.” Mable C. DeVona "Calmness is the rarest quality in life," says William George Jordan. "It is the poise of a great nature, in harmony with itself and its ideals." Calmness comes from within. The person whose life is in harmony with his ideals is at peace with himself and his Maker. He is not looking backward with regret on "the man he might have been." Nor is he looking forward with uncertainty and misgiving. Even in the midst of confusion he can retire into the quiet serenity of his heart's refuge. Great men have ever been men of calm courage and peaceful reserve. When Joseph Smith, the Prophet, was going back to Carthage to his doom, as he well knew, he said quietly, "I am going as a lamb to the slaughter, but I am as calm as a summer's morning." The great soul has his course 368 clearly marked out, and with confidence he travels straight to the goal. Delays may occur, obstacles may arise, temptation may confront him, but it matters not. Come hardship, come sorrow, for him there is no shifting of purpose, no turning back. He does not chafe under difficulties, he does not fear interruptions; for he knows that in God's own time and way, he will reach his destination, he will achieve that which he set out to accomplish. In these uncertain days of hurry and worry and economic distress we need, as we never needed before, a clear conscience and a calm spirit. From year to year the world is gaining speed in almost every line of endeavor. Weare hurrying through life so rapidly that we are missing many of the refining influences and cultural experiences that would enrich and beautify our lives. The days are crowded so full of the things we have to do, that little time is left for the things that we want to do; the little precious joys that our hearts are hungering for, the choice gifts that make life worth the quest. "Asa nation we lack the gracious sense of leisure," said Mable A. Hinkhouse recently. We push, and crowd, and worry, and fret, as if life were a game of chance and we had to make haste or lose our place and our portion. When strife and confusion are all about us, have we not learned to "sit tight," lest we rock the boat to its over turning? When our life's purposes are but vaguely outlined, have we not faith enough to leave it to God's gracious care, and trustfully wait for his just reward? How can we hope to find the balm that our sick souls need, when we go to the Great Physician carrying our prescription with us? Does not he know our needs better RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE than we? He said we should serve with an eye single to his glory, and yet when we reach up our hands in prayer, they are cluttered full of our own heart's wishes. Oh, we of little faith. Even a woman in the street in that long ago day, knew that but to touch the hem of His garment would make her whole. If we receive from life only as much as we pay for, then why all the hurry and worry? There is time for all of the really worth while things, if we but cultivate the wisdom of choosing prudently and then traveling straight to our course. Nature never hurries. She takes as much time as is necessary to do her work thoroughly, and to complete it fully. Slow, painstaking foundation work brings reliable results. Many of us are working to a program that is too crowded. It is for us to seek out the essentials, and eliminate the things of least value. "To learn to discard is a fine art," we are told. It may be we have no program at all. A lack of plan makes confusion. Charting our effort tends to hold things in place. Working to a clearly defined outline gives one greater security and does away with much hurry and worry. It is constant rushing from one service to another, from this obligation to that, that undoes our serenity, gives us a sense of incompetence, and leaves us at eventide with a heart full of care and a burden of unfinished things. And nothing detracts more from one's efficiency and peace of mind, than the accumulation of unfinished tasks. They make confusion in the soul as well as in the home. "The world is wide, in time and tide, And God is guide, Then do not hurry. KEEPSAKES FOR THE TREASURE CHEST OF LIFE 369 The man is blest who does his best And leaves the rest. Then do not worry." —Selected. EING continually hurried and worried, and keyed up to a high nervous tension, will eventually wear the nerves to tatters; then when some great emergency arises, one is unprepared to meet it. We either break under the strain or become petulant and bitter, and feel that the odds are against us in the game of life, that the Fates have been unfair. Like a tired child we want to strike back. But we should remember Frank Crane's wise suggestion, "Your enemy can answer every thing but silence." And that other sage, the one of long ago said, "A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger." We conserve our power if we keep calm as we go about the business of life. When we feel our self-control slipping from us, if we will relax and lower the voice, and attempt to give the situation a pleasant or even a mirthful turn, it is surprising how quickly we can regain our emotional balance. When life begins to hurry us into a dangerous speed limit, let us recall John Burrough's quiet philosophy: "I stay my haste, I make delays— For what avails this eager pace? I stand amid the eternal ways And what is mine shall know my face." We can not hope for the dove of peace to flutter down to our doorstep unless we lure him with crumbs of patient kindness. "Self-control is the very essence of character." "He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; And he that ruleth his spirit, than he that taketh a city." —Proverbs 16:32. We readjust to peace and serenity more easily when we shut out the noise and confusion. In Walter Savage Landor's beautiful words. "A solitude is the audience chamber of God." H. A. Overstreet tells us that not only do we need parks and playgrounds, but we need "places of quiet retreat, of silence and solitude, where, defended against intrusion, we may recover peace and serenity." Every child should have, A little time, a little place, A little refuge all his own; Where he may rest his troubled heart, Where he may talk to God alone. And every mother should have a few quiet moments each glad morning to plan and think and set her soul in tune with the day's work, and in harmony with her Maker: that she shall be fortified against any emergency that may arise during the day. She also needs a few quiet moments at evening time that she and her family may wash out the losses and crosses of the day, and find the sweet, permanent joys that will carry over to a glad awakening, a happy beginning again, on the morrow. A psychologist has made the daring statement that as long as there is corporeal punishment in the home, we can not hope to establish universal peace. Parents of emotional stability usually have peaceful, well-ordered homes, where children are understood and guided into efforts of high endeavor. The self-controlled, self-disciplined child, stands a better chance of reaching maturity with a strong well-balanced personality, than does the wilful child who is ruled by his emotions rather than his judgment. Is it not possible to guide the child into paths of peace, that he shall be prepared to do his part in building a new world of love and freedom from strife? From the discord, and sorrow, and bloodshed of the past, can this new generation work out a code of understanding and good fellowship and brotherly love, that will insure the peace and happiness of generations yet to come? Can we bring our lives into accord with such a plan? When God completed his work of creation he rested on the following day and hallowed it. We still have that sacred Sabbath as our day of rest, a day in which we may rebuild our shattered nerves, regain our mental poise, and make ready for that longer day of peace. The millennium, like a star of hope, has shed its rays of promise down through the ages. The children of men look forward to the day when war shall cease and "swords shall be beaten into plowshares." Of that great day the poet Markham says, "It comes, the high inbrothering of men The new earth seen by John of Patmos. When the comrade dream was on his mighty heart." The Master stands out as the supreme example of peace and serenity.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
At his birth the angels heralded him as a messenger of peace and good will. From the manger to the cross his life was one of self-control and calm courage, even in the Garden of Gethsemane. He is still the Prince of Peace. His quiet power can calm the stress and anguish in our lives, even as it calmed the stormy Sea of Galilee. He greets us today with the same quiet salutation that he gave to his apostles after he had arisen from the tomb, "Peace be unto you." And the same farewell blessing that comforted and assured that little group of long ago, as they watched him ascend into heaven, still rests as a benediction on all who are ready to accept his Gospel of Peace and walk in its everlasting light. "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid." (John 14:27.) Let us not surrender to the hopeless confusion of these unsettled times. The Master's promise has not been lost to us, as it has come down through the long years, that to know him and to walk in his path will bring that "peace that passeth understanding." It is one of the rare gifts we shall want to put by with our precious treasures.
A Prayer My Father God, I come to Thee; I need no priest to pray Nor add his blessing to thine own; Lead thou me in the way. No intercessor can present My case the way I can; Nor can he save me from myself; For he is but a man. Just hold my hand and hold my tongue, And guide my feet aright; Then even through the darkest storms, I shall behold the Light. —Terrance Sylvester Glennamaddy.
Notes from the Field Julia A. F, Lund—General Secretary Eastern States Mission
FROM Palmyra Branch, New York, comes a message to the Relief Society office. Though this organization is not so large, it is most enthusiastic. For the Project work each sister is reading some book of Scripture and reporting to the Secretary each month. On March 17 a very delightful pageant was prepared and presented. This was called "The Book that Lives," and was a beautiful representation of the characters in costume. The Relief Society in Palmyra cooperates with other welfare organizations and the Commissioner of Public Welfare. This cooperation keeps the Relief Society informed of what is done and gives the members an opportunity to do much excellent work. The Branch President, Sister Bean, has charge of some of the older ladies who get the Old Age Pension. Each month the checks are made out to her, and she supervises the expenditures for these elderly people. To quote from her letter: "I just love these old ladies, and they look forward each month to my coming." Notes from Palmyra, which means so much to the Latter-day Saints, are always of deep interest.
Samoan Mission
FROM far away Samoa comes a message of enthusiasm and development. The sisters are very happy in the work of the Lord. A delightful Annual Day meeting was held and the sisters of several branches met together. Talks appropriate to the occasion were given and appointments made to visit other branches. Some of the sisters walked twenty-five miles in the rain, for at this season it is not uncommon to have continued rain for six days and nights. It took practically a week to make the visits and hold the different conferences. The Samoan sisters are so anxious to do their duty, and though the organizations are small in numbers they accomplish a great deal of good. During the latter part of March a very delightful meeting was held. In the forenoon the sisters had a display of the mats which they made themselves, and this was followed by a dinner, to which Mission President Sears, and Relief Society Mission President Agnes M. Sears, were invited. In addition to the native food chicken, soup, cocoa, pies, cakes, puddings were served. They excel particularly in cake making. The President reports that during the beginning of the year branch conferences were held and visits made to all organizations. In January a new branch, several miles distant from Apia, was organized. Here there are some very splendid native missionaries. Eighteen people were baptized, nineteen children were blessed.
Washington, D. C. Branch
On Sunday night, March 17, a very delightful meeting was held in honor of the Relief Society anniversary. An excellent historical sketch, giving the aims and accomplishments of the organization, was presented, as well as tributes to the past Branch Presidents of the organization, in keeping with the request made by President Robison that the living and past Presidents be honored in the anniversary celebration this year. The musical part of the meeting was very delightful. The Relief Society Chorus, which Brother Edward P. Kimball has trained, gave some fine numbers, and the special organ music, with congregational singing made the event one long to be remembered. It was remarked by many present that the meeting was one of the finest ever held in the new chapel. This enterprising branch of the Eastern States Mission is especially fortunate in being able to carry on the outlined lesson work, and they find the Relief Society Magazine a very great aid. On March 15 a concert and reception was sponsored by the Washington Relief Society. The following program was very successfully carried out: Invocation, Dr. Melvin C. Merrill, Instrumental Trio—(a) Minuet from Suite Bergamasque, Claude DeBussy; (b) Reverie—opus 9 No. 4, Richard Strauss, Frieda Hauf Irwin, Violin; Myra Grant Wallace, cello; Frances O'Neill Berrett; Piano, Contralto Solo (a) Mon Coeur S'ouvre a Ta Voix—"Samson and Delilah" — Saint-Saens; (b) I Love Life — Mana-Zucca, Ruby Epperson McQuarrie. Violin Solo (a) Walther's Prize Song—Wagner; (b) Canzonetta—d'Ambrozio, Max G. Lloyd. Piano Solo (a) Impromptu in C Sharp Minor—Hugo Reinhold; (b) Valse—opus 70 No. 1—Chopin, Bernice Jacobs Manwaring. Male Quartette (a) Give a Man a Horse He Can Ride—Jeoffrey O'Hara; (b) Nola—Felix Ardnt, Clifford Webb, Jessie R. Smith, James K. Knudsen, Frances R. Kirkham. Violin and Piano Sonata — Cesar Franck: Milton Schwartz, violin; Cicely Adams Brown, piano. Ladies' Chorus (a) Solvejg's Song—Greig: (b) Giannina Mia—Friml; Directed by Edward P. Kimball; Accompanied by Frances O'Neill Berrett..
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Northern States Mission
SISTER ARTEMESIA ROMNEY, Relief Society President of the Northern States Mission, reports a very successful year's work in Relief Society. In common with other missions, more enthusiasm, willingness to serve and determination to follow the programs outlined in the Magazine, brings the work to a higher standard than ever before. The lessons are greatly appreciated, and much enlightenment is in evidence from the books which are read, and the knowledge of the fine things which our sisters make their own, from the study courses. Singing practice is one of the special features in most of the branches. The Scripture Project is carried through with great enthusiasm. The Annual Convention of officers of all the various organizations which was held in Chicago in the late Fall was of great benefit. It was a new experience for the saints in that part of the country and they are looking forward to other opportunities where they can meet in larger groups, exchange plans and ideas and receive instructions in their work. Nearly all of the branches of the mission were represented at this time. The Magazine subscriptions are increasing very materially, and considering the financial depression, a splendid record was established. The following questions which were sent out by the President indicate the thought given to the work: (1) What are your plans for Work and Business Meeting for the Winter? (2) What are you doing to increase membership? (3) What is your method of interesting young mothers to attend Relief Society? (4) What plan have you made to get members to study the lesson? (5) What methods do your teachers use to get members to take part in lesson discussion? (6) What is your Chorister doing to create interest in singing practice? (7) What is the nature of your parties that you sponsor to raise funds? (8) What plan do your Visiting Teachers use to convey the message to members? (9) What plan do you use to encourage missionary work among members? (10) What is your most successful method of collecting Dues? (11) What extra effort has been made during the past month to increase the Magazine subscription? It will be noted that a discussion of such a questionnaire covers practically every branch of Relief Society activity, and stimulates much interest.
North Central States Mission
SISTER ELFIE S. RICHARDS, Relief Society Mission President of the North Central States Mission, writes enthusiastically of the development of the work in this mission. The energy, zeal and faith of the sisters can be felt in every particular. Even in small groups, in remote sections of the mission, the work is progressing most satisfactorily. Union Meetings have been instituted in two branches—St. Paul and Minneapolis. Here all the officers and auxiliary workers meet together. It is proving to be very profitable in the advancement of Relief Society work. Practically one hundred per cent of the officers and teachers are in attendance. The Relief Society Singing Mothers of both of these branches have added greatly to the pleasure of the meetings by the numbers they have given. The department work also has offered the opportunity for instructions and cooperative work pertaining to Relief Society problems. It is the aim of the Mission Presidency to hold Union Meetings in other branches where conditions permit. To quote from Sister Richards' letter: "We are stressing the Project of Scripture reading, with the result that many of our sisters are finding a new and active interest in the standard works of the Church. We hope to carry forward a number of activities that will be worthy of report from time to time. Relief Society Conferences are to be held throughout the Mission in the next few weeks. The necessary plans and schedules are now in the hands of the local organizations that will make this program possible."
MINNEAPOLIS BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN.KATE M. BARKER JULIA A. F. LUND Emma A. Empey Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD Ethel Reynolds Smith: President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Hazel H. Greenwood Annie Wells Cannon Rosannah C. Irvine Emeline Y. Nebeker Jennie B, Knight Nettie D. Bradford Mary Connelly Kimball Lalene H. Hart Elise B. Alder Janet M. Thompson Lotta Paul Baxter Inez K. Allen Belle S. Spafford Cora L, Bennion Ida P. Beal Donna Durrant Sorensen Amy Whipple Evans Marcia K. Howells
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Manager Mary Connelly Kimball Assistant Manager
Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vol. XXII JUNE, 1935 No. 6
EDITORIAL Maria Y. Dougall
THE long and beautiful earth life of Maria Young Dougall came to its close April 30, 1935. It was her privilege to live to the age of 85, so during her life she saw the transition from the candle to the electric light, from the ox team to the automobile and flying machine. With great satisfaction she saw her people become firmly established in the Rocky Mountains. She watched the progress of the world and rejoiced in every improvement that came to make life happier and fuller. She loved the beautiful and looked for the best in her associates. She was generous with her means and the soul of hospitality. In her time she played many roles. She was a devoted daughter, a loving wife, mother and grandmother. In the precincts of the Temple, she labored for many years and because of her beautiful spirit she was ideal for this service. She worked in the Primary Association in early days but gave it up to devote her time and energy to the Mutual Improvement Association. She was an officer in the first Retrenchment Association organized by her father. She served as President of the 17th Ward Y. W. M. I. A. And as Counselor to Mary Freeze of the old Salt Lake Stake, then as Counselor to Elmina S. Taylor and also to Martha H. Tingey. She was an honorary member of the General Board at the time of her death. Among the many beautiful lessons she left for examples to be emulated are: Her cheerfulness, her loving interest, her spirit of blessing. When she no longer could be. Active in organization work, she often said, "I can pray for you and for this great Cause." May her family and friends emulate her virtues. Their association with her will fill their minds with sweet memories.
EDITORIAL
The Social Year Book
THE Russell Sage Foundation has just published its 1935 "Social Work Year Book," a description of Organized Activities in Social Work and in Related Fields. This treatise of social work is published biennially. Mrs. Russell Sage established the Russell Sage Foundation in 1907, "for the improvement of social and living conditions in the United States of America." The Foundation maintains a staff that has among its duties to conduct studies of social conditions "where new information, its analysis and interpretation seem necessary in order to formulate and advance practical measures aimed at improvement. From time to time the Foundation publishes the discoveries of these studies in book or pamphlet form." This year book will play a vital part in informing all interested in social work of the status of all things social at the present time. The previous volume was published in 1933, just six weeks after the Roosevelt Administration was ushered in. The preface tells that "the year book is not a manual of what ought to be; it is a record of what is." The volume aims to give social workers up-to-date information concerning fields outside their own, to assist those who are entering new areas of service and for the information of related professions. The compilers are proud of the reference literature furnished in this volume. The list includes 1,502 books and pamphlets and 386 magazine articles 'constituting as a whole the most up-to-date work in existence." The contributors are outstanding in their fields of endeavor, and the range of subjects is wide. We congratulate the Russell Sage Foundation on this excellent book that will be so illuminating to those specializing in Social Work. Price $4.00. Russell Sage Foundation, 130 East 22nd Street, N. Y.
President Robison Honored
OUR readers will be glad to know that President Louise Y. Robison has been appointed by Governor Henry H. Blood as a member of the new state board of public welfare. The other members are: Frederick P. Champ, Logan; J. W. Gillman, Orem; Hugo Anderson, T. L. Holman and the Rev. Jacob Trapp, all of Salt Lake. We hope this board will have vision to see the needs of the state along welfare lines and will be resourceful in meeting these needs.
Magazine Agents
WE wish to call our Magazine Agents' attention to the fact that the lessons for next season are being published in the summer months. This makes it very desirable that all subscriptions that have expired now or will expire in the next few months should be renewed as soon as possible in order that no one may be unfitted for her work by not being able to study her lessons. One Stake has very wisely featured the renewing of expired subscriptions as gifts for Mother's Day. We are delighted to hear from time to time how carefully each phase of our work is checked on and how our officers plan so that no stone is left unturned for the greatest success.
Lesson Department (For Second Week in November)
Theology and Testimony
Lesson II—Messages From LIBERTY JAIL
1. The Exiles. The closing months of 1838 were fraught with much unhappiness and suffering for the Latter-day Saints. Already it had become apparent that they must leave their homes in Missouri and seek an exile elsewhere. At that time the membership of the Church in Missouri was estimated at between twelve and fifteen thousand, with a property ownership of nearly two million dollars. The leaders of the Church were arrested and held in jail on the slightest pretext or no pretext at all. Finally with all three members of the First Presidency in prison, the responsibility of removing the Saints from Missouri to Illinois fell upon the shoulders of Brigham Young. The trek continued through the months of January to April of 1839, under most trying and insuperable hardships. The Prophet himself and five companions were left behind in Liberty jail, and others at Richmond.
2. The Prophet Imprisoned. Throughout the year 1838 the Prophet and others of the leading brethren were repeatedly imprisoned. In November of that year he was brought before Judge Austin A. King at Richmond. Witnesses against the Prophet were called and sworn at the point of the bayonet, while those for the defense were arrested by the militia and thrown into prison, not being allowed to appear. This mock investigation continued for several days until finally on the 28th of November most of the prisoners were released. The Prophet, however, and the following named brethren, held on the charge of treason and murder, were committed to Liberty Jail: Hyrum Smith, Sidney Rigdon, Lyman Wight, Caleb Baldwin and Alexander McRae. During the investigation the prisoners were confined in chains and subjected to various forms of humiliating abuse.
3. Liberty Jail. There were no jails in either Daviess or Caldwell counties, and hence the brethren were sent to Liberty, Clay County, pending the time they were to appear for trial. Elder B. H. Roberts describes the appearance and construction of "Liberty Jail" As follows: The building "faced the east, and was a scant two hundred yards from the court house. It was built of rough dressed limestone, of yellowish color. Its dimensions were twenty by twenty-two feet, and the walls were two feet thick. It had two floors, hence two rooms—an upper one and a basement, which formed a dungeon. In the east end was a heavy door made strong, and of great thickness, by nailing inch oak boards together with iron spikes. In the south side of the upper room there was a small opening, a foot and a half square, with strong iron bars, two inches apart, firmly imbedded in the stones of the wall.' " (Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 526) The ceilings of the jail were low; the ventilation was extremely poor; and the lower room was practically without light.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
4. It was within this place under the most unsanitary and repulsive conditions, that the Prophet and his companions were imprisoned for five months. The food is described as very inadequate and of poor quality. At times visitors were not permitted, and at other times there were not a few, friends and enemies alike. Driven on by threats of death from the guards and by the squalid conditions under which they lived, the prisoners made one or more attempts to escape, but without success. By the close of February, 1839, practically the entire membership of the Church, including the Prophet's wife, had migrated to Illinois.
5. Escape of the Prisoners. Meantime the brethren on the outside were doing everything possible to bring about the Prophet's release. Fearing that this might be done, or a change of venue secured, Judge King hurried the prisoners off to Daviess County, April 6, 1839, where they were tried before a prejudiced court and found guilty of "murder, treason, burglary, arson, larceny, theft, and stealing." A few days after this verdict was rendered. The prisoners secured a change of venue from Daviess to Boone county, and a mittimus was made out by Judge Burch, without date, name or place. Immediately thereafter the brethren left for Boone County in charge of the sheriff and four aides. When the party was one day out the sheriff exhibited the unsigned mittimus and informed the brethren that he had been instructed by Judge Burch not to take them to Boone county. After thus exposing the plan that had been laid for the escape of the prisoners, the sheriff told the brethren he was going to take a good drink of whiskey and go to bed and that they could do as they pleased. Accordingly, when all of the guards were asleep except one, the brethren by the assistance of this guard mounted their horses and rode away. Some ten days later they reached their families and friends who had preceded them to Illinois.
6. The Dungeon-Temple. Although Liberty Jail was a dungeon —small, unclean, poorly ventilated, and practically without light, yet the Prophet's presence transferred it into a sanctuary of spiritual learning. It was a haven of comfort to which the stricken and scattered Saints turned for solace and instruction. It was a place of meditation and prayer, where Joseph held communion with God. Such a place—a meeting ground between heaven and earth— is more than a prison; it is a temple of spiritual learning, made such by the influence of those who were there. This prison still stands— 1935—and is occupied as a residence.
7. During the long months of Joseph's imprisonment at this place he was never disheartened or subdued. He was impatient with the ways of sinners, but ever constant in belief that God would overrule all for the good of those who loved him. In the midst of his own suffering he dispatched messages of joy and comfort to those who were awaiting his return. He forgot himself and lived for others alone. His was the attitude of a prophet that saw beyond prison walls, beyond his own personal discomfort, to the Saints outside, and to the glories that awaited those who proved faithful. But we must turn attention to some of the things that he taught—imprisoned. And part of the time in chains.
8. Undaunted in Adversity. Under date of December 16, 1838, the imprisoned Prophet wrote to the stricken and scattered Saints in part as follows: "Know assuredly, dear brethren, that it is for the testimony of Jesus that we are in bonds and in prison, But we say unto you, that we consider that our condition is better (notwithstanding our sufferings) than that of those who have persecuted us, and smitten us, and borne false witness against us." (History of the Church, Vol. III, p. 226)
9. Further, "Dear brethren, do not think our hearts faint, as though some strange thing had happened unto us, for we have seen and been assured of all these things beforehand, and have an assurance of a better hope than that of our persecutors. Therefore God hath made broad our shoulders for the burden. We glory in our tribulation, because we know that God is with us, that He is our friend, and that he will save our souls. We ask no favors at the hands of mobs, nor of the world, nor of the devil, nor of his emissaries, the dissenters, and those who love, and make, and swear falsehoods, to take away our lives. We have never dissembled, nor will we for the sake of our lives." (History of the Church, Vol. III, p. 227)
10. Hope, Pity, and Accusation. At the opening of each New Year human beings are usually softened with love and brotherly kindness, but the enemies of the Prophet remained cruel and relentless. On the first day of January, 1839, still in jail, the Prophet uttered the following significant words: "The day dawned upon us as prisoners of hope, but not as sons of liberty. O Columbia, Columbia! How thou art fallen! 'The land of the free, the home of the brave!' 'The asylum of the oppressed'—oppressing thy noblest sons, in a loathsome dungeon, without any provocation, only that they have claimed to worship the God of their fathers according to his own word, and the dictates of their own consciences." (History of the Church, Vol. III, p. 245)
11. Regard for the American Constitution. Even though he was deprived of his rights and unjustly imprisoned, yet he had this to say of the American Constitution: "The Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is founded in the wisdom of God. It is a heavenly banner; it is to all those who are privileged with the sweets of its liberty, like the cooling shades and refreshing waters of a great rock in a thirsty and weary land. It is like a great tree under whose branches men from every clime can be shielded from the burning rays of the sun. We, brethren, are deprived of the protection of its glorious principles by the cruelty of men." (History of the Church, Vol. III, p. 304; see also D. And C. 101:76-80)
12. Blessings Upon the Saints. The Prophet was ever praying for the welfare of the Saints. The following is significant of his love for them: "What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri river in its decreed course, or to turn it upstream, as to hinder the Almighty from pouring down knowledge from heaven upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints." (D. And C. 121:33)
13. A Basic Pedagogical Principle. "No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; by kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile —reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy." (D. And C. 121:41-43)
14. The Anguish of the Prophet. The Prophet had been imprisoned for four months; twelve thousand of his people had been exiled in the dead of winter; and his appeals for justice had failed to bring relief. Out of the midst of this distress, he called upon God in childlike earnestness: "O God, where art Thou? And where is the pavilion that covereth Thy hiding place? How long shall Thy hand be stayed, and Thine eye, yea Thy pure eye, behold from the eternal heavens the wrongs of Thy people and of Thy servants, and Thine ear be penetrated with their cries? Yea, O Lord, how long shall they suffer these wrongs and unlawful oppressions, before Thine heart shall be softened toward them, and Thy bowels be moved with compassion toward them.... Remember Thy suffering Saints, O our God; and Thy servants will rejoice in Thy name." (D. And C. 121:1-6)
15. The Heavenly Answer. And the Lord said: "My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; and then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high; thou shalt triumph over all thy foes. Thy friends do stand by thee, and they shall hail thee again with warm hearts and friendly hands." (D. And C. 121:7-9) "The ends of the earth shall inquire after thy name, and fools shall have thee in derision, and hell shall rage against thee; while the pure in heart, and the wise, and the noble, and the virtuous, shall seek counsel, and authority, and blessings constantly from under thy hand. And thy people shall never be turned against thee by the testimony of traitors.' (D. And C. 122:1-3) "Know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience and shall be for thy good. The Son of Man hath descended below them all." (D. And C. 122:7-8)
Suggestion for Discussion and Review
1. Compare the Mormon exile from Missouri with their later exile from Illinois.
2. Compare the prisons of today with the one in which the Prophet was incarcerated.
3. Why do you suppose that the enemies of the Prophet provided a means for his escape?
4. In what respects might the jail at Liberty be regarded as a "shrine of spiritual learning," that is, while the Prophet was there?
5. The Prophet was undaunted in adversity. Why?
6. How do you account for the Prophet's love for the American Constitution, in spite of the persecution to which he was so often subjected?
7. How many of the Lord's promises given in paragraph fifteen have already been fulfilled? Explain.
Teachers' Topic
GENERAL INSTRUCTION
THE Teacher's Topics will be based on Proverbs taken from the Book of Proverbs in the Old Testament. Each home will be asked to have a Bible ready when the teachers call. The Proverb is to be read in each Home. Each home will be asked to read and discuss the Proverb during the month.
THE BOOK OF PROVERBS
THE Book of Proverbs introduces us to the wisdom literature of the Hebrews. The sages who wrote them believed that wisdom would give sagacity and common sense that would lead to happy prosperous lives. Julius A. Bewer says, "There is a wealth of wisdom, of sober and realistic observation, of sharp epigrammatic characterization, of kindly humor and biting sarcasm, of warm personal exhortation and urgent appeal that makes the Book of Proverbs a veritable mine of good counsel for the art of right living." The teachings of these wise men were very practical. While there are some elevated religious proverbs, they are mostly drawn from secular life and describe the fortunes that may be expected to come from certain conduct or types of character. Self interest is the all pervasive note. The motive is always personal happiness. They concern themselves not at all with making others happy, yet were these wise men religious for thus only could they be happy and prosperous, so there is a devout spirit manifested in their teachings. These writers were concerned with the whole range of life. They treated good manners, morals, family relations, social intercourse, professional and business matters and public life. They put the teachings of the Prophets into usable language, and while they lacked the prophetic enthusiasm they kept a balance between form. And spirit, maintaining always that wisdom is the true norm and guide of life. They addressed themselves to individuals rather than to nations. Their interest was not only in the Jewish people but in the whole of human life. Hence, the Book of Proverbs is of universal application. While Jewish tradition gives to Solomon the credit for the authorship of the Book of Proverbs, students of the Scriptures feel certain that they are not the work of one writer. Their language, style, the social and political conditions they imply lead to the conclusion that they were written by different people and at different times. The drift of their teachings is uniform. The motives. For right conduct they hold forth are mainly prudential. They show no tendency to speculation or to doubt. They emphatically proclaim "Be good and you will prosper, be wicked and you will suffer." We wish these teachings had been grouped in logical order. It is interesting to gather together those that deal with the same subject. "Each verse contains a complete Proverb. Each Proverb consists of two members. The two members stand almost exclusively in antithetic parallelism the second confirming or enforcing the first by declaring some contrasted truth which forms, as it were, its counterpart."
TEACHERS' TOPIC (For October, 1935) Proverbs 16:32
"He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city."
THERE is in man an innate love of power and leadership. Proverbs 16:32 asserts the highest manifestation of power the most desirable type of leadership. In the great life struggle for self-control none should feel helpless and think it is impossible for them to change their inborn characteristics and to gain the mastery. Characters are changeable. A realization of this is the first step in regeneration. The untold suffering caused by bad temper and uncontrolled passion, which is at the root of the loss of self-control should summon all the strength of the soul to wage war until victory is attained. Anger not only works havoc on the one who throws down the reins of self-control but in the home or the workshop, all are injured by its burning flame. The sweet tempered may become peevish by the constant irritation of one who lacks self-control and the gentlest may be roused to anger by being associated with the passionate. Horton says, "A passionate man or woman spreads a pervading sense of irritation in the house or in the workshop, and all the other occupants of the place are as if they dwelt in a country subject to earthquakes; life for them is divided between anxiety to avoid the explosion and a painful effort to repair its devastations." All who lack self-control should study themselves, diagnose their cases, appraise their strength and weakness and finding the roots of their trouble they should resolutely set about eradicating the weakness. If possible they should avoid what produces anger. Constant vigilance is necessary, yet one may remonstrate saying, "How are we to become watchful, since it is the special characteristic of a hasty temper that it overpowers our sentinels before it assaults the city? How are we to become loving and humble?" They would do well to cry with David, "Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from Thy presence and take not Thy Holy Spirit from me." Anger and hatred should be replaced with love, for "Hatred stirreth up strifes: but love covereth all sins." Proverbs 10:12. Love will soothe irritated nerves and will fill the soul with an impulse to change those who offend rather than to be angry with them. The tongue should be controlled, will-power should be cultivated, the results of ill temper should be thought over. But after one does all he can to control, regeneration is what this rudderless, storm-tossed soul needs. "For our evil tempers, then, our passion, our wrath, our sullen pride, our fretful irritability, our outbreaks of sarcasm, our malignant sneers, there is only one possible cure; we must bring the heart, out of which all the evil comes, to Jesus Christ, that He may create it anew; we must accept our failures as evidence of an imperfect surrender, and come afresh with a more insistent cry, and a more perfect faith, that He may reign in our hearts as undisputed Lord, checking, subduing, warring down, every evil motion there."* The following story illustrates what the Gospel of Jesus Christ will do in helping one who is truly converted to overcome his weaknesses. A Japanese living at Fujioka was given to strong intoxicants. This had a terrible effect on his temper. When he became a Christian, he gave up the evil habit and became regenerated. One day an unfortunate incident made his wife realize the remarkable change that had taken place in him. Through her carelessness some silk worms' eggs had become partially destroyed. She trembled with fear lest when her husband found it out he would become enraged and punish her as he had often done before. To her amazement he remained calm as he said, We can distribute the unharmed ones among our poor neighbors. They will then have a larger crop so it will be better than if we had sold them and taken all the money ourselves."
*R. F. Horton.
Topics and Questions for Discussion
1. Point out the effect of keeping the Word of Wisdom and of observing a monthly fast in the matter of self-control.
2. What has helped you to rule your spirit?
3. Give some suggestions for curbing anger.
4. Read the following Proverbs commenting on the ones that especially appeal to you: 15:18; 11:12; 17:4; 25:28; 29:22; 26:21; 22:24, 19:19,
Literature (For Third Week in November)
ADVENTURES IN READING
THE GLORY OF THE COMMONPLACE
"If thou wilt receive profit, read with humility, simplicity, and faith; and seek not at any time the fame of being learned."
THE earth and its fullness is man's heritage. Its bounty is for his sustenance; its beauty is for his delight; and its mystery for his inspiration. It is truly a goodly heritage. To understand the nature and mystery of his heritage Man has ever striven. The unknown and the invisible stirred him in the quest. But always the violet's perfume, the thrush's note, the star's constancy sang to him of the glory of the commonplace, and "From an eye made quiet with the power Of Harmony, and the deep power of Joy, We see into the life of things." The Glory of the Commonplace The true poetry of life — the poetry of the common things — a flower, a bird, a simple cottager, a toilworn woman—the things that lie around us is the expression of the greatest poets. Literature is made of many patterns and of many themes. Out of the intensity of Greek life and thought came classic Thomas A. Kenipis. Patterns; out of the scaredness of Hebrew philosophy came great themes; out of the simplicity of the common life of man came the glory of the commonplace. English Poetry like the literature of Western Europe grew simply and slowly out of the adventures of life. Folk tales, legends, ballads of love. Daring and mystery marked its early expression. Then came the Renaissance with the revival of the classic patterns. Slowly simple forms and simple themes gave way to epic poems and tragic drama. Shakespeare mingled the old and the new into a romanticism that is still the wonder of man. The School of Classicists, English and French, of the seventeenth century made of literature a stilted form of expression. Slowly to the world came the beauty of the Hebrew story of Ruth, and the simple parables of the Teacher of Galilee. Gray, Burns, Wordsworth, Shelley and Keats sang the songs of Nature and from the nightingale's note, the daffodil's dance, the cotter's life, the Spring's return, learned anew the glory of the commonplace. Elegy Written ina Country Churchyard—Thomas Gray Gray's "Elegy" has become the best-known poem in the English language. Thomas Gray, a melancholy young poet, kept the poem eight years revising and polishing it. The churchyard that gave the inspiration for the poem is that of Stoke Poges, a little village near London. The poem was written when the classical school of writers with gilded phrases and stilted themes was being replaced by the romantic school with its simple expressions of the life of common people. The poem is loved for the simplicity of its form, the wistful beauty of its language, and the humanity of its theme—"the short and simple annals of the poor." The setting of the poem is a simple village nestled round an ivy-covered church at eventide. The poet meditates upon the obscure lives of the villagers. Some of their forefathers sleep in the graveyard. Death is the commion end of all—'"the paths of glory lead but to the grave." No pealing anthem, or stately monument can stay the unwelcome guest. Among these sleeping villagers who will know no more the joys of home and loved ones might be one whom had the chance given "the rod of empire might have swayed." Yet these simple folks asked no more than a simple monument, a simple epitaph. The poet anticipates the tine when he will join them "a youth to Fortune and to Fame unknown" and so he pens his own epitaph. No poem in the English language has given so many lines of choice expression to become familiar as the "Elegy". "The boast of heraldry, the pomp of power, And all that beauty, all that wealth e'er gave, Await alike the inevitable hour; The paths of glory lead but to the grave." The Cotter's Saturday Night— Robert Burns "Let not Ambition mock their useful toil, Their homely joys and destiny obscure; Nor grandeur hear, with a disdainful smile, The short and simple annals of the poor.' The poem opening with the lines from Gray's "Elegy" carries the spirit of Romanticism ushered into English literature by that poem and Goldsmith's "The Deserted Village." Robert Burns in the language of the unlettered men of his time and race sang of the dignity of simple life. He revealed the true greatness of his native Scotland as it was builded upon the stalwart idealism of its peasants. The humble cottager goes to his home thankful that the weekly toil is ended. When he is greeted by his thrifty wife and bonnie children around the cheerful hearth the toil is forgotten. Later the older children come in from their service to near-by farmers. Jenny, then "eldest hope" is a woman grown. As brothers and sisters meet on this weekly occasion, bits of gossip, fragments of news, words of wisdom pass the rounds of the family circle. As the neighbor. Lad joins the happy group the wily mother notes the kindle in Jenny's eyes. The simple supper "crowns the cheerful board." Then the cotter with the dignity of a patriarch old, lifts the family Bible from its place on the shelf declaring with solemn air "Let us worship God." After reading from the sacred page the priest-like father and his family kneel in prayer. "From scenes like these old Scotia's grandeur springs, That makes her loved at home, revered abroad, LESSON DEPARTMENT 383 384 Princes and lords are but the breath of kings, 'An honest man's the noblest work of God." The poein is concluded with an invocation for Scotland's security and nobility. Snowbound—John Greenleaf Whittier Whittier has been called “The American Burns" because of the similarity of the rural idyls written by the two poets. The poet was born at the old homestead described in "Snowbound" at Haverhill, Massachusetts, in 1807. In explaining the poem Whittier wrote: "The inmates of the family at the homestead were my father, my mother, my brother and two sisters, and my uncle and aunt, both unmarried. In addition, there was the district schoolmaster who boarded with us. In my boyhood in our lonely farmhouse we had scanty sources of information, few books and only a small weekly newspaper. Our only annual was the almanac. Under such circumstances story-telling was a natural resource in the long winter evenings. My father, when a young man, had traversed the wilderness in Canada, and could tell-us of his sojourns in the French villages. My uncle was ready with his record of hunting and fishing, and mother, who was born in the Indian-haunted region of New Hampshire, told us of the experiences of her ancestors." Today the visitor to the farm house may see every detail as pictured even to the turkey wing used to brush up the hearth. Whittier's parents belonged to the Society of Friends known as Quakers. Growing up in this strict simple faith prepared him to be the foremost religious poet of America. He is better known, however, for his great pastoral poem “Snowbound" an idyl of pioneer life in any rural section RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE of the country in the nineteenth century. The poem consists of descriptions, characterizations, and reminiscences of the group by the fireside. The setting of the poem is the snow storm, outside a world glistening and unknown, inside seated -about the clean-winged hearth enjoying nuts, apples, and cider, the dear family circle. Spending the time with stories old, the men folks entertained as mother turned her wheel, dear aunt with gracious calm dreamed of her girlhood memories, and the elder sister plied the evening tasks. The interesting character of the family circle is the schoolmaster 'brisk wielder of the birch and rule," at school, yet "a careless boy around the fire he seemed." A week passed by and the glad sound of sleigh-bells announced the village doctor on his rounds and the family was snowbound no longer. The schoolmaster of "Snowbound" is interesting when compared with a similar characterization by Goldsmith in "The Deserted Village." "A man severe he was, and stearn to view Yet he was kind, or if severe inaught, The love he bore to learning was in fault; The 'village all declared how much he knew. "Twas certain he could write, and cipher too While words of learned length and thundering sound Amazed the gazing rustics ranging round; And still they gazed, and still the wonder grew That one small head could carry all he knew." Laureates of Childhood James Whitcomb Riley and Eugene LESSON DEPARTMENT Field have endeared themselves to many because of their poetry of childhood. The "Hoosier Poet" of humble scenes of rustic America sang out of his love of children "Awake he loved their voices, And wove them into rhyme; And the music of their laughter Was with him all the time." James Whitcomb Riley was trained for a lawyer but he left school for the carefree life with a band of traveling actors down the great Ohio Valley. The, way to literature came with service as a columnist in a newspaper office. Several volumes of poems were published this way. Mingling smiles and tears in Hoosier dialect, Riley sang his way to the hearts of the American people. There is genuine melody in "An Old Sweetheart of Mine," and "An Old Swimmin' Hole." "Afterwhiles," "When the Frost is on the Punkin," and "Little Orphan Annie" never grow old. Eugene Field also met his first literary success as a journalist; he was one of the first newspaper columnists. Humor, pathos, and sentiment mark the verse of Eugene Field; sparkle and gay abandon the prose. "Little Boy Blue" strikes the depths of feeling; "Sharps and Flats" furnished daily laughs for the readers of the day. As a fore-runner of the columnists—Heywood Broun, Christopher Morley, and George Ade—Eugene Field is remembered, but today's writer who best resembles the pioneer in style and content is Franklin Pierce Adams, the "F. P. A." of the New York World. "Limitations of Youth," 'Seein' Things," and "Wynken, Blynken, and Nod" are read today with enjoyment and appreciation. -"oe 385 Acres of Diamonds The celebrated lecturer, Dr. Russel Cornwell, and founder of Temple University coined for all time the significance of the words "Acres of Diamonds" to preach the gospel "Right where you are is the place for fortune and happiness." The celebrated lecture "Acres of Diamonds" begins with the story that gives it its title: The lecturer was traveling down the river Tigris with an Arab guide when he first heard the story: Alf Hafed, a wealthy Hindu, lived on the banks of the Indus in content and security. Hearing from a mendicant priest the value and beauty of diamonds, Alf Hafed knew rest no more. Settling his estate he went off in quest of "a mine of diamonds." He wandered in many lands, reduced himself to poverty and died in despair. The man who bought Alf Hafed's farm one day led his camel out into the garden to drink. As the animal put its nose down into the shallow stream a flash of light came from the sands—and thus were discovered the diamond mines of Golconda—acres of diamonds. Incident follows incident in other famous lectures, each one teaching the gospel of opportunity, and extolling the glory of the commonplace. Guide to Preparation A. Suggested topics for Lesson Assignments. Pioneer Days—The setting of "Snowbound," Whittier. 2. Robert Burns—Peasant Singer. 3. Reading: "The Cotter's Saturday Night," Burns. 4. Description—The Scene of Gray's Elegy. 5. Retold Story—'Acres of Diamonds," Dr. Cornwell. 386 Guide to Reading A. "The Deserted Village,' Goldsmith. A poem of pastoral beauty, painting the portraits of two passing figures, the village preacher and the rural schoolmaster. B. Janice Meredith, Paul Leicester Ford. Colonel Carter of Cartersville, L. H. Smith. Stories of Colonial Days in America. C. "Richard Carvel'? — Winston Churchill. "A Man for the Ages”—Irving Bacheller. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Stories painting vividly, pictures of Civil War days and the great emancipator, Abraham Lincoln. D. "Master Skylark"—John Bennet. "Kenilworth''—Scott. Stories of the days of Shakespeare. E. "The Little Shepherd of Kingdom Come''—John Fox, Jr. A story of the Civil War days for the family circle. Boys especially will enjoy this human interest story. Note: Each teacher should choose from the wealth of material this lesson offers the selections that will best fit her class. Bibliography for Literary Lessons WE publish herewith the titles, of the literary lessons for 1935-36 and underneath each title, books that may be used in the lesson. We wish to emphasize again that we do not expect any teacher to cover all the material in the lesson, but to select such parts as she thinks will best fit her group. It would be well for the teacher during the summer to try to locate these books and read as many as possible, also to ask librarians to keep them on reserve during the months when they will be needed for the lesson work, The first few lessons can be thoroughly prepared during the summer vacation, as they are appearing in the Magazine, the first one beg nning in the May issue. We expect the work will be unusually fine next season because of this added time for preparation. LESSON FOR OCTOBER ADVENTURES IN READING Hans Christian Anderson. The Clay Cart—Sanskrit. The Soul of the Great Bell—Chinese. Evangeline—Longfellow. The Land of the Blue Flower—Van Dyke. Norse Stories Retold — Hamilton Mabie. The Oxford Book of Ballads, Edited hy Sir Arthur Quiller—Couch. The Boy Knight of Rheims. The Trumpeter of Cracon—Toundsbury.: The Arabian Nights. LESSON FOR NOVEMBER THE GLORY OF THE COMMONPLACE Snowbound—Whittier. Poems—Robert Burns. Gray's Elegy. Acres of Diamonds—Cornwell. The Deserted Village—Goldsmith. Janice Meredith — Paul Leicester Ford. Colonel Carter of Cartersville—L. H. Smith. Stories of Colonial Days in America. Richard Carvel—Winston Churchill. A Man for the Ages—Irving Bacheller. Stories of Abraham Lincoln. Master Skylark—John Bennet. Kenelworth—Scott. The Little Shepherd of Come—John Fox, Jr. Poems of Eugene Field. DECEMBER LESSON SOUL HARBORS Excelsior—Longfellow. A Man for the Ages—Irving Bacheller. The Life of Saint Francis d'Assisi— Paul Sabitier. How to Live on Twenty Four Hours A Day—Arnold Bennett. In Memoriam—Tennyson. Kingdom LESSON DEPARTMENT JANUARY LESSON THE MAGIC OF IMAGINATION Peter Pan—Barrie. The Blue Bird—Maeterlinck. Mid-Summer Night's Dream—Shakespeare. The Life of the Bee—Maeterlinck. The Celtic Twilight—Yeats. Chanticler—Rostand. LESSON FOR FEBRUARY BOOK FRIENDS Pippa Passes—Browning. Charles Dickens, Human'st. David Copperfield—Dickens. The Bishop's Candlesticks from Les Miserables—Hugo. Men and Women—Browning. LESSONS FOR APRIL COMPANIONABLE BOOKS A Life of Benjamin Franklin. The Life of Samuel Johnson—James Boswell. The Life of Elbert Hubbard. An American Bible—Hubbard. Essays, Self Reliance, Compensation —Emerson. The Book Nobody Knows—Bruce Barton. 387 Mothers and Children—Fisher. Long and Short Arrows—Brimhall. Adventures in Contentment—Grayson. LESSON FOR MAY A WOMAN'S ADVENTURE Life of Jane Austin. Life of Jane Eyre. Ite of Charlotte Bronte—E. C. Gaskell. Poems of Emily Bronte. Testament of Youth—Vera Brittan. The Piper-—-Josephine Peabody. Margaret Ogilvy—James Barrie. Her Son's Wife—Dorothy Canfield Fisher. Poems for a Little Girl—Hilda Conklin. LESSON FOR JUNE NEW LAMPS FOR OLD Plet—Alfred Lambourne. The Prophet—Kahil Gibran. The Canterbury Pilgrims — Percy MacKaye. Magic Spades—Steffins. The Exiles—Alfred Osmond. The King's Henchman—fFdna St. Vincent Millay. Social Service (For Fourth Week in November) Lesson JI—Tue Use or our NATURAL RESOURCES Text, Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross CHAPTER II The general purposes of this lesson are: 1. To translate into terms of every day living the facts of the decreasing abundance of natural resources. 2. To acquire the attitude of using natural resources for the greatest good of the greatest number and for the longest time. This can be accomplished by first acquiring a knowledge of the facts presented in the text and in the lesson guide and secondly by relating the information to present conditions of life. As a result of the increasing pres sure upon the natural resources of the country show that the following statements are present reactions to the situation. 1. Homes cannot be acquired now as easily as they were during the past generation. 2. Today, arable land cannot be secured except by purchase at advanced prices. 3. The desire for the independence and freedom of the great "outof-doors" cannot be easily satisfied. 4. Large margins of profit from the soil or from industry cannot be looked for at the present time. 388 5. Children should not be left to an uncertain future on the basis of our own past experiences or the achievements of our grandparents. 6. We cannot go out to conquer the wilderness with the assurance of economic independence as a reward for hard work. Show that the following obligations are a result of the above reactions: 1. We must realize we are entering a new social and economic era. 2. We must strive to prepare our young people to meet the new era. 3. We must learn to conserve all goods and resources for ourselves and future generations. 4. We must realize that our duty is to the future generations as well as to the present.. The physical conditions under which any group of people lives determines very largely the culture of that particular group. The association of all groups of people is characterized by a particular type of culture. The term "culture" in sociology is used to describe the associated, organized life of society, its thoughts, habits, and patterns of behavior, or that which characterized it as distinct from another society. The abundant resources of the United States have gone far in determining the culture of the people. The characteristics of the western mining communities, the cattle and sheep ranchers of the west, the fishermen who search for the fruit of the sea, are all guided in their cultural development by the physiographical character of the locality in which they live. With the trend in the United States definitely pointing toward an increasing pressure on natural resources life must assume a new basis of culture. Natural conditions have been one of the most important forces shaping the destiny of man. His mind has RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE been stimulated to reverence natural phenomena, leading him to deify the various forces, and thus to worship them as gods. His reverence and respect for powers greater than his own have been attributed partly to the geographic conditions under which he lived. These conditions have played a most important part in his development. The early history of man shows that he followed those regions where natural resources made living easy because the climate was mild, or where the fertile river valleys made agriculture profitable, or where game lived in abundance to furnish food. Man has struggled constantly to harness the forces of nature. Increasing civilization has indicated increasing domination over nature, and the overcoming of natural barriers, mountains, rivers, and oceans, thus making arid regions also contribute to the sustenance of man-. Kind. The energy of waterfalls and coal beds has been converted into productive enterprise. Through sanitation the fever-stricken and unhealthy places of the earth have been reclaimed. Man's progress can be measured by his domination over the forces of nature. As long as he was struggling to control the forces of nature his mental and emotional life was greatly colored by that struggle. Today, however, his emotional life is increasingly controlled by the economic organization, the culture, and the mechanical nature of civilization as it has developed. It is only reasonable, then, to assume that man's entire life including his spiritual, emotional, and economic views, will be different today from what it has been in the past, under the influences of the present industrial and machine age. We may well ask what effect the culture and achievements of the present age will have upon man's spiritual and religious ideals? In relation to the second objective LESSON DEPARTMENT of the lesson, the former extravagant use of natural resources is described as follows: "More than three-fourths of our original forest area has been culled, cut over, or burned, since colonial times. Wholesale logging methods have swept vast areas bare of valuable timber. Careless cutting has wasted a quarter of our timber supply. In the lumber mills about 40 per cent of the entire volume of the logs is lost by wasteful methods of work. Since 1870 forest fires have annually destroyed more than $50,000,000 worth of timber. Our timber supply is diminishing three or four times as fast as we replenish it. Deforestation has also an injurious effect upon agriculture. When heavy rains wash valuable surface soil from the tops and sides of hills these denuded areas are rendered less valuable for grazing, while the over abundance of top soil in the valley retards effective cultivation. Agriculture also suffers from the fact that streams which would ordinarily furnish a steady supply of irrigation water are often either in a state of flood or practically dried up.; The result is higher prices for coal, wood, iron, oil, gas, and similar commodities. It is at least partly due to the heavy drain upon our resources that the cost of building homes, heating them, feeding the population, and carrying on the varied activities of American industry has increased. Natural resources should be safeguarded for the benefit of the people as a whole, yet much of our natural wealth has been monopolized by individuals. Four-fifths of our timber lands are privately owned, and of that four-fifths about half is con389 trolled by 250 companies. Two-thirds of the developed water power in this country is controlled by a small group of power interests. Defective land laws, the lax administration of good laws, and extravagant land grants to railroads have allowed private fortunes to be built up without a proportionate advantage to the public. Coal and petroleum deposits are controlled largely by a few corporations, while a heavy percentage of our copper and iron deposits is in private hands." (Williams and Wesley, "Principles of Social Science," pp. 66-.....) Activities 1. If your own community was originally settled through man's effort to exploit some of the natural resources, show that the entire life of the community has been colored by that original purpose. If the resource had been other than what it was, what differences would have developed? Compare the religious, social, and intellectual life of the average agricultural community with that of the average mining community. 2. Show the relationship between — the following signs often seen in the "great out of doors" and the preservation of our resources, "Don't pick the. Wild flowers," "break your match," "put out your fire," "Clean your camp," "You drink this water." As citizens what obligation have we after reading such suggestion? 3. Discuss the proposition, 'No one has the right to use a natural resource lavishly even though there is plenty." 4. Outline the particular conservation needs of your own community. References: Van Hise, ''Conservation of Natural Resources." 390 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mission Lessons HEALTH LESSONS 1935-1936 Lesson I]—Fresu Air AND SUNSHINE HE autobiography of Doctor Trudeau is a book written in the blood of a human heart. He was an ambitious intelligent young American who in the course of his medical studies contracted tuberculosis of the lungs. Judged by the previous record of that dreaded disease he had just one chance in fifteen for recovery. <A tragedy stared him in the face. Undismayed he undertook his own cure. He got outside of houses and slept in the open where he could have the fresh air uncontaminated. In the coldest winter weather he covered himself up warm and slept out: though he was at Saranac Lake high in the Adirondacks where the temperature went away below zero. He discovered that God made the medicine that cures tuberculosis, and gives it to us without charge. Previous to his time a diagnosis of consumption was almost like a death sentence. In the vain hope of doing something the physician prescribed creosote, and cod liver oil, and other drugs, but they did little good. But Trudeau showed that fresh air is the only medicine we can rely on, and he established what is known as the sanatorium treatment of tuberculosis. The plan of the sanatorium is to arrange an outdoor sleeping porch for each patient, abundance of nourishing food, and rest in bed when there is fever. If it is started early in the disease, before cavities have formed in the lungs, there is a good chance for cure. Now while fresh air has revolutionized the treatment of tuberculosis it is shown to be of great benefit in all other diseases. If we are in perfect health we are not nearly so likely to contract an infectious disease as we are if our vitality for any reason is diminished. Sleeping in a room which is not properly ventilated, and where we have to breathe contaminated air, is one of the most effectual ways of lowering our vitality. The germs of disease are all around us, 25% of people have the organism of pneumonia habitually in their throats. They do not contract the disease, although they have the germs in their system, as long as the vitality is kept up to standard. But let that individual with the pneumonia germs in his throat go for several hours in the cold with wet clothing, or let him sleep in a stuffy room where he breathes contaminated air, and his vitality will be so lowered that the germs can lodge in the lung and start a process of pneumonia, which will be very serious. We should always keep the sleeping apartment well ventilated, It is the custom with some people to shut the windows of their bedroom up at night, because they fear that there is danger in night air. One wonders what other kind of air we could breathe at night but night air. Now wherever we are whether in Germany, or England, or France, or America, or any other part of the world it is important to ventilate well our houses by day and by night if we would keep our vitality up to the point of resistance. We shall thereby not only prevent illness, but help to cure ourselves of any infection we may already have contracted. In the older days the author of this article saw a real miracle. The New Testament tells of the pool of Bethesda at Jerusalem, where many LESSON DEPARTMENT indigent people lay around year after year watching for the water, and that whoever got in the pool first after the stirring would be cured of his disease. In the great London Hospital at Mile End, I saw multitudes of people with the apparently uncurable disease known as lupus, which is really tuberculosis of the skin, waiting around the clinic month after month and year after year in the hope that somebody could do something for them. Then an angel did come and stir the water and they all began to get well. The Danish born queen Alexandria went back to her native Copenhagen and learned of the work of Finson in the application of light for the treatment of diseases. Finson had noticed that the children on the sunny side of the dormitory always seemed to thrive better and look more ruddy than those on the shady side. He invented great lenses for concentrating the sunlight on certain diseased areas like the patches of lupus, and found that it would cure them. Queen Alexandria installed a Finson light apartment in the London Hospital on her return from Copenhagen to the great relief of those indigent subjects of lupus. On my return after an absence of nine years I saw nurses at relays of twenty minutes applying concentrated pencils of light to the patches of lupus, and these unfortunate people were actually being cured of their disease, 391 and moving on. With trees and shrubs and flowers we note the effect on their growth and their apparent vitality of sunlight. Those which grow under the shadow of the house or in any position' where they fail to get their full contingent of sunshine, do not thrive and prosper as the same plants do when they get the sunlight unimpeded. And the same thing is true of human beings. We thrive best when we get a proper amount of sunshine. The sunlight is a very powerful disinfectant. Mattresses or blankets from the sick room which cannot easily be sterilized by other methods will be rapidly sterilized by laying then out in the bright sunlight. But the sunlight must not have to pass through window glass or it loses its power. Questions Tell about the work of Doctor Trudeau. What great system of treatment did he discover?; How does fresh air prevent us from taking diseases? Why should we not shut the windows at night? " How does the sanitorium treat tuberculosis? Why should we choose a sunny room for the sick person? How may we use the sunshine as a disinfectant? What benefit can you imagine from the sun bath? Home By Bertha M. Rosvear Home is such a pleasant place, The things we prize are there, Pictures and books, a shaded lamp Beside an easy chair. Each room holds something sacred, Prized not for worth alone, But for the joy of knowing It's all our very own. Home is such a happy place, Our children at our side, A wealth of joy and pride they bring And peace doth there abide. Each kindly friend and neighbor Will find an open gate, And in our homely pleasures All may participate. Home is such a hallowed place, Our best beloved are there, Or perhaps a cherished memory Around a vacant chair. Ah! There we know is sympathy, True hearts that feel, and love, And there our family altar Where we worship God above. To a Waiting Spirit Rejoice, oh waiting spirit, For on the earth today A woman is preparing A temple of fine clay; A lovely mortal temple And you shall claim it there, It is a thing of beauty And wrought with tender care, For in it she is weaving And spinning with fine art The fibres of her being, The love-tones of her heart, And patiently and tenderly She guards it day and night And waits the glorious moment When you shall give it light. Rejoice, oh waiting spirit, That He has understoodAnd linked His earth with heaven By giving motherhood. —Roxanna Farnsworth Hase. To a Friend By Merling D. Clyde I came into your town, dear friend, A stranger feeling blue; The people passed me coldly by, Then I one day met you. Something seemed to blossom Like a flower, kissed by the dew, When the sun comes up a' smiling Giving promise ever new. The months go by so swiftly, We our diverse paths pursue; Meeting sometimes, always knowing That the bond is holding true. There's a gentle smile in passing, A handclasp when we meet; The knowledge of your presence Brings a blessing that is sweet. A cheery word of greeting, A wish I know is true, I'm on my way rejoicing The gray skies turned to blue. God never made a precious gem So wondrous rare or fine As human hearts lit by the flame Of friendship's fire divine. So I'm glad I came a' straying Into this town of thine, For I have a priceless treasure In your friendship, friend of mine. L. D. S. Training Doesn't Cost—IT PAYS! PARENTS: You cannot fight your children's battle—But you can help them win! Give them the training that will lead to victory in the world of industry and commerce. The booklet, "Planning Your Future," will tell you about our courses. MUD. S. Business College Salt Lake City Correctness and Smariness mark all the preparations of the modern Miss for the big event of her life—her marriage. Here you will find wedding stationery entirely in keeping with the present day tempo. And prices are most reasonable. Call or write. Courteous prompt service, The Deseret News Press PIONEER PRINTERS, BINDERS, RULERS, COVER MAKERS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 70 North Main Street Wasatch 1812 a s BENEFICIAL POLICYHOLDERS SHARE IN THE NET EARNINGS" IS YOUR. LIFE INSURANCE BENEFICIAL COMPANY. Via |, 2 SALT LAKE CITY GEORGE J. CANNON, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT HOME OFFICE HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT DAVID 0. MCKAY, SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH, DIRECTOR E. T. RALPHS, DIRECTOR AXEL B, C. OHLSON, SECRETARY LEO E. PENROSE, ASSISTANT SECRETARY ORVAL W. ADAMS, DIRECTOR STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN, DIRECTOR TMPLE GARMENTS SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE And sold at prices defying competition. When ordering from us remember we Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States.
FOR LADIES | FOR MEN No. 602 Extra Fine Quality Lisle.............. 1.25 | No. 792 Fine Quality Cotton Lisle............ 1.25 No. 614 Med. Wt. Elite 1.25 | No. 750 Non-Run Rayon 1.00 No. 660 Silk, Wool, Cotton, Med. Wt......... 1.95 | No. 762 Non-Run Rayon......... 1.25 No. 664 Med. Hvy. Wt. Cot. Double Back |
Garments Marked Upon Request. 10c for Cotton—Silk 15c Prices Subject to Change Without Notice. 20% Extra Charge for Sizes Over 46
Do not fail to specify New or Old Style and if for Man or Woman. Also state if long or short sleeve, short or long legs are wanted. Give accurate Bust Measurements, Height and Weight. Samples Sent Upon Request.
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 42 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah—OLDEST KNITTING STORE IN UTAH
Mothers Keep Youthful.... By making use of the many low-cost, laborsaving appliances within your reach, you can have added hours of freedom. Cook, Refrigerate, Sweep, Wash, Sew -------ELECTRICITY IS THE BIGGEST BARGAIN IN THE HOME UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
No. 703 Flat Weave Spring Needle..........$.98 | No. 719 Ribbed Light Weight.................. 1.10 No. 736 Fine Quality Cotton Lt. Wt......... 75 | No. 735 Light Weight Cotton Ribbed........ 89 No. 714 Medium Weight Cotton................ 1.25 | No. 662 Men's Non-Run Rayon $1.25 No. 610 Ribbed Light Wt. Spring Needle 1.10 | No. 646 Fine Combed Cotton Lt. Wt......... 75 No. 685 Light Weight Cotton................... | No. 620 Double Back, New Style Only...... 1.00
Peerless Laundry SNOW WHITE CLOTHES Exclusive Family Service Service Above All PRICE PAYSON MANTI
DESERET MORTUARY CO. Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 1184 E. 21 So. Telephone Wasatch 3286 Phone Hy. 2182-2183 29 Bishop's Building
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXII JULY, 1935 No. 7
CONTENTS
Teton Mountains ................................................Frontispiece "This is the Place'..............................................Sylvia R. Grant 393 Adventuring into the Past.......................................Lorene Pearson 395 With New Vision................................................Juanita Brooks 403 Not Bread Alone................................................Elsie C. Carroll 406 A Creator of Jobs...............................................Ada Hurst Brown 411 The Toil of the Desert..........................................Ruth May Fox 415 Julia Stratford Budge...........................................Annie Budge 416 Our Utah Pioneers..............................................Edna J. Gardiner 418 Happenings.....................................................Annie Wells Cannon 419 Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life........................Lella Marler Hoggan 420 Kindred........................................................Lydia Hall 422 Mathematics in Pioneer Homes....................................Jean Cox 423 Happy Mothers..................................................Marba C. Josephson 426 Jane Addams....................................................Amy W. Evans 428 Jane Addams (Poem).............................................Minnie I. Hodapp 430 The Way Was Opened.............................................Ann Snow 431 Five Babes in the Woods........................................C. Frank Steele 435 Guides in Buying Textiles......................................Vilate Elliott 437 Notes from the Field...........................................Julia A. F. Lund 441 Editorial—"Handicraft for Every Woman".......................... 445 National Jamboree of the Boy Scouts of America.................. 446 Lesson Department............................................... 448 Dry Farmer's Wife..............................................Vesta Pierce Crawford 460 Sing Me to Sleep...............................................Bryce W. Anderson 460 What is in a Picture?..........................................N. J. 460
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance.. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
NORGE OWNERS SAY Rollator Refrigeration SAVES up to $11 a Month GRANITE FURNITURE CO. 1050 EAST 21st SOUTH TERMS AS LOW AS $5 PER MONTH
HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS FROM FACTORY TO YOU We Solicit Your Mail Orders
No. 88. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style $0.65 No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style 1.10 No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double Back 1.35 No. 81. Heavy Wt. Old Style Double Back 1.50
No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles $0.85 No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style 0.85 No. 85. Very Special Non-Run Garments—Guaranteed—Not To Run Rayon. New Style Only. Special 1.10
We Mark Garments for 10 cents Specify when ordering, your bust, trunk and length, whether new or old style, and if men's or ladies', We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States.
MOSE LEWIS L-D. S. GARMENTS, CUTLER VALUES
No. 68 Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton, New Style $.75 No. 68 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton, Old Style .85 No. 500 Super Non-run Rayon Short Sleeve and Knee Length 1.10 No. 74 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Fine Combed Cotton 1.19 No. 73 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton Silk Stripe, Ladies' New Style Only 1.25 No. 64 Lt. Med. Wt. Bleached Combed Cotton 1.25 No. 62 Med. Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back Combed Cotton 1.65 No. 56 Extra Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back Combed Cotton 1.98 No. 82 33 1/3% Wool 3.15
In ordering garments please state if for men or women, and if old or new styles are wanted; also state bust, height and weight of person. Marking 10c., An additional charge of 20% will be made on orders for persons weighing 210 pounds or over.
SALT LAKE CITY UTAH
57 Years LDS. GARMENTS Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid.
No. 144, Light weight cotton, New Style Only $1.00 No. 33 Spring Needle, Lt. Wt. Cot. New Style Only .75 No. 609 Run resist rayon, Ladies New Style Only 1.10 No. 758 Ecru or White, Med Heavy and Men's New Style 1.65 No. 428 Ladies rayon, Buttonless, Built-up Shoulder 1.15
Old Style — $.85 No. 472 Elastic Knit, Light. Weight, New or Old Style 1.25 No. 205 Fine rib, Med. Weight, New or Old Style 1.25 No. 405 Run resist rayon, New or Old Style 1.35 No. 464 Rib. Knit, Med. Light, New or Old Style 1.35
BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
THOUSANDS of MOTHERS in this territory have learned that Fisher's Vitamin D Bread helps build sound teeth and strong, sturdy bodies—especially in young, growing children. For sale by hundreds of leading grocers throughout this territory.
FISHER'S VITAMIN "D" BREAD ARDEN SALT LAKE CITY
We know "how" to launder THRIFT SPORT CLOTHES As Salt Lake's largest and finest equipped laundry, we've been doing this work since 1883.
LAUNDRY "A Surety of Purity" Hyland 190
IT NOT only takes skill, but the proper equipment to launder sport clothes.
SKAGGS why thrifty shoppers always buy their foods at O. P. Skaggs System Stores: Equitable prices always; Nationally advertised brands; wide variety; cleanliness; easy shopping and the best quality of foods.
O. P. SKAGGS
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Made by the American Lady Baking Company, the big homeowned bakery. AMERICAN LADY BAKING CO.
Ask your milkman to tell you about extra heavy cream. DAIRY
"This is the Place" By Sylvia R. Grant
The leader half rose from the wagon bed Where, stricken with fever, he lay,: And gazed o'er the valley with eager eyes That epochal midsummer day.
A dreary expanse of grey sagebrush crept To alkaline stretches of plain That mutely claimed they had seldom known The chastening touch of soft rain.
A home for the reptile and bison, but surely No welcome for man in this space! Then why did he smile serenely and say, "'Tis well, drive on—this is the place."
Did he see in the stead of a hostile waste, Broad meadows of velvety sheen; Rich cornfields caressed by an evening breeze, And trees waving plumage of green?
Did he know that the granite-walled peaks behind Would send from their bosoms of snow An offering of lifegiving, crystalline streams To plains parched and thirsty below?
Did he vision a city of beauty and peace; A people of joyful face That would carry always a song in its heart And re-echo, "This is the place"?
TETON MOUNTAINS Photo by W. D. Green
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXII JULY, 1935 No. 7
Adventuring into the Past
A Glimpse of Grace Raymond Hebard and Her Experiences Encountered in Her Discovery of the Identity and Later Life of the Famous Guide to the Lewis and Clark Expedition—the Woman Sacajawea
By Lorene Pearson
LEGENDS arouse in most of us a sense of poetic satisfaction in the very limitation of the myth. But let an historian discover something new about the legend, immediately our passive attention is cast aside and the Sherlock Holmes propensity lurking in our depth takes us over and we join the investigator eagerly. It is human nature, surely, to want to learn something more, something new about people we know or have heard about. Our insatiable curiosity about the lives of others—not so essentially different from our own—comes to the fore the moment an item is mentioned about Napoleon, or Shelley, or our next door neighbor. And the passing of time does not seem to affect the intensity of our interest. The stories of Homer, of the Bible, breathe of the problems we have in this modern age, and we respond to them almost as eagerly as news of a living man or woman. The recent discovery that the powerful Queen Elizabeth suffered an attachment for the handsome young Essex stirred most of us in spite of the lapse of three hundred years since the actual happening. Interest in legends is ever new, perhaps that is why they became legends, perhaps there is something universal in them.
Be that as it may, we are interested in heroes and heroines, and not only poetically and scientifically (in what we may learn from them), but also personally. That is, we are interested in the finding of new facts about legends, in participating in an adventure into the past. The story of Sacajawea, of our American legend, provides ample appeasement for all three interests. It is common knowledge among us that over a century ago an Indian woman, carrying on her back a young papoose, guided Lewis and Clark across the unmapped miles of the Rocky Mountains on the epic and heroic expedition to the Pacific Ocean and back again to the Missouri River. At the close of the trip in 1806 this Indian heroine walked out of the Journals of the two Captains and the story of Sacajawea became a legend. Almost nothing more was known of her until Grace Raymond Hebard published her investigations in a recent book. The story of how Miss Hebard sought and found out the fate of Sacajawea is fascinating and interesting. Know first, however, that historians publish books of facts. Which of course are of great value and interest, but that they rarely even hint at the various adventures that led to the facts. These experiences are quite outside the scope of the book, but they remain forever with the writer—after the facts have become an entity in themselves—as the romance of their work. Do not, as I did, conjure up a vision of dim and dusty archives, ladders leaning against ceiling high stacks of ancient documents, (although this has a place in the adventure), with pale light sifting hesitatingly down through a mote-laden atmosphere on the antiquarian humped over his work, and think you have a picture of the life of an historian. Meeting Miss Hebard and hearing her experiences dashed this picture to pieces and put in its place an exciting series of events and scenes in tepees of the Shoshone Indians on their reservation in western Wyoming, not, of course, without glimpses of the mysterious and awe-inspiring depths of the Royal Archives of Germany. The search for Sacajawea's history involved adventure in a very real sense.
GOING back to the beginning of the story we find the United States Senate and President Thomas Jefferson concurring in 1803, in the purchase of a vast, almost unknown country west of the Mississippi River. But the newly acquired Louisiana Territory loomed vague and unexplored on the outskirts of the little group of states not many years removed from the Declaration of Independence. Twenty-five hundred dollars were appropriated for the purpose of discovering something of the worth of this wilderness, and something of its extent. It was not even known how far it was to the Pacific Ocean, or whether the Rocky Mountains would ever be passable for commerce. Captain Meriwether Lewis and Captain William Clark were chosen to head this historic expedition into the wilds. Their story, in graphic detail, is found in the Journals of the Captains and others of the party and provides an adventure probably unequalled in the conquest of the west. Going up the Missouri River in 1804 to the Mandan villages near the present town of Bismark, North Dakota, the company went into winter quarters to prepare equipment for the long journey the following spring. Before the departure the Captains secured the assent of a Frenchman, Charbonneau, and his wife, Sacajawea, to accompany them as guides and interpreters. Briefly, Sacajawea was a Shoshone or Snake Indian girl who had been captured from her people by the Gros Ventre Indians and later sold or gambled away to Charbonneau. Lewis and Clark were particularly happy to be able to take Sacajawea with them as the Shoshones had to be depended upon to provide the horses for the journey across the Rocky Mountains. Another member joined the party before the departure in the spring of 1805. Baptiste, the famous expedition papoose, was born to Sacajawea a short time before the boats left their moorings at the Mandan villages. The Journals are rich with details of the helpfulness of the little Indian woman. "When starvation faced the party she found edible roots; when a canoe capsized in the river she saved many valuable articles; she negotiated with her brother, the Chief of the Shoshones, for horses; and when they entered the maze of the mountain country she led them through the easier passes. In fact, both Lewis and Clark state very emphatically at the close of their reports of the expedition, that the trip would probably have been impossible without her. Out of the Journals grew the legend of Sacajawea. But what became of her after the company left her, Charbonneau and Baptiste at the Mandan villages? No one seemed to know definitely, until Dr. Hebard published her recent book of investigations.
THE unravelling of the fate of this heroine is of particular interest to us at this period of increasing national consciousness. Information concerning the events which have helped to build up the structure of our country have assumed significance. We are interested to know that Sacajawea did not sink into the obscurity of the ordinary Indian squaw—degenerate in her tepee; we are glad to know, that as a result—at least partly—of her associations with the two explorers, she was later able to be a friend of the white man and a wise counsellor to Chief Washakie and the Shoshones in the great problem of adjustment between the two races. It is good to know, too, that in the development of our country all the Indians were not necessarily our savage enemies.
DESCENDANT OF SACAJAWEA
PROFESSOR HEBARD, seated at her desk as head of the Political Economy Department of the University of Wyoming, recounted her adventures to me. For an hour and a half she told graphically of the excitement of finding new clues, of the tragic loss of materials that had been destroyed, of the humorous contacts she had had with the Indians and of the sometimes wonderful interviews with old, old Shoshones. Work: began on the problem of Sacajawea's fate about the time of the St. Louis Exposition in 1904. This date being the centenary of the Lewis and Clark expedition, a section of the Fair was devoted to the Louisiana Purchase. On these grounds was a beautiful statue of the Indian woman guide. Much interest was aroused in Sacajawea. Dr. Hebard was stirred sufficiently to follow the problem for almost thirty years. But the task did not look easy. One hundred years is a long time for even the best of evidence to remain intact. Miss Hebard reasoned that Sacajawea, if she had lived to any age at all, must have returned to her people in the Rocky Mountains as she was only one of several wives to Charbonneau and apparently not attached to him by affection. Following up this suggestion Miss Hebard sought out the Reverend John Roberts, a missionary to the Shoshone Indians on their Wind River reservation since 1883. This gentle old man told her the most exciting thing she had yet encountered in the way of a clue. "Yes," he answered to questioning, "in 1884 I officiated at the burial of a prominent Indian woman, one hundred years of age, by the name of Sacajawea. I have her burial on record." Like most American pioneers in those days he knew very little of the Lewis and Clark expedition, being concerned with the practical problems at hand, and as a result had given the matter only cursory thought until he was queried.
BUT what a clue! Sacajawea had returned to her people and had lived to an old age. Perhaps there were old Indians still alive who had known her. With the help of the Reverend Roberts and Mr. F. G. Burnett, in the Government service, she was able to find out that Baptiste, the expedition papoose, had died the year following his mother, and that Bazil, the son of Sacajawea's dead sister, whom the Journals speak of being adopted by the Indian guide at the time of the expedition, had died the year following Baptiste. These three were dead but two grandchildren were located, Barbara Myers, daughter of Baptiste, and Andrew Bazil, son of Bazil.
DR. HEBARD could scarcely wait for an opportunity to journey to the reservation. When temporary relief from the duty of teaching did come, she took a stenographer and went to the Shoshones. Lying along the base of the rugged, pine-covered Wind River Mountains, extending out into the sagebrush flats of the Wind River basin, the reservation was picturesquely reminiscent of the by-gone days of Indian supremacy. The pointed tepees clustered along the willow-bordered stream or set in solitary wistfulness among the sage, the Indians on slim ponies trailing through the sagebrush, their hair still long and braided, were visions of another day. Only the occasional patches of plowed ground, and the red buildings of the government school and the old barracks of Ft. Washakie, hinted of the presence of the white man. There was a poignant mingling of the past and the present. It was here that Sacajawea had lived the latter part of her life. And it was not long until Miss Hebard realized that the story of the woman guide was tribal history. No white man had ever before been interested in their traditions, so the story had not become known. To prove that the tales concerning Sacajawea were authentic tribal history and therefore valid as historical documents, Dr. Hebard, her stenographer, and one or two interpreters visited one morning in one tepee, unannounced, and immediately afterwards went by car—in this land of pony travel—to another tepee miles away to ask the same questions. The stories were the same and not tales manufactured for an inquirer's edification. Then she visited the old Indians who might have known Sacajawea. Dr. Hebard wanted these old people to remember back, to uncover in their memories some clue that could later be searched for among archives. An extraordinary instance of how this actually worked out happened in connection with Susan Perry. It had been suggested that this aged Shoshone woman, living far out in the sagebrush, might have known Sacajawea. Hunting for her tiny tent in the billows of gray brush was an adventure in itself. The guide of the party knew about where she lived but there was difficulty in sighting the white point. Following a mere trail they came at last upon the dwelling of Susan Perry. They knew that her people were all away in the mountains hunting and they thought for a moment that no one was home. But the tent flap was
SUSAN PERRY, ONE HUNDRED YEARS OLD, REMEMBERS SACAJAWEA
fixed in the customary way to tell the visitor that the old woman was gone, on just a short errand. Presently Dr. Hebard saw, not far away, a pile of squaw wood, and on top of it, what looked like a bundle of rags. Susan had evidently grown tired gathering her wood and had lain down a moment to rest. Aroused by the approach of the visitors she fluttered to a sitting posture. Here, in the late afternoon sunlight, they interviewed Susan Perry. The moment Dr. Hebard sat down Close to her the aged woman reached for her hand and held tightly to it during the questioning. She was blind, and this was her way of "seeing" her visitor. The questions were put to her slowly. She said that she had known Baptiste and Bazil very well. Then the' interpreter leaned closely to her, asking the important question, "Did you know Sacajawea?" The visitors were tensely silent. Susan Perry put her wrinkled brown old hands to her face to think back. After a time she shook her head. Sacajawea was often called Porivo, meaning Chief. The interpreter leaned closely again, substituting the new name. A bright smile changed the puzzled expression on the wizened brown face. "Porivo? Of course." Then followed the memories of the old woman. She remembered particularly the time Sacajawea had stood up from the outer circle of seated squaws at the council of 1868, and had spoken! It was at the time the Shoshones had accepted the new reservation on Wind River for the old one in the Fort Bridger valley. The Indians were objecting to the building of the railroad through their reservation and war would probably have resulted if they had not gone to Wind River. At this crisis the Chiefs and the White men had stood in the inner circle of the Council, but they had turned and listened to Sacajawea! This unique performance of the Indian woman was a clue that led to substantiation again and again. And the fact led to a number of other discoveries such as the one disclosing that it was Sacajawea who kept Washakie faithful to the white man, encouraging him to boast that no white scalp had ever hung from his belt. All this from old Susan Perry. There was an interesting incident connected with this interview that Dr. Hebard will never forget. As the party was ready to leave the professor leaned down to shake hands with the old woman, and, as she did so, she slipped a silver dollar into her hand. Clutching it tightly in her fist Susan Perry beamed in a most ecstatic manner and murmured, "Sugar and coffee!" Reaching quickly again into her pocket Dr. Hebard caught up the remainder of the loose change and put it in the brown, worn hand. Again the tight clutch, the ecstatic smile and this time these words, "Candy for the children!' They left her sitting there in the late afternoon sunlight on her pile of squaw wood. The snow crested Wind River Mountains towered above her, and as they drove away the billows of gray sagebrush closed about her and her tiny pointed tepee.
THE interesting thing about research of this kind is that all manner of unforeseen developments creep into the investigation as it progresses. The strange history of Baptiste, the expedition papoose, came out through a clue from his daughter Barbara Myers, in a tale that seemed absurd on the face of it. It was generally known that Baptiste had been a fluent linguist in German, French, Spanish and English besides Shoshone, but even this did not prepare the interviewers for the story that came to them. They were all seated in the tepee of Barbara Myers. The stenographer was to take down all that she could as the interpreter repeated the answers to her. Miss Hebard was to note down as much as possible so that between the two of them an accurate account of the interview could be kept. After a few sentences regarding her grandmother old Barbara said that her father, Baptiste, had not only been to the Pacific Ocean with Lewis and Clark, but that he had also been east to the great river where there were houses built on the water and that he had lived in one of these for many days until he had come to the land where people wore wooden shoes. He had gone there with royalty and had stayed several years. Dr. Hebard very faithfully scribbled these things down, but commented to herself that these were interesting but absurd ideas. Little did she realize then, that as she continued her investigation, she was to come upon coincidences and finally facts that led to the entire truth of the story. In the letters of that well-known early explorer, Father De Smet, Dr. Hebard ran across an account of a meeting between him and Prince Paul of Wurtemberg, a famous traveller on the North American continent. Following this clue to St. Louis, it was revealed that the German Prince had secured a permit from William Clark of the expedition, then in charge of such government matters to explore the waters of the Missouri River. It had already been discovered that Clark had been educating the young Baptiste in St. Louis and it was possible that Baptiste had become his guide. Dr. Hebard employed a German historian to search among the royal Archives of his country. The story of Baptiste's sojourn in Germany was revealed and there was mention of a meeting between Sacajawea and the Prince in St. Louis! This is but a skeleton of the facts and inferences that were found, but they are sufficient to instance the result of suggestions made by the old granddaughter of Sacajawea in her
GRANDDAUGHTER OF SACAJAWEA
tepee on the Wind River Reservation. An amusing incident occurred during another interview with Barbara Myers, one of those incidents that flavors the experiences of the historian with the comic spirit. This time the interpreter and Dr. Hebard were in a car with the old Indian woman. Barbara told the interpreter that the beads she had been given the year before had disappeared. Miss Hebard reached in her pocket —a place well supplied for such emergencies—and produced a new string, a short one, a style that had become popular since the last visit. Barbara took the beads but looked a bit town-cast. Seeing this the doner brought out a longer string which the old woman took with very evident delight. When the car stopped at the end of the village street, Barbara jumped out in a flash and ran down toward her waiting friends, her beads held high, her: staff swinging riotously with her uneven and hurried gait. Such agility and delight at ninety was as rare as it was funny and pathetic.
THE chance element, the hazard of loss connected with this work is heart-breaking sometimes. Dr. Hebard was particularly fortunate in being able to interview Susan Perry and Barbara Myers before they died. But there were records beyond recall, destroyed too soon, which would have helped immeasurably in the reconstruction of the lives of both Sacajawea and her son, Baptiste. By way of illustration, there was the loss of the leather wallet that the Indians remembered Sacajawea carrying always with her. It was known that in this wallet she had letters from Lewis and Clark and from other eminent people such as Brigham Young. These papers would have identified her beyond question and perhaps would have thrown new light on her activities. But in accordance with Shoshone customs this wallet had been buried with Bazil in 1886, Bazil being the last of the trio. When permission was recently granted to unearth it. The damp ground had destroyed all the writing although evidences of the paper still remained and the wallet was in fair preservation. A tragic loss, but just one of the many the historian has to face. From the tragic to the comic is a long step but they intermingle promiscuously, it seems, when gathering material from people as interesting as the Indians: Dick Washakie, the son of the famous Chief Washakie, had just given Dr. Hebard a valuable interview, and, as a token of appreciation, she had asked him to come to the store at the old Fort to choose something that he would like to take home to his tepee. Inside the merchant's domain he pointed to a basket of Tokay grapes. In farewell the two of them shook hands. A little old Indian man had been watching this procedure before him with great interest. The moment Dick had gone out he approached Dr. Hebard, offered his hand and said, "Shake," looking significantly at the grapes. She gave him a bunch of the fruit and a hand-shake with much amusement. But the episode had not yet ended. Later, in the Post Office, she came upon the old Indian again. Eagerly he came forward with his hand outstretched, the inveterate beggar! Of course, not all the information on Sacajawea came from the Shoshones. Some old-timers had known her and contributed their bit to the picture. In a letter from Tom Rivington, there is a paragraph that gives an unforgettable and lovely image of the Indian woman who had guided Lewis and Clark to the Pacific. He wrote:* "She never liked to stay or live where she could not see the mountains, for them she called home. For the unseen spirit dwelt in the hills, and a swift running creek could preach a better sermon for her than any mortal could have done. Every morning she thanked the spirits for anew day. She worshiped the white
*Sacajawea. By Grace Raymond Hebard, Arthur H. Clark, 1933. Page 242. Reproduced by permission of the author.
flowers that grew at the snow line on the sides of the tall mountains, for, as she said, she sometimes believed that they were the spirits of little children that had gone away, but reappeared every spring to gladden the pathway of those now living.'
FROM Indians, old trappers, Missionaries, Indian agents and records in the archives, Dr. Grace Raymond Hebard has gathered together a great sheaf of facts and memories. These she compiled, after almost thirty years of labor, into a volume on Sacajawea, the expedition papoose, the French husband, and others closely related to her. Dr. Hebard handled the new red volume with a gesture of affectionate regret at its completion. "I have really lived in a state of suspense," she said, "from the time I began work on Sacajawea until the book was published. Never a day came but there was the anticipation and often the gratification of finding some clue, some new fact that helped to solve the question of Sacajawea's fate." This is the ninth book she has had published, but its long gestation period has given it a preference over the others in her affection. Dr. Hebard is an indefatigable worker in western history. It is a commentary on our youth as a nation that we tend to underestimate the value of historical research. We are interested in the startling disclosures, of course, but we are perhaps still too near to the events of our nation's founding to realize the importance of preserving the details. To the investigators—very often little known—who go steadily on, collecting, compiling and publishing, we owe a great debt, and an appreciation of their efforts. It is worthwhile to go adventuring into the past with them!
With New Vision By Juanita Brooks
JOHN'S voice rang out full-throated and clear, keeping time to the "sping-spong" of the milk as it struck the bottom of his tin bucket. "Oh, Zion, dear Zion, Home of the free Where the pure breezes blow And the clear streamlets flow How I long to your bosom to flee.' Mary paused a moment in her task of stirring mush. How she wished that song had never been written! Things were bad enough, but that—yet her husband sang it as if he really meant it. "Pure breezes, indeed," she thought, "so full of pure heat that they scorch worse than fire." Hadn't she watched their grain burn up the year before until they got only eight bushels when they should have had many times that amount? Hadn't she carried water in buckets a mile and a half to try to keep alive her few precious trees? "And as for clear streamlets—well, I wonder if anyone ever saw the Virgin River clear." Yet her husband could sing of pure breezes and clear streamlets. She looked about her. From the dug-out where she had spent two winters her youngest child was crawling. Her oldest girl was gravely brushing flies from the table with a green cottonwood branch. Since warm weather came, the family had moved out-of-doors under the willow shed—the stove on some rocks at one side and the home-made table in the center. A great wave of home-sickness swept over her. "Oh, these ugly, ugly, red hills," she sighed. ' They' re so bare, so glaring. It seems like they gather up every bit of heat and throw it back at us. At home, the Alps—" Her memory pictured distant peaks and heavily-wooded green slopes. She thought of the comfortable home she had left, the shining kitchen with its big stone oven, the living room with its wedding-gift ornaments. The cherry tree and the giant linden would be in bloom about now; she almost imagined she could smell their fragrance. They would have been moderately wealthy if they had stayed home, but—in her mind's eye she saw again the two boyish strangers as they introduced themselves in broken German. She had been thrilled by their story of a new church, and the light in her husband's face told how deeply he had been impressed. But the crowning conviction had come when she witnessed the miracle. When she saw her neighbor who had been crippled with rheumatism for years baptized in the lake in a hole cut through foot-thick ice come out of the water and walk away without his crutches, she had been sure she could never again doubt the truth of what she had heard. When she saw this same neighbor straight and well again, the hump gone from his back and the knots from his hands, and had bade him goodbye as he left for Zion, she thought that the greatest joy in the world would be to come too. But she had not expected this! How happy she had been through all their preparations for leaving! Even the auction sale at which she saw her household treasures pass into other hands had not dampened her spirits. She had been happy through the tedium of the seven-weeks' ocean voyage because she was coming to Zion. She had endured the long trip across the plains, wrapping her swollen feet in gunny-sacks and pulling her share of the two-wheeled cart from Missouri to Salt Lake valley without complaining. She had even been able to join in the song "All Is Well." The looking forward to being in Zion had sustained her. Zion! And this was it! It wouldn't have been so bad if they could have stayed in Salt Lake City, but this hot, barren land—"It may be the land of the free, all right, but looks like we'd be free to drudge and starve," she thought grimly. She was called back to the present by the voice of her oldest son asking if breakfast was ready. Her husband came over with the milk; the routine of setting table, having prayers, and serving occupied her, and naturally a quiet woman, her silence this morning caused no comment.
IT was Sunday. All week she had worked at odd times to prepare for this day. The oldest girl, Mary Ann, now twelve, had been able to make herself a new dress, and she was justly proud of it. She had earned the cotton by picking for a neighbor; she had done all the work of dyeing, spinning and weaving. The result had been a checked material, of dull green, broken by red and blue threads. The green color traced its origin to the chaparrel that grew wild, the red to dogberries from the creek bottom, and the blue to indigo. Then the child had actually done all the needlework, and the finished dress was a not too beautiful monument to her industry. To go with the dress there was a new straw hat, braided and shaped by the mother, and trimmed with "artificials" or designs in colored straw. Since it was Mary Ann's first new outfit in two years, it was considered quite grand. It made it necessary, however, that the two younger girls must have new dresses also, a real problem until the mother unselfishly cut up one of her own to provide material. So all of the children were in a Sunday humor. Mary went to service this morning not because she had the spirit of worship, but out of force of habit and because she did not want to answer the questions she would arouse by staying home. There was no church house yet in the little town; the meeting was held under a large cottonwood tree, with stumps and planks for benches. Nothing looked good to her: the seats were low and had no backs, flies buzzed, the sun sifted through the leaves. It seemed as if the services were designed especially for her, yet she was unmoved except for private sarcastic remarks with which she entertained herself. That first song for instance: "Look up nor fear, the day is near God giveth freely when we call Our utmost need is oft decreed And Providence is over all." Her husband sang with genuine enjoyment, taking the bass in deep, rich notes, coming outfull and strong on the runs. Mary wondered if he did not improvise some of those runs. She objected to that line about God giving freely. Seemed like he had been pretty stingy with his favors, she thought. They'd certainly earned all they had several times over. It was testimony day. Usually she liked testimony day because the services seemed so spontaneous and sincere, but today it annoyed her so much that she stopped listening and began leafing through her hymn book. Everywhere she met only such titles as "Our Mountain Home So Dear," or 'Beautiful Mountain Home"—the only beautiful mountain home she could think of was back in Switzerland, tucked in among the Alps. There was nothing beautiful here, only a forbidding desert, lying in wait to destroy them. She became conscious of her husband's voice. Unusual for him to bear his testimony in a speech; he usually sang it, starting some familiar hymn which expressed his sentiments and in which the congregation joined. But today he was talking: "This is a hard country, but it is a free land, and all new countries are hard. But it is a good land and it will repay us many times for our effort." (How she wished she could believe that. John was so optimistic. She'd never heard him once even hint that he was sorry he had come. He always looked forward so confidently that she sometimes wondered as to his judgment). "And this is a beautiful land. When I see these hills in all their lovely colors, I think the Lord has done his best to make this a beautiful place for his people. I always feel good to think that I may be able to work with Him and help just a little to add to that beauty. But when I see the sunsets like the one last night I —-I don't know how to say it, but it almost hurts me, it is so beautiful. I think it must be a little reflection of the glory of God which he shows us to help us from getting too discouraged." Something stirred in Mary's heart. Dear old John. He had to struggle at times to keep a stiff upper lip, too. She wished she had been more helpful, but she had thought that he didn't care for beautiful things; that it was only she who missed the pictures and silver, and the flowers. She had never noticed the sunsets; she hadn't had time. John's voice went on: "It is not only for ourselves but for our children that we are working. It is hard for us all now, but I believe the time will come when we will have comfortable homes and we will be blessed with plenty. Our children will have advantages which they could never have enjoyed if we had not come to this land." "Dear Lord, grant that it may be so,” Mary prayed silently. She looked up at her husband. His eyes were glowing—his face was almost radiant. He believed what he was saying! And suddenly, strangely, she believed it, too. She did not hear him finish his speech because something happened to her. All her life long, she thought of it as a vision. She saw clearly, a two-story adobe house standing just over the present dug-out. It had three windows in the roof with a pointed gable over each. The mulberry tree she had nursed for two years was so large that its branches reached over the roof. Climbing vines covered one side of the walls and in front iris, roses, hollyhocks, and other flowers were blooming. Her home? She knew it. If there were other speakers, she heard none of them. She collected herself with a start as the Bishop announced the closing hymn, "O Ye Mountains High." How long had she been lost in thought? She glanced hurriedly about; no one had seemed to notice. As the congregation began on the opening lines she looked up to where Old Pine Valley Mountain towered in the east, a mass of billowy, white clouds on its summit, the colorful hills at its base. Beautiful? Yes, so beautiful, that as John had said, it almost hurt. A few minutes later, John became conscious that his wife was singing as he had not heard her sing for a long time—"Oh, Zion, dear Zion"— on the last chorus she turned to him with a smile in her eyes and slipped her hand into his. His heart leaped. Though he did not know just what had happened, he was happier than he had been in two years.
Not Bread Alone By Elsie C. Carroll
LINDA snuggled closer against Henry's side, careful not to interfere with his steering of the car. He looked down at her and asked: "Are you really happy, sweetheart?" "So happy I'm afraid." "Afraid of what?" "That it can't last. It seems too good to be true that anyone can be as happy as I am. Won't we wake up and find it's a dream?" "You're sweet, Linda. Luckiest guy in the world." It was an afternoon in September. They had been married a week and were on their way to Henry's home. His father had died a few days after his stroke in the spring. Henry had not come back to school, but had been helping his brothers on the farm all summer. Linda had been with her uncle, busy with her sewing and making the most of their last weeks of happy companionship. She and Henry had spent most of the days since their wedding in town, being entertained by their college friends. Then there had been that last day at the Hutch, spent in packing Linda's things, visiting old haunts, and trying to cheer Uncle Peter. And now in a few hours they would be in Cedar Basin. Linda would be meeting Henry's mother and brothers and sister whom she had never seen. Little nervous chills kept running up and down her spine. She had a feeling of dread, too. She wished they could be going to a place of their own. But Henry had explained how impossible that would be at present. There were the funeral expenses of his father, and the mortgage, and the uncertainty of the crops. She tried to make him feel that she didn't mind. She had even declared that it would be fun living with his folks for awhile, getting acquainted, and finding out what kind of son he was. When he expressed a hope that she would like his people, she assured him that she couldn't help loving anyone who belonged to him. "But suppose your folks don't like me?" she said with a little shiver. "Suppose something possible," he answered, pressing her hand which had stolen into the crook of his arm. "But really, I am frightened," she insisted. Everything will be so strange. I haven't let myself think about it before. I've been too happy. But now we're getting almost there, you say. Perhaps I won't know how to do things the way they think I should. Honestly, darling, do you think they'll like me?" "They'll be as crazy about you as I am—unless it's Mel. You know he didn't want me to get married. But you mustn't mind anything he says or does. He's taking the responsibility of things since Dad went awfully hard, and sometimes is cross and unreasonable. I've always worshiped Mel, until he made such a fuss when I wanted to go to school. We've never got back on our old grounds again. But he's got to learn that I'm a man now as well as he is, and can do what I want to in some things even if we must work together for awhile. Likely as not when he sees you though he'll be jealous and wish he was married himself." "If only they'll all like me, and if I won't feel afraid of them."
NOT BREAD ALONE
"They'll feel afraid of you, if anything—a college girl and a great musician. They'll be wondering if you'll like them. And that's what I keep wondering too. I've tried to make you understand how different from other people we are away out here in the sticks. But I don't know whether I've succeeded or not." "Tell me about them all again, so I'll sort of feel acquainted." "Well, there's mother. You'll feel sorry for her. She's never got over Dad's death. That and her other troubles too—I told you about Effie' running away when she was a kid with that traveling salesman and coming back a little before Dicky was born. The rest of us were too young to feel the disgrace of it at the time as mother did, and since we're older we can see how it might have happened to any girl. But mother has never got over it." "Poor Effie! How she must have suffered," said Linda. "I'll love her I know, and her poor little crippled boy." "I'm sure you will. And as soon as Effie finds out how big and tolerant you are, she'll adore you. She's always afraid that everyone is going to feel like mother does about her mistake. As for Dicky, no one could help loving that poor little shaver." "Then there's your younger brother, Thad is it? Tell me something about him." "He's just a gawky kid now, too bashful to speak to a stranger and too lazy to keep his neck and ears clean. You probably won't see him for a week." "I'll be glad when the first meetings are over. And I hope they won't mind our staying there—while we have to." "Of course they won't. They all know how it is. If only the price of wheat would go up, and if we could have a good potato crop we might begin planning soon to go by ourselves." "Won't it be glorious when we do start making a home of our own?"
IT was almost evening when the road led them to the top of a ridge overlooking a broad lowland. Henry stopped the car and pointed to the east side of the depression where a few hundred acres of land had been cleared and cultivated and where, at the nearer border of the fields, Linda could see a small cluster of houses. "Well, there it is—Cedar Basin, home of Mr. And Mrs. Henry Bowers.' He put his arms about her and looked anxiously down into her face. Linda was filled with dismay. Surely, she thought, he must be trying to tease her. That squalid, ugly little town could not be Henry's home. But soon she realized it was no joke. He was expecting her to say something. "Well, sweetheart, how do you like it?" "Why—I—I can't tell from here," she stammered. 'I—didn't realize it would be so—so—small." "I told you the total population is only four hundred thirty-five. There are only sixty-seven families. Are you disappointed?" "No, no. Of course not. Let's hurry. I want to see everything." She didn't want him to discover her feelings. He lifted her face and kissed her before throwing in the clutch. "Remember, darling, that we are not planning to stay here always." Those words gave her something to cling to. Of course she could stand it a few years. She could stand any kind of place that long—with Henry. They wound through scrub cedars and sage brush down into the basin. The ground was dry and dusty. There was no grass under the trees; only clumps of low-growing brush here and there and a few stunted sun-flowers. As they neared the town, Linda's eyes took in more of the details. But these did little to hearten her. The houses were all frame structures, a few of them two stories, but most of them only one. Here and there was evidence that in times past one of the buildings had been painted. Around the houses were nondescript fences enclosing gardens, in the main overgrown with weeds. Barns and sheds and corrals were part of each home unit, as were also old-fashioned wells and privies. "That building with the bell-tower is the school house,"' Henry explained. "The church is next to it and the post office and store are across the street. There's a garage and a blacksmith shop around the next corner and Jim Bancroft, who lives in that two-story house on the next street, keeps the travel." Linda followed his pointing hand with her eyes, hoping he couldn't guess how she was feeling inside. "And right over there," he indicated a house at the farther edge of the town, 'is home." The house was one of the larger ones which had once been painted. But as they drew nearer, she noted that it revealed the same lack of care and pride as the other homes. The gate sagged; pickets were missing from the fence; the garden was choked with weeds; and the two poplar trees growing in the dooryard were beginning to die at the top. Henry began to whistle a bit nervously as he steered in toward the gate. Linda's hands were clutching his arm. She was trembling with excitement and dread. "Do you think—". "Hello, Dicky," Henry called to a child playing at the side of the house, and a little white-faced boy of about ten years came limping toward them. Linda smiled into his big brown eyes, and felt suddenly reassured. No matter what the others were like, she and Dicky would be friends. Henry's voice brought a rush to the door, and in a moment the car was surrounded. "We've been looking for you for two days," said the big dark young man, taller and darker even than Henry, who came first, and who. Linda knew was Melville. He began looking at her appraisingly, as he would look, Linda thought, at a piece of machinery Henry might have brought home. She supposed things Henry had said had prejudiced her against Melville. But as he opened the car door and held his hand out to her, his look changed, and she suddenly felt her cheeks burning. "So you are the new Mrs. Bowers. Well, well. I wish Hen would show as good judgment in other things as he has in picking a wife." Linda could see that Henry was not only relieved, but immensely pleased at Melville's reception of her. They got out of the car and Henry proceeded with the introductions.. "Mother, this is Linda," he said as he kissed the faded woman in a faded, ill-fitting gingham dress who had been the last to come from the house. Linda stretched out both her hands and leaned forward to kiss this strange woman who was her husband's mother and whom she had hoped might seem like a mother to her. "I can't get used to thinking that Henry is married," Mrs. Bowers said in a high, plaintive drawl. Her hands were limp and felt clammy. Linda felt sorry for her. She had no doubt that she herself might feel
NOT BREAD ALONE
as tragic as this woman looked if Henry should have a stroke and die. And Mrs. Bowers, she remembered, had had other troubles. She looked for Effie and saw her standing back from the others by the gate, waiting to see the verdict of this new sister-in-law against her past. She was a slender, dark woman of twenty-eight, who, Linda was sure had once been very pretty. Now she was sallow and slightly stooped and there was a baffled, shamed expression in her dark eyes. Linda rushed to her and put her arms about her. "You're Effie, aren't you? I'm so glad Henry has a sister," and she kissed the startled woman on both cheeks. Then she turned to Dicky who stood shyly beside his mother. "And I know who you are too. You're Dicky, and you're the first one I saw, and I knew right away that we were going to be friends. What were you making there at the side of the house when we came up?" "An airplane." Dicky was looking curiously at her from the corner of his eyes. "I thought so. May I see it after awhile?" He nodded and fumbled at his mother's apron. "Come on over, Thad,' Henry called to a lanky boy standing by the well. "Linda won't bite you, and we need you to help unload this stuff." Blushing and moving awkwardly Thad came to the group. Linda held out her hand. "Of course I won't bite you. I won't even kiss you, for I know you'd think that a lot worse. But I'm awfully glad to know you, Thad. Don't let your big brothers make you do all the work." Thad grinned and looked down at the toe of his shoe. "No danger of that," laughed Mel. "It's a bigger job to get him to do anything than it is to do it yourself.'". The women went into the house, while the boys took the bags and boxes and Linda's cedar chest from the back of the car. "I expect you're pretty tired," Mrs. Bowers said. ''Effie has supper nearly ready." The living room floor was covered with a rag carpet. Cheesecloth curtains hung at the windows. There were a table, several chairs, and an old plush sofa. Over the fireplace was an enlarged picture of a man with eyes like Henry's, a chin like Thad's and a long straight nose like Mel's and Effie's. "That's Pa," Mrs. Bowers said as she saw Linda looking at the picture. She took her handkerchief from her apron pocket and wiped her eyes. "I guess Henry's told you about the stroke that took him off last May. I just can't get used to him bein' gone. He seen about everything. The boys can't manage like he could. Death's a awful thing. I used to say they was things worse than death— but I didn't know how it would seem with Pa gone." Linda put her arm across the woman's shoulders and tried to comfort her. "I know it's terrible. My mother died when I was twelve. But you have lots to live for yet-—Mrs. Bowers." Linda hesitated before the name, but she suddenly realized she could never call this woman mother. "You have a fine family that must be a comfort to you." "Yes, if they'll all just do right," the mother sighed. "But I've had my troubles besides Pa's death." Linda heard a pan drop in the kitchen. "I wonder if I couldn't help Effie,' she said and left her mother-in-law looking mournfully at the picture over the mantle.
TWO weeks later Linda wrote to her uncle. "Uncle Peter, darling, "In my letter last week I told you about Henry's home and folks and how strange things seemed. But I didn't tell you how desperately homesick I was to see you. I was afraid if I wrote one word about how much I miss our beautiful life together, I would weep all over my letter and you would come and take me away from Henry. "Now I am beginning to emerge as an individual out of this new environment which I thought at first was going to drown everything that was really me, and I've met my first crisis, and feel head and shoulders taller as a woman than I did when I told you good-bye. "You remember what you said under the pear tree that night last spring when I told you how much I loved Henry—about bread alone not being enough for life. Every day I'm finding out more and more what you meant. The people here, as you had guessed, don't know there is anything but bread to work for. "But now for what happened. "Your precious letter and check for eight hundred dollars to buy my piano (you know, darling, that if I lived to be a thousand and kept on saying, 'thank you! Thank you! Thank you!' I couldn't tell you how thankful I am for that and everything else you have done for me)—well, it came the same day as a notice about the interest on the farm mortgage. Don't blame them too much, darling. They've had it dreadfully hard and they don't know how indispensable the 'un-bread' things are in life; but they thought—even Henry—that I should let them borrow five hundred dollars of that money. You can see what it would have meant, giving up my piano. "You've no idea how hard it was to stand out against them when they needed it so. Melville has a dreadfully dominating personality—I feel a little bit afraid of him all the time, and in her weak, pathetic way Henry's mother is strong, too. Henry wouldn't take a very definite stand either way, but I knew he hoped I would see it as the others did. He insisted that I must have the piano, but suggested that I pay the three hundred dollars that would be left down, and pay the rest as they could raise it on the farm. That would have meant that I'd have had my piano for a few months, then would have had to give it up. "One whole night I didn't sleep. I didn't know what to do. I knew it would be hard staying here if Mel and his mother were against me— and with even Henry thinking I had been selfish. But I couldn't bear to give up what meant so much sacrifice on your part and so much to my whole future. Besides, wise darling that you are, you had specified so definitely that the money was for a piano, that I was afraid of what you might do, if I spent it for something else. "Just at dawn, I dozed off, and I dreamed of Grandmother Marks and the organ she brought across the plains. That gave me courage. I woke Henry up and made him see it as I did, how much it would mean all through our lives. Then I got up and sent the order for the piano. "Melville and his mother are still mourning because they'll have to sell part of the land to pay the interest, but I am at peace within myself, and I can't wait until the piano gets here. "I adore you—Saint Peter. "Your own Linnie." (To be continued)
A Creator of Jobs (Cora CARVER RITCHIE) By Ada Hurst Brown
"IF she will, she will, you may depend upon it." Years ago this caption was written under the picture of Cora Carver in one of the year books of the Brigham Young University, and a more fitting slogan for her life could not be found. In a recent letter to Cora, Mrs. Ida S. Peay says, "It has been a long time since you went to school here, but I very distinctly recall you— fair, dainty, attractive, vivacious." Other people who knew Cora Carver then say that she was much the same as she is now—outstanding, dependable and original. This remarkable woman, who is still young and attractive, besides being a wife, housekeeper, and mother of eight children, has been at different times in her life, cook, school teacher, pioneer, civic worker, painter, musician, advertising and newspaper writer, reader, radio announcer, and business secretary.* And always she has been an active church worker. She has worked when and where she was asked, though she loves working best with women and children. She has held almost every position that a woman can hold in ward or stake, and she has done this while raising her family of five boys and three girls. Not only has she will power to carry on but she has a seemingly inexhaustible supply of ideas that she can put to work; and with this capacity she has been able to meet the crises in her life—to find mental and financial support. Where others could not find work, this woman has
*Since this article went to press Mrs. Ritchie has passed to the great beyond. —Editor
gone from one good job to a better one, and is still climbing upward. At the same time she is supervising her home, and keeping all of her children in school excepting her baby, who is only five years old. Mrs. Ritchie says that any woman can have a large family and still be active and progressive if she tries, but that she can't waste time and do it. Her greatest ambition is to keep up with her children and she hopes to go to college with them when they are ready. "I am sorry for people who do not have big families, and for those who pity me because I do," is the way she expressed it. 'After all, the greatest thing in my life is and has always been, my family. Through my children I hope to express all the things I have wanted to do in this life." She has a lovely, talented family. One child is a violinist. One shows talent for painting and another for writing. And they all bring home excellent report cards. One evening as we sat on her porch talking, her eldest daughter left for a radio station with a roll of script under her arm. "I am afraid I don't do it very well, mother," she paused to say. "There is one important thing you have to do," her mother replied, '"'be true to your character all through and it will be good." That was advice Mrs. Ritchie could give her daughter out of her own experience as a play director and radio broadcaster, just as she could give advice on dozens of other things she has learned thoroughly. That illustrates why she has become a better mother through her other activities. She can keep up and advise her family in each day's events.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
CORA CARVER RITCHIE
CORA CARVER was born in Plain City, Utah, the daughter of Willard and Delia Moyes Carver. Her grandfather, John Carver, was a patriarch and a pioneer of Weber county. Her grandmother, Elizabeth Murry Moyes, was one of the first women to receive a diploma in Utah to practice midwifery. Mrs. Moyes was known throughout Weber County as a fine doctor and brought many babies into the world. She often rode in lumber wagons fifteen or twenty miles to save a mother and a child after others had given them up. Cora's parents and grandparents instilled in her the ambitions to learn and to be progressive. The president of her stake once said, "I think I have never seen you when you weren't busy, and you always have an armful of books." Mrs. Ritchie says that doing church work is an education, and if a woman keeps up with the lessons outlined by our church leaders she can gain the equivalent of a college education, besides her spiritual development. Cora Carver attended Weber College, graduating later from Brigham Young University, after which she took post-graduate work from the University of Utah. After leaving the B. Y. U. Cora taught school for a few years, then she was married to James D. Ritchie, and continued teaching until a short time before her first baby was born. Then she moved with her husband to a desert railroad station in Idaho where her husband went into the mercantile business. When the train stopped to let her off, the conductor jokingly said, "No white woman has ever stopped at this station before." He noticed the flowers Mrs. Ritchie carried and continued, '"The atmosphere here will kill flowers." True, there was nothing but sage brush and alkali, but in spite of this in a few years the Ritchies built a lovely home with rose bushes and trees included and helped build on this desert a real town including a depot, a barber shop, and an ice cream parlor. Mrs. Ritchie enjoyed the achievements of pioneering. To make flowers grow around their first home she carried water in buckets from a slow dripping artesian well. At one time she painted the interior of an eight room house, including eight French doors.
A CREATOR OF JOBS
DURING these pioneering days she had many unusual experiences. She drove their Ford car over rough roads after night in a hurry-up call for a doctor for her neighbor, or to deliver a box of baby chicks in order to save their lives. One of her own babies was born a half-hour before the arrival of the doctor as he lived twenty-five miles away. In addition to her other duties she learned to barber, nurse, doctor, and cook. She cut other men's hair as well as her husband's. At one time, before the cafe was opened, she cooked for twenty-two railroad men and served meals in two little rooms. In spite of all this activity her home has always been open to guests and there has nearly always been someone, not of the family, living with them. At one time when one of her own babies was only a few months old, she took a young war bride in her home and cared for her during her confinement, doing all the nursing of mother and baby herself.
HER greatest inspiration has always come from other women who have achieved success in different lines. She studies their characters, looks for their good points and makes them her own. She has written sketches of many prominent women in Utah and Idaho as well as national leaders. Her husband and children have always encouraged her in her activities and are very proud of her. Her oldest daughter Beth said, "Mother, I think Dad must have had high ideals and aims in life when he chose you for his wife."
WHEN the crash of 1929 came, the bottom dropped out of everything for the Ritchies. They sold first one home and then another in a frantic effort to save something, only to see this money lost also. But Mrs. Ritchie was not discouraged. These were merely physical losses and could be regained. So with an indomitable spirit she started in to help her eight children. They had lived in Idaho for eighteen years, but after making a visit to Ogden, they decided to move there. Letters of reference were the only way in which she could sell her ideas to strange business men, so Mrs. Ritchie brought some with her. I quote from some of these letters: "Mrs. Ritchie is qualified as a lecturer, demonstrator and newspaper worker, has a pleasant personality, and is a hard worker." "It has been my good fortune to be associated with Mrs. Cora C. Ritchie for the past ten years, both in civic and church affairs, and I have found her to be very efficient, conscientious, and extremely faithful in her work. Her executive ability and the tact to manage large groups of adults and children is very commendable—having had much experience, especially among the latter." "Mrs, Ritchie is a capable business woman and radio announcer." "Mrs. Ritchie makes a splendid club member. She has great executive ability, and is most interested in civic affairs as well as cultural. She is a good leader, and charming to work with. She is also a. Writer of note, having had articles published in local and eastern magazines and papers." So Mrs. Ritchie tried several things, advertising, radio broadcasting, and various programs for business houses. At first it was hard and poorly paid work. She had begun writing and selling some material before her eighth child was born, and now again she wrote and sold some articles and stories in connection with business advertising. In all, she has had material appearing in eighty-six different publications including two magazines for which she wrote something every month. It was in November, 1933, while Mrs. Ritchie was working at advertising, that she received the greatest blow of her life when she lost by death her oldest son, Willard. He was a big, strong, healthy nineteen-year-old boy, suddenly stricken with appendicitis. This was something that with all her courage and will power she could not replace, and she still suffers intensely though courageously from his loss. In January of 1934 Mrs. Ritchie was appointed secretary of the Industrial Division of the Ogden Chamber of Commerce. She immediately started a campaign to acquaint the women of Weber County with its ninety-three industries. To do this, she conducted thousands of women and girls in groups which sometimes contained as many as ninety people through the industrial plants of Ogden. She gave talks before hundreds of them in clubs and churches, and demonstrated in stores and schools. She presented various advertising programs, writing her own copy.. Her ideas for these are original and seem inexhaustible. This was accomplished while the depression was in full swing. Men and women were losing their jobs daily. Mrs. Ritchie realized this, but she knew also that she must have a job after such financial losses, and with her husband out of work. Of this time she says, "I knew it would do no good to apply or send in my name for a job. I had seen my own husband and son wear out too many pairs of shoes hunting for jobs. There just weren't any. Well, all my life if I didn't have the right thing my recipe called for, or enough goods of one color to make one of my girls a dress, I'd substitute something. I figured out other ways. If there wasn't a job, I'd make one." "I had to plan and use common sense and persistent effort. I learned that business men are human, and if you have a worth-while plan to present, especially if it is original, they will usually give you courteous interviews, but women should bear in mind that business men are accosted perhaps hundreds of times daily by someone eager to get a job or to be assisted in some way. So be sure your plan will stand the test before you ask for an interview. Don't think because you are a woman you deserve more consideration than a man. Meet a business man as a business man. Above all, don't waste time. Make it snappy." "The world is full of wonderful new things to do. Never before has woman had such opportunities for big business, but she has no right to enter the business field if it means
A CREATOR OF JOBS
neglecting her duties as wife and mother. Originally God in His business-like world, planned woman for the home. Business should be only secondary." It is a pleasure to visit the Ritchie home. The children are healthy and well-trained, so I am sure they have not suffered because their mother is away from home so much. In the last two years Mrs. Ritchie has had offers from some of the largest industries in Utah and has assisted many other women to get jobs. It is interesting to note that every job that she had held has been one she has created. One manager of a large industry said, "Mrs. Ritchie is, what shall I say? Original, yes. A pioneer, yes. But more than that, she is a creator." Another manager said, "I believe Mrs. Ritchie could sell refrigerators to an Eskimo." Another reason why this exceptional woman is in such great demand, is because she has always given more than her job required. She is energetic, dependable and unusually original. She has the persistence and will power to overcome obstacles. "If she will, she will, and you may depend upon it."
The Toil of the Desert By Ruth May Fox
— Ye mighty sentinels that ever guard the way To mystic silences and solitude profound; What lurid tales your whisperings might tell Of tempests, toil and sacrifice, Of Indian war-whoops, of coyotes' hideous cry, Of parching tongues and hunger's piteous stare.
Away with plaints and tears! The desert must be quelled, And love was ever brave; from humble cabin-home Within the shadow of yon towering peaks, With anxious hearts and tender, fond caress Each morn, two wedded time parted at the gate, He to wring bread from almost sterile soil, She to homely tasks—to watch and wait and pray.
Tick, tick, tick, tick, the little clock, How slow to mark the hour, tick, tick, tick, tick— O joy! O love! She hastens to the door And in her husband's sympathetic arms Pours forth the longings and perils of the day, And then rewards his toil with smiles of sweet content.
At length the baby came with all its soothing wiles, Welding forever two happy, grateful hearts; For this great gift how gladly each would toil, Would make the wilderness a lovely dwelling place— Alas! Alas! The arid air sighs round the cabin-home, The mother's song, the prattling tongue are no more heard— The sorrowing widowed father where is he?
No more transcendent are your glowing heights Than the brave souls that braved the Southern wilds, To conquer or to die that desert lands might blossom as the rose That your magnificence, O Zion's Park Might herald forth God's glorious Name And summon all the world to come and see.
Julia Stratford Budge By Annie Budge
JULIA STRATFORD BUDGE, daughter of George and Eliza Barwell Stratford, was born at Muldoon, Essex, England, September 20th, 1839, and with other members of her father's family, became, when a child, a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. When seventeen years of age, William Budge, then a traveling Elder in the British Mission, was introduced to her by her brother-in-law, the late President Charles W. Penrose. The courtship was only of two weeks duration, and the young people were married on the 24th day of September, 1856. Until her death, on the 27th day of September, 1912—almost fifty-six years —they endured together the trials and vicissitudes of life with a constant loyalty and fortitude that only true hearts and strong characters can manifest. They resided, while in England, at 15 Jewin Street, London, where one son was born to them. This baby died when only a month old, and the loss of this little one proved to be only an earnest of many similar distressing experiences which were to come to them.
ON May 10th, 1860, they embarked for America on the sailing vessel "William Tapscott," with a company of six hundred "Mormon" immigrants, who during the voyage, were under the direct supervision of Elder Budge. The ship's company was quarantined on arrival at New York, and after a considerable period of detention, was permitted to proceed to Florence, Nebraska, where it arrived October 5th, 1860. At this point the Saints were outfitted for the journey overland by ox teams to Salt Lake City, and although Elder Budge was wholly uninformed concerning the great West and the manner and means of transportation, his influence with the company of Saints was such that he was chosen as Captain of the last company (seventy-two wagons) to cross' the plains in 1860. He was fortunate to have appointed as his assistant, Nephi Johnson, an experienced scout and plainsman who was a never-failing help in managing the company affairs and in directing operations. While the caravan wended its way across the great stretch of western prairie, Sister Budge, who had held her baby constantly to save its pain-racked body from greater suffering, saw it gradually weaken until it passed away, and the following morning some men of the company observed Elder Budge excavating a burial place for his baby boy. They kindly relieved him of his sad task and extended their sympathetic aid in preparing a casket from some rough boards and in consigning the mortal remains of the little pioneer to Mother Earth—just one of the many to fall by the wayside in the great trek of emigrants to the valleys of the mountains.
THE company arrived at Salt Lake City October 5th, 1860, after a three months journey. Elder Budge, being anxious to begin earning a livelihood, acquired a small tract of land at Farmington, sixteen miles North of Salt Lake, and he and his sorrowing wife there took up their abode. Their first home was a one room cabin of rough uneven logs, between which daylight was always discernible. They had brought with them from Florence a stove, some bedding, and a very few articles of household equipment, but their food supply consisted of nothing more than one-half a sack of flour. Sister Budge had, however, some buttons, pins and needles, given to her by the Saints in London, some of which she exchanged with neighbors for articles of food. Elder Budge was privileged to dig some very small potatoes on shares, which aided materially to satisfy their hunger. However, more than once she and her husband for days had no other food except bread and water. Being unaccustomed to pioneer life, Elder Budge found it difficult indeed, after almost ten years of continuous missionary service, to adjust himself to the strenuous physical labor necessary to provide a livelihood, and the difficulty was accentuated by the lack of proper food. He joined other inhabitants of the town in getting out a winter's supply of wood from the nearby canyon, and otherwise endeavored to take care of indispensable requirements.
THEY resided in Farmington for four years, during which time the place was visited by terrific wind storms, one of which, during the winter of 1863-4, arose while Elder Budge was returning home from Salt Lake City. He had ridden part way with a neighbor who, because of the intensity of the storm, endeavored to persuade Elder Budge to remain with him for the night, but the invitation was declined, and after fighting his way afoot for some hours, he arrived at his cabin to find that his wife had taken refuge in a lean-to, which seemed to afford better protection from the whirling snow which came through between the logs. Added to her own discomfort and peril was the frantic fear for the safety of her husband. Elder Budge brought in wood and made a fire, and they were soon in comparative comfort. Next morning the bodies of a woman and her child were found frozen by the roadside a short distance from the Budge home. The woman had attempted to make her way to the home of a neighbor and had been overcome by the storm. This experience contributed to cause the Budges to rejoice when President Brigham Young called Elder Budge to remove to Providence, Cache County, to become Bishop of that ward in 1864, where they resided until 1870, when Elder Budge was requested by President Young to take up his abode in Paris, Bear Lake County, Idaho. The Bear Lake country was settled in 1863 by colonists under Apostle Charles C. Rich, and in 1870 was still a frontier of civilization. Log cabins with dirt floors were the type of habitation for the early settlers. The nearest railroad point was at Evanston, Wyoming, ninety miles distant from Paris. The climate, while pleasant enough for two or three months in the summer, was extremely severe in winter. The six thousand feet elevation brought blizzards and cold which caused much sickness and suffering among the people. There was not a doctor in the valley and home remedies and treatment were often inadequate. IN June, 1878, Elder Budge left for England to preside over the European Mission. At that time he had three families and seventeen children. Julia, sixteen years old, was the oldest daughter, and Arthur, fifteen, of "Aunt Lizzie's" family, the oldest son. The suffering and hardships en418 dured during the years of Elder Budge's absence was enough to discourage the most valiant. After the birth of her last son (three months after her husband's departure) Sister Budge was afflicted with inflammatory rheumatism and had to depend on what Julia and Annie and kind neighbors could do for her. A number of the children in the family were stricken with diphtheria, and these conditions, added to the dire poverty the families were compelled to experience, were distressing to the entire household. Through all the years of pioneering, Sister Budge never faltered in her absolute devotion to her family; yet of twelve children born to her, she lost five boys and three girls. Three daughters, Mrs. Julia B. Nibley, of Salt Lake City, Miss Annie Budge and Mrs. H. Smith Woolley, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of Logan, and Jesse R. S. Budge, of Salt Lake City, survive. Her sorrows were multiplied and her grief never ending, but she endured adversity with the fortitude of a martyr. It may also be said that no one was more kindly disposed in assisting other members of the community who were in need or distressed. Not one of the robust, hardy type, but gentle and sensitive in her nature, the trials which were heaped upon her, which to some might have operated as the "Refiner's fire," were unnecessary to improve or perfect this sweet and lovable woman. 'These trials were not necessary to mellow her disposition or to teach her patience or love or loyalty or fortitude, for all these virtues were nature's gift to her in the beginning. Blessed be her memory as an inspiration to all who knew her. To Our Utah Piotioal By Edna J. Gardiner With heads erect—-with courage high You faced the unknown West With vision and with trust in God You gave your humble best. You trekked across unending plains Through sun and bitter cold; You gave your all that we might see God's purposes unfold. The zest of youth you freely gave To God and home and nation; The twilight of your lives reveals A hallowed consecration. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon JULY—Now is golden summer with its mystic call to the great out doors. MADAM SCHUMANNHEINK, the singer, Caroline Miller, the novelist, and Amelia Earhart, the aviator, are among 13 prominent women who received honorary degrees from Oglethorpe University last May. MRS. LILLIAN M. GILBRETH of New York has been made professor of management of engineering at Purdue University. She is the first woman appointed to the teaching staff of a school of engineering. [ CUISE Y. ROBISON, President of National Women's Relief Society, has proven a valuable member of Utah's new state welfare board. She is the only woman on the board. EVA LE GALLIENNE'S declaration that "'only after ten years experience on the stage does one really begin to act," is called her "slight to youth." Jane Cowl, Elizabeth Bergner and Phillip Meredith are among a number of the really fine actors who support her contention. GRACE MOORE sang in a short operatic season in London in honor of the King's silver jubilee. PRINCESS JULIANA of Holland is reported engaged to Prince Carl Johan of Sweden. INGRID, Princess of Sweden and Crown Princess of Denmark, after the solemn marriage ceremony drove to her mother's burial place and laid there her myrtle wreath, and bouquet of lilies of the valley. The tender sentiment of this lovely princess was evident all through the wedding service. She wore her mother's bridal dress and veil, and carefully kept orange blossoms. Her only ornament a wreath of myrtle, while among her costly gifts lay a 17th century brooch of diamonds and pearls once owned by the father of Frederic the Great, the gift of King Gustaf, a modern diamond brooch, the gift of Prince Gustaf Adolph, and a sapphire pendant, the gift of King George V of England. FRAU KAUS, German author, has written the biography of Catharine II, Empress of Russia. The book is tense and thrilling from cover to cover and is a fine interpretive portrait. It is one of the most outstanding books in recent literature. KATHARINE SEABURY cryptically remarks in the preface to her new book, 'The Fun of Having Children," "It is rather adventurous of one who is merely a mother to write about bringing up children when the world is full of child experts." The book is well worth reading and full of wise deductions, nevertheless, though written by a "mere mother." RACHEL FIELDS' new book, "Time Out of Mind," is another interesting saga of New England life with a setting among the shipbuilders of the Maine coast. ANNE BRIDGE, Esther Forbes, Vicki Baum, Helen Simpson, Angela Thirkell, Madelon Inlofs (a Netherlander) are among the popular women novelists offering new books this year for summer reading. Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life By Lella Marler Hoggan KEEP GROWING "Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll! Leave thy low-vaulted past! Let each new temple, nobler than the last, Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast, Till thou at length art free, Leaving thine out-grown shell by life's unresting sea." —Oliver Wendell Holmes. BELIEF in eternal progression, through obedience to law, is the urge that inspires all true Latter-day Saints to a course of study and action ever upward and onward. There is no half-way mark. The law of the universe is "grow or die," "use or lose," "inaction means decay." Unless we use the powers vested in us they shall diminish and slip out of our fingers. There is no standing still in nature or human nature. We must go forward or we shall, of necessity, fall behind. Everything that impedes the forward movement of progress is pushed aside and cast into the discard. The human race is moving ahead, the trend of civilization is forever upward. It is divinely planned that we shall keep growing. The poet Longfellow, when asked how he retained his youth and continued to write with the same inspiration and beauty of earlier years, pointed to a blossoming apple-tree in the yard nearby, and reminded his friends that the beauty and fragrance of the apple bloom did not diminish with the years. "Every year," said he, "that tree adds a little new wood to its growth. I take a lesson from that tree." Are we adding a little new wood, a little strength and beauty, to our personality from year to year? Are we reaching out and up to that ideal of perfection set for our eternal joy? Like Mary of old do we "sit at the Master's feet" to be taught in his loving wisdom, or, are we like Martha "cumbered with much serving"?. If an angel of the Lord were to call at our humble abode each day at twilight, would we be satisfied to report FOR THE TREASURE CHEST repeatedly "Lord, I have just kept house today'? Real and enduring satisfactions come from growth and development; a knowledge, as Stuart Sherman says, of being fully and adequately used. Ellis Parker Butler says, "The most important business of life, is making the most of the best that is in us." The human heart is forever in quest of truth, of self-realization. "What is worth while?" we ask ourselves, "What, in the end, will bring us. The greatest joy?" Mormonism has put the question, "What is the purpose of life from God's point of view?" Where can we find a higher ideal? "The very farthest star But rims a sea of other stars That stretches just as far. The greatest joy of joys shall be The joy of going on.' —Sam Walter Foss. The easy path leads into the valley of disappointed hopes. Good intentions, never carried into action, do not advance our progress. If we become too occupied with work-aday tasks, we unconsciously "go to seed" early. Then, after a while, we find ourselves trudging along the uneventful path of regret, seeking to rejuvenate, longing for the "Fountain of youth." If we would keep young, we must refresh and renew ourselves often, mentally as well as physically. Growth and development are the magic keepers of the gates of life, who close the door against failure and old age. Surely growth is the secret of eternal youth, and "The glory of God is intelligence," even as the Prophet Joseph Smith told us. In the Improvement Era for February, 1933, Jay B. Nash, in an article on leisure, summed up his phil421 osophy of youth. Here are a few of his clear cut sentences: "People grow old by deserting their ideals. Years wrinkle the skin; but to give up enthusiasm wrinkles the soul. You are as young as your faith, as old as your doubt; as young as your confidence, as old as your fear; as young as your hope, as old as your despair. To keep young means to keep on living—it means meeting life." Years ago that great teacher, Dr. White, said, "I want my children to drink from a running brook and not from a stagnant pool." Is the stream of our life flowing onward into the infinite sea of truth and beauty, or is it stagnating in a murky bog? Has it lost its sparkling joy, its rippling song of laughter? Can we not clear away the debris that impedes its forward movement, that it may go on its way carrying life and hope to the blossoming flowers on the sunny slopes and in the woodland valleys? IF we do not replenish the fire on the hearth we soon have only dead ashes and a spent blaze. We can not draw out of the bank more money than we have deposited. We take out of life only as much as we have put into it. _Ralph Parlette, in The University of Hard Knocks, reminds us that even if we go to the ocean we can not carry away more than a pint of water, if we bring only a pint container; while we may obtain a gallon from the smallest mountain stream, if we carry with us a gallon measure. We can gather unto ourselves only that portion of eternal values that we are prepared to appreciate and use. The Gospel of Christ is free to all of the children of men, but it will save and exalt us only to the extent that we are able to appreciate it and incorporate it into our lives. We can claim the opulence of the 422 universe if we are prepared to take advantage of it. But we can not claim even a pauper's share if we are unable to enjoy it and use it. ANY member of our church who conscientiously follows the courses of study in our various organizations, from year to year, can not help but advance in knowledge and in power. Are we taking advantage of these lessons? Are we living the gospel truths as fast as they are revealed to us? Or, are we too busy to gain eternal salvation? Have we bargained with life for a penny," because it was easier to pay the price? Jessie Rittenhouse' little verse runs something like this: "I bargained with Life for a penny Only to learn dismayed, That any wage I had asked of Life Life would have paid." The women who permit their interests to narrow down to a ladle, a mop, and a dusting pan, are cheating themselves. They are shutting out of their lives a wealth of satisfaction and joy. They are defeating the measure of their creation. Why should we let the years interfere with our high hopes? Old age is only a phantom shuffling along at our elbow, trying to intimidate us and undo our heroic resolutions to meet life bravely. If we have kept faith with ourselves we need have no fear of her. We can snatch the mask from her weary eyes and laugh RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her to scorn. For after all, what is this little span of time in the ocean of eternity. The spirit knows no impediment to progress. Can we not claim our own? Can we not echo Pan's glad shout of joy? "I am Youth, Eternal Youth! I am the sun rising, I am Poets singing, I am the New World. I am a little bird that has broken out of the egg I am Joy, Joy, Joy." The Master gave us the divine ideal to struggle toward when he 'said, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father in heaven is perfect." (Matt. 5:48) And Joseph Smith, the Prophet, verified this illuminating ideal in these words, "As God now is, man may become," and Lehi, the ancient prophet, said, "Man is, that he may have joy." With such a promise and such an ideal, is it not imperative that we shall accept the Master's challenge to "Seek first the kingdom of heaven and His righteousness," that all other things may be added unto us. Growth, eternal youth, The star of light that gleams Above the mountain peaks of truth, beckons us upward and forever onward. In grateful appreciation for so rare a treasure let us count it with our priceless keepsakes. Kindred By Lydia Hall O little crimson headed bird I don't suppose it's true That when you stopped to eat the seeds On that bright plant you knew, That those gay colored cockscombs there Catching the late sunshine Would blend their hues with yours to make A picture quite divine. Mathematics in Pioneer Homes By Jean Cox "When I can count forty may I reel the yarn?" "May I measure the gallon of milk for Uncle John when I can count four?" "May I use the steel yards to weigh carpet rags?" HESE and countless other requests of the children in the "big house" to participate in the usual grown-up activities showed the almost constant need for practical mathematics. Aunt Alice Hardy expressed it when she made the statement, "Our life was full of mathematics. We had to know and put into practice positive information regarding daily living. There wasn't a day, scarcely an hour when some form of mental arithmetic wasn't needed. "At "the big house," she continued, as well as in other pioneer homes of sixty years or more ago, it was necessary to know the number of pounds of wool for a yard of cloth, the number of knots to a skein, and the number of threads in a knot." When asked to be more specific, she continued, '""For some of our clothing we had to begin with unwashed wool. It took 5 lbs. Of wool from the fleece to make one lb. Of rolls. It took 14 Ibs. Of fine soft twisted yarn for the woof for one yard of linsey. If wool were used for warp it was hard twisted, frequently, however, fine cotton yarn was substituted. In a skein, she continued, there are ten knots of yarn." "Times change," she commented, "information necessary for daily living when I was a girl seems very strange to the present generation. Few women today know that fifteen knots of yarn were required for one yard of linsey. Probably not one woman in twenty-five knows that there are forty threads in a knot of yarn and that knots are measured by the revolutions of the reel as the yarn is carried from the spindle of the spinning wheel. As each knot was wound off, the thread separating the knots was crossed and another forty revolutions counted. To the careful worker, interruptions while reeling yarn were not considered good form." When I was a girl, work was not only considered necessary but also an accomplishment. All my life, she repeated, I wanted to work and have always found joy in it. I wasn't more than thirteen when I went over to "Carder Jones," and bargained for one pound of rolls. When I returned one-half of my first effort in spinning, he made the comment, "You will be a good spinner." That was music to my ears, as our family didn't give much praise, although we were always proud of each other's achievements. In dyeing mathematics were also important, as the relationship of strength of the dye to pounds of yarn determined the shade or hue. The proportion of mordant, which interpreted, was usually salt or vinegar used to set the color, also required careful estimates. It mattered little whether these were measured by spoonsful, quart cups, or by the housewives' original measuring sticks, fingers, or handfuls, measurements mean proportions, whether the unit is large or small. A pinch may be almost as accurate as the present teaspoonfuls. Subconsciously, when working with different materials, 424 which make finished products, certain standards of measurements or proportions are set up, whether it is the length of cloth from fingers to nose, or the amount of flour required _ for seven loaves of bread. Setting up a loom represented computations, as the actual length of the finished cloth could not vary much from the desired length. For certain uses the width of the woven fabric varied several inches, which necessitated careful estimates of required yarns for warp and woof. Women skilled in the art of weaving were able to complete the piece according to estimate with little loss of warp threads. More careful estimates were required for plaids and checks. Frequently one member of the family was both designer and mathematician, whose responsibility it was to figure out yarn requirements for interesting stripes, checks and plaids. Some of these plaids were indeed beautiful, with the backgrounds of blues, reds, or purples, with hair line or wider stripes of orange, green, yellow, or brighter blue. The dyeing requirements were also carefully computed. In these more elaborate weaves, shorter lengths were woven, as the desire for distinctive dress existed then as now. It was rather an interesting mathematical problem to figure to a nicety the knots of yarn required for-the different colors. PIN money as well as clothing money was earned through practice of the home-crafts. The most usual was spinning and knitting. Men's socks were the popular medium of exchange for dress materials, trimmings, and shoes. Yarn for these was frequently earned by spinning on shares. A spinner usually received one-half of the yarn spun. A skilled spinner often spun five skeins in a day. Occasionally a fast worker spun ten skeins in a day. It might be interesting computation to find out how many miles of walking was required for spinning one skein of yarn. Aunt Alice recently made the comment, "It wasn't really hard work for us girls in "the big house," as we usually placed the heads of spinning wheels in the center of the upstairs hall and then as we came together, we visited or listened to reading aloud. Very often, we sang as we worked back and forth in unison. Spinning time was a happy time with us, for it meant new wool dresses for us, and underwear for the men folks." One of the best means of earning money was knitting socks for. Men working in' mining camps. One pound of yarn was usually sufficient to knit one pair of socks. The knitted socks were sold for 50c a pair. Frequently the pay was in trade. When fingers flew one pair of socks was knitted in a day. These were usually sold in dozen lots of assorted sizes. With the variations in size, it was necessary to change the number of stitches in setting up the sock, as well as vary the length of the foot of the sock, for heels of socks yarn was often doubled and twisted, in some cases heels were knitted double. For dress up and special occasions, women's hose were made of finer yarns. Frequently fancy knitting or striping was done. Sometimes yarn was dyed for hose and dress material in the same dye vat. For summer time, cotton hose were used. These were hand knitted from cotton purchased in the skein. Hat making also required mathematics, as the hat maker in a family could tell the amount of straw braid required for a hat of an approximate size. If a mixed effect was desired, a certain proportion of the straw would be dyed. For finer hats, straw was split by using a straw splitter.
MATHEMATICS IN PIONEER HOMES
MAKING of carpets required different computations. Setting up looms for designated number of yards, necessitated accurate figuring and measuring. If a striped warp effect were desired, the number of skeins had to be different, colors also had to be determined. Skilled weavers could tell almost to a ball the number of pounds of rags required for a carpet. Each length had to be measured carefully and an inch or two of carpet warp or yarn woven between each strip as this made a better hem than the heavier rags. The number of pounds of rags per yard varied not only with the size of the strip, but also with the number of warp threads. Where carpets were striped with rags, careful measurements were necessary to not only have stripes match, but also to estimate required pounds of different colored rags. Careful measuring was required to have the carpet just cover the room. Variations of two to six inches in the width of strip were frequently required in order to have the carpet fit the desired floor without the labor of folding under several inches on sides of carpet.
IN the making of quilts many computations were required. The desired length and width of the quilt was the basis for slight variation in different patterns. Here are some problems required for the quilts in Aunt Alice's trousseau. The amounts of material for a blue and yellow compass quilt, which after fifty years of careful use, is one of the treasured possessions of the granddaughters: One quilt. One nine-inch star quilt made from cotton scraps. One flannel quilt not pieced. One delaine quilt with blocks of plain material set together with strips of tiny triangles of several colors carefully worked out as to arrangement. A delaine quilt with lambs "wool bat was a coveted possession— comparable to a satin cover down quilt today.
TROUSSEAU building then as now meant hours of purposeful planning and careful work. Aunt Hattie Reid tells of spinning wool for 25 yards of linsey for a bureau which cost $7.00. She also earned money by spinning to buy a bedside table or stand. In addition to the usual six quilts, there were usually six linsey sheets, dresses, underwear and household linen, etc., which were made in the home from material for which were often exchanged socks and yarn.,
STANDARDS of workmanship were high. No one was content with less than the best they could do. Satisfactory accomplishments in different crafts in a way reflected personal standards of honor. More exact measurements were demanded for finer pieces, on which the comment was frequently made, "That is an honest pair of socks," or, "That is an honest piece of furniture." Whether or not the great need for creating subsistence motivated desire for work in the pioneer family, the fact remains that creating activities within the home, business or farm, stimulated interest and made work both desirable and pleasurable. One charming woman of the earlier days recently made the statement, "All my life I have wanted to work and I can always find something to do." How the other half lives has always been an interesting challenge to those interested in human welfare. How the previous generation has solved their problems is equally challenging. If the other aunts and uncles of the "big house" might speak, a volume would be needed to tell of the comings and goings, the joys and sorrows of the group who, in the evening, sang favorite songs to the accompaniment of grandfather's flute.
Happy Mothers By Marba C. Josephson
WHEN Johnny starts "one, free, five," the time is ripe for him to learn to count. While it is mother's duty to reenforce school training, it is her joy to be the secret mover in fanning into a flame the spark of interest for the informal learning of life. Hers is the training of the child's spontaneous reaction to the magic of his experiences. These ideas that he gains informally are frequently the ones he learns best. His counting, his learning of colors; his acquisition of new words can be made fascinating games. While he swings, he may be encouraged to count. Mother may let him run errands while she counts. Later she may reverse the procedure and have him do the counting for himself as she listens. If, in these days of depression, pennies are procurable the child can learn money values along with his counting: five pennies are needed to make a nickel. If he is early trained to think of the nickel as five pennies, he may learn to respect the value of money more. As Mary dusts the books, she may cheer herself and speed the work by counting the number of red-backed books, the green-bound volumes, and the blue-colored ones. Colors are fun to learn. Mary learns for the first time that the sky is blue. Her discovery amounts to nothing less than a revelation. When she realizes that the grass is green; sunflowers yellow, roses red, she will thrill to that knowledge. In teaching colors, one succeeds better by using her directions. Two pronounced shades at a time. The contrast seemingly emphasizes the distinction. Red and blue combine easily; green and yellow also. Mother may draw an apple or a ball. With red crayon or water color, she or the child may color it. A bluebird, symbol of happiness, aptly typifies heaven's own blue. Yellow may be represented by a lemon, and a leaf will illustrate green. When the pictures have been painted, a thumbtack will attach the sheet to a convenient wallboard for ready reference. _ Mother may carbon pictures to have the children color according to In order to develop self-reliance and to test reading ability, she may print directions on the first or second grader's papers and leave him in charge of the younger ones. The practice of allowing one of the children to assume the management is good for increasing a sense of responsibility. The dictionary should be introduced early into the lives of all boys and girls. This book helps so much and is such a good friend that youngsters need to feel at home with it. Even the second grader can be shown how to find the meaning of words. If children learn the joy of words early in life, they are halfway on the road to exact self-expression. Exact self-expression leads to better communication of ideas. Better communication opens the door for greater understanding and therefore makes possible greater happiness.
HAPPY MOTHERS
Activity games are exceptional for their informal teaching value: "I put my right hand in, I put my right hand out, I give my right hand a shake, shake, shake, And turn myself about." This activity, repeated with the left hand, the right and the left foot, serves a double purpose. The fun of the game as an activity emphasizes the need for learning right and left. The game song, "Here We Go Round the Mulberry Bush" helps the children learn eagerly the days of the week. The game also emphasizes the necessity of working to a schedule in order to accomplish anything. Unconscious ideals and standards long before they fully understand the significance of the words. In later years these words will come involuntarily to mind and guide the youth away from evil. When mother takes the children on their hikes, besides training them to use their eyes for the gathering of flowers and the sighting of birds, she may query them on the directions: east, west, north, south. She may point out the colors, noting the great variety and different values of the same colors. The moral lessons learned informally are usually doubly impressive. When in a fit of anger, Mary has hurt her playmate, the lesson of self-control can be taught—by mother's controlling herself and in a quiet, respectful way leading Mary to her room. If Mary is sober enough by this time, mother can talk to her. The singing of songs in the. Home will aid the children in forming. If, however, the fever is still raging, mother must leave her until she has quietened. Mother's self-control must be exercised that she may deal firmly, but, oh, so gently, with the wrong-doer. By helping grow flowers and vegetables, the children learn the care of their own plants and are less liable to make havoc among the neighbor's choice blooms. The children develop early a property sense that will deter them when they are tempted to trespass on another's land. This respect for the rights of others is tremendously important. Particularly nowadays when crime among young people is alarmingly increasing, we parents of young children should be doubly careful to teach the distinction between "thine" and "mine." One helpful way of forming this habit of distinguishing between possessions is by insisting that the children ask one another for permission to use toys which are not their own private property. The-insistence on this particular request takes considerable time and energy to enforce. The impress made early in life, however will prove of vital importance when the children reach adolescence and are tempted to take possessions belonging to some one else. The informal ways of teaching are legion—and legion are the results. If mother's heart be easily satisfied concerning her child, the results will be as dragon's teeth sown against the child's happy development. However, if mother's heart beat quickly and eagerly for her child, the results will be defenders of the child's integrity and attendants of his growth into a helpful leader of society.
Jane Addams By Amy W. Evans
HOW fitting it was that the friends of Jane Addams came to her beloved Hull House to bid her the last farewell. Men and women, who in their youth had been brought under the influence of that "House of Hope," came with their wide-eyed children and grandchildren to gaze with reverence upon the face of her whom they had so much reason to call blessed. It was especially fitting that among the beautiful flowers that surrounded her as she lay in state in the courtyard that there should be the faces of children, for Jane Addams loved children. Much of her life's work was devoted to their welfare. She caught the spirit and significance of youth. Her understanding of the dreams, the urges, and the needs of the adolescent was profound and compassionate.
FROM the beginning Hull House made provision for the care, education, and protection of the young. There were the kindergarten, the day nursery, the clubs for boys and those for girls, classes in the arts and crafts, the gymnasium and the recreation hall. But perhaps to the heart of youth the most precious thing was this rare understanding that they always found there. It was this rare understanding that made it possible for Jane Addams to perform the work she did in making the world better and safer for children and young people. The girl from the overcrowded tenement home who, bubbling with vitality, breaks from parental control, seeking joy and happiness, not realizing the dangers that beset such a course; the boy asking more of life than the monotony of modern industry, who goes out to find adventure and who comes in conflict with society—these were understood and helped in the search for a safe and wholesome outlet for their natural desires and energies. These are her own words regarding the general lack of understanding of young people and children, "There is a dense ignorance on the part of the average citizen as to the requirements of youth, and a persistent blindness on the part of educators to youth's most obvious needs. The young people are over-borne by their own undirected and misguided energies."
FROM Hull House came a movement fore better Juvenile Court laws, and the attitude toward the offending child was greatly modified for good through this. Miss Addams and her co-workers labored for, and finally succeeded in the establishment of the first playgrounds and swimming pools in Chicago. She was ever an advocate of wholesome play for children and believed the playground to be a training field for good citizenship. Every community, she thought, should provide facilities where children and youth could find opportunity for an expression of their natural desires, urges, and energies. The fact that that invincible love of play and pleasure in the young was allowed to be exploited and commercialized for gain aroused her fighting spirit. She seems to have possessed '"'youth's divine impatience" with society's general disregard of this condition. Therefore she studied the dance halls, the cheap theaters, the music
JANE ADDAMS
and other forms of amusements, so that she was ready with first hand information in her work to change them for the better. In speaking of music she says, "We are informed by high authority that there is nothing in the environment to which youth so keenly responds as to music and yet the streets, the vaudeville shows, the five cent theaters are full of the most blatant and vulgar songs. The trivial and obscene words, the meaningless and flippant airs run through the heads of hundreds of young people for hours at a time while they are engaged in monotonous factory work. We totally ignore that ancient connection between music and morals which was so long insisted upon by philosophers as well as poets." Of the theater which she calls "The House of Dreams" she says in her Spirit of Youth, "Nothing is more touching than an encounter with a group of children and young people who are emerging from a theater with the magic of the play still thick upon them. They look up and down the familiar street scarcely recognizing it and quite unable to determine the direction of home. From a tangle of 'make believe' they gravely scrutinize the real world which they are so reluctant to reenter reminding one of the absorbed gaze of a child who is groping his way back from fairy-land whither the story has completely transported him," and further she says, '""There is no doubt that what they hear there, flimsy and poor as it often is, easily becomes their actual moral guide." From her experience at Hull House she knew just how much the theater meant in the lives of young people. She tells of many tragic happenings that were a result of the influence and love of the "House of Dreams." Not that she wished to keep young persons from the shows, but she wanted shows of the right kind, and when she recognized the importance of a thing her plan was to work for it. It was the same with regard to dance halls and other places where recreation was commercialized.
EVER against child labor she did all she could for its abolishment. In her Newer Ideals of Peace we find this, "We are forced to believe that child labor is a National problem even as public education is a National duty. The children of Alabama, Rhode Island, and Pennsylvania belong to the Nation quite as much as they belong to each State, and the Nation has an interest in the children at least in relation to their industrial efficiency quite as it has an interest in enacting protective tariffs for preservation of American industry." In the same volume she makes this plea, "Let us realize before it is too late that in this age of iron, of machine tending and subdivided labor, we need as never before the untrammeled and inspired activity of youth. To cut it off from thousands of working children is a most perilous undertaking and endangers the very industry to which they have been sacrificed." She courageously used her influence in behalf of legislation which would protect children and women in industry, and much of social legislation in this direction was due to her. Jane Addams in her appreciation and understanding seems to have caught the very spirit of youth and her own words express beautifully how she loved and valued it. "Youth is so vivid an element in life that unless it is cherished all the rest is spoiled," and again she says, "The most praiseworthy journey grows dull and leaden unless companioned by youth's irridescent dreams. Not only that but the mature of each generation run a grave risk of putting their efforts in a futile direction, in a blind alley as it were, unless they can keep in touch with the youth of their own day, and know at least the trends in which eager dreams are driving them—those dreams that fairly buffet our faces as we walk the city streets." She was one of those rare persons who recognized and understood these dreams. They did not buffet her face in vain.
FOREVER active in promoting social justice—she was called the "patron saint of the underdog"'—she had many interests. Her name was always listed among the great of our day. The Nobel prize was awarded her in 1931 for her work for world peace. Much of her time in the later years of her life was spent in this field in which she received world-wide recognition. Jane Addams seems to have possessed those elements of greatness which enabled her to be compassionate to the unfortunate and helpless without condescension, to see the sinner aside from his sin and to recognize his brotherhood and his need of human sympathy and understanding. She was great also in that universal mother love which extended to the children and young people of every race. Youth, the world over, has lost a fervent, wise friend and advocate in her passing.
Jane Addams By Minnie I. Hodapp
A diamond of many facets was her soul Shining with serene effulgence On one divine altar: Consecration.
One consuming desire: to do good; Faith in the abundant life, here and now; Confidence in our Lord's beatitudes.
Charity—the Superior Virtue— Made to shine like a circling sun, Humanizing the hearts of men.
The Way Was Opened By Anne Snow
JUST how much does your religious faith mean to you? What sacrifices would you be willing to make for it? Would you abandon a comfortable home and take a long and tedious journey to a foreign land for it? Would you forsake a youthful dream of love and leave behind your sweetheart at its promptings? Would you trudge footsore and weary a thousand miles across a trackless plain at its call? Could you in your forlorn condition face with courage the loss of loved ones snatched from the family circle? Could you bear the toil, the exposure, the privations encountered in pioneering a dry and_ barren country? Enduring all these trials, could you still keep sweet, trusting, amiable?
SOME of our pioneer ancestors did this very thing. Among them was my grandmother, Ann Rogers Snow. She was born December 30, 1835, at East Lake Farm Seytsinyy sloping upland overlooking the sea, in the southern part of Wales. The old-fashioned farm house, surrounded by beautiful flower beds and walks was inclosed by a hedge fence and shaded by great elms, venerable with age. There was an orchard containing fruit and hazelnut trees. Not far away were blackberry bushes, where the children delighted to go "berrying" on warm summer days. The family was well-to-do. Its members enjoyed a home furnished with the comforts and conveniences of that day. A maid and hired men were kept to do the work on the farm. Ann was the ninth child and the youngest of her mother's children. Her mother died when the youngster was two years old. A few years later her father married again.
IN the year 1842 the family at East Lake Farm accepted the Gospel message, and soon the spirit of "gathering''. Came upon them. John Rogers, the father, made arrangements to go to Zion. His oldest son, who was a school teacher and the parish minister, tried to dissuade him, telling him he was not strong enough to withstand the North American climate. But his mind was made up, and on January 12, 1849, the family boarded the ship Osprey, and sailed with a company of saints for America. They spent ten weeks at sea, arriving in New Orleans about the first of April. Here they began to see strange sights and peculiar customs of the new land and to suffer minor disappointments. On April fourth the Rogers' family took passage on a steamboat up the Mississippi River, bound for Council Bluffs. When they reached St. Louis, Ann's brother Thomas and wife and her sister Sarah and husband, who had just been married, decided to stay and get work. The remainder of the family went on up the river. Some miles beyond St. Louis Ann's sister Elizabeth died very suddenly. This was a terrible blow to Ann, for the two girls had been inseparable companions. 'The captain, a kind-hearted man, said to the sailors, "Boys, if you are with me, we will give this girl a decent burial." So they stopped at a plantation, dug a grave in a lovely spot, and buried her by the riverside. With only one brother left to continue the journey and a stepmother, Ann was lonely indeed. But the cup of her sorrow was not yet filled to the brim. Acting upon the advice of church leaders, John Rogers decided to rent a farm and stay at the Bluffs awhile. He was not strong, and about a year later he fell ill and died in August, 1850. Ann and Henry were anxious to get away upon their own resources. Before long Henry had an opportunity to hire out to a man going to California. With a sad heart Ann bade him goodbye. That was the last time she ever saw or heard of him. The stepmother now decided to go to the "Valley." Accordingly she bought a covered wagon, a yoke of oxen and a cow and started with a company that was ready to go. There were only three of the family left: the stepmother, her little daughter Mary, and Ann. Ann walked and drove the oxen most of the way. After weeks of plodding over rough and dusty roads, exposed to all kinds of weather, the company neared the promised land. The Rogers' wagon was the last of the train, and when it was miles from Salt Lake, one wheel collapsed. The stepmother and little sister stayed with the wagon while Ann walked into Salt Lake on foot and alone, the only one of her mother's children to get to the valley at this time. Her patriarchal blessing told her she had been preserved for a purpose, her life being spared that she might be the means of connecting the link that would seal the family to their ancestors.
AFTER the three arrived in Salt Lake, the stepmother married again. Ann went to work in the family of William Snow, whom she afterward married. Before Ann left her native land, she had been courted by a young man whom she thought a great deal of and whom she promised to marry. When the family sailed to America, she had to leave her fiance behind, but she agreed to wait for him three years. The three years had passed, and not a single message had she received. Then one day about three months after she had married William Snow, she got a whole bundle of letters written by her old lover at various times. He had written faithfully every month after she left Wales, but the letters had been delayed somewhere. "How did you feel when you received those letters?" I asked grandma. "Oh, I didn't exactly feel sorry," she said. "Your grandfather was a good, kind husband. But just the same I shed a few tears when I thought what a comfort the letters would have been to me on the dreary journey. Later, however, I received Facétsws which made me feel that the hand of Providence had intervened to give me a pearl of great price instead of a bauble."
THE Snow families moved from Salt Lake to Lehi, and just as they were getting comfortably fixed there, a call came for them to go and help build up Utah's "Dixie." It was a trial for them to leave their homes and start pioneering again, but they willingly obeyed the call, and in November, 1865, started south. After traveling through snow storms and cold weather, they arrived in Pine Valley on Christmas Eve.
THE WAY WAS OPENED
In this little village grandmother maintained her home during the rest of her life. Here as a Bishop's wife and a Relief Society worker she served her neighbors and her friends for sixty years.
IN recalling my association with grandmother and the incidents related by her children, I have tried to decide what her most outstanding traits were, what attributes enabled her to sacrifice and serve as she did. The incidents related above constitute sufficient proof that she possessed in a high degree courage, patience and fortitude. A visit to her home would immediately suggest that neatness was one of her qualities. Not a speck of dust could be found anywhere. There were no flies, no unpleasant odors. Her dishes and stove were shining. Beds were without a wrinkle. Everything was in perfect order. An atmosphere of refinement would also be in evidence: simple furniture, some homemade articles, tastefully draped and decorated, a few cherished old pictures and ornaments. Not a stately mansion, but a cozy, restful home, obviously presided over by a woman of dignity and refinement.
REAL pioneers learn to be resourceful, and grandmother was not lacking either in resourcefulness or industry. She was always alert to ways and means of improving the conditions of her home and family. While she was living in Lehi, some easterners on their way to California stopped near her place to overhaul their wagons and make repairs. On the evening of their arrival, the leader knocked at her door and explained, "We are traveling to California, madam, and our wagon covers have become badly damaged. We should like to have them mended. Would you be willing to fix them for us?" 'Being an excellent seamstress, grandma said, "ves, I can mend them tomorrow." "We have three heavy covers," the man continued, "also a lightweight one which we cannot use. You may have the light one for repairing the others if you want it." Grandma told him she would be glad to take the light one for her pay. That night her prayer was one of thankfulness to God for opening up the way whereby her family might be clothed for the winter. Some of the cloth was used for under clothing; the-remainder was dyed and made into shirts and dress
WHEN the Snow families moved to Pine Valley, there was no store. Supplies of every kind were hard to get. A few of the men decided to start a tannery and make their own leather. Grandma used this crude leather and bits of jeans left over from the men's clothing to make shoes for the members of her household. After a store had been opened in the village, she sewed overalls and jumpers for the merchant's customers in exchange for "storepay."' By this means she was able to provide her family with articles they needed. For soap, in those early pioneer days she used the roots of a plant (oose, I think it was called). Later, like many other pioneer women, she learned the art of making soap from scraps of fat and lye distilled from wood ashes. In preparing meals for the household she often resorted to substitutions, such as molasses for sugar, corn meal for flour, and salt rising for yeast.
Perhaps honesty was grandma's strongest quality. In fact, it is a characteristic of the Rogers family. Being convinced that the Gospel was true, they had to be honest with themselves and accept it even though it required great sacrifice. "I wish I were as good a man as my father," grandma's nephew (her brother's son) remarked to me. "Talk about honesty and charity, well, he was it personified. When I was a boy we worked together on a rented farm. Always the biggest loads of hay, the finest shocks of grain, the best of everything went to the owner for his share." Grandma was like that. If she borrowed anything, she paid it back with interest even to a needleful of thread. All of the children were thoroughly taught the lesson of honesty. One son recalls that as a small boy he was taken to task for eating a biscuit stolen by an older boy from a farmer's dinner pail. Another son refused to sell his neighbor a certain horse he owned because he thought the neighbor would be cheated by the trade. "I wouldn't sell Jede Hill a horse like that," he said. "It wouldn't serve his purpose, and he's too poor a man to throw away his money."
ANN R. SNOW saw many changes take place in the world during her lifetime. She lived to be ninety-two years of age. When people asked to what she attributed her good health and longevity, she replied, "Mainly to my mode of living. I was always systematic in my work and regular in my habits. Our food was simple, and much of the time it was too scarce to tempt us to over eat. Then, too, we always got plenty of exercise in the open air." "Didn't you worry in those early days when you didn't have much to live upon?" I asked her one day. "We learned to trust in the Lord," she replied, "and it is wonderful how the way was opened up, miraculously at times, that we might get the necessities of life. Those were the happiest days of my life because of the sustaining power of the Lord's Spirit." If she had any difficult or distasteful task to perform, she went quietly ahead and did it without complaint. "I don't like to have my peace of mind disturbed by thinking of disagreeable duties to be performed," was her comment. She lived to see the fulfilment of her patriarchal blessing. In searching the records of her ancestors, she found she was descended on her mother's line from kings and queens of the British Isles. I like to think of her now as a queen among the righteous spirits in our Father's Kingdom. Truly, she deserves the reward promised by the Savior wherein He says: "And everyone that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother... For my name sake shall receive an hundred fold, and shall inherit everlasting life."
Five Babes in the Woods By C. Frank Steele
ONCE upon a time—not many months ago—five babes were born. They were born in the backwoods of Ontario, Canada, and today they are the most famous babies in the world. These '"'Five Babes in the Woods" are the Dionne quintuplets of Callander, Ontario. And their names —Yvonne, Annette, Cecile, Emilie, Marie. And are they cute? I am told they are the cuddliest, merriest, most fascinating group of youngsters one could hope to see. And what a breathless picture for a mother! Mothers are mighty thrilled over one babe—none but a mother can understand that mysterious thrill of motherhood! But multiply that by five and what do you have? The mothers must answer. What man is there who could, who would dare suggest an answer? These charming little French-Canadian girls came into the world over a year ago. And they were not born in any hospital nor in a home with all the desirable layette and facilities, accommodations and professional care that the modern stork catches glimpses of as he makes his appearance. Far fromit. These five little "Cinderella-girls of science"—for such they have become— were born in the small, dingy and cluttered living room of their humble parents' home. They were born in a backwoods cabin. And they came two months ahead of the proper time also. And yet they lived—the five of them. And they are big, fat, healthy babies today. And the fact that the quintuplets are alive and thriving is the thing that has amazed the medical world. The birth of quintuplets that morning in May last year in an obscure Ontario town startled the world. It became in a day one of the great "news breaks" of 1934. Sleepy, obscure Callander suddenly found itself on the front pages of great metropolitan newspapers and millions of words of '"'copy" told of the amazing event. The world was doing homage to motherhood and childhood. Verily, "a child" or to be more precise, five of them, was "leading the world" into a new vision of child life and child welfare. The midst of all the hubub over the quints a chubby country doctor went quietly about his work which happened to be caring for his five precious charges. Dr. Allan Roy Dafoe is Callander's doctor. He's of the old-fashioned family doctor type, a general practitioner, and it was just in the routine of the day that he made that momentous call at the Dionne cottage. He tells us that he found the mother in a half-dying condition and as the babies were not expected at that time there was not even a little shirt or dress or stocking awaiting them. There wasn't even a crib. But the family doctor, accustomed to "roughing it," made the best of things and so the five babes were born and placed one by one in a borrowed basket and covered with blankets warmed at the rude kitchen stove. Dr. Dafoe admits that all he could say, all he had time to say, was "Gosh!" when five infants presented themselves.
THE fight of Dr. Allan Dafoe to save the quintuplets ranks as an achievement quite as important as
DIONNE QUINTUPLETS, DR. A. R. DAFOE AND NURSES
the birth of the five children. And the scientific world was quick to recognize that fact. He has been honored at home and abroad and it would be no surprise to his countrymen to see his name listed among those honored by the King. His visit to New York was a triumph and when subjected to the barrage of questioning for which New York reporters are famous the "country doctor" from Canada could say little more than: "They are dear little girls —they are pudgy as young puppies." His quiet, homely, cheery way, his modesty and naturalness was something new for blase New York and when he gave an address at Carnegie hall a vast audience hung breathlessly on every word of his amazing story. He visited the night clubs and the hospitals, chatted with Sally Rand and Walter Winchell, paid his respects to the President at Washington and saw the sights of the capitol. Doctor Dafoe enjoyed it all immensely. It was a great holiday and he was proud to tell the kind-hearted American neighbors about "his babies." But when they wanted him to remain in New York, he replied: "No, I'm only a country doctor, and I'm going back where I belong. A. Man is smartest when he does what he knows best and doesn't fool around with things he doesn't know anything about." So he went back to Callander and his quintuplets. And he found them still thriving under the very finest care that the world of medicine and nursing could give them. For the kiddies now have a hospital of their own, have silver chains to identify them, have special nurses to care for them, have the best of wardrobes, and what not. They had one chance in many millions to survive and thanks to modern science and their clean rugged French-Canadian ancestty and parentage they are alive and thriving.
THEY celebrated their first Christmas in a blizzard. That is, a blizzard was raging outside the nursery. But Santa Claus came laden with gifts from all parts of the continent for the famous five sisters. After they had been given their daily nap out of doors—cold weather has not frightened Dr. Dafoe in his resolve that the quints must have the air—the parcels were opened. There were cane candies, chocolates, nuts, a wealth of little toys, rag dolls bigger than the babies themselves, also clothing and other gifts. One large furniture manufacturing company in the United States forwarded them five cunning high-chairs. These chairs were of the finest workmanship and finish and could be converted into ordinary chairs when not in use by the babies. The quints, of course, could not have the candies or the rag toys so they were duly handed over to the five other children of Mr. And Mrs. Oliva Dionne. What a "break" those five got! The story of the Dionne babies carries a moving tribute to this brave little mother in a backwoods Canadian town. She bore them and unfortunately in the ovation given her remarkable little brood and _ the "country doctor" who accomplished the "impossible," her share in the achievement has been little noted. The extraordinary contribution to science of Dr. Allan Roy Dafoe typifies the country doctor everywhere, honest, patient, unselfish in his devotion to duty.
Guides in Buying Textiles By Vilate Elliott
II. BARGAINS
PROBABLY more money is uselessly spent at bargain counters than anywhere else — how many of us are guilty of buying articles at a bargain counter for which we have never been able to find a use but it was cheap and I thought I could use it. I have two pieces of embroidery insertion at home, bought on a sale that I shall never use, embroidery is out of style, I get it out and look at it and try to remember it was bought at a bargain counter. A bargain is an article which will meet a real need at the present time, not an imaginary one of some future date. There are two parties to every bargain, the Merchant and the Shopper. Be sure that it is a bargain for you and not for him. Utility to you is the controlling factor in determining any. Real bargain. A bargain is an article which will meet a real need at a price lower than can generally be expected in satisfying that need, also it is well to remember that no matter how cheap an article may be it is expensive unless we have an immediate need for it. A good many sales are perfectly honest and legitimate, and a careful shopper may pick up a real bargain if she finds among the articles offered the specific thing that will satisfy a definite need. But, except in stores which enjoy a high reputation for honesty and fair dealing, it is advisable not to be too ready to believe either that all the articles are of the same quality, or that the prices given are the original ones from which the goods have been marked down. It is always possible for a store to get in some new stock, mark it for a few days at some fictitious price with no thought of making sales, and then re-offer it at a reduction which gives the shopper a tremendous saving—on paper. Bargains are primarily for the benefit of the seller. They are often used as leaders to bring people to the store in the hope they will buy other goods as well. Special shipments of goods may be ordered from the manufacturers in order to satisfy the demand for bargains. These goods are very often inferior in quality. Since bargains in many cases exploit the household buyer's ignorance, at a bargain sale more than any other time she needs to be on her guard against high prices and inferior quality. The bargain tends to concentrate her attention on price, and immediate purchase, and to divert her mind from the quality and her particular need for the goods. A salesman once told me nearly everything put on a sale are seconds or shelf-worn goods; there are a few first class articles put out as drawing cards, but in most cases the articles on the sale are the full price or at best not more than a few cents lower and remember they are seconds or shelf-worn goods usually. Bargainitus is a mania with some people, but bear in mind that worthless junk in household commodities and family clothing are usually found at bargain counters. It is well to realize that it takes more than a low priced tag to make a bargain. Then again, in the line of clothes, we frequently buy articles on sale that do not lend themselves to the clothes or accessories which we already have. We buy a charming little dress for $5.95; when we get it home we find our hat, gloves, purse, etc., are not in harmony with the new dress so it hangs in the closet and we still feel we have nothing to wear. It is well to take an inventory of our stock of clothes on hand, then to resist temptations to buy a dress because it is cheap or because the saleswoman tells you it makes you look more slender. If it harmonizes with the clothes you have at home it may be a good buy, otherwise it is expensive at any price. "An efficient buyer is one who secures the maximum of goods for the time, energy, and money expended." In her buying the housewife must decide where to buy, when to buy, shall I buy at home in my local market, shall I buy in a larger place where I have a greater choice, shall I pay cash, have it charged, or buy on the installment plan, shall I buy at the beginning of the season when I have the best choice, or shall I wait until the price has been reduced. How shall I recognize the qualities desired and judge whether I am getting the most for my money. Each question must be answered individually. The housewife has a great variety of shops from which she may choose. The price and quality of the goods to be purchased are the first consideration. Some people prefer a department store because all kinds of goods are found there, other women prefer the specialty shop as it -is often more exclusive, and again many people buy from mail order houses. There are many factors that help us to determine where we shall buy, the various advantages and disadvantages of different stores must be carefully weighed if a wise selection of a store is to be made. The attractiveness of the store, the pleasant relations with clerks and management, honesty in matters of weight, and description of the goods, the reputation and dependability of the house to stand behind its goods. Also influences our choice. "Among 368 New York farm families reporting in 1928-29, chain stores were patronized much more frequently for food than for clothing, furnishings and equipment. Families who patronized chain groceries on being asked to give reasons why they did so stated: 1. They believed chain stores had lower-priced food than independent stores. 2. The customer could see, and compare prices and select the variety desired. 3. The customer could benefit from weekly sales. 4, The customer did not have to pay more in order that others could obtain credit. It was felt that chain stores were a benefit because they did away with credit." It is always well if possible to anticipate your needs so the article won't have to be purchased in a hurry. Prices on some goods are much the same the year round, others vary from week to week. If one takes advantage of bottom prices -many dollars will be saved. If possible the best time to shop is early in the morning; you will avoid the crowd, your clerks are fresh and can usually give you more time and consideration. I knew a store which at one time gave a discount of 10% on all shopping done before ten o'clock in the morning. It is always best to buy in your local market, where you are known, where you feel the friendly relation existing between customer and clerk. The locally owned store is a part of your community which you wish to help to support. But frequently in the line of clothes people who are over or undersized have to go where they have a wider choice. The question of how shall we pay: cash, credit, or on'the installment plan must be considered. I have known very successful families whe did everything on the installment plan—built the home and furnished it on this plan, each working member of the family contributing; this often brings about a family interest not otherwise acquired. But as a rule the installment plan is not the most satisfactory and business-like way of buying. "The fundamental consideration for the installment merchant is that the purchaser may never complete his payments. In such cases the merchant must arrange to collect the goods and resell them as secondhand stuff for whatever price he can get. This is a terribly expensive system on which to do a profitable business: as a result the installment purchaser generally pays an outrageous price for what he gets. The spread of the installment system is based on that kink in human nature which makes us clearly recognize that 25 plus 10 times 10 is 125 but which somehow lets us believe that an initial deposit of twenty-five dollars plus ten monthly payments of ten dollars each is considerably under one hundred and twenty-five dollars: especially if we are enthusiastic about that overstuffed chair or that set of "World's Great Dramas of Love and Strife" which we can buy in this "painless" way. In the meantime let us definitely understand that installment buying is the most expensive, and therefore the most unintelligent and undisciplined, method of shopping. Installment buying may be all right for the other fellow and in some instance may be a convenience to you; but it can never be the most efficient way to buy. Next to knowing what you want is knowing how you want to get it. Once upon a time the housewife went shopping with a capacious market basket on her arm. There were few stores from which to choose; she made her purchases, paid for them, and carried them home. Since then retail selling has developed into a great and highly complicated system, and in the keen competition for business many stores seek to attract customers by offering all sorts of conveniences and even entertainment, the point to bear in mind is that they constitute a definite selling expense which is necessarily passed on to the customer through a higher mark-up; that is, through a wider margin between the cost of merchandise to the merchant and his price to the customer. Many of these conveniences are a legitimate part of our progress in the standards of living; but the customer should appraise them as such and realize that she is paying for them.; At the same time the shopper must always bear in mind one cardinal principle: so far as she is concerned, no store is better than its ability to deliver what she wants when she wants it and at the lowest price available to her.
EXCHANGE PRIVILEGES
"There is one element in modern shopping habits which deserves the serious attention of shoppers. It relates to the widespread abuse of a privilege which is inherently sound. The abuse causes unnecessary costs which the store passes back to the consumer through higher prices than would otherwise be necessary. "The reference is to the privilege of returning purchases for exchange or for refund of the purchase price. A shopper, for example, buys a rug in good faith and then discovers that it does not harmonize with the upholstery; or it may be a matter of stockings which are found not to match the dress with which they are intended to be worn. The right to return such purchases is a privilege which every shopper appreciates, yet many shoppers abuse this courtesy of the stores. The most general form of abuse is in the growing carelessness of shoppers in making selections in the stores; they know that they can return the goods if they finally decide otherwise or find something better elsewhere, and so RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE they order the things sent home and postpone the decision. The simple desire to make an impression has more than once led a woman shopping with a friend to order some article, knowing full well that she does not want it or cannot afford to buy it. And, of course, there is always the deliberately dishonest shopper who buys, let us say, a dress, wears it to some party, and then returns-it to the store. The return privilege adds to the cost of doing business in several ways. It takes out of stock articles which might have been bought and kept by some other customer. It creates both an unprofitable delivery expense and also the cost of later calling for the goods and returning thme to stock. Goods sent home, tried on, and repacked by an inexperienced packer frequently lose their freshness and may be definitely soiled or otherwise injured; in all these cases they must be reoffered at a reduced price. The extent of this mental laziness in shopping and of the consequent expense factor in retail merchandising is strikingly illustrated by the New York Evening World in a dispatch under the head, "Whim of Shoppers Prove Costly for Stores in Chicago": Chicago, Dec. 3—Women who lack self-control in shopping cost department stores here from $9,000,000 to $12,000,000 a year by returning goods, said D. F. Kelly, head of one of the largest stores, at University of Chicago. The speaker declared that returns in shoes were 10 to 15 per cent; women's coats, dresses and furs, 25 to 40 per cent; china, lamps and glassware, which require careful packing, 10 to 15 per cent; and pianos, radios and phonographs, on which cartage costs are high, 25 per cent." (Taken from the Shopping Book, by Baldwin.) (To be continued) Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary SINGING MOTHERS OF TETON STAKE Teton Stake THE above picture is of the Relief Society Singing Mothers of the Teton Stake. This chorus was organized in August, 1934, under the very capable direction of the Stake Relief Society Chorister, Johanna G. Tonks. The chorus consists of sixty-five voices representative of all parts of the Stake. They rendered the music for the Relief Society Stake Conference in September, and their efforts have been so greatly appreciated that they have been invited to furnish the music in the Sunday sessions of the Stake Quarterly Conference during the Fall and Winter of 1935. Their organization is now permanent, and they hope to continue in building up their chorus. It is a source of great enjoyment not only to themselves but to their community. Malad THE Malad Stake shows very splendid activity as usual. The Magazine drive of the last year increased the subscription over that of the previous one, and the aim for the present year is 100%. Among the accomplishments of the year 1934 may be listed the following: In February, a party in honor of all the Ward Officers, Class Leaders and their partners was given. A program, games and refreshments were greatly enjoyed. In March of the same year the anniversary programs were carried out in the Wards, and on the 17th the Stake gave, as its entertainment, a two-act play, followed by a dance. In May, a Work and Business demonstration was sponsored by the Stake and all the Wards were invited. This offered a most valued and extensive demonstration of the articles made during the meetings. Also in May the Stake Board, with Sister Eleanor J. Richards gave their annual party at the Washakie Ward. This, as always, proved to be a very 442 wonderful social and spiritual feast. In June the Relief Society sponsored a mission to the Logan Temple, where 392 endowments were performed. This was so successful that in November the Relief Society again was responsible for a most successful excursion. In July the Women's Camp, under the direction of the Extension Service of the University of Idaho, was held at Lava Hot Springs, and during the threeday sessions more than one hundred people from the Malad Stake attended and were represented by members on the program. In September a pre-school clinic was held, where 83-children were examined. The doctors and dentists cooperated, splendidly in this work. During the month of September a Class Leaders and Visiting Teachers' convention was held in connection with the Stake Union Meeting, and during the last of the month, when the Stake Relief Society convention was held, another splendid demonstration of handwork, canned fruits and vegetables, and other useful arts, sponsored by the Work and Business Leaders of the Stake, was held. St. Joseph Stake ROM one of our Southern Arizona stakés—St. Joseph—comes an interesting account of the celebration of the ninety-third anniversary of the Relief Society. This particular celebration was in the Globe Ward, and in order to realize the anniversary spirit thoroughly, and make preparation for the seventeenth, a party was held on the fourteenth of the month. This took the form of a testimonial to the Relief Society Ward President, at whose home the pleasing event was held. A feature of the evening's entertainment was the presentation of a friendship quilt in gold and blue. This was made of thirty blocks, each RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE bearing the name of a member of the Ward Relief Society and her position in the organization. Each member made her own block and contributed toward the purchase of the cotton, lining, etc., necessary to complete the quilt. This was a complete surprise to the President, who greatly appreciated it. On Sunday evening, March 17th, the program was sponsored, at which time, in addition to numbers appropriate to the day, a very interesting little play, "If Ye do it Unto the Least of These," was presented. At this time there were a number of people present who did not belong to the Church, and they were impressed with the opportunities both socially and educationally, that are offered the members of the Relief Society organization. Although the Ward enrollment is not large, the sisters are interested and enthusiastic, and at their Ward entertainment more than ninety guests were in attendance. Utah Stake INASMUCH as vacation time is upon us it seems most helpful and appropriate to give an account of the very splendid work which was done in the Utah Stake during last Summer. We are indebted to Sister Hasler and Sister Merrill, of the Stake Relief Society, for the very splendid program of activity which is furnished. "The success of our summer activities has been more than we anticipated. The people seemed to grasp the spirit of so worthy a movement. The newness and magnitude of the plan did not deter them in the least. We seemed to get the cooperation of the people from the very first, as we made a house to house canvass to determine the ages and number of children. Meetings were called in each district to advise the people of our aims and plans, ONE STORY HOUR GROUP AND A BAND GROUP here it was that we found our leaders and helpers. This seemed to fill a long felt desire to give their time and talents; much creative ability and talent was found undeveloped. "There were no funds and no particular playgrounds, so we made use ONE SANDPILE GROUP ONE COOKING GROUP of the nearby schoolgrounds, parks and their equipment, our homes, lawns and a tennis court, and a baseball diamond which took care of those not listed in the city's recreational field activities. "Our code of ethics consisted in teaching the children respect for 444 other people's property, to guard themselves against giving offense by word, looks or actions. They were urged to be courteous, kind and considerate, to control the tone of their voices and guard their tongues against slang, and swear words; also to show and express appreciation for all favors, to never interrupt others when talking, and always remember to ask pardon for any offense or unguarded actions. "Our aim was to prevent delinquency by making every child a participating child, to help him to understand the value of time and know the joy that comes from accomplishments, to arouse or stimulate creative ability and gain new ideas by contrast with other children and homes in the hope of stimulating greater helpfulness and consideration among members of families. "The following activities were participated in by the various groups: home management, personal care, art, drama, music, dancing, reading of good literature, boys' chorus work, cooking, sewing, art needlework, nursing and games. Story telling and sand building for little tots; scrap books were made by the cooking and art classes. "One of the most stimulating and outstanding achievements was a piano class of twenty-one organized and conducted by a girl of eighteen. Six prizes (sheets of music) were presented to those with perfect attendance records. "Two hundred and fifty participants were given cards entitling them to school credit according to the number of hours spent, or for finished articles, in music, cooking, sewing or leadership, etc. Sixty-two leaders directed well organized groups. Our final summary showed eighty-five percent of the children in the Ward participated. "A program showing the accomplishments in the various groups was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE given by-ninety-two of the children. The outstanding numbers consisted of an original playlet by a girl of eighteen, a chorus and skit by twelve boys from eight to twelve, a cooking review by twenty girls, a demonstration of what was accomplished in sand play, and an exhibit of all finished articles in two large rooms decorated for the purpose. "Our compensation consists in the gratitude of those participating. The cooperation of the people and their loyalty; the finding of leaders not otherwise recognized, the development of talent and creative ability, for happy and grateful children, and parents appreciative in that many lives were made brighter, and a greater desire created for worthwhile accomplishments and a fuller and better life." California Mission FROM the California Mission comes a very delightful report of the celebration held on March 17. Four of the branches in San Diego and -the vicinity celebrated the founding of the organization in appropriate fashion, and as a climax they were able to turn on the radio and hear the broadcast from the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City. The music of the Relief Society Singing Mothers, and the delightful message of President Robison, went over the air clearly to them. A banquet was held by each of the branch Relief Societies, and on Friday the pageant "If Ye Do It Unto the Least of These" was very successfully produced. The Missionaries were especially invited to all of the activities in the various branches, and reported a most successful time. This Mission, as so many others, is finding the lesson work very inspirational and encouraging, and the Magazine is of great value in so many ways. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth -President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN.KATE M. BARKER JULIA A. F. LUND THE GENERAL BOARD Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Jennie B. Knight Lalene H. Hart Lotta Paul Baxter Cora L, Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Editor Manager Assistant Manager Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Ethel Reynolds Smith Rosannah C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Elise B. Alder Janet M. Thompson Marcia K. Howells RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE: Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vou. XXII JULY, 1935 No. 7 EDITORIAL "Handicraft for Every Woman" FoR years the Relief Society General Board has been anxious to give concrete assistance to the Handwork Department. Now with great pleasure we announce the General Board has issued a book, "Handicrafts for Every Woman," prepared by Mrs. Glenn Johnson Beeley. The volume is full of most valuable suggestions, not only for making new articles but for making over old things into useful and beautiful articles. The book is lavishly illustrated, the paper and binding are excellent. In the Foreword President Robison says, " 'Work and Business' was the first concrete activity of the Relief Society. This was in response to a definite need. During the ninetythree years of the organization, this feature has proved to be one of the fundamentals as a social contact and as a source of revenue. No one can estimate the amount of service to humanity rendered through this unique part of the program. The most advanced educators today attest the soundness of its principles, a correlation of the head and hand. "The Relief Society has kept in step with the march of progress, heading the call for adjustment to new conditions and meeting the needs of an expanding program. We must hold fast to the things which have been tried by experience and found valuable, and we must be ready to accept new ideas and principles which changing conditions make necessary. This is the law of development and advancement." The book is divided into four parts: Part One: THE USES AND VALUE OF HANDICRAFTS Cultural Values Art in the Home Art in Business Handicraft Hobbies The Mental Hygiene Value of Handicrafts Part Two: Some Basic PRINCIPLES Applied Art Principles of Design Color Inez K. Allen Ida P. Beal Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen 446 Part. Three: MATERIALS AND MeTHOops Household Crafts: Decorative Floor Finishes Decorative Finishes for Walls Painting and Decorative Furniture and Woodwork Upholstering Furniture Slip Covers Home-lighting—Lamp Shades Dyeing—Batik Embroidery Knitting Crochet Standard Handicrafts: Block Printing Linoleum Cuts Stenciling Pottery and Cement Handicraft Wood Carving Small Carving, Bone, Ivory Basketry Hand Made Rugs Metal Craft Lacquer ' Solderless Jewelry Leather Craft Modern Materials in Handicrafts: Gesso Composition Board Linoleum Blue Printing Wax Crayons Cellophane Flexwood Wall Paper the use of leisure. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Attic and Junk Room—Their Possibilities: Old Felt Hats Old Lace Picture Frames Decorative Papers. Tricks of the Trade: Tools and Brushes Do You Know? Part Four: Sources or HELP Community Projects Art Magazines and Periodicals. Bibliography Handicrafts Supply Houses List of Publishers The author, Mrs. Beeley, a member of the General Board of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, has done some outstanding work in handicrafts at the University of Utah and at the Civic Center. She has studied at home and abroad. Not only will this volume be of great use in our Relief Society organization, but also in the home. Much is being said now regarding The book will be a boon to direct many in the valuable use. Of their leisure time. It will promote family solidarity, for boys and girls and parents can find in it suggestions for hobbies that will bring all together in a common interest. Price $1.50. Room 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City. National Jamboree of the Boy Scouts of America "THROUGHOUT the world countless thousands of mothers have rejoiced that their boys have been privileged to get the benefits that come from being Boy Scouts. We know of no movement which has brought so much joy and such fine training as has Scouting. The Scout Oath is an inspiration to the highest living. |The boy pledges, "On my honor I will do my best— 1. To do my duty to God and my country, and to obey the Scout Law. 2. To help other people at all times. 3. To keep myself physically strong, mentally awake, and morally straight." EDITORIAL The Scout Law enjoins the scouts to be trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, courteous, kind, obedient, cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean and reverent. Holding before the boys constantly this splendid law, plays an important part in the formation of fine characters. In addition to the regular work there are many outings that delight boys. All over the world the boys look to the International Jamborees that bring Scouts from many nations together. Now at the invitation of President Roosevelt there is to be a National Jamboree of the Boy Scouts of America. 30,000 scouts from all parts of the country and from several foreign scout groups will hold encampment at Washington August 21st to 30th. This will be the greatest gathering of boys this country has ever seen. No one has vision enough to foresee the friendships that will be formed during this Jamboree. Our own Oscar Kirkham, who served so efficiently as morale officer in the past two International Jamborees, will serve in like capacity in this gathering. "The broad democratic scope of the Boy Scout Movement will be more strongly than ever impressed upon every Scout's mind; it will make 30,000 Scouts realize what a 447 tremendous thing Scouting is—what a privilege and responsibility is his because of wearing the Boy Scout Badge." "A thousand camps will lie within the area of the one great Jamboree camp. And its setting will be unequalled. One will be able to lift his eyes above this colorful and unique encampment and see the Nation's most revered monuments; the towering Washington Monument, the Lincoln Memorial, the Capitol dome, and the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. Lucky indeed will be the Scout privileged to represent his Troop at the Jamboree, for the camp alone will be an experience he is never likely to forget. It will be many, many years before the boys who are fortunate enough to attend this epochal event will ever again learn of its repetition anywhere, in any country." These boys will enjoy pageantry showing the outstanding exhibits from each of the twelve regions of the United States into which thé country is divided. All eyes will be turned toward Washington during this great gathering. It is to be hoped that the fondest dreams of those who have planned this Jamboree will be more than realized. THE Turkish Government has issued a special series of postage stamps to commemorate the International Women's Congress at Istanbul. The proceeds of this issue will be equally shared by the Government and the International Alliance of Women for Suffrage and Equal Citizenship. The stamps represent the portraits of Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, Founder and President of the Suffrage Alliance and of the six women to whom the Nobel Prize has been awarded: Mms. Curie (Science); Grazia Deledda, Selma Lagerlof and Sigrid Undset (Literature); Jane Addams and Bertha von Suttner (Peace). They also carried symbolic representations of one or two activities of women and also of the Yildiz Palace at Istanbul where the Congress was held. It is claimed that this is the first time that any Government has issued a special series of postage stamps in order to commemorate a Woman's Congress. Lesson Department (For First Week in December) Theology and Testimony LESSON III The Temple at Nauvoo 1. The City of Nauvoo. Nauvoo may properly be regarded as the "miracle city" of America; indeed, of the world. Within a period of five years it grew from half a dozen small shacks into the largest and most beautiful city of the state of Illinois. While it is true that a few other cities equally as large as Nauvoo have sprung up within even shorter periods of time, here the comparison ends. The discovery of gold in western America, for example, has repeatedly brought cities into existence almost over night. Goldfield and Tonopah, Nevada, are good examples. These cities, however, were built by men crazed with the thought of wealth. They were thrown together with feverish speed, each individual trying to get ahead of his neighbor. Gambling halls, pool rooms, saloons, and other dives of vice were among the first to appear. Law and order were largely ignored for the "needs" of the moment. Cities such as these were truly "camps," doomed to disappear after they had served the requirements of the hour. 2. Nauvoo, on the other hand, was built by a people who loved the Lord, and where every ambition was to serve him and bring about a reign of eternal peace. There was no thought of worldly wealth or material gain; each individual was his brother's helper; protected sin and indulgence were unknown; and the city was constructed to remain. 3. The very site of Nauvoo was purchased on long time payments. The saints had recently been exiled" from Missouri, where they were robbed and plundered of practically everything they owned. Many of them were so completely destitute that they had to be transported to Illinois by their friends. But with a courage unknown except to those who are fired by a testimony of the Christ, the Mormon people, impoverished and: almost without food, went fearlessly forward to the building of a city—to be better and more beautiful than anything that had been built before. And right in the midst of the city, and overlooking its principal residential section, a commanding position was reserved for its temple. 4, Within a year after its beginning, Nauvoo had a population of three thousand, and six years later, at the time of the western exodus, nearly twenty thousand. The site was a most beautiful one. The great Mississippi swept around it on three sides in a broad meandering curve. Near 'the river the land was only a few feet above its surface, but toward the east it gradually rose to a height of several hundred feet to the level of the so-called prairie land beyond. The temple was to be built at the crest of the hill, and the city principally below. 5. Asa result of well-planned cooperative efforts, building materials were brought from far and near, and a truly beautiful city appeared, almost as if by magic. The residential LESSON DEPARTMENT section was laid out in rectangular blocks, by streets running principally east-west and _ northsouth. At the close of five years Nauvoo contained hundreds of homes of a type that would grace any modern city, beautifully, substantially, and in some cases even ornately built. It was Illinois' largest city, and without doubt its most attractive one. 6. Earlier Efforts at Temple Building. Already the saints had built and dedicated a temple at Kirtland, in which the Lord Jesus Christ and other heavenly personages appeared. (D. And C., section 110) Probably more spiritual blessings were poured out on the saints in the Kirtland temple than at any other place. This privilege, however, was enjoyed by the people of God for scarcely more than two years, when they were compelled by. The hand of violence to abandon their temple and seek refuge in an unkindly state (Missouri) nearly a thousand miles to the westward. 7. Even earlier than this, and before the temple at Kirtland was begun, the Lord made known that a temple should be reared in Zion, at Independence, Jackson County, Missouri. (D. And C. 57:3) The site was dedicated in solemn assembly but for various reasons, principally the defection of the Latter-day Saints, the temple has not been constructed to this day. The saints, however, look forward with confident hope to its building in the future. 8. Shortly after the Prophet and several of the leading brethren reached Missouri from Kirtland in the early spring of 1838, a revelation was received in which Far West was designated as a central gathering place for the saints and the location of a temple to be built to the Most High. According to divine instruction, the corner stones were placed July 4, 1838. (See D. And C.., 449 section 115) The injunction was also given to re-commence the work April 26, 1839. (D. And C. 115:10; 118:5) Pursuant to this instruction, a number of the brethren assembled at the temple site under cover of darkness in the early morning of the last-named date, sang songs, delivered exhortations, and began the work of laying the foundation stones. Almost immediately thereafter the few saints still remaining in Missouri left their homes for Illinois. 9. Beginning of the Temple at Nauvoo. Undismayed by their enforced abandonment of the temple at Kirtland, and their inability to construct temples at Independence and Far West, the saints, upon arriving at Nauvoo, almost immediately laid plans for the erection of a temple at that place. As early as October 3, 1840, the Prophet, in a sermon delivered before the general conference of the Church at Nauvoo, "Spoke of the necessity of building a 'House of the Lord' in this place. Whereupon it was Resolved: That the saints build a house for the worship of God." (History of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 205) Reynolds Cahoon, Elias Higbee, and Alpheus Cutler were named as the building committee. It was also resolved that work begin within ten days. Ina general epistle to the Church issued under date of January 15, 1841, the First Presidency announced that "The Temple of the Lord is in process of erection here, where the saints will come to worship the God of their fathers, according to the order of his house and the powers of the Holy Priesthood." (History of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 269) 10. Baptism for the Dead. The subject of baptism for the dead was first made known to the saints in a sermon delivered by the Prophet at the funeral service of Elder Seymour Brunson, August 10, 1840. 450 The following statement was contained in an epistle written by the Prophet to the Apostles then in Great Britain: "I presume the doctrine of 'baptism for the dead' has ere this reached your ears, and may have raised some inquiries in your minds respecting the same. I first mentioned the doctrine in' public when preaching the funeral sermon of Brother Seymour Brunson; and have since then given general instructions in the church on the subject. The saints have the privilege of being baptized for those of their relatives who are dead, whom they believe would have embraced the gospel, if they had been privileged with hearing it, and who have received the Gospel in the spirit through the instrumentality of those who have been comnimissioned to preach to them while in prison." (History of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 231) 11. For slightly more than a year after this doctrine was revealed, the saints were privileged to perform the ordinance of baptism for the dead in the Mississippi river, but this was withdrawn as soon as a baptismal font was completed in the Nauvoo temple. Indeed, as early as October 3, 1841, the Prophet announced: 'There shall be no more baptisms for the dead until the ordinance can be attended to in the Lord's House; and the church shall not hold another General Conference until they can meet in said house. For thus saith the Lord.".12. Revelation Concerning the Temple. On the 19th of January, 1841; some five months after the Prophet first announced the doctrine of baptism for the dead, the Lord gave a revelation touching various phases of the subject. (D. And C. 124:25-49) The revelation is particularly explicit concerning the necessity of a baptismal font (verses 29-36). The Lord accepted the location already selected for the temple and promised that he would show Joseph all things pertaining to the house and the priesthood thereof (verses 42-43). He further declared that if the people would hearken unto his voice, they would not be moved out of their place (verse 45). He then made the consoling declaration that when the sons of men go forth with all their might to fulfill the commandments of God, but are prevented by their enemies from performing the work, the Lord will accept their offering and require no more at their hands. (verse 49)
13. Laying of the Corner Stones. Spurred on to the necessity of immediate action by this revelation, the people of the church were quick to respond, and on the 6th day of April, 1841—the eleventh anniversary of the organization of the church—the corner stones of the temple were laid with impressive ceremony. This was a gala day for Nauvoo. At twelve o'clock noon, a procession of fourteen companies of the "Nauvoo Legion" together with two volunteer companies from Iowa arrived at the temple ground and enclosed it in a hollow square. Lieutenant-General Joseph Smith was in command. The interior of the square was occupied by a host made up of staff officers, guards, distinguished visitors, the band, the choir, men, women and children. After an appropriate address by Sidney Rigdon, the architects lowered the southeast corner stone and the Prophet said: "This principal corner stone in representation of the First Presidency is now duly laid in honor of the Great God; and may it there remain until the whole fabric is completed; and may the same be accomplished speedily; that the saints may have a place to worship God, and the Son of Man have where to lay his head." (History of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 329)
LESSON DEPARTMENT
14. Dedication of the Baptismal Font. Thereafter work on the temple must have gone forward at a rapid pace for only seven months later, November 8, 1841, the font was ready for dedication. President Brigham Young was the spokesman. The font is described as oval-shaped, sixteen feet long by twelve feet wide, made of tongued and grooved pine timber, and mounted with a cap of beautifully carved woodwork of antique design. The whole was supported by twelve oxen, their heads, shoulders and forefeet projecting from beneath. (See History of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 446)*
15. The First Temple Baptisms. A most interesting thing occurred on the 21st of November, 1841. At noon of this day the Twelve met in council at the residence of President Brigham Young. At four o'clock they repaired to the baptismal font in the basement of the temple, where Elders Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, and John Taylor baptized about forty persons for their dead. The confirmations were made by Elders Willard Richards, Wilford Woodruff, and George A. Smith. These were the first baptisms for the dead in the temple font. Thereafter from time to time until the saints left Nauvoo, baptisms for the dead were performed in the temple. (See History of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 454) Thus for four and one-half years before the temple was fully completed and dedicated, ordinance work was in progress within it.
16. Completion of the Temple. The work of completing the temple progressed slowly but without marked interruption, and this fact becomes the more surprising when it is considered that as the temple rose, opposition to the church heightened.
*This was a temporary font and was later replaced.
The people contributed generously of both their time and money, chiefly in the form of tithes. A short time before his death, Patriarch Hyrum Smith, acting as one of the temple committee, asked the women of the church to assist by giving a weekly donation of one cent apiece to be used principally for the purchase of glass and nails. It is recorded that the women were so anxious to assist that nearly all paid a year's subscription in advance.
17. But the Prophet and his brother Hyrum were not permitted to see the completion of the building. On the 27th of June, 1844, these men of God were cut down by the assassins' bullets at Carthage, Illinois. The saints, although temporarily stupefied by the loss of their leaders, soon regained their composure and within two weeks work was resumed on the temple.
18. On the 25th of May, 1845, the capstone was laid with impressive ceremony; President Brigham Young was in charge. In October of 1845 the building was sufficiently well advanced that large assemblies were held in it. During the latter part of 1845 and the early part of 1846, many of the saints received their blessings and endowments in the temple, even though the exodus from Nauvoo was already in progress. The temple was publicly dedicated in the presence of about three hundred people on April 1, 1846. By September of the same year it was in the hands of mobs. Meanwhile the saints who had toiled and sacrificed to build it were making their way westward toward a new refuge in the Rocky Mountains. Two years later the temple fell prey to an act of incendiarism and in 1850 its blackened walls were leveled to the ground by a passing tornado. Thereafter it was regarded as public property and carried away.
Suggestions for Discussion and Review
1. In what respects may Nauvoo be regarded as one of the most remarkable cities in America? Why could it not have been built by ordinary people?
2. Have someone describe in detail the conditions under which work was begun on the temple foundations at Far West, April 26, 1839.
3. How do you account for the fact that when the saints were prevented from building a temple at
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Far West, they immediately began one at Nauvoo? 4, Have someone read and explain paragraph 49 of the 124th section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Cite illustrations in which the principle probably applies. 5. Why in your judgment will the Lord not acknowledge baptisms for the dead made outside the temple? 6. Why did the saints continue to work on the Nauvoo temple when they knew they would not be permitted to use it?
Teachers' Topics (For November 1935)
PROVERBS 23:29-32
"Who hath woe? Who hath sorrow? Who hath contentions? Who hath babbling? Who hath wounds without cause? Who hath redness of eyes? "They that tarry long at the wine; they that go to seek mixed wine. * * * "At the last it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an adder." —Proverbs 23:29-32.
"Behold, verily thus saith the Lord unto you, in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation. "That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father. * * * "And.. Again, strong drinks are not for, the belly, but for the washing of your bodies." —Doctrine and Covenants, Section 89:4-8.
FROM a Church standpoint what should be our attitude toward liquor—beer, light wine, hard liquor? From a scientific and health standpoint what should be our attitude toward liquor—beer, light wine, hard liquor? From a public safety standpoint what should be our attitude toward drinking and the operation of high-powered machinery? Railroad companies require all locomotive engineers to be teetotalers. This ruling, together with the fact that railroad trains run on definite tracks, lessens hazards to both those who travel by
Train and to pedestrians who are able to avoid rails and moving trains. What is the requirement, if there is one, regarding drinking and the drivers of public buses, trucks, etc. What is the requirement, if there is one, regarding drinking and the private citizen who drives his own car? The American Business Men's Research Foundation of Chicago, reports that "Liquor was charged with an estimated total of 73,308 motor traffic deaths, or an average of slightly more than 20 a day for the last ten years—1925-1935.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
"But I Only Had One Drink"
"An analysis of 119 automobile accidents, involving the death of 216 persons, made in Milwaukee by Herman A. Heise, M. D., and published in the Journal of the American Medical Association shows that it is not primarily the obvious 'drunk' who constitutes a major road menace, but the 'drinking driver-—the man who thinks he can drive as well after a little nip.
"Dr. Heise found that the alcohol accidents, mostly after little nips, were responsible for injury or death to more than two people per accident, while the non-alcohol accidents involved only slightly more than one person per accident. There is a direct relationship between the severity of the accident and the amount of alcohol; from which the only-one-little-nipper may draw the conclusion that he is relatively unlikely to kill anyone, but may merely maim someone for life.
"Considering a person sober as long as he can still walk and talk is responsible for the small value of present-day statistics regarding the relationship of alcohol to automobile accidents."
(For December 1935)
"He that refuseth instruction (or correction) despiseth his own soul: But he that heareth (obeyeth) reproof getteth understanding." —Proverbs 15:32.
All of us are very well acquainted with our growth physically, but sometimes it takes many years for us to be cognizant of the growth of our own soul. It is rather difficult for us to state exactly when such an inward process took place, but probably by a careful probing of our memories we might discover that a certain degree of growth took place when we received and acknowledged a justified and well-given reproof. It is the mark of the small individual to hedge, to justify, and to condone her behavior after she has received deserved criticism. The broad individual says, "I deserved the reproof; I shall mend my ways," and in thus saying gives her spirit room for further growth and develops her own understanding. The above Proverb deals with the acceptor or receiver of the correction and involves a very definite responsibility as such. Likewise there is a responsibility devolving upon the one who administers the reproof. In order to stimulate proper action the Individual giving the reproof should have some authority of position, or age, or experience to give weight to the correction and certainly the reproof should be given always in the spirit of love and advancement. We have in the story of Job an outstanding example of a man who "was righteous in his own eyes," and when he received reproof from the Lord, acknowledged his own errors by saying: "I know that thou canst do everything, and that no thought can be withholden from thee. "Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore have I uttered that I understood not; things too wonderful for me, which I knew not. "I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear: but now mine eye seeth thee. "Wherefore I abhor myself, and repent in dust and ashes.'"'—Job 42: 2-6.
The last verse illustrates perfectly the attitude of Job in receiving correction. Not only had he advanced his own soul's growth by his acceptance of reproof but his understanding had been greatly enlarged by his trying experiences—his understanding of disappointment, his frustration in life's accumulations, his sorrow in the loss of his immediate family and his personal knowledge of great physical pain. In Job's case not only did he triumph in his growth of understanding but "the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before." That understanding was considered a thing greatly to be desired, and was acknowledged by Solomon when he said: "Wisdom is the principal thing, therefore get wisdom:
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
But with all thy getting, get understanding." Any experience, be it pleasant or otherwise, in which we definitely further the growth of our soul and increase our breadth of vision in becoming a more understanding individual, is not to be shunned.
1. Discuss the steps by which we get understanding after accepting reproof.
2. Why "Happy is the man.... That getteth understanding?"
3. In the administering of correction in the home what is the proper way of procedure for the mother in order for her to retain the love and confidence of her children?
Literature (For Third Week in December)
ADVENTURES IN READING
Soul Harbors
"Men rise on the stepping stones Of their dead selves to higher things." —Tennyson.
Art is man's work as it imitates life—its outward acts, its mental processes, its spiritual aspirations. It is the understanding of life that makes man wise; it is the idealization of life that consoles and sustains man. "The true end of art and poetry especially is like that of religion to uphold the heart with high. Inspiration and consolation." Poets are the torchbearers of idealism.
Soul Harbors. A Vision of the Ideal
Literature has recorded on its pages the adventures of many heroes whose quests have been "the ideal." As gallant knights, as lonely pilgrims, as humble poets they have pressed ever onward and upward. But few knights have found the much sought Eldorado; very few
Pilgrims have crossed the icy tracts to be greeted by the welcome cry "Excelsior"; and fewer still are the poets who have been invited to the court of the king to sing an immortal song. Yet ever and anon dreams and ideals have brought to man the glory that evidences character, "What I aspired to be and was not comforts me." As St. Paul expressed the philosophy of idealism: "But we all, with open face beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory."
Tennyson—His Relation to Modern Life
Alfred Tennyson has been styled the epitome of all that is best in Victorianism. Born in the year 1809, the marvelous year of the English-
LESSON DEPARTMENT
speaking world, the year that Lincoln, Darwin, Edwin Fitzgerald, and Gladstone were born Tennyson participated in the chief events of the reign of Queen Victoria. John Morley speaking of this era says, "A great wave of humanity, of benevolence, of desire for improvement, of philosophical and theological speculation poured itself forth." Science, invention, and a changing commercialism were revolutionizing society. The need of a deeper insight into religious life was seizing the people. Rationalism and Evangelicanism represented the depth and shallowness of religious conviction. F. D. Maurice was attempting to broaden the views of the Church of England, Carlyle was expressing his denunciations against superficial thinking. Dickens was laying bare the iniquities and cruelties of the social institutions, Richard Cobden was agitating for legal reform, in short, all phases of life were in a process of change. Tennyson was the intimate friend of the great men of the age. Deeply interested in the life of the times he wrote upon the burning questions—woman's rights, economics, politics, science, religion. He incorporated in simple yet exalted poetic language the problems of his day. His was the voice of an age— an age when religious faith was being shaken by the progress of science. In a short lyric of singular beauty Tennyson expresses his interest in the contemporary thought of his age:
"Flower in the crannied wall I pluck you from your crannies, I hold you here, root and all, in my hand. Little flower—but if I could understand What you are, root and all, and all in all I should know what God and man is."
Tennyson is the most representative poet of the English people, because of his representation of their strong religious faith, their obedience to law, their imaginative force. And their unyielding cast of mind. From "Claribel" to "Crossing the Bar" he sings of his native land, its beauty and its people, with a patriotism grown of a pride in "its storied past" and a prayer that it keeps its honor "in the parliaments of the world." Matthew Arnold, English critic on English culture states: "It proceeds from the Hebrew mind rather than Greek thought, from the Reformation rather than the Renaissance less concerned with intelligence than conduct." Tennyson then is not only the expression of his age but of his race.
In Memoriam
"In Memoriam," the greatest of English elegies, was written for Tennyson's most intimate friend, Arthur Henry Hallam. The friendship was formed at Trinity College, Cambridge. Arthur H. Hallam was the son of Henry Hallam, a distinguished historian. In the friendship that existed between the two men, Tennyson and Hallam, Tennyson's was the spiritual influence. Hallam's career as a debater was one of great brilliancy in the society known at Trinity College as "The Twelve Apostles." In friendly combat they deliberated:
"On mind and art, And labor and the changing mart, And all the framework of the land."
Naturally, the close friendship extended to the homelife when college days passed. In 1832 Hallam became engaged to the poet's sister Emily before he left for Germany to study law. While at Vienna, Hallam contracted a severe cold which proved fatal on September 15. Tennyson found expression for his personal grief in the poem, "Break, Break, Break'? Composed as he sat near Clevedon Church overlooking the sea where his friend was buried. In Memoriam, as an elegy, is a lyric poem expressing the author's idea of death as it is classified with the great English elegies that have arisen from the valley of the shadow of death: Milton's classical lamentation "Lycidas" for his student friend Edward King, Shelley's musical lament "Adonais" for the poet John Keats, and Emerson's mourning for his little son in "Threnody."' "In Memoriam" is more than an elegy, it is "A song of victory and life arising out of defeat and death; of peace which has forgotten doubt." Together the friends had made a quest for truth, feeling the need of a definite understanding of the truths concerning God and immortality and the vital forces directing every life. The poet works it out alone during seventeen years erecting not merely a spiritual tribute, to a friendship that was wonderful, passing the love of woman, but a lighthouse of hope to guide mankind during the storms of life into a haven of peace. The poem, a series of one hundred and thirty-one short poems, some of them complete in themselves, follows consistently the theme "That love is immortal." The Proem or prologue is an invocation addressing a divine love, immortal, unproven but believed in, pleading for an increased knowledge, and trusting that the intense grief for a lost friend may be understood and forgiven:
"Strong Son of God Immortal Love. Whom we, that have not seen Thy face, By faith and faith alone embrace, Believing what we cannot prove."
Canto 1-8: The path of sorrow attendant upon the arrival of the news of Hallam's death is revealed, the loneliness, the despair, and the desire to pay a tribute to his friend, a monument of verse. Life now seems as colorless as the old yew tree which year by year has stood a stately sentry in the silent grave-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
yard. Canto 9-19: A chorus poem, a. Wonderful lyric describes the homecoming of the body. It comforts the bereaved friend to know that Hallam's body lies in Clevedon Church among his silent and living friends by the seashore loved in his boyhood. Canto 20-28: The poet sings because it is the only way he knows to show his love. In fancy the poet lives again the joys and sorrows the friends shared, knowing:
"Tis better to have loved and lost Than never to have loved at all."
The next thought that occupies the poet's mind is the fact that if love exists after the separation by death, it may be an evidence of a life beyond. The mystic, wondrous Christmas season approaches, pronouncing the message, "Peace and goodwill to men." Happy memories crowd one upon another. A message of hope comes—truth, intuition, and reason denounce such a possibility as this life being the end of all things— love must exist forever. Tennyson now considers the life beyond—is it just a new sphere of activity as that a bride enters when she makes a new home away from the parental roof—or is it a prolonged sleep awaiting the appointed time of awakening, the Resurrection morning. Tennyson can see the necessity of birth "being a sleep and a forgetting.' Faith in God and His ways is the only thing left for the poet. Canto 28-50: The opening poem is a prayer that the friend be ever near him. Human frailty needs so much guidance. Human weaknesses must be overcome to reach the goal God has set for man. Greater comfort comes in this faith in the ultimate destiny of man. Canto 59-72: The difference between earthly and heavenly wisdom is accepted. Imagination leads the
LESSON DEPARTMENT
poet to Clevedon Church, he sees it in the silvered moonlight and in the glimmering dawn. He dreams of Hallam; he sees his troubled look and seems to realize it is grief at seeing his the poet's grief. Canto 72-99: Autumn comes and the anniversary of Hallam's death. The poet laments over his genius and fame lost to the world. Christmas time comes again and with it a new calmness, death has glorified the friend. The poet never returns to despondency again. In the spring he visits Cambridge, the nightingale's note has a sweeter note as the past is lived over and Arthur's spiritual presence is felt. As another anniversary of Hallam's death approaches, Tennyson invokes the spirit of his beloved to commune with him. The poet's prayer is answered in sacred communion with his immortal friend. Again Christmas comes to the poet in a new home. A strong and lofty song of faith is poured forth "Ring Out Wild Bells." It is the same prayer that Paul, the apostle, gave eighteen centuries before in the words; "Till we all come to a unity of the faith, to a knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man, unto the measure and stature of the fulness of Christ." Winter again yields to Spring. The birthday of Arthur Hallam is spent in "festal cheer" this anniversary in singing the songs he loved and with the books he treasured. As the spring strengthens the poet sings not of the past but of "what is to be." To do the work each day brings— to grow—to create—to report back to the Creator with usury. The poem closes in retrospection of his struggles, of the treasures the past conflict has brought him, of the consciousness of a spiritual influence pervading all proving the immortality of Love: "Love is and was my Lord and King." The poem closes with the invocation To Divine Love:
"Our wills are ours—we know not how Our will our ours—to make them Thine.'
The Epilogue is a marriage song celebrating the wedding of Emily Tennyson. A remembrance of the past is given, the living present is noted, and a greater future suggested; the future which is anticipated is in the culmination of a life with God:
"That God which ever lives and loves, One God, one law, one element, And one far off divine event, To which the whole creation moves."
"All great literature has had its source in the rich soil of sorrow."
Guide to Preparation
A. Suggestions for lesson assignments.
1. A vision of the Ideal.
2. Tennyson's Spiritual Quest.
3. "In Memoriam," an Elegy.
B. Suggestions for lesson enrichment.
1. Selections from "In Memoriam.
Guide to Reading
A. "Excelsior." A simple poem by Longfellow expressing the difficulties preceding the glory of conquest. Every youth should know this beautiful poem.
B. "A Man for the Ages'"—Irving Bachelor. A simple novel around the idealism of the great character, Abraham Lincoln.
C. "The Life of St. Francis d'Assissi"—Paul Sabatier. The life-story of this great Christian is told simply in this work.
D. "How to Live on Twenty-Four hours a Day''—Arnold Bennet. England's great novelist gave a practical analysis of activity for sensible living.
The Fourth Tuesday in December is Christmas.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
No Social Service Lesson will be given during this month.
Mission Lessons
HEALTH LESSONS
LESSON III. SLEEP
SLEEP is one of the great mysteries of life. By the turning of the earth on its axis once in twenty-four hours, the darkness of night comes and stops most of our work, and nature brings on us the great restorative spell of sleep. Just what it is and why it comes are mysteries beyond our comprehension, but we do know by experience that it relieves the muscles, and refreshes the mind, and puts -us in a happy condition to meet the activities of the new born day. People who lose their sleep become irritable and inefficient. There is a substance in the brain cells that takes readily the Nissel stain. In this way we can know when it is present or absent. This nameless material is exhausted from the brain cells by worry and work. The fox that has been chased by the hounds is found to have little of it left in his brain cells, while another fox which has had rest and sleep has it in abundance. It seems to be the dynamo of the cell which accumulates with rest and sleep, and exhausts with work and worry. In people who lose their sleep, or have overwork and worry, this material is exhausted from their brain cells as it is from the cells of the fox which has been chased by the hounds. It is restored by rest and especially by sleep. During sleep the body eliminates its waste material which becomes poisonous when retained. While we sleep the blood purifies itself of all the waste materials it has picked up from the body cells during our active hours. Especially in infancy and childhood is sleep necessary for health and wellbeing. " The mother should not fail to see that the baby and the growing child have their full quota of hours of slumber. This may call for some special contriving and it is important that the mother should know how many hours of sleep the child needs at the different ages. For the first year the baby should sleep 14 to 16 hours out of the 24. From two to three years 13 to 14 hours out of the 24. From four to eight years 12 to 13 hours out of the 24. From nine to ten years 113 hours out of the 24. At eleven years 11 hours out of the 24. At twelve years 103 hours out of the 24. At thirteen years 10 hours out of the 24. From fourteen to fifteen years 93 hours out of the 24. At sixteen years 9 hours out of the 24. Different children require different amounts of sleep, the figures given are about the average. A question the mother should ask herself is, "Does the child awaken by himself in the morning refreshed and buoyant?" Adults differ more than children in their requirements of hours of sleep. Some people seem to get on well and keep efficient on four or five hours, others require seven or eight hours. The individual doing heavy physical work will naturally need more. One will naturally learn from
LESSON DEPARTMENT
his own experience how much sleep is necessary to establish complete restoration of his mental and physical faculties, and will have to modify that according to the amount of mental or physical work he is doing. Young children take naps for the first three or four years. After the fourth year children should not be allowed to sleep more than an hour and a half in the daytime because of the tendency to interfere with going to sleep at night. The day nap however should be continued as long as possible. People in advanced years who find the daily grind exhausting will be greatly benefited by an after dinner nap. Such a custom can be readily established with a little effort. It is one of the misfortunes of advancing age that many people develop insomnia, or the inability to go to sleep, and get the necessary amount of repose. People of a nervous temperament are more apt to develop insomnia than others, and it sometimes becomes a serious distressing problem. Those particularly who have to do mental work such as lecturing or teaching may find themselves seriously disqualified on this account. Some people seem to be able to go to sleep at will. It is said of Napoleon that he could lie down any time anywhere and go to sleep almost instantly. Others will lie and toss for hours at a time and be unable to break the chain of conscious thought, even when they know their need of sleep is desperate. There are drugs which cause sleep but they should never be resorted to under any condition without the counsel and consent of a physician. The person who follows the habit of drugging himself to produce sleep will generally end up a dope fiend. The person with insomnia should take no stimulants whatever. Even tea and coffee are very injurious to such a person. Here is a place where the Word of Wisdom applies with a vengeance. Regular hours to bed and to rise are important. A hot bath and a glass of hot milk on retiring are each sedative and will have some beneficial effect. The sleeping room should be in a quiet part of the house. The noises from the street when the bedroom is to the front are often sufficient to disturb a nervous subject of insomnia and prevent sleep. I have known such a person to get on much better about his sleeping when he moved from a busy to a quiet street. In severe cases of insomnia the patient should be put to bed and treated to some form of rest cure, with massage, electricity and ample feeding.
Questions
Just what does sleep do to refresh us? Explain the Nissel staining material in the brain cells. What is it that exhausts it and replenishes it? How does the blood purify itself while we sleep? Give the hours of sleep each child should have in the 24 from the first year up. How many hours of sleep should an adult person have? What about daily naps for the baby? And what about after lunch naps for the adult? What should we do for insomnia?
Dry Farmer's Wife By Vesta Pierce Crawford
No leafy tree hangs down her head To shade my door; No stretch of shaven lawn is spread Beyond my kitchen floor.
There is no streaked flaming glow Of flowers in my yard, No mottled pansies bedded low— My days are long and hard.
Here life is etched in starker plan To mirror earth's torn face; Yet beauty spreads her age-old span Within this arid place.
And here in cedared hills I've seen The dry and barren sand Transformed in waves of shining green Across the rugged land.
I love shadows on a plowed field And sunlight on the wheat; 'My brown arms grasp this cosmic yield Where dawn and desert meet.
Sing Me to Sleep By Bryce W. Anderson
Small was I, and frightened, My step unsure; Strange the world, and far too large, Your hand alone secure. Body tired by age-long day Slow to bed would creep: "Mother, Darling Mother! Sing me to sleep."
Sure was I, unblushing, With youth's bold face; Dwindling world now far too small, Far too commonplace. Yet my wild, rebellious heart At night would weep: "Mother, Patient Mother! Sing me to sleep."
Tired am I, so tired Of life's mad swim— Spinning world I could not stop Twilight-hazed and dim. Anguished yet for silent rest My heart burns deep: Mother, Angel Mother! Sing me to sleep.
What is in a Picture?
RECENTLY I took occasion to say to my Sunday School class, that one of the late pictures of President Joseph F. Smith portrayed more of the real characteristics of the Christ than any picture of the Master, done with pen or brush. President Smith by his long life of pure aspiration, noble thinking and devoted service wrought into the lineaments of his countenance a blending of patience, kindness, purity and benign dignity that gives almost a divine luster to his best photos. The fine spiritual serenity and chaste womanly grace, reflected in the picture on the front page of the daily paper the other day, of the General Officers of the National Relief Society, gives me the same exalting delight in the thought that human lives can be made almost divine in their purity, peace and power, by the sanctifying spirit of truth and the ennobling influence of consecrated service to God and humanity. Ralph Waldo Emerson's conclusion is profoundly true:""A cheerful intelligent face is the end of culture and success enough." —N. J.
BENEFICIAL LIFE'S IDEAL HOME POLICY SERVES THE NEEDS OF AMERICAN CITIZENS
HOLDS TOP PLACE AS THE IDEAL HOME PROTECTION PLAN—AND OF COURSE IF IT'S BENEFICIAL, IT'S GOOD!
HOME OFFICE, SALT LAKE CITY
HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK JR., FIRST VICE PRESIDENT DAVID MCKAY, SECOND VICE PRESIDENT AXEL B. C. OHLSON, SECRETARY LEO J. MUIR, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT GEORGE J. CANNON, SECOND EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH, DIRECTOR E. T. RALPHS, DIRECTOR ORVAL W. ADAMS, ASSISTANT SECRETARY
The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Volume XXII AUGUST, 1935 No. 8
The University of Utah
If You Are Interested in preparing for a profession or merely in pursuing some special course, there will be no better time to begin your work than Fall Quarter 1935-1936.
The University of Utah affords ample opportunities through a broad curriculum and with fine equipment for a wide choice in academic and professional fields.
THE LOWER DIVISION Two years of college work, providing a proper background for further study in the field of your choice:
ARTS and SCIENCES MINES and ENGINEERING EDUCATION MEDICINE BUSINESS LAW GRADUATE WORK
THE EXTENSION DIVISION
Fall Quarter 1935-1936
Registration of Freshmen, September 26, 27. Registration of Upper classes, September 30. Regular class work begins, October 1
PREPARE NOW TO ENROLL
A copy of the new catalog will be sent free upon request.
Address, The President University of Utah SALT LAKE CITY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Saving Ideas
Our advertising ideas are always intended to save money for our customers. Also, it will pay you big to become one of our regular customers.
O. P SKAGGS System
Service Above All "A Surety of Purity"
PROVO OGDEN PRICE PAYSON MANTI
DESERET MORTUARY CO.
Silver Leaf Poplar Dairy PURE JERSEY MILK T. R. Taylor Phone: Hyland 1309-W
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXII AUGUST, 1935 No. 8
CONTENTS
The Grand Canyon..................................................Frontispiece Memorials.....................................................Alberta Huish Christensen 461 Eluding the Tragedy of Old Age..................................Edwin F. Parry 463 Growing Old Beautifully.......................................Artemesia Romney 465 Unless You Become as a Little Child........................Marguerite Johnson Griffen 466 If Every Child................................................Eva Willes Wangsgard 471 Not Bread Alone...............................................Elsie C. Carroll 472 My Proof.....................................................Gladys Wood Randall 476 Ma Pritchard................................................Dorothy Clapp Robinson 477 A Wish for Tomorrow..........................................Grace Zenor Pratt 480 Guides in Buying Textiles....................................Vilate Elliott 481 Little Bridge...............................................Blanche Kendall McKey 484 The Blue Envelope...........................................Estelle Webb Thomas 485 Help Me to Stand the Test.................................Terrance Sylvester Glennamaddy 490 Happenings..................................................Annie Wells Cannon 491 We Meet the Jonses..........................................Mabel S. Harmen 492 The Women's National Radio Committee........................... 493 Think Twice................................................Bertha A, Kleinman 494 Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life.....................Lella Marler Hoggan 495 Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest................................ 497 A Banner for Three..........................................Virginia B. Jacobsen 498 Foreshadowed Grief.........................................Merling Dennis Clyde 500 Ma....................................................Carrie Tanner 500 Ownership..................................................Helen M. Livingston 500 Notes From the Field.......................................Julia A. F, Lund 501 Pilgrimage, Old and New....................................Amy M. Rice 506 The Pilgrimage of Seven and Seventy Sisters................Annalegone Davis Patton 507 My Son....................................................Julina Green 507 Editorial—Go to Sacrament Meetings.......................... 508 A Great Need............................................... 509 Magazine Drive............................................. 509 Whiskey at the Steering Wheel.............................. 509 Lesson Department.......................................... 510 Magazine Drive............................................ 525 The Great Danger.......................................... 527 Second Coming............................................ 528
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
NORGE OWNERS SAY Rollator Refrigeration SAVES up to $11 a Month TERMS AS LOW AS $5 PER MONTH GRANITE FURNITURE CO. 1050 EAST 21st SOUTH
HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS FROM FACTORY TO YOU We Solicit Your Mail Orders
No. 88. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style $0.65 No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style 1.10 No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double Back 1.35 No. 81. Heavy Wt. Old Style Double Back 1.50
No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles $0.85 No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt.. Men's and Ladies' New Style 0.85 No. 85. Very Special Non-Run Garments—Guaranteed—Not To Run Rayon. New Style Only. Special 1.10
We Mark Garments for 10 cents Specify when ordering, your bust, trunk and length, whether new or old style, and if men's or ladies', We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States.
MOSE LEWIS SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Always Leading the Way DESERET BUILDING SOCIETY becomes the First State Association in Utah to qualify as a Federal Savings and Loan Association under the name of Deseret Federal Savings and Loan Ass'n More protection and greater liquidity for our Shareholders Under Supervision of the U. S. Government Write us for information about Safety For Savings
44 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
For Healthy Happy Children Serve Fisher's 'Vitamin "D" Bread to your family every meal. Each delicious slice supplies energy and the extra Vitamin "D" every growing boy and girl needs to help build better teeth and sound bones, Order from your neighborhood grocer.
A product of the AMERICAN LADY BAKING COMPANY
FISHER'S Vitamin "D" BREAD
A NEW EUREKA MOTOR-DRIVEN BRUSH LIGHT—EASY TO HANDLE AGREEABLY QUIET
This sensational new Eureka with motor-driven brush is designed to meet the requirements of those who desire a motor-driven brush but recognize the necessity of "High Vacuum" (powerful suction) for the thorough removal of embedded dirt.
Unnecessary weight and awkward size have been carefully avoided. It is quiet—agreeably quiet.
The demonstration! It is spectacular — sensational — thrilling. Embedded soda fairly "'boils'' from the rug. Sand dances— how it dances! Surface litter — lint, hair and threads — are instantly removed by its motor-driven brush.
This new Eureka cleans faster—cleans better.
$5.00 Down—Balance on Easy Terms Phone for Demonstration
Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. Salt Lake City, Utah
YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY WORK— WILL BE MORE ENJOYABLE AND MORE EFFICIENT If You Have the Necessary Books
DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS COMMENTARY. Price, $4.00. Special to Relief Society Workers $3.00
ROSS, CIVIC SOCIOLOGY... By Mail $1.75
HANDICRAFT FOR EVERY WOMAN, By Glenn Johnson Beeley. By Mail..........$1.50
With each order for all three books, accompanied by cash, received before October 1, 1935, we'll send without charge a copy of "HER MOTHER'S DAUGHTER," By A. W. IVINS Regular Price 50c
DESERET BOOK COMPANY P. O. BOX 958 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
177 East Broadway Phone Wasatch 4764
Memorials
By Alberta Huish Christensen
In memory of a heart long decades stilled, The toiling people a memorial build, And seek, in tablets of cold, speechless stone, To snare a spirit that from earth has flown.
A spirit that has scorned its living cell, In lifeless cobbles they expect to dwell.
For one whose deeds were great, whose heart was free, The half-remembering mortals plant a tree, And hope that when its leafy branches sway Some hint of his repute they may convey.
For one beyond both temporal death and birth, A mortal tree is rooted fast in earth.
Thus do the multitudes forever try New life on earth to find for those who die, And while they slave, with ever-crumbling clay, With wood and stone, that perish in a day, Their hero's trophies move unnoticed by— His sons, in whom his soul can never die.
THE GRAND CANYON Zion Studio
The Relief Society Magazine
Vol, XXII AUGUST, 1935 No 8
Eluding the Tragedy of Old Age By Edwin F. Parry
WITH many people old age is a tragedy. Naturally, advancing age brings infirmities that may not be overcome and have to be endured. These infirmities lessen the earning powers of the individual, and financial troubles increase his distress. But these are not all the afflictions that confront one when growing old. Many there are who have never conquered their childish fits of bad temper and irritability. Because of this their ill-natured disposition is augmented with the years, and they become unbearable to their families and near friends, and also to themselves. These causes, or either of them serve to make old age unpleasant to endure.
FORTUNATELY, the calamity of old age may be minimized if precautions are taken early enough in life. Observance of the Word of Wisdom—taking proper care of the body—will insure a degree of health throughout life. Saving and laying aside means earned in early life may help with financial problems. Self-mastery and the cultivation of a pleasing personality will enable one to grow old gracefully, free from self-inflicted annoyances. Among other means of warding off the calamities of age is the acquiring of a hobby, or taking up some study to employ the mind during spare time for with many the tragedy of age is the lack of something to do. Some years ago a retired mechanic in Salt Lake City made this remark: "I find it hard to employ my time each day. I read till my eyes are weary, then I take a stroll and walk till my feet and limbs are tired; and still the day is far from its close! What else I can do to occupy the time except to occasionally converse with friends, I am at a loss to discover." This man's family had grown up and married and moved away. His wife had departed this life and he was alone. He had means to supply his wants, and lived at a boarding house. His health was good, and he had been accustomed to active service at his trade up to the time of his retirement. Now he had no responsibility and no work—no chores even about the home. Once he was a man of cheerful disposition; but now he was despondent. Life was a burden to him. In past years he had never prepared for old age. But on the suggestion of a friend he found something to occupy his time in a most agreeable way, and the more he did the greater was his joy. He engaged in temple work and became a regular worker on the days when the temple was open. What a glorious blessing it is that people in our Church can engage in such pleasant activity to keep themselves occupied! If such work as is performed in the house of the Lord were of benefit only to those who participate, it would be of much value because of the joy it affords them; but that is only incidental. The real, unselfish object attained— that of service to others in need— is of far greater import. Another incident might be mentioned. Though similar to the above, it is a sadder one. It is the case of a railway man retired on a pension. He lives with his family, and while he is not lonesome he is very restless, and knows no remedy for his ailment. He is without a hobby, cares but little for reading, is not spiritual-minded, does not attend religious meetings. He walks and rides about, sometimes taking excursions from his home and visits friends; yet this is not enough to keep him contented. His condition is really alarming and gives his wife much concern. It is the result of neglecting to cultivate studious habits and give attention to religious obligations in his youth. Some people, to pass the time, resort to card-playing. No man or woman of our Church need do this. There are Church activities for all ages of both sexes. Men can find uplifting work in their priesthood
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
callings, and women in the Relief Society and other organizations. This is another evidence that the Church is equal to the task of bringing salvation to its members, both temporally and eternally. Women are more _ resourceful than men in the matter of finding something to employ their minds and hands. Being more in the home, they have acquired habits of industry of a varied character. To avert the tragedy of old age one ought to look ahead in early life and prepare for the inevitable handicaps of later years. A sense of humor is an admirable help to anyone when troubles overtake him. Those who do not possess this gift may acquire it by cultivation. Let them look for the funny side of their misfortunes and laugh at them. They need not take their trials so seriously, for they may be only momentary; and often they are just imaginary. Two women were working side by side in a factory where they were employed. Some apparently disagreeable work fell to their lot. Upon viewing it, one woman broke down and sobbed. The other laughed. Both attacked the job and the good-nature of the one gave courage to the other and soon the trouble was at an end. Whether one's old age is happy or tragic depends largely upon himself and the preparation he has made to meet it.
NON-SMOKING TOURISTS PLEASE TAKE NOTE!
Members of the state legislature of North Dakota were desirous of repealing the law of the state which forbids smoking in restaurants and places where food is served, but were unsuccessful in their attempt. An exchange states that "brave Governor Walter Welford vetoed the bill and there is one state where one is not annoyed with tobacco smoke while eating." —The Union Signal.
Growing Old Beautifully By Artemesia Romney
Yet in the heart of every mother there is a burning desire to appear beautiful, in spirit and mind and body, to her husband and children and_ loved ones. I believe every mother experiences one of the deepest thrills of motherhood when her tiny boy or girl lisps a few words which tell her that he thinks she is "beautiful." But every mother is aware that with the advancing years she must inevitably lose her physical charms. Every woman knows that she must face the problem of growing old, so she asks, "How can I grow old beautifully and wisely?" One author has said, "To know how to grow old is the master work of wisdom, and one of the most difficult chapters in the art of living."
THE Relief Society Organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints points the way, and has given us a perfect plan to follow if we would grow old beautifully and wisely. For growing old beautifully means beauty through the development of spirit and soul. The Relief Society plan teaches and idealizes service, unselfishness, intelligence, culture, education, self-sacrifice, charity unbounded, love, forgiveness, cooperation, spirituality and countless other attributes which, if adhered to, lend beauty to soul and body. This organization chooses the best from the maze of this world's knowledge, and plans it for our use. If we will follow where this knowledge leads we will find our minds unfolding as beautiful flowers grow and unfold in a garden. For proper development the garden of our minds must be fed sunshine and moisture, and the tiny sprouts of our knowledge must be well cared for and tended. We must always remember that the weeds of gossiping idleness can so easily grow until they have choked the flowers and the beauty of our garden is lost. If we will but live intelligently and serenely our life's garden will be filled with flowers of unselfishness and inspiration and the meaning of this author's words will be made clear. "Old age is the time for learning the relationship of the past and present and future. It is the decorative age when, like the autumn leaves, life may take on its glory." A woman at the age of eighty years attracted everyone she met by her beauty and cheerful disposition. She was visited by many children, young people and old people who came to talk to her. One day she was asked by one of the visitors how she managed to keep so young and beautiful after such a long and strenuous life. She replied, "When I was young I was privileged to visit an Art Gallery in France and saw there the portrait of a beautiful woman. I thought, "What a marvelous piece of art, and how wonderful it would be to be able to do a piece of work like that.' But I knew that I could never accomplish such a feat, so I said to myself, 'I'll live a life so that when I grow old I'll be beautiful in mind and spirit and people will love to come and visit me and look at me."' May the ideals of our Relief Society Organization inspire in us a desire to grow old as wisely and successfully as the master painting of fame inspired the woman of Paris.
Unless You Become as a Little Child By Marguerite Johnson Griffin
THE afternoon had lengthened into a premature twilight. The skies were overcast, and rain pattered drearily on the window pane. Edith Ashton, looking out upon the wet pavement and drenched lawn, sighed wearily. "Will this rain never cease? How melancholy a rainy twilight makes one feel, and it's not yet time for twilight, either. It makes one feel queer, as if all were not quite right." Her hands lay with a relaxed weariness in her lap. Her eyes stared on seeing nothing, while her mind battled against a feeling of depression, of impending trouble. Children's voices in the street focused her vision upon existing realities, and she saw her own little nine-year-old Doris, her curls bobbing and her face smiling, dash joyously up the steps. "How carefree is childhood; no worries, no sorrows, nothing but gaiety, joy,' she mused. The front door opened and eager steps brought the daughter before her. "Oh, mother," the child cried, her face abeam, her cheeks flushed from exposure and from excitement, her eyes dancing like sparkling dewdrops. "I'm so happy that Daddy said I could go to the beach with my Primary class. And tomorrow is the day, too, isn't it? And just think! I've never even seen the ocean, and it's only a hundred miles away. Sister Snyder says we can get there in about three hours in cars. Mother, have you ever seen the ocean?" "Yes, dear," the woman answered quietly. "Quite a long time ago." "What's it like? Does it really make a dreadful roar?" "Yes, indeed. It—" "And when you're in the middle can't you really see any land?" "Oh, no. You can't see any land when you're in the middle." "I can hardly wait to go. I've never seen the ocean only in the movies, and—" she was checked by a vehement sneeze. "Doris, go at once and change your clothes. You are wet through. And gargle your throat while you're at it. If you are not careful, you will catch a bad cold and not be able to go at all." Edith's sharp mother-eyes saw the child's face pale and her big eyes widen in a look almost of terror at this fearful possibility. "No, no," she cried. "I will change all of my clothes. I'll gargle my throat. I mustn't get a cold. I've just got to go, mother. I've never seen it. I'd die if—" "Never mind," said the mother reassuringly. "If you take precautions, I am sure you will not get sick. Don't even think about it, dear." The child ran away to do her bidding. "I didn't realize what that outing means to her," thought the woman. Perhaps childhood is not so carefree after all. Perhaps she would feel as keenly about that as a grown person who had been promised a trip around the world, and at the last minute was deprived of going. Perhaps, after all, the sorrows and troubles of childhood are as great as the child can grapple with. But then, nothing will keep her from going to
UNLESS YOU BECOME AS A LITTLE CHILD
the beach," she smiled with satisfaction, "for tomorrow is the day."
THE child's cheerfulness had in a measure dispelled Edith's gloom, but now that Doris had gone upstairs the old foreboding returned. Her eyes again sought the rain-drenched street, and almost immediately her husband's figure came into view. The sight of him caused her to start. Where was his buoyant springing step, his cheery whistle? Where were his alert eyes and happy smile? Why did his shoulders, usually so erect, droop as if a weary load weighted them down? Why did his head, usually held high, hang with dejection, while his eyes sought only the walk before him? Why did his feet, usually so light, move as if bound by leaden weights? "Something is wrong!" seemed to whisper in Edith's ear. The door opened, and with it was wafted in a spirit of despair. There was no cheery call, no alert steps seeking first of all her whereabouts. She waited, and then she went into the other room where he was. "Paul," she murmured in dismay. He only looked at her. A nameless fear smote her as she scanned his face. All the lights of happiness were gone from his brown eyes. The nostrils of his nose were slightly distended and he breathed hard as if he had run a great distance. Only she knew he hadn't. At least not recently enough to cause him to still be breathless, for she had seen him walk slowly home as if pondering some weighty matter. But what chilled her most of all was the bitter line into which his lips were tightly set. "Paul," she repeated again, "Paul, what is wrong?" Still he stared at her. But she imagined that her concern for him had softened the bitterness of his eyes. Suddenly he crushed her to him. "Edith," he almost sobbed. She stroked his dark hair comfortingly as a mother soothing a hurt child. After a time she said softly, "Tell me what is wrong, Paul." He stepped back from her, and again his face filled with bitterness. Almost between clenched teeth he said, "I've been swindled out of that money Dad left me, and by a member of your church." His words sent a chill of panic through her veins. Was he forgetting that he had joined her church voluntarily five years ago? Taking his hand she led him to the davenport. "Sit down here," she said softly, "and tell me all about it." "Oh, Edith," he began impulsively. "You know what that money coming in these times meant to us. It meant something for a rainy day. For an emergency, and if not needed for that, then for Doris' education." His calmness left him. "And now it's all gone. Gone as completely as if it had never come." He paused, but she said nothing. Instead she tried to understand, and waited for him to go on. "Brother Morton sold me some worthless stock." "Stock," she repeated, her senses numb. Before this she had thought only of Paul, had been worried because of his terrifying expression, but now she was beginning to realize that the money was gone. The money that had made them feel secure against any emergency. And now it was gone. Gone was their security against unemployment. Gone were all hopes for a higher education for their little daughter. They could never in a life-time with Paul's salary save the amount Dad had left them, and much less could they do so in these times. "And he's a member of the Church, too." Paul's voice was dull and lifeless. Yes, he was a member of the church—Brother Morton—she could hardly believe it. "But how—" "Oh, it would have been different if I had asked him or been searching for some stock to buy," he explained. "But he had heard about us getting this money and he came to me and told me this stock was the best I could buy, that I should use this money to make money. And of course you know I have never taken enough interest in stocks to know much about them. He acted as if he were doing me a special favor by selling me this stock and he, being a member of the Church, I accepted his word with confidence. That was several weeks ago." "And you told me nothing about it?" "Well, I thought I would surprise you when we got our first dividend. But today I heard some fellows talking about this particular stock and how they had sunk money into it some time ago and now it isn't worth the paper it's written on, so I took it to the bank to make sure. I found out." He paused. "It's worthless," he finished in despair. "No wonder Brother Morton left town last week," Edith mused. "You bet,' exploded the man. "The dirty swindler! He knew what was best for him." His fists were clenched until the white showed through. "I'm done with a church whose members do things like that." A pang of terror smote her heart. The money was forgotten in her mind. What was money in comparison to the fact that Paul was embittered against the church, Paul, a member of only five years?
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Dear. Father. In Heaven," her soul cried out. "Help me to say something to show him his mistake, to soften his heart." "Paul," she said gently, while her whole body trembled and her pulses raced. "You have always been so fair about everything since I have first known you, and now when you say 'a church whose members do things like that'—If you will stop to think you will know that is very wrong. Why in every organization to which human beings belong there are always people of all kinds. But where you find one dishonest person, there are many good ones." His eyes were still filled with bitterness although he listened patiently. Panic filled her heart. Could nothing she might say convince him? "Even in the lodge you belonged to before you joined the Church— and your lodge stood for honesty, love, brotherhood, and the fine things of life, too—still there was that man who swindled people. It was in all the papers. It is unfair to censure any organization for the acts of one of its members." "But a church should be different than a lodge," he interposed stubbornly. She countered quickly. 'When it comes to things like that you know yourself, Paul, people can't be made over in a hurry. Some have a weakness for money. They will stop at nothing to get it. No church can force them to abandon their wicked ways. It can only teach, exhort, and persuade. People do not always do the things they know they should, or even the things they tell others to do. They—" Doris came running in, unaware of the serious problem at hand. Her clothes were changed and dry. Her eyes were bright with anticipation.
UNLESS YOU BECOME AS A LITTLE CHILD
"See, Mother. I have no cold, but I gargled anyway. Oh, Daddy!" She jumped upon his lap, showering him with kisses. In the face of that his bitterness fled momentarily. Edith was relieved. Soon the child paused to exclaim, "Daddy, just think! Tomorrow I am going to the beach with my Primary class, and I have never even seen the ocean yet. I can hardly wait." "You are going to the beach with your Primary teacher?" the man asked as if he had forgotten all about it. "Yes, Daddy. You know you said I could a long time ago." The child's face was radiant. "It's only a hundred miles, and Sister Snyder said we'll get there in three hours in cars. I can hardly wait. Daddy, does the ocean—" "You're not going!' the man barked, his chin set determinedly, his eyes flashing. The little girl's face went deathly white. Her eyes grew wide with perplexity. "Not—not—going—" she stammered. "You heard me!" her father answered sharply. "I'm not going to have a daughter of mine go anywhere with a teacher of a church that—" But he left the rest unsaid, and with a face flushed with anger left the room. The mother's heart ached. To think that her husband who had always been so kind and considerate, who in reality thought the world of little Doris, would allow his trouble to make him cruel to the child. Yes, cruel, for the girl's lips were quivering, her misty eyes were wide with dismay, as if she could not understand. "Mother," she said slowly. "Can't I really go? He didn't mean that!" "I guess he did, daughter." How she longed to tell the child she could go any way. There had been no fairness in his edict. Yet she could not, for they had always been united where Doris had been concerned. One had never contradicted the other. "Never mind, darling," she said, patting the girl's sunny head. "We will all go some day." "Some day," repeated the child bitterly. "I want to go tomorrow. I've never seen Daddy so mean," and with a sob she rushed from the room.
PAUL scarcely ate anything that night. It was only because of Edith's "Oh, don't you like my roast? It always was your favorite, you know," and "You're not eating a thing" that he ate anything. Edith could tell that if he had given in to it, he really felt like crying. It was a hard blow. Edith felt it, too, only she was too much concerned with what effect it would have on Paul. She had known two or three persons who had become embittered by the actions of other members of the Church to such an extent that they had let it almost ruin their lives and deprive themselves of many blessings they might have had. May nothing like that happen to Paul. No amount of gold is worth the forfeiture of spiritual wealth which thieves cannot steal. It is the individual himself who has the power to rob and cheat himself of those treasures. Doris did not even come down to supper and Edith did not try to coax her, but a little later she took her up a glass of warm milk. Paul was very sleepless that night, tossing and turning until a late hour, and Edith, as she too lay quietly awake, yearned to comfort him but knew not what to say or do. At intervals, from the adjoining room, she could hear Doris' heartbroken sobs, and a little later when she had cried herself to sleep, she could hear her deep weary breathing intermingled from time to time with a long drawn sigh.
THE next morning Paul went early to his work. His face was drawn and slightly pale. Edith yearned to comfort him, but she said little. It being Saturday, she did not awaken Doris, and the child slept until almost noon, for she had grieved so late the night before. But today she was her usual happy self. Edith marveled at the change. "Mother, can I make some more of that fudge that you showed me how to make last week?" "Indeed you may," answered Edith, eager to let the girl do something to make up for her disappointment. "I've got a pretty candy box," Doris went on, "and I'd like to fill it full for Daddy and give to him tonight, 'cause he liked it so well before." Edith continued to marvel. Did the child feel no resentment toward her father? Had she forgotten so easily? In the middle of her candy-making, she paused to say wistfully, "Well, I guess they're all there, having a good time, by now." So Edith knew she hadn't forgotten, that she would never forget that incident nor the pain she had felt, but she had forgiven. That evening Paul found by his plate a box of home-made fudge with a slip of paper in the top on which was written in a childish scrawl: "I love my Daddy." Paul generously appreciated it, but Edith knew he had been too engrossed in his own trouble to sense the full significance of it. So after Doris had gone
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
to bed, she felt the time had come when she could speak. 'Paul, do you realize what a bitter disappointment it was to Doris when you told her she could not go to the beach today?" "Well, I can't help it," he said resentfully. "Brother Morton swindled me. He belongs to your Church, so Doris can't go there any more, or even to the beach with her Primary teacher, or to anything connected with it." "Forget that a moment, Paul, and think how disappointed Doris was. She has never seen the ocean. She had looked forward to going today for three weeks." The man's face softened. "I guess it did hurt the little kid, all right." "She ate no supper and cried half the night." His eyes widened. "She did? Gee, I'm sorry, poor kid. I guess I was too engrossed in my own trouble to notice." "Do you realize, Paul, that her pain over that was as keen as yours over the worthless stock?" "Oh, no—it couldn't be." 'Yes, it was," she insisted. "It seems nothing to you, but remember she is only a child. It was as hard on her as your experience was for you. She suffered just as much." "Maybe there's something in that," he said thoughtfully. Then a sudden wave of bitterness swept over him. "Well, what of it? What connection is there?" "Just this. If she had taken her sorrow as you did yours, she would be bitter. She would hate you. She would hate everything you are connected with, perhaps everything you have given her. But she did not do that. No, she forgave. She will never forget. Always she will remember the disappointment and pain she felt, but she will not condemn you. She forgave. She made you
UNLESS YOU BECOME AS A LITTLE CHILD
the candy and wrote, 'I love my Daddy.' Can you do less than a child will do?" "But I am her father. It is easier for her to forgive me," he protested. "No, it isn't. If anything, it might be harder, at least according to your own words. You are her father. She would not be expecting you to hurt her, even as you would not expect Brother Morton to be dishonest with you since he belongs to the Church. There is no difference as I can see." "Well, I guess you win the argument. I can say nothing to that. But Brother Morton is gone." "Yes. But if you truly forgive, you will not let it make you bitter. You will not censure the Church for what one man has done." "But I wouldn't trust him again. I wouldn't buy any more stock from him," he said vehemently. Edith smiled as if speaking to a small child. "I wouldn't expect or want you to, either," she said. "You will never forget, even as Doris never will, but you can forgive even as she has. You know the scriptures say, 'Unless you become as a little child you cannot enter the kingdom of Heaven'." Later that night Paul stole into Doris' bedroom and gazed lovingly at her peaceful sleeping face. Then he stooped and gently kissed her. "Poor little lamb," he murmured, and through his mind this phrase kept singing: "Unless you become as a little child—" What greater goal is there for a man to work for, he thought. A child is humble, forgiving, loving, expects no evil from others, does no evil to others, is trusting and pure. It is said that Satan cannot tempt little children. If one would truly become as a little child he would place himself above and beyond temptation. He chuckled. "Here I am preaching to myself. Never mind, little Doris, you and I and Mother will go to the Primary conference tomorrow night as you asked us to."
If Every Child By Eva Willes Wangsgard
This thought came with the waning light: If every little child at night Could have a sweet clean trundle bed And soft white pillows for his head; If love and his own mother's hand Could tuck him in and understand His wants and needs, and sympathize; If all our mother-love were wise; If he could waken every day To food and warmth and happy play In cheerful room where sunlight falls, Would we have need of prison walls?
Not Bread Alone By Elsie C. Carroll
III
LINDA closed and locked the door of the little church. She drew the collar of her coat up closer about her face and pulled her hat more firmly about her curls. She should have brought an umbrella, she told herself, for it had looked like storm since morning. Now the ground was covered with snow and white swirls enveloped her as she walked to the front of the building and started up the street. She had always loved winter, and a white world for Christmas had seemed an essential part of the great festal holiday. But snow was beginning to have disagreeable connotations for her. The house was never comfortably warm when it stormed, and there was the unpleasant dallying of the men before getting out to their chores on snowy nights and mornings. The constant tracking in of mud and wet onto the bare kitchen floor was irritating, and Mrs. Bowers' rheumatism was. Always worse in bad weather. Then day before yesterday, Henry and Thad had gone to Mendon, three hundred miles away, to try to sell some cattle to pay delinquent taxes. If it snowed hard they'd have trouble getting back over the ridge the other side of the basin. Linda had felt that Mel, instead of Henry, should have gone on this trip. It seemed to her that Henry was always given the hardest end of the work. But when she had intimated as much to him he had spoken sharply, upholding Mel and inferring that he himself should do more than his share since there were two of them sharing in the home and Melville was only one. This had hurt Linda. She knew, too, that Mrs. Bowers resented the fact that she spent considerable time giving music lessons and being so much away from the house, particularly since most of the lessons were to children of parents who couldn't or wouldn't pay for them. Effie, however, who bore the burden of the housework, had repeatedly assured Linda that it was all right, and that she was not to worry. Linda had tried to do her share of the work, but she found it difficult to fit into ways so different from those to which she had been accustomed, and it was a relief to get away from the home some of the time.
SHE had had the piano moved to the church a few weeks after it came. Mrs. Bowers had complained about the noise of it, and she didn't like the children to whom Linda had volunteered to give lessons, coming to the house. So Linda had gone to the minister, Mr. Stone, and asked if he wouldn't like to have the piano in the church. She had already started working to build up a choir for him. That gave her a good reason for wanting the piano where it would help. He was delighted, and gave her a key so she could go any time she chose to give lessons or to practice. Henry had not liked her taking the piano away. He complained that she would never be at home. But she had laughed at him, and had tried to be at the church in the main while he was busy in the fields or at the barn. But more and more she
NOT BREAD ALONE
was being torn by the conflict growing out of her love for her music and the attitude of Henry's folks. Sometimes she wondered if it would have been better not to have got the piano. But when she realized all that it meant to her and of what she was beginning to give to this starved little community, she knew she could not give it up—at least not unless conditions became much, much worse. Today she had been practicing with the children in connection with Molly Wheeler, the young inexperienced school teacher, a cantata to be presented on Christmas Eve. She had been away from home all afternoon. It was almost dark now, but she dreaded to go back. She hoped Henry would be home. If he didn't come tonight she would lie awake worrying for fear something had happened, or that he and Thad were caught in a storm the other side of the ridge.
LINDA loved Effie, but found little companionship with her. Effie's misfortune had warped a beautiful personality. She had been made to feel that her sin had brought everlasting disgrace to her family, and that she was in a measure, the cause of her mother's unhappiness and ill-health. She had drawn within herself as within an impenetrable shell, and: had more and more become the silent drudge in the household. Linda often wondered what was going on in Effie's inner world, back of her dark, baffled, unrevealing eyes. She had tried to find a way to enter that world, but so far, Effie had kept the door locked. In quiet little ways, however, Henry's sister revealed her devotion to Linda, and did everything in her power to save her from the little wounds of her mother's complaining tongue and Mel's domineering ruthlessness. Linda had never felt at ease with Mel. The way he looked at her at times made her afraid of something she never tried to analyze. But she avoided him as much as she could. Little Dicky was her one source of absolute satisfaction. They were pals from her first day. He let her help him with the airplanes he was constantly making, and he loved music and practiced by the hour when his grandmother would let him go to the church. But his little twisted legs were so bad at times that he must be in bed for days. He was having one of his bad spells now. Linda crossed over to the store to buy a few pieces of candy to take home to him. When she entered the kitchen (the kitchen was the living room in the Bowers home) she knew by the sudden hush in the group about the stove, that she had been the subject of their conversation. This had often occurred before, but Linda, who has not been feeling quite herself for several days, now felt more than usual irritation. However, she tried to control her feelings. She took off her things and hung them in the hall saying as casually as possible, "I was hoping Henry and Thad would be here." She stood by the stove, warming her hands before going to the cot where Dicky lay. "They probably won't be here for a day or two," Mel said. "Ike Lacy says three's three feet of snow on the ridge and it was still piling up when he came over about noon." Mel was looking at Linda with that bold, intimate expression in his eyes which always caused the blood to rush to her face and made her turn from him with a strange fear. "That's terrible," she said as she walked to the other side of the stove. "What will they do? They aren't prepared with enough bedding and food.". "It will be tough all right,' Mel agreed, shifting his chair so he could still look at her. She went to the cot and bent over Dicky to show him what she had brought. "If they couldn't sell the cattle," Mrs. Bowers was saying in her high, plaintive drawl, "no tellin' what will become of us. They'll be sellin' the house from over our heads for the taxes." As was her habit at the close of nearly every sentence, she took out her handkerchief and wiped her eyes. Effie sat in a corner near the cot, silently knitting, never lifting her eyes as the others talked. The room was close and there were the mixed odors of food and manure from Mel's boots. Linda suddenly felt sick and dizzy. "Aunt Linnie, tell me a story," Dicky pleaded, as she straightened and reached for the back of a chair. "I want a drink,' she said and started toward the water bench. She had been troubled with dizzy feelings for several days, but now she was nauseated. An unbearable repulsion for the room and everybody in it swept over her. She felt that she couldn't endure it another hour without Henry. She must get outside for a breath of air. But before she could reach the water or the door everything went black and she felt herself swaying toward the floor. When her mind cleared she was in someone's arms. At first she thought it was Henry holding her close against his body; then she looked up and saw Mel's face above her, and that look she hated in his eyes. She freed herself, asking bewilderedly, "What happened?" "You started to faint,' Mel answered. His voice was strange and husky. Effie brought her a drink
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
and put a damp cloth to her head. As Linda sat sipping the water she suddenly became aware that Mrs. Bowers was staring at her in a queer way. Mel went outside, calling over his shoulder,. "I'll walk up the road a ways and see if I can see them coming." There was a moment of silence then Mrs. Bowers spoke. "So that's what's the matter is it? I've been suspicionin' as much for days. Well, I don't know where we're goin' to git money for doctor bills—and another one to feed—" "Ma!" Effie cried in a voice Linda had never heard her use before. She was bending over Linda as if she would shield her from the other's shafts. "Let me help you up to your room. And I'll fix you some warm gruel before the others eat." Linda was in bed all the next day. Every time she lifted her head she was dizzy and nauseated. Effie brought her broth and weak tea. She sent word to Molly Wheeler that she couldn't come to practice, but for them to go on without her. Henry and Thad did not come that day or the next. Lying there hour after hour Linda imagined all the things that might have happened to them. This kept her from sleeping when she did feel free from dizziness. About ten o'clock on the morning of the twenty-fourth, Effie came up to tell her that the mail driver had got over the ridge, (there had been no mail the two days before) and that he'had camped with Henry and Thad the previous night. They were bringing part of the cattle back, but he thought they would be home that night. This news made Linda so happy she immediately declared that she was all right and started to get up. She felt somewhat weak but her
NOT BREAD ALONE
head was much clearer and she told Effie that she was going at two for the last practice with the children. The cantata was to be presented that night. "Do you feel like you ought to go," Effie asked with a concerned look in her eyes. "I really must go. I'm all right now. You've been such a good nurse—I'm only a little weak."' She began putting on her clothes. "But—but you know what is the matter with you, don't you?" Effie asked without looking directly into her eyes. Linda seized her sister-in-law's hands and turned her about. "Not what your mother said the other night?" It was strange how in all the unpleasant confusion of the night she had fainted, the implication of Mrs. Bowers' words had not registered-upon Linda's mind until this moment. Effie nodded. Linda hugged her and laughed and cried in a new joy. "Oh, I'm so glad, Effie! So glad! Then suddenly she sat back on the bed, remembering Mrs. Bowers' words. No money for doctor bills —another one to feed. But even that did not kill her happiness. Henry would be glad, too, and perhaps they could find some little place to live by themselves. She went on with her dressing. "I really do feel fine,' she told Effie who still hovered, trying to help and plainly worried. "If you do, then the fresh air and the change will be good for you. I'll fix you a bite to eat and bring it up here. You'll feel weak when you try to come down stairs." She started from the room, then turned half way back and said hesitatingly, "You mustn't mind—what Ma says. She can't help it." Linda reached over and lifted Effie's rough hand to her lips. "Effie, you're a darling. What would I do without you?" The other hurried from the room in confusion.
HENRY and Thad still had not come when Linda returned from the practice. She disliked to be away when they did return, but now she knew they were safe, she felt that she couldn't do any thing but go on with the cantata. There was no one else who could play the piano and conduct it. Molly had been able to help with the singing and the staging, but the performance could not be given without Linda. The church was packed. This was the first musical program ever to be given in Cedar Basin and every one was excited, the children who were taking part not more than their parents who had come to see them. Reverend Stone had been wonderful in his encouragement and co-operation. He had helped with scenery, and had decorated the church with Christmas trees and bright red and green streamers, giving the place a genuine holiday air. Linda sat at the piano and played the performance through, feeling somewhat as if she were in a dream, so mixed were her emotions. There was her concern about Henry; her happiness over her secret she had to tell him; and her thrills and amusement at the various things that happened as the program proceeded. As she watched the children and realized what this experience was meaning to them and to their parents, she forgot the ugly kitchen in Henry's home, and the complaining voice of his mother and all the petty irritations of each day. And _ she glimpsed a vision of what she might do for this starved community if she could only keep that idealism her uncle said she had inherited and not let the petty sordid things of life blur her view. As the curtain was about to be lowered on the finale, Linda found herself breathing a little prayer. When it was all over, she was tired, but she knew there had been few moments of such complete happiness in her life as she had experienced tonight. She couldn't wait to share it with Henry and to write it to Uncle Peter.
WHEN she reached home Henry and Thad were there. They were eating supper, their damp coats and blankets draped on chairs about the stove. Henry got up as she opened the door and came to meet her. He had not shaved for days and his eyes were bloodshot from the snow. When he took her in his arms, the memory of that moment when she had found herself in Mel's arms swept over her, and for an instant she shuddered and drew back. "What's the matter? Aren't you glad to see me after all this time?" Instantly she recovered herself and drew his face down to her lips. "Of course I am, darling. I've
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
been sick with worry about you." "Your sickness wasn't all from worry about Henry,' Mrs. Bowers said significantly, looking from Linda to Thad. Linda was glad Mel was not in the room. "Ma!" protested Effie from her corner near the cot. "Have you been sick?" Henry asked with concern. "Not very," Linda answered giving Effie a grateful look and clinging to Henry's hand. "I'll tell you about it later. Now I want to hear about your. Trip. It must have been terrible. Later, after Henry had bathed and shaved and they were in their room preparing for bed, Linda reached for Henry's hands and locked them about her neck. "Now I'll tell you what your mother was trying to tell you down stairs. We're going to have a baby, darling." She looked up at him, waiting for the gladness she knew would spring into his eyes. But it did not come. Instead his fingers unlocked and he stood staring at her. '""'No—no!—we can't have anything like that happen—not now!" (To be continued)
My Proof By Gladys Wood Randall
Does God love me? If you could see The loveliness He gave to me, All plump and pink and white and new; Eternal love light shining through Her baby eyes, as heavenly blue; If you could hear her infant lips, So tenderly carved by God's own hand, Gurgling wordless words of love That none save I can understand. What more could I ask of God above? What more would I need to prove His love?
Ma Pritchard By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
A SWIFT gust of wind rattled the tin roof of the cook shack and sent a flurry of snow flakes driving hard against the window pane that rested above Ma Pritchard's work table. Ma was rolling out pie dough but her troubled eyes watched as the eager flakes formed a tumbled heap on the sill. "Anyway it's a beautiful storm, Jim," she said consolingly to the boy who leaned against her table." His rebellious eyes sought the small window. 'Yeah? Well, even beauty gets tiresome sometimes." "Bill told me," Ma continued unruffled, "that even if he has to close down for a while he intends keeping you on." "Yeah?" eagerly this time. "Yes, so even if you lose four or five days' wages it—" "It's not the wages that worries me," he interrupted, 'even if I shall need every dollar I can get the next two years—it's this storm. I'm not a bear and I'll stagnate if it keeps up much longer." "If that's the worst you do," Ma thought to herself, as she scraped her board with a knife kept for that purpose. Not for nothing had she been cook with the Clawson Construction Company for twenty years. She knew—how well she knew what the trouble was—knew equally well how hard it was to fight. Aloud she said. "Have a piece of pie, Jim. Nothing like a full stomach to chase away gloom." Grumbling he took the knife she proffered, but used it with dexterity. Yet, even the cutting of a second piece after he hastily gulped the first failed to bring a smile to Ma's face. Action — companionship is what youth always wants. Boys came often to this place; and shortly went away men—men that sickened the heart of her. This boy was different and desperately, as a Mother-heart can, she wanted to keep him so. To keep that clear straightforward look in his blue eyes. Finishing the second piece of pie Jim crossed to the opposite window. Through the storm he could just see the outlines of the Big Tent. From the corner of her eye, Ma watched. She didn't need the sound of coarse laughter to tell her that in the Big Tent De La Rosa and his wily daughter were holding high revelry; welcoming the storm, challenging loneliness, raking in with greedy hands the men's hard earned dollars. Just thinking of them made Ma burn inwardly. ""She's a cute kid, don't you think so?" Jim demanded, knowing Ma's aversions, and contrarily wishing to refute them. "Cute!" Ma bit the word. 'Cute, yes, that describes her exactly. She—" "Oh, I know what they are," he interrupted. "Camp parasites, living on what the others own. I have kept away from them because—well, that sort of thing doesn't interest me ordinarily; but when there's nothing else to do, there's no harm in going in or even playing a game or two, is there?' The last came defiantly. Ma chose her words carefully. "Perhaps not—but after the first letting down the rest comes easy. You know—embrace where we once abhorred—" He seemed to scarcely hear her and presently when she was lifting pies from the oven he went out.
LATER in his own tent Jim's restlessness increased. All the books and magazines the camp afforded had been read and re-read. He had written to every one who had the least possible claim on him as a correspondent. An unfinished letter to his Mother lay on his rudely constructed table. Outside the wind whistled and shrieked. Occasionally the tent strained at its moorings only to fall back with a sudden thud. The tin roof of the cook shack protested loudly at every rising gust. Yet, above the beating of the storm, came the raucous whining of a phonograph; and now and then a voice raised in laughter or anger. Jim stepped outside. Through the wind-swept night dim lights flickered from two or three tents. Huddled together the men were making the most of their vacation. The light in the big tent held his eyes. "Cards, booze, and women," he muttered softly, "an unholy combination, yet—I think I'll look on a While." In challenge to his thought from behind him came a call borne on the wind. "Jeem—oh—Jeem." '""Who-oo." From the gloom a shrouded petite figure flung its self toward him. Eagerly he reached out and grasped her arm. Panting she rested against him. "'Thees so bad storm makes me to lose myself," she laughed. Her slight accent in no wise lessening her appeal. Echoing her laughter he reassured her. "Never mind, you are safe now." Yet wondering vaguely how she came to be "lost" in that direction. "I must not be lost again. Come weeth me. Bad boy, Jeem," she added slyly, "to stay alone thees bad
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
days; Come." She laid both hands on his arm in a gesture that was strictly Dulce's'. Presently Ma reading beside her work table heard the youthful gaiety of their voices above the storm and her heart gave a great bound. Trust Dulce to find a way! Dulce and that strong limbed, clean souled boy! Stepping to the door as they passed she asked casually: "That you, Jim?" "Yes," he answered gaily. You want something?" "Nothing much—if you are busy —only you promised to explain them little pamphlets—"' The Mexican girl gave her shawl a warning throw. By the light of the open door her black eyes defied Ma's troubled ones. "Would you have time now?" "Why—I—I," he began but the girl spoke quickly. "No, no. Can you not see he is engage?" "You come in, too,' Ma invited. "We could pop some corn or—" Dulce's hilarious laughter cut her short. "Vamoose, Ma. Chase your face away weeth your corn. See, I am now his dulce carrison. Is it not so, Jeem?" She added the last boldly, pressing closely and laughing challengingly up at him.
So Ma turned back to her table alone. To hide the hurt and gain control of herself she began singing in her soft queer way. Jim heard and because he was unspoiled he felt embarrassed and ill at ease. He knew what Ma wanted—and when before had he refused to explain "them little pamphlets"? But the pull on his arm was strong and he went on. Dulce pulled aside the tent door and they stepped in. Jim stopped short blinking in the light.
MA PRITCHARD
The room was blue with smoke; and stale with the pungent odor of frijoles, tobacco, whiskey and unbathed men. At a table a group of them huddled together. Others were sprawled about, cursing—disputing loudly, snoring drunkenly—one was making love to Dulce's slatternly ~ Mother. "Hey, Jim, come get in the game," someone called. De La Rosa left his place by the card table and came forward smiling sleekly; the rubbing of his hands together was meant to be joyous welcome, to a close observer it might have meant gloating victory. Dulce's soft hand tugged at his arm. "Come," she urged, but he still hesitated. Outside was the storm; inside, warmth, gratification. For the fraction of an instant the scene changed and incongruously he was back in the old First Ward Meeting House. The windows were open and June's fragrances and June's subdued murmurings lifted his already elated spirit. He had just been ordained a deacon and the awe of it was almost heart-breaking even to his twelve self-sufficient years. His father's hand found his and his understanding voice whispered: "Remember, Son, wherever you go now, you take the Priesthood with you." The Priesthood! That which had glorified Abraham, Moses, Elijah— given as an honor, a privilege, a Liahona to his stumbling feet—and he would carry it into this vile place! Jerking loose from the girl's clinging grasp he turned and ran blindly out into the storm. MA couldn't sleep. She turned and tossed restlessly. She would put that boy out of her mind and go to sleep. Anyway he was only one of hundreds that entered this life for a brief fling and then 47 were gone; but her eyes refused to close. Why hadn't she thought of some way to save him? That Dulce! But then, she reasoned, the world is full of Dulces. Later he'd be older tho' and circumstances perhar wouldn't be so compelling. Pleadingly she prayed: "Dear Lord, why need there be a first time?" Sick with apprehension she arose, and going to the door of the tent, looked out. The storm had at last spent itself and the night sparkled frostily. An immense white silence hovered over the hills; enhancing a last-quarter moon that hung low in the west; and vieing with the radiance of innumerable stars. Ma's eyes saw nothing of this white glory. They saw only the big tent. The light within, though dimmed by the sparkling scintillation of the snow threw the shadows of the men in silhouette against the canvas. A sob trembled on Ma's lips. They were still at it; and it would be the old, old story. She, who had seen so much of drinking, and gambling, and Dulces could still have a heart break when one more boy was caught in their meshes. She dropped the door flap—then flung it hastily back. Over the brow of the nearest low hill a lone figure threshed its way, heavily, wearily, toward camp. The shoulders drooped, but it was a tired droop; tired, from battling with clean elements. In fearful suspense, Ma watched until he entered the right tent. It was Jim. There hadn't been that first time. Crawling back to bed Ma smothered her sobs of gratitude that life was still clean and God watchful in her pillow. BREAKFAST was over and the men gone when he rushed pellmell into the kicthen not many hours later. 480 "By George," he exclaimed boyishly, "I almost forgot to wake up. No, I haven't time to eat—but I wish you'd ask the Boss to mail this letter—if he's going for supplies." Ma took the letter unashamed of the tears that fell on it. "It's all right, Ma,'' he assured her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Of course it's all right,' she smiled through her tears. "I saw you come in." Humbly he bent and gave her two kisses. "One for you," he tried to speak lightly, "and one for her to whom this letter goes. Thank God it carries assurance, not confession." A Wish for Tomorrow By Grace Zenor Pratt I would that after death, I'd find that other sphere So like the world I know, it will but seem That I have just awakened from a dream.... And waking, found familiar scenes, more fair. For I would find a strangeness in that land Without the mountains with their shadows deep; The azure sky above some rocky steep; I trust that heaven may savor some of earth. I would that after death, those things I love.. The swaying trees, the music of the surf, The desert's silence there afar... The emerald turf... The flaming sky; all these to see and know. I would that grief and sickness, death and sorrow too, May find no place to wring our hearts with pain, Nor tears shall need to dim our eyes again, And perfect day shall follow perfect prayer. And after silence, may I find friends, true; That no sharp word or veiled cruel thrust Shall come to break the bonds of love and trust. That friendship's pledge be ever strong and true. And one more wish; the dearest of my heart... That I shall find you there... All you, I love, And earthly faults shall lightly fall away. A perfect peace come to our hearts to stay; No farewell spoken there forevermore. I would that in Tomorrow's distant land We find old gardens; flowers wet with rain, White terraces, the oe of the sea.... The distant hills of blue.. So dear to me; And you to greet me when our work is done; May I hear vour voice there, and touch your hand. Guides in Buying Textiles HOW TO RECOGNIZE THE GOODS DESIRED By Vilate Elliott III ONE of the household buyer's most perplexing problems is that of judging or evaluating the qualities of the goods which affect its usefulness and discovering which goods are best in proportion to price. Beyond inspection, experience, and testing, the household buyer in evaluating quality may rely on general market aids such as the repute of the dealer, the advice of clerks, or price. Or she may depend on advertisements or trademarks, or utilize standards or labels wherever they are available. Some clerks are able and willing to assist the household buyer. Others wilfully mislead, or are no more expert than the buyer in judging quality. Many household buyers rely on price as a guide to quality. Such reliance is founded on the belief that cost of production determines price, that better quality costs more, consequently it has a higher price. It would be much safer for the household buyer to assume that the seller is interested in getting as much as he can for his goods whether quality is superior or inferior and that, unless she can recognize quality, the price may be high even though quality is very low. A high price may be asked in order to appeal to a certain income group. Some people, for example, consider that they can afford $10 or $12 shoes. They look on that amount as a measure of quality. Anything less would not be considered. Consequently some retailers may have to mark up their prices in order to make sales. Inferior goods are sometimes disposed of in this way. If goods are described in standard terms the household buyer may more readily discover satisfactory goods. Fictitious variety will disappear. Goods can be compared, and so she is more likely to get the best value for her money. The buyer will be able to judge quality independently; she will not have to rely on repute of the dealer or on brand name or price. The use of standards or labels brings other advantages. Price competition is keener. Chase describes the advantages of standards. "The buyer knows exactly what he is getting; the manufacturer knows exactly what he has to produce. Competition must then descend from the cloudy heights of sales appeals and mysticism generally, to just one factor—price." But it is a common belief that the good is distinguished from the poor by price, that quality or general excellence is in proportion to the price. This may or may not be true,—there are many other factors that determine price, supply and demand, the style or fashion, the house from which it was purchased, and numerous other points. There are people who will not buy unless the price is sufficiently high to justify confidence in its having quality. ''When Bayer's patent for aspirin ran out, a well-known American firm of manufacturing chemists introduced its own make of aspirin. Bayer's aspirin was selling for from 79c to $1.00 per hundred. The rival product was distributed to retail stores at a price which permitted them to sell it for 39c per one hundred 482 but it would not sell, the stores were forced to increase the retail price before the public would have any faith in the new product." CASH AND CREDIT THE human race has an extraordinary capacity for getting along without things which it believes it needs; it also has an equally extraordinary appetite for things where it is under no restraint. Cash—at least the parting with cash or the lack of cash—provides restraint. It is said a man will order a more elaborate dinner at his club, where he can sign the check and not pay until the end of the month, than he will in a restaurant, where he must pay the waiter before he gets up from the table. The man may be just as certain to pay his club bill promptly as he is to pay the hotel waiter—but somehow there is a difference. The habit of paying cash is a silent partner that is a real factor in the success of many a home. Furthermore, in trading with cash stores there is a definite saving on prices. Stores which allow credit to any of their customers must fix their prices to cover the cost of extending credit. However, the charge account has certain advantages. It makes unnecessary the carrying of large sums of money, as well as waiting for change; the charge account identifies the shopper as an established customer of the store; it simplifies matters when purchases are being returned for exchange or refund. But putting your shopping on a cash basis exerts a healthy restraint against over buying. SHEETS AND PILLOWCASES WHEN you buy sheets and pillowcases, what are your guides? Do you put price or quality first? And how do you judge quality? Sheets and pillowcases are RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE standard household cottons; you have a right to expect service from them. But their length of life depends on the quality of the fabric as well as the care you give them. As an aid to consumers in judging the quality of sheets and pillowcases on the retail counter, some manufacturers are putting labels on their goods. To be ideal such a label should give the thread count, tensile strength, weight, and amount of sizing. It should also give the length and width and tell whether the sheet is a first or second, also if the material is pre-shrunk. If you are buying sheeting by the yard, ravel out a thread and break it, and note its strength. Untwist the fibers, see if they are short and fuzzy, fibers vary from one-half inch to one and one-half inches, your sheet should be made of fibers at least one inch long. The better grades of sheeting are made of medium or long stapled cotton. The thread count of a fabric is the number of yarns per inch both warp and filling; for example, a 72 by 68 thread count means 72 warp yarns per inch and 68 filling yarns per inch. A good sheet has a close firm even weave. You can get some idea of the evenness of the threads by holding it between yourself and a strong light and noting how the warp and filling threads look. Another indication of wearing quality in a fabric is its tensile strength, the private consumer has no way of measuring its tensile strength but other factors will help to note this quality. If a sheet has defects in the yarn and the weave it is a "second" and should be so labeled. It should be sold at a lower price than a first. These flaws are the weakest part of the sheet. Some flaws affect only the appearance and not the wearing quality. If you know you are buying a second and are sure the defects GUIDES IN BUYING are not serious it may be an economical purchase.. Sizing is the starch and other materials used in manufacture to give sheeting a smooth finish. Some sizing is necessary on the warp yarns to keep them from breaking in the loom. "Pure finish" means the minimum amount of sizing. "No weighting" indicates that no heavy materials, such as china clay, were used. The weight of a sheet minus the sizing is a measure of the amount of cotton you are buying. There are good, durable sheets made in many different weights. Low weight may mean less wear. Sheets that are very light in weight and loosely woven always wrinkle, are uncomfortable to sleep on and do not look well on the bed. On the other hand too heavy sheets are cumbersome to handie, and if you are paying to have your laundry done by the pound, they run up the laundry bill and are not economical in the end. They are also more difficult to launder at home. On a high quality sheet the hems are closed at the ends and evenly turned. The stitching is fine and even and is fastened securely, if they are hemstitched the work is done neatly and durably. Hemstitched hems tear off more easily. Than stitched ones. Know the size of sheet before you buy. Remember the length labeled on a sheet is before hemming, then in all probability the sheet will shrink some even though it is marked preshrunk, also notice if the label is marked “torn" length, if it is, the sheet was torn with the thread of the goods, and the sheet will stay true after washing and have straight flat hems. For general household use sheets should be from 99-108 inches long, torn length; for myself I prefer the 108 inch length, this will allow "a generous tuck-in and an ample fold TEXTILES 483 over the top bedding. This fold is necessary, it protects the quilts and blankets from soil and saves laundry bills, the width of sheets for double beds should be 81-90 inches. A sheet that is too small to be tucked in well under the mattress is a poor investment, as it does not hold firmly in place. If it is too short it will not fold down over the bedding thoroughly. Again it should not be too narrow or the selvage edges will be curled and wrinkled each morning. Your sheet after hemming and laundering will probably measure 8 or 9 inches shorter than the torn length as that amount is taken up in hems and shrinkage for even though it is marked pre-shrunk it will shrink some. When you buy sheets you select them according to your household needs, your preferences, and your pocket-book. You may want heavy durable muslin to withstand the wear and tear of romping boys or you may be looking for the softest. Smoothest fabric you can afford. Whatever you want, you need definite facts as a guide to buying. A good illustration of the kind of facts you need is furnished by the government's specification for the sheets it buys. These are minimum specifications drawn up to meet the requirements of a government hospital or some specific use. They may not descrihe the type of sheet you want, but they suggest the kind of information that should be furnished you on the labels of the sheets you see in the stores. Practically all the tests for quality in sheets hold good also for pillowcases. Pillowcases are in fact made of sheeting woven in tubular form or in narrow widths. Pillowcase tubing is easier to make up, and does away with the possibility of a puckered seam: Also with tubular casing, you can 484 rip the end seam and remake the case so that the hardest wear comes in a new place, and this gives longer service. As with sheets the fabric for pillowcases should be torn, not cut, and the hems turned evenly so they will iron flat. The stitching should also be well done and even. It is always wise to have the case a little larger around than the pillow. Too tight cases are under a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE strain when the pillow is flattened down and soon break. The Federal specifications for pillowcases call for the same weight, count of threads and breaking strength as for sheets. The hems are three inches wide, straight and flat. A good average width is 42 inches, the length is a matter of personal preference, however a yard is a good length, this gives a three inch hem. (To be continued) The Bridge By Blanche Kendall McKey I see it trail beside the sun-mad brook, A little shining path that gleamed like gold, Or like a silver thread beneath the moon When the day was old; Violets, far deeper than the sky, Looked up and smiled, or drooped their heads in sleep; And, oh, the wind it crooned of mystery. And what the calling years would bring to me! Cities alive in splendor and pride, Cities as dead as their pomp that passed; Stately vessels that breathed on the tide, Like white-sailed dreams that never last; Sorrow and greed and treachery, Laughing eyes that mocked at me; Glad warm hearts and friendly hands— And ever the lure of distant lands! What a quest, wherein we seek and never find— Rainbow hopes that fade into the sun! Real worlds, dream worlds, and worlds where Science delves, You have failed me all—but one: Alluring little path beside the sun-mad stream— Stretching from my childhood to the very core of me— Because of tender: memories and love that still persists, Your winding meets the skyline, where starts Eternity! The Blue Envelope By Estelle Webb Thomas NNE would never have A thought another thing about it if Richard had not acted— well, so sort of furtive. She had never opened a letter addressed to Richard, with the exception of bills, and would have thought him inexcusably rude if he had opened one of hers. Not that they ever held secrets —she always read any bits she thought might interest him between crunchy bites of toast or sips of cocoa and he usually, after a brief and concentrated perusal, tossed his across the table with a brusk, "Want to read it?" and never thought of it again, unless it was a business letter, until she forced him to answer it. But this was different. She had noticed the blue envelope among the others when he had brought in the mail, and had meant to ask about it, but there had been for her one of Aunt Jane's long, complaining epistles and by the time she had waded dutifully through it, Richard had done the strange thing which made it impossible for her to ask. Looking up absently from Aunt Jane's long list of symptoms to supply Dicky's imperative need of cream, she had seen Richard quietly slip the letter in the blue envelope into an inside coat pocket and ostentatiously pick up a second letter and break the seal before she could ask about it. Such nuances in behaviorism meant nothing to Peggy, however, and she said, with her mouth full of oatmeal, "That's a pretty letter, Daddy, who sent it to you?" Richard, too deeply absorbed in his second letter, made no answer, but Peggy persisted, "Was it a lady, Daddy? Was it a pretty lady wrote that pretty letter?" "Eat your oatmeal, Peggy, if you're going to walk to the corner with Daddy, and don't disturb me when I'm reading!" Richard spoke in that authoritative tone Anne had so often admired in the Carsons and tried vainly to emulate, but this morning she was not thinking of Richard's admirable parental control, but was wondering, even as Peggy, who might be the writer of the mysterious blue letter. "Mysterious!" she thought, with a smile for her own foolishness, "How dramatic I am! It's already mysterious!" But she rather hoped he zvould mention it before he went. LL the morning, as she went, more or less automatically, through the daily routine, she was conscious of it, a faint irritation in the back of her mind. Once when Peggy, asking the same question for the third time, said plaintively, "What's the matter, Mother, you don't talk?" she answered, with a rueful little laugh, “I suppose I've got the envelope blues, Peggy!" and contritely kissed the bewildered little face. At noon Margaret telephoned to ask if she were going to Cousin Sara's quilting. 'You know she expects us promptly at one." "Oh, Margaret!" Anne laughed guiltily, "I'd forgotten!" Margaret's tone was chilly. "You always do, Anne. That's why I phoned. You must bring the children over here, as usual.. They'll be all right with Janice. And for pity's sake. Don't be late! You know 486 this is the big event of Cousin Sara's life!" "Oh, yes!" As if Anne didn't know as well as Margaret, all about poor shut-in Sara and the quilt, which was bestowed with so much pomp and ceremony the following Christmas on one of the relatives who gathered each twentieth day of March (Cousin Sara's birthday) to help quilt it. These two occasions, the making and the giving of the quilt were indeed the big days in Cousin's restricted life. The gossip, the laughter, the little birthday gifts, the sly guesses as to the lucky quilter and her own coy secrecy together with the dainty refreshments always provided by faithful old Mary at four o'clock—the inevitable birthday cake, all its tiny candles blazing, dignifying the center of the tea-table, all this was touchingly familiar to Anne. She had just forgotten that this particular day was the twentieth of March. She had been so preoccupied—with a shrug she mentally consigned the annoying blue enveloped letter to the waste basket and hurried Peggy and Dicky with their lunch while she made a swift but careful toilet, for it was one of Sara's mandates that they must all come "dolled up in their best bib and tucker" it made it seem more like a party. ARGARET was waiting with visibly controlled impatience when Anne arrived with the children, although there was ample time for the short drive to the old homestead where Sara lived alone with her faithful Mary. Anne, who always diminished in Margaret's presence, felt at once like a charming and important person at Cousin Sara's reception of her and she mentally resolved never again to forget her hostess' "Day." All the female relatives, "natural and legal," RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE as Richard put it, who lived anywhere near were present and the room buzzed with the lifted, excited voices women unconsciously assume on such occasions. Anne, flatteringly attentive to Cousin Sara's chirping monologue with smiling glances for fat Aunt Sabra's wheezing interruptions, was suddenly conscious of a staccatic conversation in progress behind her. "Phyllis Thornton." "Who? Not—" "Yes, the Phyllis Thornton. You certainly remember her! Why, Richard was crazy about her! She was—" "Sh-sh-sh!" Anne's ears reddened. She could almost see the nudge and nod toward her. She gave a gay little laugh. "Well, you certainly were a little flirt, Cousin Sara, you deserved what you got!" Cousin Sara laughed proudly, "Oh, I kept them guessing!" "heard from her this morning." Anne had lost a little of the other dialogue. "And she's actually coming back here! Whatever for?" "Lecture tour. This town is in her itinerary, she says. I imagine she had it put in for old time's sake. We never have lecturers." "What's she lecture about?" "Oh, you know she's quite a famous Interior decorator! After Rich—after they broke off—" the voice was discreetly lowered," she went to New York and took up decorating. They say she's one of the best—" It was Anne's turn at the quilt, now, and as her flying fingers took tiny, even sticthes in the "Colonial Rose" design, her flying mind was putting two and two together and making a great deal more than four out of the addition. Phyllis Thornton. Of course she had heard of Phyllis Thornton. To THE BLUE ENVELOPE be perfectly frank she had heard more than she relished about Phyllis Thornton. To be sure, Richard had not unduly sung her praises, but Margaret had made sure that the new teacher, when Richard's attentions became marked, realized that her predecessor had been something to live up to. "She was wonderful, Anne, so beautiful and talented! But she just wasn't domestic-minded enough to please Richard." Anne had later suspected that the rejected Phyllis had been just a little too strong minded to suit either Richard or Margaret, the Carsons preferring a corner in that -trait themselves. But now she was gone Margaret insisted on strewing her memory with lovely bouquets at every opportunity. Even Richard had said, with masculine fatuity, that she was the prettiest girl he had ever seen, and though Anne made no great pretenses to beauty, that speech rather jarred. Still,. It had never occurred to Anne to be jealous of Phyllis Thornton. In the first place Anne did not believe in jealousy. She thought it a very ignoble emotion and had a fine scorn for women who suffered its pangs. She had always felt it an insult to Richard to doubt the faithfulness of his love—she still did —but why did that woman have to come to Centerville? Centerville had no use for Interior decorators. It was hardly out of the golden oak age. _ Anne, furiously quilting, could picture just how sophisticated and well-groomed the beautiful Phyllis would look. "I suppose her hands never touched dish-water! Wonder if they'll meet her with a_ brass band!" And then, with an almost physical stab there shot into her consciousness the memory of the blue letter! Frances had "heard from her that morning." Had Richard? Had 487 Phyllis actually written Richard to tell him she was coming to Centerville? And instead of tossing the letter to his wife with a laugh for the nerve of the woman, he had furtively pocketed it and said nothing! But perhaps it was something entirely different. Would an interior decorator use such lurid stationary? Anne had an insane impulse to shout at Frances across the room, "Was Phyllis' letter blue, Frances?" But she laughed instead, and Margaret looked affronted, for she had just got to the cost of the floral decorations at John's grandmother's funeral. "Why, Anne, you've pricked your finger! Here, take my handkerchief, you mustn't get a spot on that delicate white block—Cousin Sara would have to give it to you then, for sure!" Anne smiled mechanically and allowed her finger to be tied up. Smiled some more and laughed a great deal as she nibbled the things Mary handed her, though she couldn't have told five minutes later what they were. "THAT was what hurt, she thought dully, going home in the car with Margaret. The way Richard had acted. You never could tell what a silly woman might do, but one did expect a certain course of action from one's husband. She had thought she knew Richard so well! As Margaret prepared to get out of the car she plunged the knife in deeper, "Oh, by the way, Anne, Frances tells me that Phyllis Thornton—you know, Richard's old sweetheart—she's a famous interior decorator, now—is giving a lecture here next Thursday night. Won't that be wonderful! You mustn't forget to tell Richard! I must see how long she is staying so that we can entertain her if possible. Frances is an old girlhood chum, but I really was ra488 ther hurt when it was not me she wrote to! All during the evening, while she fed, bathed and got the weary children to bed, she was trying to decide what attitude to take toward Richard when he came home. Should she let him know that she knew Phyllis was coming and laughingly accuse him of concealing the fact from her? He might have a perfectly reasonable explanation of his failure to mention the letter in the blue envelope. Or should she ignore the matter and let him be the first to mention it? If she could only forget his furtiveness when the letter arrived! She did not know if she was glad or sorry when he telephoned that he would not be home until late, 'something important had come up," and not to wait dinner. She went listlessly to bed, suddenly weary and disspirited. HE next week, outwardly like any other, was one long inward torment to Anne. A feeling of constraint was in the air. She fancied Richard eyed her strangely at times, and that he was on the point of saying something important once or twice. As for herself, she found it increasingly impossible to mention that woman's name. If he had only come home that first evening when she was in the mood to challenge him gayly—even though with an undercurrent of earnestness—or if she had even, as she later felt inclined to, accused him angrily, it might have cleared the air, but now the time for frank discussion was past, and Anne went about her work in dull, resentful silence, hardening her heart against Richard's hurt puzzlement, he needn't pretend he didn't know what was the matter. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ON Wednesday, as she soused ' little woolens in foamy suds, her thoughts abstracted, her movements automatic, the telephone rang and Margaret's imperative voice greeted her, "Anne? What do you think? Phyllis did write me after all! She is coming on the six-thirty, and her lecture doesn't commence till eight. That gives ample time for quite an elaborate dinner, don't you think? I know she had something of the kind in her mind; she said how she looked forward to seeing everybody and she did hope for a real visit with some of the dearest old friends— you know-—I feel I can't do less than have a little dinner with as many of her old crowd as I can handle—Frances says she isn't going to do anything—there'll be you and Richard—what did you say?" "I'm not an old friend, Margaret, I never saw the woman—you can—" "Oh, bother! What of it! Richard could hardly come without you, could he? But that wasn't what. I called you about,' Margaret rushed on, talking down Anne's continued attempts to refuse the invitation. "Will you let me take your Patrician silver? And those glasses Cousin Sara gave you for a wedding present? I can do for everything else, but you might bring half a dozen napkins. There's John calling. Well, good-bye! I'll count on you." Suddenly, standing by the telephone, which seemed still to ring with the echo of Margaret's decisive voice, Anne began to cry. All the resentment, fear and suspicion of the past week welled up and dropped from her eyes in great, scalding tears. She threw herself into a chair and wept wildly, uncontrollably. From the dark recesses of her mind she brought out old grievances, forgotten snubs from Margaret, tactless speeches of Richard's that had left an unacknowldeged bruise. Every buried heart-ache of her married life was dug up and tears shed over its desecrated grave. She almost felt she hated the Carsons! How alien they were to her! Even Richard seemed like an unfriendly stranger. And Anne's "good cry" ended in homesick sobbing for her dear, understanding, elder sister Katherine. Katherine who had been both sister and mother to little motherless Anne, and whose dear face she had not seen for six years. That was a big part of her trouble she decided, washing her swollen eyes in cold water, she was lonely for Katherine. And it had been so long since she had heard! Thursday, fatal day, was also her birthday, and Katherine's gift, to which she always looked forward childishly, and which usually came days early, had not yet arrived. Well, she was sure that Richard, always a trifle groggy as to dates, would never remember it now, and if Katherine failed her too— "T HURSDAY, unaware of its fateful importance in the affairs of Centerville, dawned with no more display of natural phenomena than any other day. The sun came over the mountain, homes awoke, water boiled, oatmeal was cooked, bacon fried, toast burned. School bells rang, whistles blew, trucks lumbered by, as callously as if this day was not to see the finish of all Anne Carson's marital happiness. Well, she had decided one thing. She was not going to Margaret's dinner. Let them think what they wished! She would not go through that! She packed in a box the things Margaret had asked for and giving the package to Richard as he left said coldly, 'Please take these things to Margaret this morning, Richard, I've written a note telling her I don't feel like attending her dinner this THE BLUE ENVELOPE 489 evening. Of course, that needn't make any difference with your going!"' Richard looked disturbed. "Is Margaret pulling a dinner tonight? I can't go, either. I—lI've made other arrangements." So that was how it was! He was having a private rendezvous with Phyllis! Why, Margaret's dinner was infinitely preferable to that! If she had planned to go, Richard could hardly have refused. Well, it was too late now. With vicious energy Anne turned to her house cleaning. It was six o'clock. Already the Winter dusk had fallen and the little room was cheerful in the glow from softly shedded lights. Anne, in the new blue dress, with which she had meant to surprise Richard on her birthday, sat before the glowing fire undressing Dicky. Peggy, in her little chair near by, placidly rocked her doll. From Anne's face all the bitter tenseness of the past week was gone. It was pale and pensive, but the storm had passed. As she worked with desperate energy that day she had thought out the situation and come to her decision. Richard had failed her but there were still her children, she would live for them. Their happiness was all that mattered now, they were of paramount importance. Even Katherine, it seemed had forgotten her. Well, she would forget herself, and devote the rest of her life in unselfish service to these poor little victims of another marriage gone on the rocks. The children, little human barometers, felt the change in her temperature and basked in it. HERE was the sound of car wheels on the gravel. Peggy flattened her nose against the window. "One's daddy!" she announced. "and a lady, and a man and a girl, yes, and a boy!" 490 The door burst open. The room was suddenly full of shouts and laughter. Anne rose, bewildered. "Anne!""Oh, Katherine!" "Did we surprise you?" "Happy birthday!" "And these are the children? Aren't they darling!" "And this is little Frank!" Through her happy tears Anne was suddenly conscious of Richard's dear familiar face beaming at her from the background and his voice exclaiming, "Never again say I can't keep a secret! I've known this for a week!" "Yes, we had to let him know so he could meet us, and make sure you'd be at home,"' said Katherine, smiling at her brother-in-law. "Was—was it the letter in the blue envelope?" Anne asked faintly. Richard looked blank. "Yes, I beKatie and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE lieve it was blue," Katherine answered, laughing, "I remember I had to borrow an envelope from Katie here, and she rather runs to highly colored stationery!" "T noticed that envelope," said Anne, and smiled secretly at all that simple statement covered. ' "We'll have to excuse Richard," Anne announced two hours later as they still lingered about the dinner table. "His old sweetheart and my hated rival is lecturing on Interior Decorating in the Social Hall tonight!" "Oh, is this the night?" Richard paused in the midst of a long political discussion with Katherine's husband to ask, "Margaret did say something about Phyllis speaking here this week, but I'd forgotten the date. Well, it would be nice to see how Phyl has weathered through, but I hardly feel equal to a lecture on Interior Decorating, even for old times sake. Not tonight." Help Me to Stand the Test By Terrence Sylvester Glennamaddy Father, when the clouds of life are darkest, Help me to know that all is best for me; And though the worst of storms may gather oft, Calm thou my spirit while I breast the sea. Help me to understand thy will is right, Though I myself do often go astray. Guide thou my every footstep on life's path; Oh, help thou me to tread the narrow way. I ask that thou wilt still the storm for me; It may be best to rend with lightning flash. Help me to bear affliction's thorns of pain; And guide me, Father, that I may not dash My frail bark against the rugged rocks. Help me to stand the test; to reachthe goal, Though angry billows surge like mountains high: May never cruel wave engulf my soul. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon UGUST—Now gracious summer spreads her richest viands for man's delight. RUTH BRYAN OWEN, United States minister to Denmark, received and entertained the delegation in charge of the covered wagon sent from Utah to Denmark's historic park. At the same time she learned many interesting facts pertaining to pioneering in her own country. MiSs ANN MORGAN, president of the American Woman's Association has been awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters by the Russell Sage College. PROFESSOR MAUD MAY BABCOCK of Utah has been nominated for president of the National Association of Teachers of Speech. She is the first nominee from the western states. ILLIAN TEMPLETON, movie stylist began her career by designing gowns for Anne Harding while she was her secretary. She is noted for originality of design and is now a famous studio stylist. ADAM LE BRUN, wife of the president of France on her recent visit to the United States and during her entertainment at the White House was asked by the women of the press "If when at home she traveled around like Mrs. Roosevelt." 'Oh, no," she answered, "tat home I am nothing, and besides I have a home and four grandchildren." UEEN MARY at her last court was more regal than ever in her irridescent gown under her blue and gold court train. She wore the loveliest of her three crowns, the one with the great Kohinoor diamond and the three matchless African diamonds. Eleven American girls were presented, among them Helen Jacobs, the tennis champion. ANY woman in Germany may receive financial assistance when her children are born. In fact practically all countries except the United © States provide maternity insurance in some form. HELEN WILLS MOODY and Helen Jacobs, again rivals at Wimbledon this summer in the tennis tournament, played a most sensational game in which Mrs. Moody again became champion. AMARA KOUTANONA established the world's record parachute jump for women. She leaped 25,426.4 feet from an airplane without oxygen apparatus. M42AM SCHUMAN NHEINK'S philosophy expressed on her 74th birthday was to believe that every one loves her, and she loves everybody, and that is happiness. 'LILY PONS, metropolitan star will appear this season in the films, while Grace Moore of motion picture fame has accepted an offer from the Metropolitan Opera Company. ONICA SHANNON of California is the winner this year of the Newberry medal for the most distinguished juvenile book. "Dobey" is the title. MASJORIE BARSTOW. A. C. Craig, Esther Forbes. Evalvn Walsh McLean and Rita Halle Kleeman all have new novels ready for the fall. Fo THEL MANNING'S new book, "Forever Wandering" and Jean Toussaint-Sonat's 'Ships Aflame," are among the new popular novels. We Meet the Jonses By Mabel S. Harmer N the pre-depression days we I thought very little of taking the family car and driving down town two or three evenings a week to see the current movies. We shouldn't have dreamed of passing up a concert on the Master Musician series. And then suddenly the stock market took its memorable dive and pushed all the best South American Revolutions on to the second page. Not being particularly acquainted with the gyrations of stock markets, we impatiently asked, "Well, what of it?" Only for a little while did we say, "What of it?' Presently we found that the public wasn't buying our electrical fixtures this year and the money that hitherto had been freely spent for picture shows was needed desperately for half soles for Peter's shoes and to placate the milkman. And so after sitting alone by the evening fire for some weeks we suddenly said, "Let's call on the Joneses. That nice young couple who live' down the street. We've always intended to—but never found time before." In high spirits we sallied forth to call on the Joneses. We found them engrossed in the fascinating game of anagrams and after playing with them an evening decided to invest in a set for our own amusement. On the Joneses return visit we invited in the Browns, who live next door, and each made a booklet of our past, present and future. The booklet was formed of several sheets of paper folded together and filled with pictures cut from illustrated magazines. It was indeed surprising to learn that Mrs. Brown had been a trainer of wild animals and that Mr. Jones' future hope was to be a dictator of Russia. We spent several delightful evenings during the winter by getting a group of ten or twelve friends together and inviting someone in to review a recent book or play. We even went back to our youthful days —hborrowed the children's sleds and had a coasting party. We had almost forgotten what a glorious feeling it is to rush over the glistening snow on a frosty, moonlight night. On another occasion when a group met together each couple brought one game for the entertainment. The Smiths had taken colored pictures from magazines and cut them into jigsaw puzzles and mixed them all together. Each guest was given a key piece and labored diligently to he the first to put his puzzle together. Mrs. Perkins began telling a story and invited each one to add something to it. Imagination ran high and it was not surprising that a story which began on the plains of Wyoming, ended in a Persian garden. Mr. Brown came armed with a small blackhoard and the names of a dozen songs on separate slips of paper. Each person in turn made a drawing on the blackboard illustrating his song. If the group failed to guess the name of the song, the artist was required to sing it. We hope with the rest of the country that the darkest days of the depression are over and that we can soon read of a two dollar concert without breathing a sigh of envy and turning the page to the vital statistics. But in the meantime we are so glad that we learned that all entertainment does not require a lavish expenditure of money—and that we met the Joneses. The Women's National Radio Committee ry" HOREAU once summed up modern civilization in these words, "Improved means to' unimproved ends." The radio is one of our most wonderful "improved means' for finer living. Each year the messages broadcasted reach more and more homes and it is thus becoming one of the greatest influences in the cultural life of the nation. Women are always interested in the finer aspects of life and realizing the opportunities of the radio for "improved ends" if properly controlled, the "Women's National Radio Committee" was organized. "The National Woman's Relief Society" is associated with this committee. Their aim is to improve radio programs, to stimulate a wider appreciation of the many fine programs on the air and a fuller utilization of the radio as an instrument of entertainment and culture. The following is a summary of the history of the organization, their accomplishments and their aim. We feel sure that each member of the Relief Society will co-operate wholeheartedly in this program. —Kate M. Barker. History What it is. What it has accomplished. What it hopes to achieve. The Women's National Radio Committee, founded by Mme. Yolanda Mero Irion and Mrs. Harold Vincent Milligan in July, 1934, was officially organized on September 23, 1934. Twenty-three national societies were represented at the meeting, as well as magazine editors, and key women of the organization world. Purpose The purpose of the Women's National Radio Committee is to obtain a higher standard of radio programs by constructive methods. Methods of Operation Conferences will be held frequently between representatives of the Women's National Radio Committee, the radio industry, and the Government agency which controls radio—the Federal Communications Commission. Suggestions for the improvement of radio programs will be made, and objectionable features discussed. Direct contact will be maintained with program directors of radio companies and advertising agencies, to inform them of trends in listeners' attitudes. Awards will be presented annually for the best radio programs to encourage sponsors. What the Committee Has Accomplished In the brief space of time which has elapsed since the organization of the Committee, it has achieved Federal recognition; has succeeded in having an objectionable program taken off the air with the cooperation of the Government agencies concerned; has had an article published in Printers' Ink, outlining the likes and dislikes of women with regard to radio advertising; was invited to participate in the radio institute of the National Advisory Council on Radio in Education at Columbus, Ohio, on May 7; was invited to take part in the Government conference on radio in education at Washington on May 15; and has 494 successfully induced Columbia Broadcasting System to clean up radio advertising, and to eliminate the blood-and-thunder from children's programs, after the expiration of present contracts. What The Press Has to Say Orrin E. Dunlap, Radio Editor of the N. Y. Times, on May 19, said: "Tt seems that the listeners' mail has not been in vain, nor have the efforts of the Women's National Radio Committee... Which has for many months been campaigning for a cleanup of what they call distasteful advertising." Nick Kenny, Radio Editor of the N. Y. Mirror, on May 21, wrote: "Tt seems to me that the Women's National Radio Committee should take a bow for the announcement by CBS that starting July 30 it will ban objectionable programs from the airRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE limit the amount of advertising in sponsored programs, and generally improve programs for children." Future Plans While an excellent beginning has been made, there is much to be accomplished. Radio advertising on all stations must be freed from misleading statements about articles of dubious value which may be harmful to the gullible or uninformed; the standard of all programs must be raised if America is to have any cultural life in the next decade; and listeners must be impressed with the importance of registering their opinions regarding radio programs. Where to Write Send all letters concerning radio programs to: Women's National Radio Committee, 113 West 57th Street, New York City, N. Y. Think Twice (A Sonnet) By Bertha A. Kleinman If you must tell another of his fault, Think twice, then tell him of his good deeds first, No creature lives so erring and at fault But fails the more if painted at his worst. If you must judge and censure and condemn, Think twice if there be something you can praise, He has his virtues, concentrate on them, And watch him measure to a nobler phase. If you must score another for his wrong, If yours the right of verdict and appeal, Think twice 'ere yet you pass the ill along, If there be something worthy to reveal. Thus shall your judgment lift to higher plane, And he you judge shall courage find again. CK eepsakes for the CTreasure (@hest of Life By Lella Marler Hoggan KEEP SWEET "Wor the world is full of roses, And the roses full of dew, And the dew is full of heavenly love That drips for me and you." —James Whitcomb Riley. Us that makes us kindred of the Most High. It is the law, the harmony, that holds the planets in their orbits, and clothes the earth with beauty, and inhabits it with life. | hte: is the divine spark within Perfect love casts out all bitterness and fear, and heals the troubled heart. It is the universal language, the universal religion, of the children of men. Love is the leaven in the bread of life, That lightens and sweetens and enriches the whole; 'Tis the magic portion we. Must all remember, When we journey with the Master to feed man's soul. Tolstoy said, "Where love is, there God is, also." Jesus told the scribe, that to love God with all one's heart, soul, mind, and strength, is the first commandment. And to love one's neighbor as oneself, is the second. "There is none other commandment greater than these," said He. Have our hearts been touched by the finger of love? Do we walk in the sunshine of gratitude and sweet content? Or, are we among the women who sit at the cross-roads of life, hugging about their shoulders dark mantles of disappointment and bitterness? Have the years really been unkind to us, or have we failed in some measure to play the game of life according to the rules? "Hate seed in the heart can not produce a love flower in the life," says Orison Swett Marden. "We can not expect to get the fragrant breath of the rose from sowing the thistle seed." Out of the memories of the past we build the foundation for the 496 future. All of the. Daily comforts that we enjoy; every precious heritage that we possess; yes, even the flag and the cross, were bought with a price. Do we appreciate the sacrifices that have been made for our security and happiness? Like climbing vines, our souls are forever reaching heavenward. But as our tendrils measure a little higher on the wall of life, from day to day, we may cultivate a certain deep content in present blessings. Out of our work-a-day possessions we may create the beauty and loveliness with which we surround ourselves. What growth and development and happiness can we carry from each day's experiences? What sweet memories, what wholesome truths, will lend themselves to the years? Life is bitter-sweet, and often joy and sorrow walk hand in hand. It is for us to learn to transmute the darkening clouds into rainbows of promise. 'As long as we look toward despair," says Marden, 'we shall never arrive at the harbor of delight." HOSE who put off too long the cultivation of the sweeter graces, lose the vision of the beautiful. Frank Crane said, "Happiness is the perfume of the rose of love." When little disappointments, trivial cares, and irritating failures, chafe the soul and tempt the heart into hateful reactions, keep sweet, oh friend. It will not be long until such small trials will have passed out of memory. If, in these days of economic distress, wealth or position or power shall slip away from one, like sand through the fingers, keep sweet, dear heart. Brighter visions will rise out of the ashes of dead hopes. The bird of promise will wing its way back, with the comitig of the spring. When bowed low in the revealing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pain of sorrow, keep sweet, brave soul. Life can not be patterned all in golden gladness. Along every path there are altars and little graves. Even Mary, stood in the shadow of the cross. But did she not see her beloved son walk forth in glory from the dark tomb? It is the bitterness, and not the pain and the loss, that leaves scars that time cannot erase. The high heart that glimpses the vision above the cross; that glorifies every great loss to the soul's eternal uplifting, will find glad memories at the sacred shrine of its treasures. Whenever you get to the end of the world and feel sure that the rainbow has dropped out of the sky, and that the stars have lost their luster, remember, there is a tomorrow. All of the joy of the waiting years may be held in the dawning of that new day. You can not possibly know what lovely awakening of heart and soul, may come out of that hour that is just ahead: Let not bitterness or fear or disappointed hopes, undo the good that has been done. Always and forever, new light, new truth, new joy, are bursting forth from the burning bush for our comfort and our salvation. Romance is reaching out rosy fingers to us all along the way. She is holding gifts of rare worth in the palm of her open hand, for those who are ready to accept them. Edwin Markham says, "Nothing is lost forever that the soul Cried out for: Allis waiting at the goal." And again, "God is not foiled: the drift of the World Will Is stronger than all wrong. Earth and her years, Down Joy's bright way or Sorrow's longer road, Are moving toward the Purpose of the Skies." KEEPSAKES FOR THE TREASURE CHEST OF LIFE 497 The crimson rays of the glad day of promise are already lighting up the eastern sky. Let us meet that day with our faces toward the light. "The soul of man," says Frank Crane, "is journeying from chaos to law; and the road is love." Most assuredly love must be one of the treasures we should hold safe in the magic chest of our golden store. Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest the Eliza R. Snow Relief Society Memorial Poem Contest annually. Two prizes are awarded—a first prize consisting of $20, and a second prize consisting of $10. The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Other poems of merit not winning special awards, receive honorable mention. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, and to pay for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates. The contest opens each year upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Relief Society Magazine, and closes October 15. AIF HE General Board conducts Rules of the Contest 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done it should be legibly written. 4. The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. Only one side of the paper should be used. 6. Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used. 7. Statement should accompany the poem that it is entered in the contest. 8. The contestant guarantees the poem submitted to be her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 9. Members of the General Board, and persons connected with the Relief Society office force are not eligible to enter this contest. 10. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 11. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers. 12. The poems must be submitted not later than October 15. 13. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. A Banner for Three By Virginia B. Jacobsen VER since she could remember, FE, Sylvia had wanted white slippers. She had cried when she was five because her parents bought "sensible black' instead of white. Perhaps if her childish fancy had been realized, she would not feel, now, that each pair of black she was forced to buy for two year old Gloria was slowly chaining down the dancing feet of her babe. White shoes were more to Sylvia than mere shoes. They were a symbol of béauty and success. If she and Bill had only themselves and Gloria to take care of, it would have been different, but having to provide for Bill's widowed mother and two younger sisters necessitated strict economy. White shoes could not be included in. Such an overstrained budget. With their salary cut in half, it was difficult to keep up the appearance which Bill's position demanded. But that was her job and she gloried in it. No one would dream that her clever clothes were creations of her own ingenious making. Sylvia found real joy in all she did. To help her ambitious husband, for Bill was so appreciative of her splendid management of their income. While Sylvia sat waiting for the clerk to bring new shoes to try on little Gloria, the old desire for white tempted her, as it always did. Gloria's dainty clothes called so plainly for white. They were only fifty cents more than the black, but— fifty cents would buy Gloria a new pair of stockings or material for a dress. Her practical mind fought against the desire in her heart. She made a mental calculation of the money in her purse. Exactly three dollars. The white shoes were two-ninety-five. That would not even leave enough for carfare home. She could walk, it was worth it. Then she thought of the long blocks ahead. How foolish! Of course, she would be sensible and take the black. It always ended this way. 'Suddenly, she became aware of the delicate fragrance of costly perfume, as a beautifully dressed woman and small boy passed to take seats across the aisle. Sylvia could not help watching the handsome child so perfectly attired from head to foot in spotless white. There was something disturbingly familiar in the face of the little boy. Sylvia glanced at the mother. Something cold suddenly gripped her heart. All the old jealousy, which she thought she had buried with the past, swept over her again, as she recognized June Forrester, the girl who had tried to lure Bill away from her. June had nearly accomplished her purpose, but Sylvia's patient love and surprising cleverness had won out after a bitter struggle against June and her wealth. All her life June had wrested from life every bounty it offered, everything but the thing she desired most, Bill's love. She might have won him, if she had not foolishly hinted what her dowry would mean to him. Indignant, Bill had replied that his success in life would not depend upon the gift of any woman. All he asked was a wife who was willing to live on what he could earn. One who would help him climb. With wounded pride, he came back to the sympathetic understanding he always found in Sylvia, repentant for having strayed away. The gardenia, nestling against the A BANNER FOR THREE sheen of June's black furs, filled Sylvia with a burning desire to show June that Bill's success had not depended upon a dowry. She glanced at the child across the aisle. White shoes on June's little son, and she, Sylvia was buying black for Bill's daughter. She almost laughed at the irony of it. A pair of baby shoes, such a trifling matter, but she knew how important it would be in the squeamish mind of the other woman. On this one point alone, June would think Billa pitiful failure, and Sylvia could not stand that. She knew by instinct that June had seen her, and was wondering about Bill. It seemed to Sylvia that his pride was at stake. She could not fail him at a time like this. To her belonged the joyous duty of carrying their banner through the fire of another woman's glance. Their Banner—a pair of little white shoes. Even if they were impractical, what a small price to pay for pride. It wasn't the shoes, but what they stood for that counted. 499 The clerk returned with two pairs of little shoes, one white, one black. Holding them out, he asked, "Which do you prefer, Madam?" Sylvia hesitated for one imperceptible moment, then replied, "Try the white shoes, please." The clerk tied the laces, then lifted the beaming Gloria down to parade before them. The unusual beauty of the shoes caught the fancy of the radiant child. Bending over she patted them lovingly. "Pwity, Muddo, Pwity," lisped Gloria. Sylvia, looking first at the little white shoes, then down at her purse, glanced across at June. Their eyes met. They nodded, and a look of triumphant determination lighted Sylvia's face. She would keep their banner flying. Opening her purse with as much assurance as lf it held hundreds, she took out the three dollars. Handing them to the clerk, she said, "Those shoes will do. She will wear them." BAD NEWS FOR WOMEN SMOKERS The growing popularity of smoking among women is responsible for an increase of cancer of the mouth, says Dr. Walter Gray Crump, professor of surgery for Flower Hospital, New York City, and an authority on cancer research. Dr. Crump, speaking at the annual convention of the American Institute of Homeopathy, the first week in June, explained that a few years ago cancer of the mouth among women was unknown but that today it is equally common among both sexes. Hot foods and drinks are the chief cause of cancer of the stomach, representing one-third of all cancers, he said, and he also criticized tight corsets and other underclothing as causes of cancer. —The Union Signal. QIwT Foreshadowed Grief By Merling Dennis Clyde Sometime we two must part, my darling one, And then the lonely road that stretches on Will hold the steady tramp of footsteps done In measured tread by feet with music gone; Your tender laugh will echo through my brain To torment for the hours we lost to pain. Your lips that fed my soul will lie so still; Forgiving words unsaid will warp and tear My bleeding heart until I cannot bear To think;—and stubborn pride that would not fill The want that gnawed the fibre from our joy— Poor fools who used God's gift to serve as toy. A cankered sore to mar the golden hours— Grave sin the moments lost from love like ours. Wish By Carrie Tanner Oh, to be like fruit—ripe and firm— Gathered while yet is heard sweet song Of happy bird in leafy tree, When stillness of that dreamy peace Invites new beauties to prolong Their stay, and lend their cheering warmth To bright autumnal glow. Not to remain and wither there Ungathered, or perchance decay, Or hang too long on cheerless bough To freeze when comes the chilling blast That tells too soon of winter's day, And fall unwanted through the mist Of whirling flakes of covering snow. Ownership By Helen M, Livingston The owner of the grand estate Walked out and said, "These lands are mine." With pomp, he pointed out their width, Then proudly took his guests to dine. His gardener watched the guests go past, Then softly singing took his spade. He viewed the gentle flower-crest slopes And sensed the harmony they made. He gathered peace from lily rows, He plucked delight from violet hills. Found sweet serenity in trees. And planted joy with daffodils. The owner of the vast estate Walked out and said, "Behold my lands." And he had never turned soft sod, Nor felt moist loam against his hands. Notes From the Field By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary Cassia Stake HE courage, interest and fine community spirit of our Stake Presidents is again in evidence in the splendid work accomplished by the Cassia Stake. Sister Effie H. Walker, the Relief Society Stake President, is responsible for the very fine account of the work which was done during the latter part of last year. For a number of months the people of Oakley had been without a resident physician. The nearest medical aid was to be had in Burley, more than twenty miles away. The former physician had cooperated very splendidly with the Relief Society in the health work, so that his departure from the community was felt as a distinct loss. However, some of the Priesthood Authorities, together with the Relief Society, devised a plan by which they could give to the people of the community the greatly needed medical service. The wheat interest money held by the Relief Society of the stake furnished the source of revenue for the project, and a minimum charge was made to the people who could afford to pay something. Dr. David Rees, an eye, ear, nose and throat specialist, arranged to come from Twin Falls at regular intervals and hold a clinic. The home of one of the Ward Presidents was used as a temporary hospital, where beds and everything necessary to do the operating work most successfully, were provided, and nurses were in attendance. There were 130 operations, in addition to many cases of medical advice and consultation. It was an enormous saving in health to the community. Sister Walker has this to say of Dr. Rees, who has now gone to Australia, to assume the Presidency of tlic Australian Mission: "Dr. And Sister Rees have been attended by such a sweet spirit, as have also those others who have assisted, that it has been one of the most joyous experiences we have had in our Relief Society work." The gratitude, love and prayers of the people go with Brother and Sister Rees. Alberta Stake. IN spite of the difficulties which the Alberta Stake has had to encounter, it has to its credit an enviable record of activities. During the time when the price of wool was very low, a quilt drive was made throughout the Stake, and 672 quilts filled with wool were made. Many of these were for the benefit of the organization, while the others were placed in individual homes. Most of the wool was donated or obtained from some exchange, so that these very excellent quilts were obtained at a minimum cost. The result of the drive was a great increase in the spirit of friendship and cooperation. During the spring and summer much of the time in the Work and Business Department in all the organizations was devoted to preparation for the general stake demonstration of work which was held at the time of the conference-convention. The display of the many varieties of handwork made by the sisters was very wonderful. In connection with the demonstration, a sale of secondhand goods was conducted, and through this much of the used clothing was obtained at a very small fee. The articles were sold to those who 502 could use them, and the surplus was distributed to help the needy. The Fall Work ard Business days were devoted to preparation for the Christmas season. The aim of the organization was to see that no child in any of the wards or districts would be left without a gift or some special Christmas cheer. Many of the officers were thrilled with joy at the result of their labors. During January one outstanding project of the work was the preparation of a medicine kit. For this special purpose cases were made of galvanized tin that could stand the test of all kinds of weather without injury to the contents. The cases were 9x10x13 inches, and contained four compartments suited to the contents. The following is a list of the contents of each kit: hot water bottle with syringe attachments; sheets and pillow cases; clinical thermometer, medicine dropper; absorbent cotton; adhesive plaster; tannic acid; gauze; mercurochrome; milk of magnesia; iodine; mentholatum; lysol; mustard; eucalyptus; aspirin tablets; olive oil; boracic acid; castor oil; turpentine; salts; glycerine; carbolic acid. The bed pan is kept in a separate oilcloth bag. On the inside of the lid over the hot water bottle case, is written out and pasted the rules and regulations regarding the handling of the kit. When all preparations were completed the local doctor consented to attend the Stake and Local Officers' Meeting and give a lecture on the use of all the contents of the kit. From this lecture a letter of instructions was written and placed in each kit. This is kept under lock and key, and the President of each organization is held responsible for its care. The kits are prepared and maintained from the interest on the wheat money which has been pooled, and is supervised by the Stake. The reports RELIEF SOCIETY from this project are very gratifying. The necessity for the medicine kit will be easily understood when it is realized that there are no doctors or drug stores in the little out-of-town districts. Everyone is welcome to the use of the kit so long as he observes the regulations for the use of it. Where people can afford to pay for the use of the medicine a small fee is charged, otherwise the use is given without cost. In the preparation of the medicine kit a delegation from the Relief Society met with the local hospital board, and made arrangements to procure the medicines through the hospital, thus getting them at a greatly reduced price. Miss Norma Snow, matron of the hospital, assisted greatly in measuring and preparing the medicines. A special Visiting Teachers' Convention was held in the spring. The organizations were divided into five districts and three stake members visited each district. The aim was to put the work over in a way to renew the spirit of enthusiasm, to inspire greater diligence, and a better preparation of the teachers' work. The result of these conventions has been shown in the increased efficiency of the teachers. Sister Jacobs writes: "We are also proud of our stake traveling library. As a small beginning we have in circulation one hundred and sixty books. These are divided into twelve strong canvas bags with a leather strap which is attached in several places and buckled around the center of the bag, thus keeping them tightly closed from inclement weather while on their travels around the Stake. We have recently purchased more books and expect to increase the library from time to time as means will permit. We have had for our Relief Society slogan for several years: 'We stand for better homes through the increase of wholesome, intelligent reading,' and our desire is to make this slogan possible in the homes of all our women."
"The project work given to us by the General Board this year fits so nicely into our slogan and we feel that it is going to be an excellent help in stimulating our sisters to renew their knowledge and become better acquainted with the work of the Lord. If we consider this work from only one standpoint, and that is, that it will qualify our boys and girls for the mission field when they have grown to maturity, we shall feel amply repaid for the time and energy we have put into it. Speaking for our Stake, we are delighted with the Project."
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
San Francisco Stake. "THE group photograph on page 504 shows the members of the San Francisco Presidency and Stake Board, and the Ward Relief Societies of San Francisco, Balboa, Sunset, Mission, Burlingame, Palo Alto and San Jose Wards, in attendance at a literary class meeting held at Edwin Markham Memorial Home, 432 South 8th Street, San Jose, California, on February 20, 1935. We are indebted to Mrs. Annaleone D. Patton for the following delightful account of this very interesting event:
"That the Lord's house is a house of order" is demonstrated nowhere more potently. Than within the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In the recent organization of the San Francisco Stake of Zion, it was remarkable how quickly "Stake mindedness" was sensed by both units and individuals. It might be said in passing that this promising youngster in the family of stakes is "doing nicely, thank you."
*See poems pages 506, 507.
503
The auxiliary organizations are completed and functioning splendidly, as evidenced by a meeting of the Relief Society held at San Jose, February 20, 1935. The Stake President, Sister Esther Davis Stephens, with her counselors and other Stake officers made their first visit to San Jose Ward on January 16, within three weeks after the organization of the Stake. (San Jose is at the southernmost extremity of the stake—fifty miles from San Francisco.) The alertness and leadership of these sisters is shown by their interest in the new Wards.
"At this meeting assignments for the literary lesson were made. The topic was poetry, and the sub-topic, Edwin Markham—Dean of American Poets. The class had decided to hold this at the Markham Memorial Home. The San Jose Ward was anxious to share the honor of paying homage to Markham, and extended the invitation to the other Wards of the Stake. The following report is testimony of how thoroughly the spirit was diffused throughout the entire stake."*
"The restoration and maintenance of the Markham Memorial Home has been a labor of love. The house was the home of Mrs. Markham, bought many, many years ago when she first came to San Jose, that her youngest son, Edwin, might attend Normal School (now San Jose State College). The home is now owned by the College which maintains the Markham Health Cottage (a student infirmary) in the foreground of the lot. Due to the untiring labor and generosity of California's poet laureate, the late Henry Meade Bland, and others, the old home was restored, and there is now assembled in the little front room, affectionately known as the "Hoe Room," some rare treasures—an etching of Tassa, one of the few authentic paintings of Dante; a fireplace plaque of "Two by the Fireside" made by Mr. Markham in 1927; framed manuscript copies of "The Man with the Hoe" and "Lincoln, the Man of the People;" the chair Mr. Markham used at the local college; photographs of many literary high-lights in California history, and Dr. Bland's chair and library. This front room, with the bay window, was used by Mr. Markham as a study. Here, in 1886, while he was reading of Millet in Scribner's Magazine, his soul was stirred—an immortal poem was conceived—he drafted an outline and wrote the first four lines of "The Man with the Hoe:"
"Bowed by the weight of centuries he leans Upon his hoe and gazes on the ground, The emptiness of ages in his face, And on his back the burden of the world."
"The first public reading of the poem was thirteen years later at the New Year's Eve party at the home of Carrol Carrington in San Francisco, at which time Baily Maillard declared the poem would go down the ages. Such is the genesis of the
LITERARY CLASS HELD AT MARKHAM MEMORIAL HOME. SAN FRANCISCO STAKE PRESIDENCY AND BOARD, ALSO SAN FRANCISCO, BALBOA, SUNSET, MISSION, BURLINGAME, PALO ALTO AND SAN JOSE WARDS.
505
poem that has had the most unusual history of any verse ever written and brought Edwin Markham the recognition he merited.
"At the Relief Society meeting the poem was read, also "Lincoln, the Man of the People." Mrs. Gwendolyn B. Penniman, vice chairman of the Edwin Markham Poetry Society read the quatraine "Poetry" and recounted some interesting reminiscences of a recent visit of the poet to the city. The literary class leader gave a biographical sketch of Mr. Markham and read "Eternal Justice." "Invictus" was also given. There was delightful music furnished, after which refreshments were served on the lawn by the San Jose Ward Presidency. There were seventy-seven sisters in attendance at this never-to-be-forgotten day. Mrs. Penniman gave to those present mimeographed copies of Mr. Markham's poem, "The New America," the last stanza of which so fittingly depicts our ideals:
"New America God show us Love's great way, And lead us day by day, To love's great ends O, may our country be From sea to sounding sea One shelter for the free One House of Friends."
Pilgrimage, Old and New By Amy M. Rice
THE OLD
There's a long, winding, dusty trail, That stretches dim, and gray, From San Francisco's barren shores, To San Diego's bay.
There's naked, weary, bleeding feet, With slow, unfaltering pace, Bearing the spirit of the Cross, To a dark forgotten race.
We turn the page; and now we hear This pilgrim voice, like clarion calls Determined heart, unbroken faith, Echoing from old mission walls
That from the clouds of deep decline And dust of many ages, grew. These heroes of the road of bells, Who builded better than they knew.
THE NEW
The scene changes; on El Camino Real, From dusty trail, to glorious garden spot, That in one little century The faith of man, and hand of God has wrought
Another Pilgrimage is on its way To share a poet's shrine. Women, product of the sturdy race Who made the desert blossom as the rose,
Pay homage to the place From which, in verse and song, arose The thoughts of men, who, with tongue and pen Have moved a world.
Was it an hour, or a year We lived and breathed the spirit of the Muse? In measure such as this, Who dare count time. Or who refuse
To greet the spell of genius? 'T was all too brief; we met, we thrilled, we parted, And took with us new hopes, and new desire. And left enshrined a newly kindled fire
Of thanks for gifts Bestowed so lavishly, to feed The hungry souls of men.
(Written on the occasion of the gathering of Relief Society women to pay tribute to Markham at his old home in San Jose, California, February 20, 1935.)
The Pilgrimage (Of Seven and Seventy Sisters) By Annaleone Davis Patton
Over the silver ribboned highway Flooded with bright sunlight, They came on the Padre's byway To the "Valley of Heart's Delight."*
In the fields wild flowers abound, Far as the eye can behold, Are prune blooms like thistle down, And acacias dripping gold.
In spring when hearts are merry, (It has been so through the ages,) Like the good folk of Canterbury People long for pilgrimages.
No genial inn keeper is needed The irksome trek to interpret, Since, modern science succeeded In providing a magic carpet.
More endowed than ladies of fable These sisters of purpose and zeal, Now, the hand that rocks the cradle May hold the steering wheel.
In love they answer the call Of the needy, the lonely, and sick. "The strength of the brick is the wall, The strength of the wall is the brick."
Service is the aim of these women The daughters of noble pioneers. They new laurels are winning Developing new frontiers.
Mellowed by age, hallowed by love In a garden stands a shrine Where once a youth inspired from above Conceived immortal rhyme.
The crusaders hearts beat faster As they touch the sacred soil Of the shrine where the Master Had written of them that toil.
Trouveres true prophets are As history writes the pages, The singers, the guiding stars That lead on through the ages.
Hail, Markham! Above any other Humanity's poet and bard. For he who loves his brother Truly serves the Lord.
*The Santa Clara Valley is called the "Valley of Heart's Delight."
My Loves By Julina Green
There's a rill by my home and I love it. For it ripples and sings Of the merriest things As it mirrors the blue above it.
There's a tree near my home and I love it. For it shelters the birds; In its shade rest the herds, And it grows toward the sun above it.
There's a child in my home and I love it. For it's sweet, happy ways, And the things that it says As it smiles in my face above it.
May my soul not forget that God loves it. May it grow like the tree; Like the rill, pure and free May it mirror the beauty above it.
As a child of Thy house, Father, love me! And though frail, in thy strength I'll subdue all at length And ascend to thy heaven above me.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
LOUISE YATES ROBISON: President AMY BROWN LYMAN: First Counselor KATE M. BARKER: Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND: General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD
Emma A. Empey Ethel Reynolds Smith Hazel H. Greenwood Annie Wells Cannon Rosannah C. Irvine Emeline Y. Nebeker Jennie B. Knight Nettie D. Bradford Mary Connelly Kimball Lalene H. Hart Elise B. Alder Janet, M. Thompson Lotta Paul Baxter Inez K. Allen Belle S. Spafford Cora L, Bennion Ida P. Beal Donna Durrant Sorensen Amy Whipple Evans Marcia K. Howells
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor: Mary Connelly Kimball Manager: Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager: Amy Brown Lyman
VOL. XXII AUGUST, 1935 No. 8
Go To Sacrament Meetings
SUMMER brings a surcease of many activities, but it is not well to cease attendance at Sacrament meetings. The spirit needs food just as much as the body does, and one of the most important sources of spiritual strength is the Sacrament.
Our Father has commanded his children to meet together often and partake of the sacrament. He says: "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day. For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High. * * * But remember that on this, the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord. And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full. Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or in other words, rejoicing and prayer." (Doctrine and Covenants Section 59:9-14.)
All Latter-day Saints should remember that on the Sabbath day they should rest from their labors, and they should worship and pray, they should show zeal and ardor in their religious faith.
While this is an obligation upon all members of the Church, it is especially so for those who are privileged to be officers and teachers in the organizations. They should set an example by being present regularly at the Sacrament service. In order to perform their duties well, they need spiritual strength, and they cannot expect to disregard this requirement of the Father and be adequate to the tasks entrusted to their care.
EDITORIAL
509
A Great Need
ROGER BABSON, the noted statistician, says, "People should understand that before prosperity can return there must be renewed interest in the spiritual life of both individuals and nations. Nations should realize that the world has always possessed raw materials and labor; but has been prosperous only when people have been actuated by a religious faith to use those resources for advancement and service. This is the law of life and now is the time when it should be taught in churches, schools, and colleges. Think it over."
After the World War there was a tendency away from religion. Today thinking people everywhere are realizing that nothing can take the place of religious fervor in bringing joy and in giving the needed spirit to philanthropy. Our organizations should carry the Gospel spirit in their service and see that the discouraged are brought into the joyous atmosphere of our religious gatherings, that they may lift up their heads in hope realizing that God lives and will aid those who trust him.
Magazine Drive
IT is a great advantage for an organization to have a magazine that voices its ideals, upholds its standards and looks after its interests. Apostle John A. Widtsoe says, "No organization can get very far without an organ, without a voice out of the printing press."
The Relief Society Magazine belongs to the Relief Society. It is indispensable to its members, since it prints the lessons. It keeps its officers and members in touch with what the Society is doing in different parts of the world. It furnishes good reading matter and gives food for thought and conversation.
Our subscription list has mounted by leaps and bounds within the last year. We expect it to reach an even higher peak after our drive, which extends from September 15th to October 15th. May every Stake and Mission go far beyond the number of subscriptions secured in our last Drive.*
Whiskey at the Steering Wheel
Severe as the drunken-driver problem was during Prohibition, it has become doubly severe now. The best statistics obtainable indicate that 5 to 10 percent of both drivers and pedestrians involved in traffic accidents are under the influence of liquor. These statistics understate matters, since a multitude of accidents occur in which drinking is a factor but is not reported for one reason or another.
A short time ago a thorough survey was made of 119 accidents involving 116 injuries and fatalities—and it showed that in 60 per cent of the accidents alcohol was involved.... Here is a problem that involves the health, life and property of every citizen. It is a problem that must be fought by us all, drys and wets alike. Under the best conditions, highways and streets are potentially dangerous—and they become slaughter houses when whisky takes the steering wheel.
—Kentucky-Citizen.
*See page 525 for instructions on Magazine Drive.
Lesson Department (For First Week in January)
Theology and Testimony
LESSON IV
THE PROPHET IN RETIREMENT (Continued)
1. A Brief Respite. Almost exactly one month to the day from the time the Prophet Joseph escaped from his enemies in Missouri, he took up his residence at Commerce—later called Nauvoo—May 10, 1839. The Prophet was doubtless happier at Nauvoo than at any other place. It was here that he had a home of his own—first a log house present on the ground at the time he purchased it, and later the north wing of the commodious Nauvoo Mansion. It was here that the Saints reached their highest degree of prosperity and built their most beautiful homes. It was here that a village of unsightly shacks was transformed into the largest and most attractive city in the state of Illinois. It was here that the Prophet received many of the choicest revelations. It was here that the Saints became the most enlightened and it was from here that preachers of righteousness were sent out to nearly every section of the United States and numerous countries abroad. Whenever the Saints were prosperous, the Prophet rejoiced, and when they suffered, he suffered.
2. For a year and more following the founding of Nauvoo, in the early part of 1839, the Church was comparatively free from persecution. The city grew by leaps and bounds. Two stakes were organized—one at Nauvoo and one across the river in Iowa. The city of Nauvoo was incorporated and given a most liberal charter. Provision was made for the establishment of the University of Nauvoo. The Nauvoo Legion was brought into existence and the Saints grew in power and strength before the Lord.
3. Persecution Again. The period of respite, however, was brief. The enemies of the Church were not satisfied. Accordingly, in September of 1840, Governor Lilburn W. Boggs—on whose order the Saints had been driven from Missouri—made a requisition on Governor Carlin of Illinois for the Prophet and several of his brethren. Although the Prophet and his associates had left Missouri nearly two years earlier, yet the requisition accused them with being fugitives from justice. Governor Carlin complied with the request and sent a sheriff to make the arrests. Upon hearing of this action, however, the Prophet and others secluded themselves and when the officer arrived they were not to be found.
4. Here the matter rested for nearly a year, but on the fourth day of June, 1841, Governor Carlin of Illinois again sent a sheriff with a posse and an officer from Missouri to arrest the Prophet and deliver him to the Missouri authorities. In a court hearing that followed, Judge Stephen A. Douglas—at that time friendly to the Saints—dismissed the case and granted the Prophet his freedom. This defeat seemingly had the effect of making the Missouri persecutors increasingly determined to wreak their murderous desires upon the Church and particularly its leaders.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
5. A Second Effort at Extradition. Accordingly, in May of 1842, when Lilburn W. Boggs—then ex-Governor of Missouri—was shot and slightly injured while in his home at Independence, Orrin P. Rockwell, a resident of Illinois, was accused of the shooting. A little later the Prophet was charged as an accessory before the fact. Shortly thereafter Governor Reynolds of Missouri made a requisition on Governor Carlin of Illinois for the surrender of the Prophet. Governor Carlin, who had become embittered against the Prophet and his people, acceded to the demand and on the 8th day of August, 1842, the Prophet and Rockwell were arrested on a warrant issued by the Governor. The brethren demanded that they be tried at once and obtained a writ citing them to appear before the court in Nauvoo. The arresting officer refused to recognize the authority of this court and returned to the Governor for further instruction, leaving the Prophet and Rockwell in Nauvoo to do much as they pleased. Fearing they would be extradited to Missouri and there be tried by their avowed enemies, the Prophet and Rockwell retired into seclusion.
6. When the officers returned and failed to find the Prophet and Rockwell, they heaped threats of violence upon the people of Nauvoo and even attempted to alarm the Prophet's wife, Emma, who at the very time was far advanced toward becoming a mother. Sheriff Ford, the officer from Missouri, declared he would return from his own state with a body of men sufficiently large to take the Prophet by force. Hearing of these threats and knowing full well that if he were taken to Missouri he would be killed, the Prophet declared he was determined to keep out of their hands.
7. In Retirement. Thus from the early part of August, 1842, to near the close of the year the Prophet remained in seclusion, part of the time in Iowa but most of the time in Nauvoo and its environs. Irrespective of his whereabouts, however, he was fully informed of what was going on. This was made possible by a few trusted messengers who operated mostly under cover of darkness.
8. The Prophet describes in some detail a conference that was held between himself and several others, including his wife, at night time on a small island in the Mississippi river between Nauvoo and Montrose. The Prophet himself at that time was in retirement, staying at the home of John Smith in Zarahemla, Iowa. Under cover of darkness, Emma and half a dozen of the brethren met at the riverside near the Prophet's store in Nauvoo and proceeded in a skiff to the appointed place.
511
Soon after they reached the island, the Prophet, accompanied by Brother Derby, arrived from the Iowa shore. A council was then held in the boats. After this was concluded, the Prophet and Brother Derby made their way up the river to the home of Brother Edward Sayers on the Illinois side and the others returned to Nauvoo.
9. Joseph subsequently spoke of this as the "sacred night," and said that as long as time lasts he will never forget the service of his faithful friends. Although his statement concerning Emma, his wife, has appeared in an earlier lesson of this series, yet it deserves repeating. Here it is: "How glorious were my feelings when I met that faithful and friendly band on the night of the eleventh (August), on Thursday, on the island at the mouth of the slough between Zarahemla and Nauvoo: with what unspeakable delight, and what transports of joy swelled my bosom when I took by the hand on
512
that night my beloved Emma—she that was my wife, even the wife of my youth, and the choice of my heart. Many were the reverberations of my mind when I contemplated for a moment the many scenes we had been called to pass through, the fatigues and the toils, the sorrows and sufferings, and the joys and consolations, from time to time, which had strewed our paths and crowned our board. Oh what a commingling of thought filled my mind for the moment, again she is here, even in the seventh trouble—undaunted, firm,. And unwavering—unchangeable, affectionate Emma!" (History of the Church, Vol. V, p. 107.)
10. The Prophet's love for his wife was always outstanding. Throughout the period of his retirement, he repeatedly risked his own safety by returning home to comfort her, then, as he said, "in the seventh trouble." Day after day he remained to administer to her wants. He not infrequently took her for a ride in the morning as well as in the evening. On the other hand, Emma was equally as devoted. At one time during his retirement the Prophet feared that he might be compelled to leave for a protracted stay in the wooded country to the northward, and wrote Emma accordingly. Immediately she replied: "I am ready to go with you if you are obliged to leave." The strain that she underwent in all of this trouble is probably reflected in the fact that later when her baby came, it did not live.
11. Emma made a most intelligent appeal to Governor Carlin in behalf of her husband and the saints. In closing her entreaty she said: "And now I appeal to your Excellency, as I would unto a father, who is not only able but willing to shield me and mine from every unjust prosecution. * * * I beg you to spare my innocent children the heart-rending
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
sorrow of again seeing their father unjustly dragged to prison, or to death. * * * I entreat of your Excellency to spare us these afflictions and many sufferings which cannot be uttered, and secure to yourself the pleasure of doing good, and vastly increasing human happiness." (History of the Church, Vol. V, p. 117.) This appeal, however, was largely unheeded.
12. Joseph's Appearance at Conference. On the 26th of August, 1842, some two weeks after the beginning of his retirement, Joseph advised the Twelve to call a special conference at which elders would be selected to go forth in an effort to allay ill feelings against the saints. Accordingly, the conference assembled three days later in the Grove near the temple. After Hyrum Smith had explained at some length the purpose of the gathering, the Prophet suddenly appeared in their midst. This occasioned much rejoicing, for some had supposed that he had gone to Washington, and others that he had gone to Europe. After the Prophet had addressed the assembly, about 380 elders volunteered to go immediately on the proposed mission and took their departure within a few days.
13. Attendance at Relief Society Meeting. In the afternoon of August 31, 1842, the Prophet rode to the Grove near the temple with Emma and attended a meeting of the Relief Society. (See History of the Church, Vol. V, pp. 139, 140.) He spoke at some length concerning the efforts of his enemies to return him to Missouri, and then among other things warned the Relief Society sisters as follows: "If you know anything calculated to disturb the peace or injure the feelings of your brother or sister, hold your tongues, and the least harm will be done." Certainly sound advice even for today!
LESSON DEPARTMENT
14. He also said that during his absence very important matters respecting the doctrine of baptism for the dead had been manifested unto him which he intended to communicate to the Saints on the following Sabbath provided nothing occurred to prevent him.
15. In a petition to Governor Carlin in defense of the Prophet, the sisters of the Relief Society bore the following character testimony: "We would further recommend to your Excellency, concerning Joseph Smith, that we have the utmost confidence in him as being a man of integrity, honesty, truth and patriotism. We have never, either in public or private, heard him teach any principles but the principles of virtue and righteousness. And so we have knowledge, and we know him to be a pure, chaste, virtuous and godly man." (History of the Church, Vol. V, p. 147.) This communication bore the date of September 5, 1842.
16. In Retirement Again. On the third day of September, 1842, while the Prophet was eating dinner with his family at Nauvoo, a sheriff and two associates appeared at the house and inquired as to his whereabouts. While this conversation was going on, the Prophet went out of the back door, and through a corn patch in his garden to the home of Newel K. Whitney. Meantime Emma went to the door and conversed with the sheriff who, although not possessing a search warrant, insisted upon searching the home. Emma granted him permission but his efforts were without avail. Later in the day the house was again searched with the same result. After nightfall, the Prophet in company with Brother Derby left the Whitney home and went to the home of Edward Hunter where of course he was welcomed and made comfortable. About a
513
week later the Prophet returned home thinking that he would be as safe there as elsewhere. Here he remained in semi-seclusion for nearly a month, Emma being sick. Again on the seventh of October, he left home, this time for James Taylor's, a tedious journey of all night and part of a day.
17. The Prophet's Acquittal. About this time Justin Butterfield, United States District Attorney for the state of Illinois, presented Sidney Rigdon with a lengthy legal opinion on the efforts to drag Joseph Smith into Missouri. In substance he said that the Prophet could not be legally extradited to Missouri unless he had committed an offense in that state. He advised the Prophet to obtain affidavits showing that he was not in Missouri at the time ex-Governor Boggs was shot and to submit to arrest and appear for a hearing at Springfield before the United States court. This the Prophet decided to do and a few days later, on the fifth of January, 1843, Judge Pope ordered that the Prophet be discharged from arrest. (See History of the Church, Vol. V, pp. 223-231.)
18. Rejoicing Among the Saints. With the arrival of this news in Nauvoo, there was general rejoicing. When the Prophet reached home he and his wife issued invitations to a party to be held at his home, Wednesday, January 18, 1843, at ten o'clock in the morning. After the guests arrived, conversation continued on various topics until two o'clock when twenty persons sat down at the table, the Prophet and Emma waiting on them assisted by others. Twenty persons sat down at the second table, eighteen at the third, including the Prophet and Emma, and fifteen at the fourth. The Prophet closes his description of the party by stating that the pleas-
514
ure of the occasion was heightened by the fact that it marked the fifteenth anniversary of his and Emma's marriage.
Suggestions for Discussion and Review
1. Recite the accomplishments of the church during its first year at Nauvoo.
2. What is the order that must be followed when one governor makes requisition upon another for the ex-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tradition of a violator of the law?
3. Where must the offense be committed in order to make a person subject to extradition?
4. What is meant by "accessory before the fact?"
5. Give the relative locations of Nauvoo, Montrose, Zarahemla, and Springfield. How is each place reached from the others?
6. Under conditions such as those described in the lesson, would you expect that rejoicing among the saints would be permanent? Why?
Teachers' Topic
JANUARY
Proverbs 25:21-22
"If thine enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he be thirsty, give him water to drink: For thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head, and the Lord shall reward thee."
THIS Proverb reverses the old Mosaic law of an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth and admonishes the Christ-like forgiveness taught later by the Master. If it were carried out, there could be no hatred nor strife. It gives the remedy for malice and ill will and gives a panacea for the one who has done wrong to be regenerated. It softens his hardness, makes him penitent and eager to make amends. How much sweeter is the life of one who practices this Proverb, for Milton truly says,
"Revenge at first though sweet Bitter 'ere long back on itself recoils."
The Christ taught us to pray, "Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive them that trespass against us." If we believe that we shall receive as we measure, then even from a selfish standpoint, we should be kind and forgiving. The greatest blessing our Father can give to us for obedience to His teachings is to transform our characters and make us partakers of His Divine nature. When we forgive one who has wronged us a feeling of tenderness and love brings joy far surpassing the spirit of vindictiveness.
Topics and Questions for Discussion
1. Relate instances where this Proverb has been obeyed. What were the results?
2. Explain the figure "coals of fire."
3. Read Proverbs 24:28-29; 17:5.
4. Read the story of the unmerciful servant.
5. What do passion, revenge, wrath, vengeance call forth?
6. Dwell on the beautiful lesson Whittier gives us in these lines:
"My heart was heavy, for its trust had been Abused, its kindness answered with foul wrong;
516
So, turning gloomily from my fellow-men, One summer Sabbath day I strolled among The green mounds of the village burial-place; Where, pondering how all human love and hate Find one sad level; and how, soon or late, Wronged and wrongdoer, each with meekened face, And cold hands folded over a still heart, Pass the green threshold of our common grave, Whither all footsteps tend, whence none depart, Awed for myself, and pitying my race, Our common sorrow, like a mighty wave, Swept all my pride away, and trembling I forgave!"
How may we cultivate the spirit of forgiveness?
LESSON DEPARTMENT
The Blue Bird—Maurice Maeterlinck
"The Blue Bird" belongs to the modern literature of childhood's dreamland. It is an allegorical fantasy upon the theme of all Maeterlinck's dramas, the search for ideal happiness. From one of the author's essays "Luck in the Buried Temple" we find this significant expression "Let us unweariedly follow each path that leads from our consciousness to our unconsciousness.... At the end lies hidden the general secret of life," and Man's destiny.
Maurice Maeterlinck (mah ter lee nk) was born at Ghent, in Flanders in 1862. In the garden of his well-to-do parents he learned to dream with out-going ships, later the dark canals and narrow streets filled him with mystery. At a Jesuit school with its severity, bitterness was added to the youthful experience. In 1886 Maeterlinck went to Paris to become connected with the idealists and symbolists of the new school of writers. Upon his return to Belgium he began to write, at first poems and then dramas. This early work was marked by a definite pessimism; but always there was a striving for that Truth which is Beauty. In 1912 he was awarded the Nobel Prize for literature.
Maeterlinck is a seer of the future apart from his dramas. It has been said what Goethe was to the culture of Europe in the opening of the nineteenth century, Maeterlinck is today. It may be said of him, as it was said of Goethe, that he has brought us to the shores of the sea of serenity. The product of Maeterlinck's second period of literary activity is marked by a serenity, the understanding of Man's destiny. Of the man, Maeterlinck, nothing but good is known; his life proclaimed the ideals of his writings. Today he is considered with George Meredith, and Henrick Ibsen as one of the
517
great modern interpreters of life.
The Blue Bird
This fairy play in five acts is an epitome of the ideas of Maeterlinck. The characters are ideas personified. The play was first produced at the Art Theatre in Moscow in 1908. In London in 1909 the play drew thousands to its boards.
In dreamland Tyltyl and Mytyl, the children of two old peasants, are visited by the fairy Berylyne, who sends them in quest of the Blue Bird The fairy explains that if they can find the Blue Bird they will see all and know all—it is the great secret of things and happiness. The children are accompanied on the quest by Light the Dog, the Cat, Sugar, Bread, Fire, Water, and Milk. They journey first to the Land of Memory and meet their grandparents. The children are given a bird which is quite blue, but when they leave the land it becomes quite black.. The wanderings continue until the Land of Night is reached. Night resents Man's efforts through the ages to rid her of her terrors. The children search for the Blue Bird in the Caverns of the Ghosts, the Wars, the Shade, the Terrors, and the Mysteries. They seize eagerly the birds they find, but when they bring them to the light they are dead, they could not live in the light of day.
The children pass on in search of the Enchanted Palaces where all men's joys, all men's happinesses are gathered together in the charge of Fate. First, they go to the Hall of Luxuries of the Earth and search the banquet halls of the revellers, but the Blue Bird is not there. Next they interview the Happinesses,—the Happiness of Home, the Happiness of Well-Being, etc.; and then the Great Joys, the Joy of Maternal Love, the Joy of Understanding, etc. In the end they arrive at the Kingdom of the Future.
518
In the Azure Palace of the Kingdom of the Future they find the children who await the hour of their birth: Each is discussing what he will do during his earth-life. They are all wondering while they wait if they will receive "Some little plan or chart, Some fragment from their dream of human life." Father Time arrives and in a galley with white and gold sails, he takes a cargo of babies to Earth. Songs of waiting mothers are heard coming through the rosy mists of dawn as the galley nears its destination.
In the Kingdom of the Future there are also other figures, figures of silent beauty clad in azure. These are the matured spirits reserved for the earth at appointed times. The Children, Tyltyl, and Mytyl are discovered by Father Time who wonders why they are not blue. Light protects them from Time's gaze, as she assures them that she has caught the Blue Bird. All return to Earth.
The children awaken in the cottage now illumined by a strange beauty. When Madam Berlingot, a neighbor enters, she is first mistaken for the fairy Berylyne. Tyltyl offers his own little turtle-dove for the sick child. In a moment the miracle happens "the little child enters, the Blue Bird in her arms." As the children try to feed the Blue Bird it flies away. "Never mind," says Tyltyl reassuringly. "I will catch him again."
Of the production of the play with its. Possibilities for beauty in the ethereal Palace, Forest and Magic Garden scenes much can be said. Never before did poet give such possibilities for scenic images and impelling hues. Of the dramatic productions it has been recorded "Children sat spellbound and speechless in contemplation of this youthful modern quest of a new Holy Grail, while
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
men and women read therein the meanings vouchsafed them by their own life quests."
With easy dialogue, simple allegory and delicate humor, Maeterlinck has endeared himself to all who engage in the quest of Happiness by reading "The Blue Bird."
"O restless fancy, whither wouldst thou fare? Here are brave pinions that should take thee far." —Aldrich.
Note:—This is the second part of the lesson The Magic of Imagination.
A Midsummer Night's Dream
Shakespeare found the magic material for his most imaginative drama, "A Midsummer Night's Dream" in the gentle and lovable superstitions of fairy mythology. The popular explanation concerning the origin of fairies seems to be of Scandinavian birth, and it is pagan in character. Shakespeare took this fairy lore and gave it new charm by remodeling and invention. Thus in the play we see fairies making midnight mushrooms, hanging pearls in cowslip's ears, stealing honey bags from bees and flowers, hiding in acorns, girdling the earth in forty minutes, and singing Queen Titania to sleep nightly. The names given to the fairy characters in the play, the elves of hills, brooks, and groves carry a charm with them—Oberon, Titania, Puck, Cobweb, Robin Goodfellow, Pease Blossom, Moth Mustardseed, Cricket, Queen Mab—all fairies who with "printless feet" dance to the music of the spheres.
This fairy carnival, a miracle of happy inspiration, seems to have been written for the marriage festivities planned for two of Shakespeare's patrons, Lord Southampton and the Earl of Essex.
The Play. Theseus, Duke of Ath-
LESSON DEPARTMENT
ens, the conqueror of the Amazons, wins their queen, Hippolyta, for his bride. Amusements are ordered for part of the wedding festivities. Aside from the court activities, the peasants plan a play to be directed by Bottom, the weaver.
The loyal friend of Theseus, Lysander, is having difficulty with his love affairs as the father of Hermia demands that his daughter marry Demetrius, beloved by Helena. In the forest King Oberon and Queen Titania's love is not running smoothly. The mischievous Puck decides to set things in order by teaching his mistress a lesson. He has found a love-juice which he is going to pour upon her eyes when she is asleep, in order that she will love the first thing she sees upon awakening. In the forest Puck comes upon Helena and Demetrius who are quarreling, so he plans to help them also. Later Lysander and Hermia come to the forest to escape the cruelty of Hermia's father. Puck uses his love-juice upon Lysander instead of Demetrius, who upon awakening sees first Helena. A strange turn of events now, and Demetrius is free to make love to Hermia.
Meanwhile Puck continues his mischief. Finding Bottom, the weaver, and the players rehearsing, he crowns him with an ass's head, then leads him to where Titania is sleeping. Upon awakening, the Queen of the Fairies loves the first thing she sees, the human ass. All is confusion. Oberon at Titania's love, Hermia at Lysander's love for Helena. The Duke out in the forest on an early morning hunting trip discovers the trouble. Puck repairs his mischief and all are restored to normal understanding of their love, and Bottom to his normal form. The Duke listens to the plea of Lysander and Hermia and consents to their betrothal. The wedding feast is planned
519
now for three couples. The village players present their comic tragedy, "Pyramus and Thisbe." Then the fairies dance through the palace bringing omens of blessing and goodwill for the wedded ones.
"And as imagination bodies forth The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen Turns them to shapes and gives to airy nothings A local habitation and a name."
THE MAGIC OF IMAGINATION
Guide to Preparation
A. Suggested topics for Lesson Assignments.
1. The Magic of Fairy Lore
2. The Beauty of Symbolism
3. "The Blue Bird"—Maeterlinck A brief review of the story
4. Review: "The Midsummer Night's Dream"
5. The Dramatic values of Symbolical Plays as "Peter Pan" and "The Blue Bird"
Guide to Reading
A. "Peter Pan" For the family circle. A beautiful story of the land where a youth never grows old.
B. "The Life of the Bee," Maeterlinck A work well known to our girls by the author of "The Blue Bird."
C. "The Celtic Twilight," Yeats A collection of tales and plays of fairy lore from the twilight days of the Celtic race. No race has retained the youthful zest for fairy lore as has the Irish people.
D. "Chanticler," Rostand This French dramatist has used the simple story used by Chaucer and with barnyard characters portrayed man and his faith.
520
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Bibliography for March
IN publishing the Bibliography of our Literary Lessons in the June number of our Magazine the March lesson was omitted, so we print it herewith:
The Lesson for March
El Dorado. Kipling.
Kipling's Poems. Puck of Pook's Hill. Captain Courageous. Kim. Plain Tales from the Hills. Jungle Stories. The Year's Between. Barrack-Room Ballads. The Recessional. Life's Handicaps. Wee Willie Winkie.
Alfred Noyes.
Poems of Alfred Noyes. Forty Singing Seamen. Newspaper Bay. Barrell Organ. The Book of the Earth. Tales of a Mermaid Tavern.
Social Service
LESSON IV (For Fourth Week in January)
SOCIALIZATION THROUGH COMMUNICATION AND TRANSPORTATION
TEXT: CIVIC SOCIOLOGY, EDWARD A. ROSS, CHAPTER V
The general purposes of this lesson are:
1. To understand how the pattern of life is modified by contact with others.
2. To realize the obligation of the Latter-day Saint in furthering worth while social activities.
Communication and transportation are two of the greatest factors in promoting the growth and organization of society. Without them life may go on in its ancient mold for centuries at a time. Having once become accustomed to living in a certain way, a group of people, such as a clan or tribe, may continue to follow the same customs indefinitely unless they are modified through social interchange.
A vivid example of this fact is seen in the history of the American Indians: Living largely without communication or the benefits of transportation each tribe developed a type of civilization and a form of art which was particularly adapted to its own environment. For ex-
ample, the Pueblos, who dwell in permanent villages, have perfected the art of pottery as no other tribe has done, because of their sedentary life. But nomadic tribes which pitch their hogans or tepees whereever necessity demands find waterproof baskets lighter and more convenient vessels for carrying water and storing grain. The sheep-herding Navajos developed the art of blanket weaving to its highest extent. In their basketry, those tribes which live in canyons where willows abound use them extensively, while those who live on the desert use yucca fibres. The ceremonial customs and traditions of the Blackfeet Indians of Canada are equally characteristic of their surroundings. The snow tepee of their tribal camp. Is painted with green discs representing ice holes and with seven stars symbolizing the constellation of the Great Bear as a tribute to their god of the Blizzard. One of their ceremonial dresses is trimmed with ermine,
LESSON DEPARTMENT
In these days of easy transportation and communication society has been organized to such a degree that no community or commonwealth can be self-sufficient. The extensive exchange of goods has made widely separated countries dependent upon one another, and no country is entirely self-supporting or independent. And, in addition to the consumption of goods there is a tremendous interlocking of moral and ethical values which has developed from this close communication. No social pattern exists which does not influence other patterns of thought and ways of living.
The present organization of society has been largely developed through the swift communication of ideas and the effect of rapid transportation. Human behavior continually alters with new surroundings, changing desires, and active participation in group activities. Social life is consequently in a continual state of flux. With such changes going on all the time, it is in the nature of things that older social arrangements, even though at one time admirable, must gradually cease to be useful. The older the custom the more likely it is to be unsuited to present social needs. New inventions, new knowledge, new services rendered to mankind often show old ways to be ineffectual and unsuited to modern life, such as the ancient custom of trial by fire, and the burning of innocent women as witches. With proper education the weakness and folly of old ideas lead to a demand for their abolition.
However, such demands usually meet with stern resistance. Most men are inclined to hold a self-sufficient attitude toward the major social problems of life. They stubbornly oppose new application to old ideas, and social change is hindered to that extent. Some develop a belligerent attitude at the very suggestion of a changing social order. Misunderstandings which lead to never ending difficulties develop very easily. History is replete with conflicts because of the clash of ideas which have developed through social changes. Differences in opinion on such questions as immigration, tariff policies, the organization of labor, and taxation have caused continual trouble. The United States Civil War was brought on by the inability of opposing sides to adjust their differences of opinion. Consequently both society and the nation suffered a devastating blow. The early persecution of the Latter-day Saints and their expulsion from certain states is an example of great intolerance.
But communication should reduce conflict and develop understanding of another's point of view. One of the greatest dangers to individuals and to organized society is this opposition to change and the social adjustment which it involves. Feelings become intensified, opposition grows violent, and sometimes ends in revolution. Groups of people and nations should not refuse to countenance differences in ideas or to make social adjustments. Rather, the attitude of tolerance and compromise in regard to conflicting interests and attitudes should be fostered.
In the past social changes have been more unconsciously directed by the activities of man than they are at the present time. Although great changes have always resulted from their activities, society was not so much aware of how and to what extent such changes were taking place as it is today. With the speeding up of transportation through the use of aircraft and higher powered ships, trains, and automobiles; and with the use of the radio, telegraphy, and
522
telephone, old barriers are broken down. With the ability to reach millions of people over the radio at the same time, world-wide changes in thought and attitude can be effected almost simultaneously. For example, President Roosevelt's "fireside talks" have been of international influence. As a result such changes are consciously directed and with more potent results than ever before. Therefore, people should know how to react to such tremendous influences.
To the extent that democracy is a privilege it carries a corresponding obligation. In so far as socialization occurs through such conscious molding, individuals should exercise judgment in contributing toward a wholesome development. Freedom of discussion is the best method of reducing differences of opinion and arriving at understandings. People should be willing to sacrifice personal beliefs for social welfare.
In "An Introduction to Sociology," W. G. Beach describes the worth of an idea as follows: "The worth of each (idea) is measured by its relation to social welfare. If an institution has had a social function, but no longer performs it, it needs to be changed; to function socially is to do something of value for society, and the test is universal and inexorable. The recognition of this principle by an individual or a group constitutes in them a consciousness of social obligation. Equally, must a custom, a tradition, an institution accept this test."
Active participation in church activities may be cited as an activity of worth while social value. One may derive great benefit and spiritual satisfaction by listening to radio talks, but group contacts should not be replaced by such methods of socialization and education. Group contacts have a value in and of themselves which nothing can replace.
The Church of Jesus Christ of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Latter-day Saints shows the effects of socialization through transportation and communication to a very interesting extent. The nature of its organization into stakes, wards, missions, conferences, and branches, affords a constant interchange of ideas and extension of the social mind. The traveling of missionaries to the uttermost parts of the world and their consequent partaking of the cultures of other peoples which they eventually bring back to their own communities is an invaluable cultural asset to the Church. The appearance and broadcast of the Tabernacle Choir at the recent Chicago Exposition in response to an invitation from Mr. Henry Ford, modified the attitude of thousands of people toward our Church. The Sunday evening services and concerts given weekly over the radio are an example of socialization by means of the radio.
As a religious body the Church is an organic institution possessing all the attributes necessary for growth and expansion to meet the needs of a growing and expanding world. Church members should participate in the activities of their organization, not only for their own good but also to help in the social development of the organization.
What do you, as Latter-day Saints, derive from the social and spiritual benefits of Mormonism? What do you contribute to its socialization?
Activities
Evaluate the services of the missionaries who have returned home in your ward. Give evidence, if possible, that members think or act differently because of the experiences of the missionaries in other communities. Show the effects of visits of stake and auxiliary supervisory officers upon the spirit of unity in the ward.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Mission Lessons
HEALTH LESSONS 1935-36
LESSON IV
CARE OF THE EYES
THE care of baby's eyes begins immediately after birth. The careful attendant always applies an unirritating antiseptic to the eyes of the new born babe, and there is no doubt that many cases of blindness are prevented by this initial care. There is a disease called ophthalmia neonatorium which attacks young infants just a few hours or days after birth, and which may be severe enough to destroy the sight. In such cases the physician should always be called in early.
There is another type of eye disease which results from syphilis, and which causes spots to come on the cornea which may permanently obstruct the sight. Here again the physician should be called and given full charge, and if he is early enough on the job blindness may be averted.
Conjunctivitis, commonly known as sore eyes, is fairly common amongst all classes of people. Unless it is severe one may be justified in treating himself. One of the simple eye drops recommended over long years by one of London's greatest eye specialists consists of two grains of chloride of zinc dissolved in an ounce of distilled water. This may be applied with a dropper two or three times a day, in amounts of three or four drops to each eye. This is the strength for adults, and it should be diluted somewhat for children. If the eye becomes very sore it should be put to rest by excluding the light with a bandage, and the physician should be consulted.
Conjunctivitis often results from eye strain, and if it continues the eye specialist should be consulted to see if glasses are not needed. Students who use their eyes excessively, and people whose employment subjects the eyes to the irritation of dust or smoke, are apt to have conjunctivitis. The Japanese who developed so many wise sanitary measures during the war with Russia had a regulation that each gunner in the artillery force should carry in his pocket a little bottle of saturated solution of boric acid to be dropped in the eyes as often as necessary. For the irritation of smoke or dust that is a good eye water and should be used freely.
Granular lids is really chronic conjunctivitis. It is a disease most common among the poorer classes. It sometimes causes distortion of the lid borders, turning the lashes against the sensitive eyeball and causing great pain and irritation. This is a disease for the eye specialist and should not be neglected or subjected to home treatment.
There is nearly always conjunctivitis in measles, and other infectious diseases may cause it. In measles or scarletina, where the eyes get sore, argyrol in 6% strength should be dropped in each eye two or three times a day.
Hemorrhage under the conjunctiva may be quite alarming, and it is quite, conspicuous, but it is usually not of consequence and the blood stain will disappear of its own accord in a few days. No medicine does it any good.
When one gets a black eye from an injury there is hemorrhage into the soft tissues about the eye. The
524
use of a beef steak poultice is foolish, and does no more good than an ordinary poultice. Immediately after the injury a small ice bag should be applied to arrest the hemorrhage, and the next day hot poultices of gauze wrung out of boric solution should be used to hasten absorption. If the person has to appear in public, the skin may be covered with flesh colored powder.
Little ulcers sometimes appear on the cornea, especially in poorly nourished children. These should be treated by the eye specialist as they may leave white scars which would interfere with vision.
Cataract is ordinarily a disease of old age, which would go on to complete blindness if not corrected. Sometimes it occurs in younger people as a result of injury to the eye. Fortunately science has developed a surgical cure for cataract, and the great majority of those afflicted with it can be restored to happiness by getting their sight restored.
Glaucoma is a disease of the eye in which the eyeball hardens, causing loss of vision and often severe pain. It is always a matter for the eye specialist, and no time should be lost in having treatment instituted.
Eye strain due to faulty shape of the eyeball is a condition that causes much disability. It not infrequently causes headaches, and other nervous symptoms. Many children have fallen behind in their studies not because of lack of intellect, but because of eye strain. Fortunately most of the difficulty of faulty refraction can be corrected by properly constructed glasses, but the well trained optometrist should be consulted for selecting them.
Cross eyes results from inequality of the pull of the eye muscles. It is often disfiguring, and seriously interferes with vision. It can often be corrected by properly selected
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
glasses, but in the severe forms, the little muscle which is making the abnormal pull on the eyeball must be operated upon by the well trained eye surgeon.
One should not put the eyes on a strain by reading in the twilight or in a darkened room. It is fortunate for us that so delicate an organ placed where it is subject so readily to injury as the eye, is given to us double, so that if one should be destroyed we still have another to fall back on. The Creator has also placed the eye in a strong bony cavity, open only on one side to let the light in. This gives it great protection from injury. So we see how our beneficent Heavenly Father has safeguarded our health and happiness, and we should show our appreciation by guarding carefully these precious organs that God has entrusted us with.
Questions
1. When should treatment of the eyes begin to occupy our attention?
2. What is conjunctivitis?
3. Why should the eyes of the new born baby have immediate attention?
4. How would you treat a black eye?
5. What simple eye water can be used with safety and effect?
6. What do you mean by cataract, and how treated?
7. What is glaucoma?
8. What is the treatment for cross eyes?
9. What do you mean by eye strain?
10. How can eye strain be corrected?
11. Show how the Creator has safeguarded our vision.
12. How can we best show our appreciation for the priceless gifts God has bestowed on us?
Magazine Drive
To Relief Society Stake Presidents.
Dear Sisters:
The time for our special Magazine Drive is from September 15 to October 15. All plans for this should now be decided upon. We hope the Stake and Ward Agents will be alert and work unceasingly until success crowns their efforts. The Executive Officers should be ready to assist the agents. Often they can secure subscriptions where agents are unsuccessful in doing so.
All subscriptions taken from October 15, 1934, to October 15, 1935, will be counted in connection with the Honor Roll and awards to agents.
To Our Magazine Agents
We deeply appreciate the work done by our Magazine Agents in past years. They have worked enthusiastically, efficiently and unselfishly. Last season was outstanding—we reached the highest circulation in our history. More Wards attained the hundred per cent quota than ever before and many climbed up to between seventy-five and one hundred per cent. It has taken a great deal of work to reach this high standard, and we thank all those who made this success possible.
Unfortunately some did not have their record printed on the last Honor Roll in the Magazine who should, because it did not reach the office in time. We urge that this season the reports be sent in promptly. Stake Agents should not wait for Wards that are late until the prompt Wards fail to get credit in the published list.
Reports should contain the following information, and should be sent in by November 10th: Name of Ward, Stake, Enrollment, No. Of Subscriptions, Per Cent, Name of Magazine Agent.
All reports from Stake Agents must be in the Magazine office by November 10, 1935 in order to compete for award and be published in the magazine.
Each Ward is asked to have as its goal a subscription list equal to the number of Relief Society members in its organization.
We trust the following suggestions will be carried out by our Agents:
1. Know the worth of the Magazine.
2. Be prepared to talk intelligently on what it contains.
3. Do the work in a business-like way.
4. Study the art of salesmanship.
5. Keep records accurately.
6. Send in subscriptions legibly written and containing the necessary information: Name, Address, When Subscription begins, Amount of money sent.
(a) It is very important that agents should be accurate in stating the month each subscriber wishes to commence. This will help us to avoid mailing two copies of the same month to a subscriber. It will also tend to alleviate much work and expense in making the changes later.
This list with the money should be sent directly by the Ward Agents to the Magazine office in Salt Lake City. Each agent should carefully read the following instructions before beginning her work.
526
Instructions to Relief Society Magazine Agents
Subscriptions Payable in Advance: The subscription price of the Relief Society Magazine is $1.00 per year, payable in advance. Subscriptions will not be accepted at the Magazine office unless accompanied by a remittance, and Magazines will not be mailed to subscribers until the subscription price has been paid. In order to comply with this ruling and to avoid errors, subscriptions will not be taken by telephone at the Magazine office.
Receipt Book, Use of: Agents should give each subscriber a receipt for money received. The agent should keep a record on the corresponding stub in the receipt book, of the name of the subscriber, the amount received, and the period covered by the subscription. This record will serve as a guide to the agent in soliciting renewals. Agents are supplied with receipt books by the Relief Society Magazine office upon request, or from their stake representative, free of charge.
Subscription Blanks, Use of: All subscriptions taken by agents should be written on subscription blanks, A separate blank should be used for subscribers in different towns. Care should be taken that all names are spelled correctly. Agent should sign her own name and address on each blank sent in so that a receipt may be mailed to her. Subscription blanks are supplied by the Relief Society Magazine office, upon request, or from their stake representative.
Give Complete Address: Agents will please give the correct and complete post office address opposite every subscription entered on the blanks, so that subscribers will not be disappointed and Magazines lost.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
A subscription for a stake or ward Relief Society organization should be addressed in care of an officer of that organization, who will be responsible to the Society for the Magazines.
Change of Address: Requests for change of address should be written on a separate sheet and not on a subscription blank. Give the old as well as the new address. If it is necessary to change a name, give the name as it is now appearing on the Magazine, as well as the name as it should appear in the future.
Renewals: When a subscription is renewed, give the name exactly as it appeared on the previous subscription. Be sure to state with which number of the Magazine the subscriber wishes to begin the renewal, so that two copies of the Magazine will not be received for the same month, or so that a number of the Magazine will not be missed.
Complaints: Complaints should be written on a separate sheet and not on a subscription blank.
Remittances: Money received for subscriptions should be remitted by check or money order, made payable to Relief Society Magazine.
Address of Magazine Office: Subscriptions and letters regarding subscriptions should be addressed to Relief Society Magazine, 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Agents: Relief Society Magazine agents give their services, without commission, just as do other Relief Society officers and workers, and pay for their own subscriptions. However, in order that they will not be at personal expense, they may deduct the cost of postage and. Money order fees from the amount sent in for subscriptions, unless this amount is paid by the Ward Relief Society General Fund.
MAGAZINE DRIVE
527
Honor Roll and Awards to Agents
I. Honor Roll: All wards reporting a subscription list of 75 to 99 percent of their membership will have their names and the names of the agents published on our Honor Roll. All wards reporting a subscription list equal to 100 percent or over of their membership will not only have their names and the names of the successful agents published on a special honor roll but will receive from the General Board a certificate of appreciation.
II. Awards: (a) To the ten ward agents obtaining the highest percentage of subscriptions, a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine will be presented at the General Conference of the Relief Society April, 1936. (Note: If agents earning awards are not in attendance the book will be sent to them.) (b) To all ward agents not receiving a bound volume who obtain subscriptions equal to 75 percent or above of their membership, providing such subscription list contains a minimum of 15 names, a one year subscription to the Relief Society Magazine will be awarded.
All subscriptions received from October 15, 1934 to October 15, 1935 will be counted in the 1935 campaign. (Subscriptions received after October 15, 1935 will be credited in the 1936 Drive.)
President Rudger Clawson says: "The Relief Society Magazine is a wonderful Magazine. You must never forget that it is the Relief Society organ, it is your publication, it belongs to you, it is issued for your benefit. If a Relief Society sister should come to me and say, 'Brother Clawson, what is my responsibility to the Church publications? I should say without hesitation, 'My dear sister, your first obligation in this matter is to subscribe for the Relief Society Magazine. In it you will find every instruction and teaching that is necessary for you, and then after that, if you want to subscribe for other magazines, it is all right, but for you, it should be the Relief Society Magazine first'."
The Great Danger
A PROMINENT Virginia physician was sitting in his home, engaged in reading a magazine, while his wife chatted with a visitor. The conversation drifted to the danger of contagious diseases, and the means for preventing infection as the children mingle with their play-fellows. Much concern was shown by both mothers as to the safety of their children, and many suggestions for safeguarding them were discussed.
Thoughtfully laying down his magazine, the doctor remarked, "I am greatly interested in what you have been saying, but I have been thinking of a disease which you have not mentioned, and which threatens with much greater danger than any you have mentioned. I wonder, if you thought your children were being exposed to leprosy, typhoid, or yellow fever, what you would do! I fancy you would bestir yourselves mightily: possibly
528
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
leaving home for a safer locality. Yet, now, every child is exposed to a disease more dangerous than smallpox, typhoid, yellow fever, or anything else you could mention, and I am amazed at the seeming indifference of parents in view of the almost inescapable danger of contagion."
The women were startled, and anxiously inquired the name of this fearful disease which was unequalled by the ravages of what are usually considered the most deadly of disease.
"I refer to the newly licensed liquor traffic, with the development of alcoholism," was the doctor's reply.
The women were somewhat surprised, but he continued to tell of the awful ravages of drink; how it ruins morals, physical and spiritual welfare; how it is a racial poison, leaving its mark on future generations; how it blights all that is lovely and good, bringing in poverty, suffering, anguish and death.
This warning, coming from a man in a position to know the many problems of disease and their effect on the life of the community, made both these women view this matter with a new realization of its significance, and anxious for the safety of their loved ones. They realized that no child or youth can escape the temptation to drink and possibly form the alcohol habit. They saw with horror that many homes, formerly safe for their children to visit, are now serving drinks and placing temptation before those who may come.—The Union Signal.
Gently Calling By Grace C. Jacobsen
When the harvest time is ended, And the noon day comes at last, When the evening casts her shadows And the striving all is past
When we've lost the gift of living, And the joy of service sweet, For the Master has been squandered At the throne of mammon's feet,
When the world with all its darkness, Its confusion, sin and strife, Lays aside its futile clamor For the things of mortal life.
When the din and roar of battle Sounding now from sea to sea, When the clash of angry sabres Shall be sheated in unity.
Then perhaps we'll hear Him calling
When the love of gold and power Loose their hold on human hearts, And the thoughts of mortal welfare Rise above the moneyed marts.
Where selfish men contending, Just to have and hold awhile All the fleeting wealth of nations, Garnered with a sinister smile,
See the cross and bleeding feet, Hear the cry of pain and anguish, Hear the message, tender sweet,
Hear him calling, gently calling All mankind to Him above, For He gave His life a ransom, From the depths of perfect love.
L. D. S. Training Doesn't Cost—IT PAYS!
HERE IS A FORMULA FOR SUCCESS:
1. Graduate from high school.
2. Secure commercial training. Become expert in the use of modern tools.
3. Attend college if you can.
The booklet, "Planning Your Future," is full of helpful information. Send for a copy.
L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City
Preserve Your Magazines by having them permanently bound
THERE is a vast amount of valuable reference material in your Relief Society Magazine. You can preserve this material permanently and in attractive book form by having your volumes bound.
SPECIAL RATE FOR QUANTITIES
The Deseret News Press Pioneer Printers, Binders, Rulers 29 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
70 North Main Street Wasatch 1812
Why Is It So Many People Insist on Beneficial Life Insurance?
One of the Many Reasons Is the Fact They Obtain Participating Insurance at Non-Participating Rates
Can You Get It Elsewhere?
YOU TOO—WILL BE BETTER SATISFIED IF YOU SEE A BENEFICIAL REPRESENTATIVE
FOR THE MANY SPECIAL FEATURES
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY HOME OFFICE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT & DIRECTOR J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., 1ST VICE-PRES. & DIR. DAVID O. McKAY, 2ND VICE-PRES. & DIR. GEO. J. CANNON, EXECUTIVE VICE-PRES. & DIR. JOS. FIELDING SMITH, DIRECTOR E. T. RALPHS, CLAIMS ADJUSTER & DIR. AXEL B. C. OHLSON, SECRETARY & DIRECTOR LEO. E. PENROSE, ASST. SECRETARY VIRGIL H. SMITH, ASST. SECRETARY ORVAL W. ADAMS, DIRECTOR EUGENE P. WATKINS, SUP. R. E. LOAN DEPT. STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN, DIRECTOR WALDO M. ANDERSEN, AGENCY SUPERVISOR EARLE W. PEIRCE, ASST. TREASURER
The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Volume XXII SEPTEMBER, 1935 No. 9
UTAH OIL REFINING CO.
L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments We Suggest the following numbers for all seasons Wear:
No. 1 Style, ribbed light weight. Our best Selling Wool and Combed Cotton excellent Garment. Men's new or old Style. $2.75 Ladies' new or old Style. $2.80
No. 6 Light Weight Cotton Garment, our Standard Garment 1.00
No. 7 Light Weight Ribbed Cotton, bleached. Our all Season number 1.25
No. 9 Medium weight, ribbed. Part wool, silk stripe. Be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, and ankle length legs, are wanted, also give bust measure for perfect fit.
Before buying elsewhere, Write for Prices
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL
UTAH WOOLEN MILLS Manager
Old Style, ribbed light weight. Ladies' new or old Style. $2.75
Peerless Laundry SNOW WHITE CLOTHES Exclusive Family Service
Mrs. Housewife Always Smiles
She doesn't carry ashes or coal. She doesn't scrub pots and pans. Her kitchen keeps cool and neat as a pin. Friend husband says the meals taste better. And there's more time to spare.
ELECTRIC COOKING
Come Into Our Store for Easy Terms. Phone Us.
UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.
GARDEN FRESH: Next to selecting your vegetables from your own garden, fresh ones from our stores will most please you. Each variety is priced; and by selecting your own you always get the best. There is no part of the display that is reserved for deceptive display.
O. P. SKAGGS "A Surety of Purity."
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
1184 East 21st South Phone Hy. 2182-2183
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
VOL. XXII SEPTEMBER, 1935 No. 9
CONTENTS
The Cumorah Monument...........................................Frontispiece Administration.........................................Eva Willes Wangsgard 529 The Dedicatory Exercises for the Angel Moroni Monument....Kate M. Barker 531 Bryce's Canyon...........................................Ida R. Alldredge 536 Not Bread Alone—IV......................................Elsie C. Carroll 537 If.......................................................Ella J. Coulam 541 Happenings...........................................Annie Wells Cannon 542 Equality for Women.....................................Blanche Kendall 543 A Woman's Prayer.....................................Grace Ingles Frost 545 Grandma Hutchins, Diplomat.............................Mildred A. Dawson 546 The Cross.......................................Josephine Gardner Moench 549 The Greatest Adventure..................................Clara Perman 550 Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life..............Leila Marler Hoggan 553 My Neighbor's Song....................................Sylvia R. Grant 556 At the Close of Day..................................Joseph Quinney, Jr. 557 A Sense of Humor....................................Eleanor S. Muir 558 That Old Rocking Chair..............................Bessie C. Rasmussen 559 Guides in Buying Textiles.............................Vilate Elliot 560 God Remembers.......................................Grace Zenor Pratt 563 Notes from the Field.................................Julia A. F. Lund 566 Editorial—M. I. A. Slogan...................................Ed 571 Back to School.................................................... 572 Elsie Talmage Brandley........................................... 573 A Welcome Letter................................................ 573 Lesson Department............................................... 575 The Plea of the Relief Society Magazine........................... 592
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
WELCOME Conference Visitors
SAVE THE PRICE OF YOUR TRIP TO THE CITY BY COMING TO OUR STORE
For Furniture and HOME FURNISHINGS OF STYLE AND QUALITY
GRANITE FURNITURE COMPANY Out of the High Rent District We Deliver Everywhere 1050 East 21st South Sugarhouse
HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS FROM FACTORY TO YOU
We Solicit Your Mail Orders
No. 88. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New New Style.....................$3.65 Styles......................$.85 No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Men New Style....................1.10 Ladies' New Style............85 No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double No. 85. Very Special Non-Run Gar- Back........................1.35 ments—Guaranteed—Not To No. 81. Heavy Wt. Old Style Run Rayon. New Style Only. Double Back.................1.50 Special......................1.10
We Mark Garments for 10 cents
Specify when ordering, your bust, trunk and length, whether new or old style, and if men's or ladies'. We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States.
MOSSE LEWIS SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
L-D. S. GARMENTS, CUTLER VALUES
No. 68 Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton, New Style $.75 No. 68 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton, Old Style .85 No. 500 Super Non-run Rayon Short Sleeve and Knee Length 1.10 No. 74 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Fine Combed Cotton 1.19 No. 73 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton Silk Stripe, Ladies' New Style Only 1.25 No. 64 Lt. Med. Wt. Bleached Combed Cotton 1.25 No. 62 Med. Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back Combed Cotton 1.65 No. 56 Extra Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back Combed Cotton 1.98 No. 82 33 1/3% Wool
In ordering garments please state if for men or women, and if old or new styles are wanted; also state bust, height and weight of person. Marking 10c.
An additional charge of 20% will be made on orders for persons weighing 210 pounds or over.
CUTLER BROS. SALT LAKE CITY UTAH
57 Years
LDS. GARMENTS
Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid.
No. 144. Light weight cotton, New or Old Style $.85 No. 472. Elastic Knit, Light Weight, Style Only $.075 New Style Only...................$1.00 No. 609. Run resist rayon, Ladies No. 33. Spring Needle, Lt. Wt. Cot. New Style Only..............1.10 New or Old Style...............1.25 No. 758. Ecru or White, Med. Heavy No. 205. Fine rib, Med Weight, New and Men's New Style........1.65 or Old Style..................1.25 No. 908. Heavy Weight Cotton Ecru No. 405. Run resist rayon, New or Old Old or New Style...........1.95 Style........................1.35 No. 464. Rib. Knit, Med. Light, New Old Style....................1.25
BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
To Mothers of GROWING CHILDREN
Now you can buy Fisher's Vitamin "D" Bread—either white or whole wheat. Both kinds of this better bread are fortified with the extra Vitamin "D" all growing boys and girls need to help them build better teeth and sound bones. Give your children the benefits of bread scientifically prepared by master-bakers, a delicious and appetizing healthfood.
At Your Grocer's
AMERICAN LADY BAKING COMPANY 100% Home-Owned Bakers of FISHER'S Vitamin "D" BREADS WHITE AND WHOLE WHEAT
Plant NOW
September is the month to plant Madonna Lilies and Iris
FREE Fall Catalog in color is ready
It contains a full list of the proper varieties of perennial plants, seeds, bulbs, shrubs, and trees for fall planting. Get your copy by writing or calling in at the city store.
Porter-Walton Co. 42 West First South Salt Lake City, Utah Seed and Nursery Specialists
She is tending the Furnace!
You, too, can escape drudgery and banish smoke and dirt—with Automatic
GAS HEAT
Natural Gas heat brings you complete freedom from furnace drudgery—maintains a uniform healthful warmth all through the house. It is regulated automatically. There's just nothing for you to do except adjust a thermostat to give you the degree of warmth you want! It's economical, too. Over a three-year period many Salt Lake homes averaged only $6 or $7 a month for Gas heat, nine months' heating per year.
Come in for further details!
MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY 36 South State Was. 1300
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Administration By Eva Willes Wangsgard
Long years ago, when I was ill And tossed about in pain, When ev'ry effort toward relief Seemed to be made in vain,
So often I would hear a step As soft as angel's tread; Pain-shadowed eyes could dimly see A figure by my bed.
My father's voice would say to me— What comfort in a word— "Why can't you sleep, my little one? Was it not you I heard?"
Then I would feel his work-rough hands Laid on my fevered brow, And hear his soothing voice assure, "There, you'll feel better now."
Still after all these years it seems A miracle to me That pain would vanish at a touch And sleep come instantly.
THE CUMORAH MONUMENT.
The Relief Society Magazine
VOL. XXII SEPTEMBER, 1935 No. 9
The Dedicatory Exercises for the Angel Moroni Monument By Kate M. Barker
A MONUMENT has been erected on the Hill Cumorah. No monument in the world commemorates greater things—for it stands as a testimony to the world that God lives and Jesus is the Christ—that His gospel of peace and joy has been restored to the world. It was erected by a grateful people, to whom this gospel of peace and joy have come and who because of their love for God and humanity wish to share the blessing with a world struggling for happiness. This spirit of gratitude and love permeated all of the exercises at the dedication of the monument and the four day conference which was held at the Hill Cumorah and the Sacred grove July 21, 22, 23 and 24.
About five hundred members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints came from the east and west, from near and far, to attend the services. The General Authorities present were—President Heber J. Grant and President David O. McKay, Elders Rudger Clawson, George Albert Smith, Melvin J. Ballard and Charles A. Callis, of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles; Sylvester Q. Cannon, of the Presiding Bishopric; Elder John Taylor, of the First Seven Presidents of the Seventies; representatives of all the General Boards of the auxiliary organizations of the Church; presidents of missions and of stakes. Some of the outstanding artists of the Church gave of their talent to make the exercises beautiful in keeping with the sublime theme. The readers were Grace Nixon Stewart, Norma Fairbanks and Roscoe Grover. The musicians were Margaret Romaine, Constance Reese Hills, Rulon Y. Robison, Edwin Tout and a chorus of missionaries from the Eastern States Mission.
For several weeks the elders had been working in the neighborhood and the response was remarkable. Several hundred visitors were at the dedicatory services. The people of Palmyra generously opened their homes for the accommodation of the visiting Latter-day Saints. The Boy Scouts of Palmyra furnished music for the Tuesday evening program. In fact from every side one felt the spirit of friendship and co-operation. Sunday afternoon Judge S. Nelson Sawyer and Judge Robert F. Thompson gave expression to this new spirit of tolerance
532
and appreciation in their very fine addresses. Judge Sawyer officially represented the town of Palmyra. He was born there and had known and talked to people who had known the Prophet. He said that he acknowledged with shame the prejudice and persecution which had existed but he was happy now to have the opportunity, on behalf of the people of Palmyra, to welcome the Mormon people with open arms. He has long been a fine friend of our people. It is hard to understand the intolerance and persecution at the time of the Prophet and. Yet we can probably appreciate the more the independence of mind and the generous friendship of one who in his youth was surrounded by this early bitterness and prejudice.
THE dedicatory services were held Sunday morning, July 21st, at the foot of the Hill—the speaker's stand having been erected on a spot near to
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
where the sacred records had been buried. President Heber J. Grant presided and President Don B. Colton, of the Eastern States Mission, conducted the exercises. At ten o'clock four trumpeters standing on, the peak of the hill near the veiled monument silhouetted against a blue sky, raised the plaintive melody the "Nephite Lamentation." The music was taken up in poetry as a man's voice was heard—
"Now, what do we hear in the gospel which we have received? A voice of gladness! A voice of mercy from heaven; and a voice of truth out of the earth; glad tidings for the dead; a voice of gladness for the living and the dead; glad tidings of great joy. How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of those that bring glad tidings of good things, and that say unto Zion: Behold, thy God reigneth! As the dews of Carmel, so shall the knowledge of God descend upon them!
"And again, what do we hear? Glad tidings from Cumorah! Moroni, an angel from heaven, declaring the fulfilment
HILL CUMORAH, JOSEPH SMITH FARM, PALMYRA, NEW YORK
DEDICATORY EXERCISES
of the prophets—the book to be revealed.
533
and like fuller's soap; and he shall sit as A voice of the Lord in the wilderness of Fayette, Seneca county, declaring the three witnesses to bear record of the book! The voice of Michael on the banks of the Susquehanna, detecting the devil when he appeared as an angel of light! The voice of Peter, James, and John in the wilderness between Harmony, Susquehanna county, and Colesville, Broome county, on the Susquehanna river, declaring themselves as possessing the keys of the kingdom, and of the dispensation of the fulness of times!
"And again, the voice of God in the chamber of old Father Whitmer, in Fayette, Seneca county, and at sundry times, and in divers places through all the travels and tribulations of this Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints! And the voice of Michael, the archangel; the voice of Gabriel, and of Raphael, and of divers angels, from Michael or Adam down to the present time, all declaring their dispensation, their rights, their keys, their honors, their majesty and glory, and the power of their priesthood; giving line upon line, precept upon precept; here a little, and there a little; giving us consolation by holding forth that which is to come, confirming our hope!
"Brethren, shall we not go on in so great a cause? Go forward and not backward. Courage, brethren; and on, on to the victory! Let your hearts rejoice, and be exceedingly glad. Let the earth break forth into singing. Let the dead speak forth anthems of eternal praise to the King Immanuel, who hath ordained, before the world was, that which would enable us to redeem them out of their prison; for the prisoners shall go free.
"Let the mountains shout for joy, and all ye valleys cry aloud; and all ye seas and dry lands tell the wonders of your Eternal King! And ye rivers, and brooks, and rills, flow down with gladness. Let the woods and all the trees of the field praise the Lord; and ye solid rocks weep for joy! And let the sun, moon, and the morning stars sing together, and let all the sons of God shout for joy! And let the eternal creations declare his name forever and ever! And again I say, how glorious is the voice we hear from heaven, proclaiming in our ears, glory, and salvation, and honor and immortality, and eternal life; kingdoms, principalities, and powers!
"Behold, the great day of the Lord is at hand; and who can abide the day of his coming, and who can stand when he appeareth? For he is like a refiner's fire, a refiner and purifier of silver, and he shall purify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness. Let us, therefore, as a church and a people, and as Latter-day Saints, offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness; and let us present in his holy temple, when it is finished, a book containing the records of our dead, which shall be worthy of all acceptation."—Doc. And Cov. 128:19-24.
Then a woman's voice—
"The promise was fulfilled as ever are Predictions made by prophets of the Lord, Until upon the land no Nephite lived, Except Moroni, ancient seer and bard.
"Then buried in the dust, in silent stone The sacred plates, the messenger of gold, To lie untouched in soundless tomb of earth,
"Until a youth, unlettered and unlearned, But tutored in the school of Elohim, Should roll away the rock, the treasure view, And usher in a dispensation new.
"To every man who will the sacred tome Peruse in quest of truth, with prayerful heart, Shall come the sweet assurance from on high, That it a hallowed history contains;
"A story of the West in ancient time, And that the gospel found within its lids, Is not man's spoken word, but God's Divine.
"Fear God for aye, and glory to Him give, For lo, the hour of judgment is at hand, And worship Him, who made the earth and sky.
"And surging sea, and all that they contain, For unto men the Master shall descend, In glory, power and righteousness to reign.
"Awake Jerusalem and shout His praise, Arise ye everlasting hills and sing, For in the latter days from Kolob far, Shall come to earth in majesty, her King."*
*"The Master's Other Sheep"—by Chas. W. Dunn.
534
We then relived the events of the past as the speakers vividly recalled the history of the spot on which the services were being held;—God's goodness and power in leading a group of His children to this continent; their achievements; the great civilization built by them; the visit of Jesus to "His other sheep;" the joy and happiness which was theirs when they lived near to God; the sorrow that came with sin—until the fields, which now are covered with beautiful and luxuriant vegetation, literally ran with blood; how for two centuries the nations on this continent fought almost to the point on annihilation; how one mighty prophet and warrior, Moroni, sealed up in the Hill a record of his people to come forth at some future time by the power of God as a testimony of Jesus. They spoke of the world's struggle for happiness—of the sin and suffering in the search for truth; and then of the young boy whose faith was so perfect that Our Father in Heaven could speak again through him to the world; of the courage and strength of the young Prophet who through ridicule and persecution met every test of sincerity and faithfulness, until the golden plates were given to him by their guardian, the angel Moroni; and, who through the gift of the Spirit was able to translate the records to stand as a testimony to the world of Jesus and a revealing of His message. We sensed anew our responsibility in giving the world the opportunity to hear the message and of carrying the Book of Mormon to its final destiny—the salvation of the Lamanites—the descendants of Lehi. From the trumpeters on the hill came the beautiful music of "What Was Witnessed in the Heavens" as the monument was unveiled.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
THE dedicatory prayer. Was offered by President Heber J. Grant. Speaking for 750,000 people he fervently and sincerely expressed our thanks for the personal visitation of God and His Son to Joseph Smith, for the restoration of the gospel and the establishment again of His Church, for the prosperity and growth of the Church despite opposition and persecution and for the external evidences of the truth of the Book of Mormon that are constantly being discovered. He consecrated our lives to the task of helping all Our Father's children to receive the blessings of the gospel and dedicated the monument, hill, and grounds praying that they would be protected from the elements and stand as an ensign to the world.
THE monument was designed by Torlief S. Knaphus. It is erected on the peak of the Hill Cumorah, a shaft of Vermont granite thirty feet high and ten feet square, on the summit of which is a bronze figure of the Angel Moroni, nine feet high. At the bottom of the shaft are panels in bronze. On the west panel Moroni is represented delivering the plates to the young man Joseph. On the south panel an angel of the Lord is pictured standing before the three witnesses, holding the plates and showing them the engravings thereon. In addition to these witnesses the Prophet was permitted to show the plates to eight others. This is shown on the East panel. On the North panel is this quotation from the Book of Mormon: "And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are true; and if ye shall ask with a
DEDICATORY EXERCISES
sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, He will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost." Moroni 10:4.
The whole shaft has the appearance of a pillar of light with upward leading lines, each part symbolic of the organization of the Church. The architecture at the top of the granite shaft is reminiscent of early America. "The dove, in conventional design, hovers over the entire shaft, and represents the Holy Ghost whose presence has ever blessed great spiritual occasions from early antiquity until now, whenever and wherever the truth of the gospel has been upon the earth to enlighten and guide mankind."*
IN an impressive evening service huge flood lights, directed at the
*Pamphlet "The Angel Moroni Monument."
535
monument, were turned on. The light bathed the monument in a brilliant glow and it could be seen for several miles in all directions.
AND thus it stands a testimony in enduring bronze and granite that "God our Heavenly Father communicates with His children in these latter days, as He did formerly—by His Spirit, by His voice, by vision, and through messengers sent from Him." As President David O. McKay so beautifully expressed it in his address Sunday morning: "We do not erect this monument to express the wealth of the church, or the deeds—mighty as they were—that took place from 1820 to 1830 on this hallowed ground, but to express. Gratitude for the gospel of Jesus. It is a monument in answer to the question of the ages, 'If a man die shall he live again?' "
THE SACRED GROVE WHERE THE VISION APPEARED TO THE PROPHET
536
MONDAY and Tuesday meetings were held in the Sacred Grove. Here the greatest event in the modern world had taken place. Here we heard the living testimony of our leaders of today—strong and firm and certain. As President Grant reviewed the growth of the church and bore his testimony, unfaltering and unqualified, to the divinity of the latter-day work, the first vision seemed very real—and as President McKay expressed it we seemed "to stand in the presence of immortality." Perhaps never did Elder Ballard's favorite missionary song "I'll Go Where You Want Me To Go, Dear
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Lord," receive a more fervent response. As we looked up at the beautiful testimony in bronze and granite, as we listened to the absolute testimonies of our leaders and sensed the echo of that testimony in the hearts of those present in the Sacred Grove, as we heard the beautiful songs coming from the Hill, expressing the sublime faith of a great people—our hearts were filled with joy and peace and hope. Surely our people will re-dedicate their lives to His work—surely the world will hear and heed.
Bryce's Canyon By Ida R. Alldredge
On the rim of Bryce's canyon, I stood and gazed enthralled At the marvelous handiwork of God within those crater walls
At my feet stood thousands of castles with steeples rising high As if an ancient city had there been left to die.
I saw a mighty chieftain with all his retinue March forth in stately splendor, the king their strength to view
The ancient streets wound up and down amid the mighty towers Where church bells called to service or chimed the passing hours.
Of every nationality there seemed a goodly share The Chinese with their funny hats, and Japanese by pairs
The lady of medieval times in all her splendor stood While ancient sage with upraised hands prayed for future brotherhood.
The sunset cast its mystic spell upon these city streets And crowned a thousand steeples, its beauty to complete
And as I dreamed a magic wand touched every spire with gold Ere purple shadows clothed them in as evening did enfold
Till fancy takes us back again, to clamor at the door. And once again the city sleeps to waken never more
Not Bread Alone By Elsie C. Carroll
IV
AS the mail truck chugged to the top of the ridge overlooking Cedar Basin, Linda recalled that September day more than six months ago when she had caught her first glimpse of her new home. Her emotions were almost as mixed today as they had been upon that occasion. She seemed almost a different person now—older, wiser—and a little sadder. She was returning to Cedar Basin after an absence of nearly two months. She had been called to Uncle Peter who had been desperately ill and was even now on his way to a sanitorium in Arizona where he hoped to regain his vitality.
She would never forget his happiness and his tenderness when he learned she was going to be a mother. She had not written him about it for she knew he would worry about her being so far from medical care. He had discovered her condition after he was getting better, when she reached up one day to adjust a window shade. She saw the light of happiness shining in his grey eyes as he reached for her hands.
"Linnie, why didn't you tell me, honey?" She had put her cheek down against his thin cool hands and had cried a little.
"Are you happy?" he had asked, stroking her hair.
"Very, very happy," she had whispered.
How thankful she was she could say those words to him, for there had been days after that terrible moment on Christmas Eve when Henry had cried, "No, no, we can't have that happen now," when she had felt that she could never be entirely happy again. Even though Henry had taken back his words the instant they were uttered and had held her in her arms and called her all the endearing names of their courtship and had repeated over and over that he was glad and that everything was going to be all right, still his look and those words had done something to her which had left a little scar. Henry had been so sweet and tender afterwards, trying in every way he could to atone for her suffering that she tried to forget. She realized later when she thought of the strain and exposure he had been under for days, and how the attitude of his mother would affect him, that his first sudden reaction was a natural one. She was recompensed, too, in his added sweetness and consideration during the days that followed when they grew nearer to each other than they had ever been before. She no longer felt that she was alone an outsider in the family, and that Henry stood neither with her nor with the others. Now she knew that no matter what crisis might arise, he would be with her. But that experience had revealed to her what close companions suffering and love can be. Before, she had always associated love with happiness.
Uncle Peter had given her money and told her to buy things she would need. She had accepted without revealing what it meant not to depend upon Mrs. Bowers and Mel for such things. She carefully guarded the most unpleasant features of her life
538
in Cedar Basin from him. During the days when the old man was gradually becoming strong enough to travel, he and Linda had enjoyed their old companionship, reading, listening to symphonies on the phonograph and from the radio, and talking quietly or sitting silent, happy in the nearness of each other while Linda sewed on dainty little garments for her coming child.
As the mail truck drew nearer to the village, Linda's heart-beat quickened. She was glad she could feel happy to be coming back. In a few moments she would see Henry and would be in his arms. When she realized how much she loved him, she wondered how she could ever think that other things mattered while they had each other and their future.
"Everybody is goin' to be mighty glad to have you back, Mrs. Henry," the mail driver said again after a silence of several miles. Lon Macklin was usually a silent man; perhaps because he spent so much time on the desert road. His words warmed Linda and made her realize she had an affection for the people of the little town.
"I heard Ike Lacy sayin' the other night before they moved away, that you givin' his Emmie them music lessons was makin' a new girl out of her. And Marthy Kirk thinks the same way about her Hetty. And I heard that the minister preached a hull sermon about you the other day—what a fine thing it was, you startin' a choir and leavin' your pianny there at the church the way you have. Folks says Phoebe Larson's done purty good with the choir while you been gone, and she sets there all day guardin' the pianny while the kids practice. I 'spect she'd skin anyone alive who as much as scratched it."
Linda laughed appreciatively. She was sure Phoebe would do some-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
thing almost as literal as that The girl couldn't do enough to show her gratitude for what Linda had given to her starved soul.
Henry was at the post office to meet her, Dicky waiting in the car. In Henry's arms and with his kisses on her lips, Linda realized that if Cedar Basin were twice as ugly, which she thought was impossible, and if Henry's family were much more irritating, she would still be happy to come back.
"Aunt Linnie,' Dicky shouted happily at sight of her. He hugged her tight when she opened the car door and leaned in to kiss him. "You stayed a long time," he said as Henry adjusted her bags. "I had two bad spells and I wished you was here to tell me stories and sing."
"I wish I could have been, darling. I'm glad you are better now—and you can't guess what I've brought for you." Linda thought he looked thinner and more pinched than when she had gone away. Her heart ached for the little fellow, handicapped for life in so many ways.
"Hurry, Uncle Hen., Aunt Linnie has brought me a surprise," he called.
Henry smiled at both of them as he got into the car. He leaned toward Linda and said, "And I have a surprise for a little girl I know."
"Oh, darling, what?"
"You'll have to wait too."
In a few moments they were home. Mrs. Bowers was sitting as usual in her arm chair by the kitchen window. Linda bent and kissed her cheek. She would never get over feeling sad that she could not love Henry's mother
"How are you?" she asked.
"I'm not a bit well," the old lady complained. "My rheumatiz is worse than it's ever been in the spring. And
NOT BREAD ALONE
there's so much to worry about all the time—never gettin' caught up with the interest on the mortgage, and back taxes. If Pa only knew all the troubles he's left me with. And now Henry goin' ahead an'—"
"Please, Ma—' Henry remonstrated.
Melville and Thad came in from the barn with the milk. Effie got up to take care of it and Linda went to speak to the boys. Thad grinned and blushed. Linda knew he was glad she was back. Mel turned from the wash bench and extended a damp hand.
"A bad penny always comes back," he said laughing. Suddenly as she put her hand into his, he drew her to him. "Surely you've got a kiss for your big brother," he said, and before Linda knew what was happening his hot lips were pressing hers. She turned her frightened, indignant look to Henry, but he was smiling, evidently pleased that Mel was becoming reconciled to his marriage, and Linda realized that she could never tell him of that dreadful fear she had when Mel looked at her.
"Aunt Linnie," begged Dicky taking her hand, "can I see my surprise?"
"You certainly can," she answered glad of an excuse to bend over her bags and wipe her lips. She felt strangely contaminated. She had tried to make herself think she had misunderstood Mel's glances, and his holding her the night she fainted. But there was no misunderstanding the passion of his kiss.
"See! Looky, everybody! Look!" cried Dicky with joy. "See my airplane."
Henry came and took Linda's arm and led her into the front room. "Do you want to see your surprise?" he asked. "There it is down the street two blocks and through the lot." He pointed with his hand.
"What? I don't understand."
"It's Ike Lacy's house; can't you see it? Ike and his folks have gone to Mendon for a year to try their luck and he wants us to live in their house."
"But—the rent."
"You've already paid most of the rent, he says, giving Emmie music lessons. We can have it for five dollars a month. He says that will pay the taxes."
"Oh, Henry, darling—I—" Linda burst into tears.
Henry put his arms around her and kissed her hair. "I didn't know it would mean so much to you, sweetheart, or I would have tried some way to manage something like this sooner."
"But what—how does your mother feel about it—and Mel? Even the five dollars is something. And how can we furnish it?" It seemed too good to be true. "Ike left their furniture, such as it is. Of course mother and Mel can't understand why we can't be satisfied staying here; but we're not going to worry too much about that. Sometime, you know, we're going to break clear away and they might as well be getting used to it." THE baby came on the third of August, three weeks before Linda's time. Henry had arranged to take her to a maternity home in Mendon; but labor came upon her suddenly one morning a half hour after he had gone with Melville and Thad to the fields three miles south of town. As soon as she had been certain of the truth. Linda had called a child from the street and sent for Effie. Effie's quiet efficiency and devotion during the days that followed 540 cemented the bond which had been growing between the two women. Granny Williams, who had brought most of the babies in Cedar Basin during the past thirty years, was summoned, and a messenger was sent to the fields for Henry. But when he got home, his son was born, and Linda, white as death and almost too weak to smile, was lying in the darkened bedroom. Henry was terribly shaken. He knelt beside her and kissed her hands and let his tears pour over them. "To think of your going through it here—like this, alone—I can't forgive myself." "It's all right, dear,' Linda whispered. She. Gave a tired little sigh and closed her eyes. After a little Henry went into the other room. Granny Williams was chafing the baby's limbs. She kept peering anxiously at the little face. Effie was warming blankets at the stove. "Is something wrong?' Henry asked. "It's his circulation," Effie said. "He keeps going purple." "God!" Henry sank into a chair. Why hadn't he taken Linda to the city weeks before? To think of her going through all that and—have something happen to the baby. "Isn't there something we could do—someone we could get?" He asked desperately getting again to his feet. "Granny is doing all she can," his sister reit:7nded him. "But a doctor. There's a baby specialist in Mendon, isn't there? That Dr. Grieg who came out when Minnie Bancroft's baby had diphtheria." "He wouldn't budge from his office until Jim Bancroft gave him five hundred dollars," Granny said, still working the tiny limbs. "I don't RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE know anyone else in town but Jim who could a done that." "Good Lord, he ought to be made to come in a time like this. I'm going to send for him."' Henry grabbed his hat and started for the door. Linda called from the next room. He went to her. "Henry, what is it? Is something wrong with the baby? They didn't tell me." "Maybe it isn't serious, sweetheart, but his circulation doesn't seem right. I'm going to send for Dr. Grieg." "I heard what Granny said about the money. There's the piano, Henry. You know the Bancrofts told Mel they'd give six hundred dollars for it when they were trying to collect on the mortgage." "Oh, Linda, I can't bear—" "Hurry, darling!" she pleaded and he rushed from the house. A MONTH later Linda sat in an arm chair by the window holding her small son to her breast. The baby was entirely normal now and in the last two weeks had added ounces to his weight. Linda was still weak, and could be up but a small part of each day. They had named the baby Edwin Peter for Henry's father and Linda's uncle. Uncle Peter, who was still in the sanitorium, had written a wonderful letter. Linda had not told him how nearly the little life had slipped away almost as soon as it had come. She tried not to think of that terrible experience. The few days of anxiety had been terrible. Then there was the realization that she no longer had her piano. She realized that all the pianos in the world would not have been enough to pay for anything so precious as her baby's life, and even if Granny Williams was
NOT BREAD ALONE
right that they had been unduly excited and that everything would have been all right without Dr. Grieg, she would never regret what they did. Still, life wouldn't be the same without her music. Always when she faced that fact, she turned to her baby and tried to forget that anything mattered now that she had him safe and well in her arms.
She saw Henry coming along the street. Effie came to the door. "There's Henry coming now, so I guess I'll go. Ma's not feeling so well, and Dicky had a bad spell again last night."
"Effie, darling, what would we all do without you?" Linda reached for the other's hand and pressed it lovingly. Effie's fingers tightened and she bent quickly and kissed Linda's cheek.
"It's me that don't know what I'd
(To be continued)
541
do without you," she said and a sob filled the room. Henry opened the outside door and Effie hurried from the room, leaving Linda with tears upon her cheeks. That was as near as Effie ever came to opening the door of her inner life to anyone.
"What's the matter?" Henry asked as he saw Linda's face.
"I'm just happy, darling. You know I always cry when I'm happy. I've just been realizing what a precious treasure Effie is. We must do everything we can to make life better for her."
Henry sat down on the arm of Linda's chair with his elbow on the arm of her chair, staring from the window. "Linda, I just heard that Jim and Minnie Bancroft are moving to Mendon. They're going to take the piano."
"Oh," breathed Linda. She closed her eyes and clung to Henry's hand.
(Continued)
If By Ella J. Coulam
If we could see ourselves As we walk on life's highway, We'd learn to have more tolerance For those we meet each day.
If we could place ourselves In our neighbor's humble sphere, We'd know better how to sympathize And pass along more cheer.
If we would form the habit Of looking for the good, There'd be no time to criticize Or find evil if we could.
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
SEPTEMBER—Nothing lightens sorrow nor assuages grief like work. It is the secret of resignation and brings happiness.
THE Catholic Daughters of America and the National Association of Business and Professional Women held notable conventions in Seattle this past summer. The first was marked by strongly worded resolutions against birth control, salacious entertainment, communism and atheism. The second by forceful pleas for equal opportunity in every line of endeavor, while discrimination against married women in different fields was condemned.
PRISCILLA SAWYER RANDOLPH, of Los Angeles, was elected president of the National Association of Women Lawyers. Mrs. Randolph states that an appalling number of women teachers are divorcing their husbands in order to hold their jobs. In view of this it is refreshing to learn that the great city of London has removed the ban on married women teachers.
MLLE OSAKA, age 22, of Paris, has recently been declared a wonder girl. The metaphysical Institute of Paris has announced, after several tests, that she has the most accurate mathematical memory on record.
MAUD ADAMS is planning to return to the stage of Broadway in October, in a play specially written for her with a part of her own age 62. Once the idol of the White Way as "Peter Pan" and "The Little Minister," it is hoped Miss Adams will still hold her own in the mature part.
GERALDINE FARRAR has inherited an estate from her father of over $80,000 It is refreshing to hear of one operatic star who need not "die in poverty."
ELAINE BROCKBANK, a Utah girl, has achieved success as a sculptor. She was recently sent as a delegate from the Ann Arbor society of Art to the convention of the American Federation of Arts held in Washington, D. C.
Miss MARIE SANDOZ won the Atlantic non-fiction prize for 1935, for her manuscript called "Old Jules."
MLLE MARYSE HILSZ, French aviatrix, recently reached an altitude of 75,771 ft. She is now officially recognized as holding the world's record for women.
SHEILA FITZGERALD'S, "Hungarian Rhapsody," Emily Hahn's, "Affair," Hope Syke's, "Second Hoeing" and Doreen Wallace's, "Latter Howe" are listed as good reading novels among the new books.
MARJORIE BARSTOW GREENBIE in her engaging book "The Arts of Leisure" emphasizes the fact that the gracious, delicate arts of sociability, conversation, etc., add grace and richness to living almost forgotten in the hurry of the modern day. The book is charming and worth-while.
Equality for Women By Blanche Kendall
AN incident happened in Chicago a long time ago when I was still a girl which opened my eyes for the first time to society's injustice to women. Certainly I had learned from a number of sources that I was living in a man's world, but I was not at all concerned. My father was a prince, my brothers, generous—it seemed natural and pleasant to have them manage everything. But on the particular afternoon to which I refer I stood in front of a home in Chicago when its mistress, a regal woman whose heavy grey hair was wound into a beautiful coiffure, turned in at her gate, smiling her greeting as she came up the walk to meet me. At the same time a man rounded a corner of the home pushing a lawnmower. He was small, with large bent shoulders and a weazened face.
"Does the lawn need cutting again, Jamsie?" asked my hostess. The small man doffed a worn cap, grinning in simple good humor. "Yes, marm," he replied. "'Er grows fast, 'er does." He bent to his task, which seemed to absorb all his powers of intellect.
Turning again to me, the lady explained that she had left her home for a few moments in order to vote. "To vote!" I exclaimed: "This isn't election day."
"It was a school election," my hostess replied. Then a great scorn crept into her strong face. "If it had been a real election," she explained, "I couldn't have cast a vote. I have studied economics and law, but I have no power of ballot, excepting in a school election." She looked at the small figure pushing the lawn-mower, head bent, jaw dropped tensely in sympathy with his task. "However," she continued, "Jamsie can vote." The man lifted dull eyes. "Yes, Marm. Hi be an American citizen; Hi can vote."
The indignity to womanhood swept over me, as I saw clearly and felt keenly that society should be divided into fit and unfit, not into male and female.
FREEDOM for woman has been a tragically slow process through the long years since the Dark Ages, and although perfect equality is still a dream, we have traveled a long upward path in the last one hundred years. The first annual convention for woman suffrage was held in Seneca Falls, New York, in 1848, but it took eighty years to convince all the states that women were entitled to cast an equal vote with men. In 1850 several states granted married women the right to control their own property, for prior to this time a married woman's property and her earnings, if she worked, belonged, according to law, to her husband. Her children, even, were not her own, for a man in his will could sign his minor heirs over to anyone he chose. Such monstrous laws seem indeed to belong to the Dark Ages rather than to the close of the nineteenth century. Let me repeat, we have traveled a long way!
THE following brief survey, compiled by the press department of the National League of Women
544
Voters, may help us to estimate the progress women have made in the field of practical politics since the federal suffrage amendment became effective in August of 1920. On June 30, 1932, women in civil service in America numbered 87,506. Eighteen women had been sent to the Congress of the United States. One hundred and thirty-two women are now serving as legislators of thirty-four states. Six women have passed the State Department examinations and have been assigned to foreign service. We have two women governors. Women are acting as Secretaries of State, State auditors, State treasurers, school superintendents, members of school boards, of State Health and Welfare departments, as members of State Departments of Labor, America has probate judges and juvenile court judges who are women in twelve large cities, while more women are holding office in counties than in any other unit of government. We have two women mayors of smaller cities. Two Ohio women have the distinction of holding the two highest judicial posts ever held by women. Miss Cline was appointed in 1928 Associate Judge of United States Customs Court with a salary of $10,000 and a life commission. Miss Allen was reelected in 1928 to a second term as member of the Supreme Court of Ohio. Her salary is $12,000.
Nor is it only in practical politics that women have gained a firm foothold. In the business world, in education, in creative fields woman has become a power. Indeed, when one surveys the field of letters in America today, recalling such names as Edna St. Vincent Millay, Willa Cather, Fannie Hurst, Edna Ferber, and other successful writers, one doesn't need to be a prophet to predict that the man of tomorrow in
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
American letters must needs look to his laurels.
ONE of the great forces that have helped to bring about the advancement of women is women's clubs and their federations. In the fields of education, politics, religion, business, social welfare we find women banded together in systematic study and elevating activity. Among other affiliations we have as potent influences changing the current of thought the National Federations of University Women, of Business and Professional Women, of Relief Societies, of political groups, the aims of these great organizations being, not merely to promote women's activities, but to bring about conditions which will assure a deeper insight into life and personal security for all, men and women alike. Clubs are urged to study not only national, but international affairs, that people's understanding of each other may deepen. Some modern writer, whose name I cannot recall, said that our world has become a neighborhood and it should be the task of this present generation to make it a brotherhood. The women's clubs of America are at least attempting to break down the barriers which cause misunderstanding, and consequently misery and trouble.
OF course there are still many occupational discriminations against women, and these have loomed more menacing since the depression. The fact that a woman is the head of a family is only too often given no consideration. Woman's scale of wages is much lower than man's, although she may do the same amount of work and perform it equally well. Also she may have the same number of dependents, or more. The class division should be
EQUALITY
in favor of heads of houses, not merely in favor of man because he is usually the head. We are still dwelling largely in a man-made world But the sun of tomorrow for woman was never before so bright. Never have we faced such a dawn. The pioneering has been accomplished. We who are born to freedom have no conception of the courage it took for women to step out from traditional shelter and assert themselves. You who dash off an article and without misgiving submit it for publication should read again of the struggles of the Bronte sisters and of George Eliot. When we cast a ballot at the polls, let us give a thought to Susan B. Anthony, Anna Shaw, and other brave women who gave us our precious, and sometimes unappreciated, heritage. We have grown into self-determining, self-supporting individuals, capable of living life deeply, purposefully, spiritually. It is for us to see that when this old sphere evolves gradually into a man and woman world it shall be a better,
FOR WOMEN
545
nobler, happier place in which to live. Angela Morgan gives us the following passionate, inspiring verse:
"To be alive in such an age! To live it! To give it! Rise, soul, from thy despairing knees. What if thy lips have drunk the lees? The passion of a larger claim Will put thy puny grief to shame. Fling forth thy sorrow to the wind And link thy hope with humankind; Breathe the world-thought, do the world-deed, Think hugely of thy brother's need. And what thy woe, and what thy weal? Look to the work the times reveal! Give thanks with all thy flaming heart, Glad but to have in it a part. Give thanks and clasp thy heritage— To be alive in such an age!"
A Woman's Prayer By Grace Ingles Frost
For this I pray: A will to do the work of every day With gracious touch; To polish silver, sweep and dust and bake— To keep this house a home for someone's sake, Someone dear who does not understand How irksome little common tasks may be, And how a small gold circle on a hand Can assume the harsh analogy Of servitude. O let it not, I pray, be thus with me! Let me not wear my fetters heavily; But rather as one wears a silken snood Of her own choosing—and for love!
Grandma Hutchins—Diplomat By Mildred A. Dawson
THE mid-morning sun was flooding through the cheery bay window where Grandma Hutchins sat at her knitting, her simple household duties already completed. The steady click-clack of the needles never ceased though her eyes watchfully identified passers-by and deploringly followed procrastinating Mrs. Hewling, who was hanging up her washing on Tuesday, not Monday as an efficient housewife should.
"These young people! I'm 'shamed of them—using the day of rest for sport and staying up so late nights for their shows and dances that they can't get up on Monday morning. What is this world—!"
But Grandma never finished, for a brisk step sounded on the piazza and the door was flung open to reveal Nancy, Sammy's wife. Grandma's placid face lit up as she exclaimed, "How nice! Such an early visit! How did you ever get your morning's work done so early with that big house of—?" but again Grandma stopped short for she saw a storm-racked face and anger-glinting eyes.
"Why, Nancy! Whatever's the matter! What's wrong?"
"Granny, I'm going to get a divorce—that's what! I can't stand another day with Sammy. He's just hateful!" Then at sight of Granny's startled eyes and stricken face. "Oh, Granny, I'm sorry—sorry, I mean for you. I do love you and know how bad you'll feel. But Sammy treated me awful. I never want to see him again!"
Granny's nimble brain that had met many a crisis back in homesteading days clicked into a quick decision. She had her secret plan—now to put it into execution.
"Deary, I am sorry, but I know you wouldn't be so hurt unless Sammy'd been pesky mean and I'll do all I can to help you. So long as your mother's way off in Iowa, you'll have to stay around here for a day or so until you've seen a lawyer and gotten packed. I want you to stay here, not at any of your friends', because I'm fond of my grandson, Sammy, too, and he'll have to keep on living here in Red Buttes, and the less others know, the better, don't you think? Now tell Granny all about it."
"Well, I worked like a horse all day yesterday and a lot of thanks I got for it! I had my wash on the line by 9:30—all my table linen and the guest-room bedding included. Then I ran the vacuum over the rug and dusted before I got lunch. After we ate, I sprinkled the clothes, washed the dishes, took my electric iron down town to be fixed, and then I ironed."
"Land sakes, child! Whatever did you do all that in one day for? There was another day coming?"
"Oh, I know—but you see I planned to drive to Ogden today because Benson's are starting their big silk sale this morning at 8:30 and I wanted to get first pick. So I had to get the house cleaned up for Relief Society at my house Wednesday. Well, anyway I ironed until 6:30, then started to get supper. I was tired enough to drop. Sammy came in and bawled me out for not having supper on the table! I just couldn't take it, Granny. I blew up and told him just what I thought of him. What if he did have to go to school-
GRANDMA HUTCHINS—DIPLOMAT
board meeting at 7:30! And, Granny, he said the awfulest things— What kind of a wife did he have anyway! What help was she—making him late to meetings—not having meals ready when there was nothing but a house to keep straight— going out to teas and parties—that's what she did! And I was yelling back just as good as he sent. It was terrible! Anyway I put on some bread, a bottle of milk, what was left of Sunday's roast and then went upstairs. I couldn't eat—and I haven't seen him since."
"Poor dear! Men just can't understand how tired we get. Land sakes! Eleven-thirty already. Better stay for lunch, then I'll go down with you to Lawyer Stout's. You can help me by setting the table and now let's talk about something else. You know vittles don't set easy when we're all het up." And Granny rattled on about that good-for-naught Mrs. Hewling who never washed on Monday, about Si Lewis' rheumatics, Mary Brown's new pattern for crocheted edging, and what not.
LUNCH was almost over when a hasty heavy step came up the back walk. "That's Sammy!' and Nancy dashed pell-mell into Granny's sacred parlor. Just in time, for Sammy catapulted into the kitchen excitedly.
"Granny, where's Nancy? Isn't she here? Oh, Granny, she's left me! I just found a note saying that she's leaving for Iowa and that she never wants to see me again. She just can't mean it! We did have an awful quarrel last night because she didn't have supper ready when she knew that I had a meeting. But, heavens! I didn't think she'd take it that hard. I can't get along without her. I just got to get hold of her. Where d'yuh suppose she's gone?"
Granny's eyes were stern. "Young
547
man, you should be shamed of yourself! Nancy is plain sweet and works so hard. Not many young wives in your bunch do their own washing and ironing and cleaning. If she had supper late last night, there must have been some reason and I s'pose you didn't give her a chance to explain. And she wouldn't run off if you hadn't hurt her like mischief. Any man that can't be decent to his wife don't deserve one. Shame on you! A short pause while Sammy gulped. "Well, young man, did you have your lunch?"
"Why no, Granny." His eyes dropped to the table. "Granny! Granny! Who was here for lunch? Nancy's here! I knew it! Where is she?" And Sammy started a dash for the door into the sitting room.
"Oh, no, you don't! You're not seeing Nancy. She don't ever want to set eyes on you again, and I'm not letting you pick on her in my house."
"Pick on her! I'm not going to pick on her. I want to ask her forgiveness."
"Humph! So that's all you think you have to do to make things right. Well, it won't do. You ain't leaving this room except by the back door and that only after you've eaten your lunch. Set down!" And Sammy did and left meekly a few minutes later.
Nancy emerged from her hiding place with an air fully as resentful as any advocate of woman's rights could have wished.. Sammy could stew all he wanted. He had said far too much last night. No wife with any spirit would relent just because a man had said he was sorry. Words are cheap. Granny glanced at Nancy speculatively and sized up the situation, with a twinge of disappointment. Things were not going quite as she had planned—Nancy was supposed to begin relenting when
548
Granny got so spunky with him. Quick as thought she assumed an air of outrage.
"The very idee! To think that Sammy thought he could fly off the handle and say you was standing in his way and then try to make up by just saying 'I'm sorry.' Humph! He has another think coming. I'm going to set these dishes aside and go with you to Lawyer Stout's. So you're always partying and giving him late suppers. The very idee! Come, let's go."
It would have been too bad for Grandma's scheme if Nancy had seen the twinkle in her eyes and the smirk about her mouth as she went in search of her jet-trimmed black bonnet of a decade-old vintage. Her face was sober enough when she again faced Nancy at the front door. Silently the two closed the door behind them and paced slowly to the street. Then Grandma Hutchins began thoughtfully:
"I guess we old folks live in the past too much, Nancy. I can't keep from forgetting your troubles and thinking myself back when I was a young wife too. 'Twas nigh onto fifty years ago but it seems as real as if I was in the door of my new cabin again. It is near six in the morning and I am standing looking at the perky colors on the clouds in the east. I am just that tired because little John has cried near the whole night with his teething and I have been up since four— cows to get from the far meadow, milk to skim, mush to cook, salt pork to sweeten before I fry it. The sunrise is so pretty that I stop my work to look at it and then I begin to think of the time a year ago when Father and I (you know I always called Grandpa Hutchins Father) was on our way west from Illinois. 'Twas about six of a morning when
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
we left Fort Bridger on the last lap of our long slow trip west. Oxen was mortal poky, Nancy. A lot different than Sammy's Chev—Shev—She—" Granny stammered.
"Chevrolet, Granny. Yes, it must have been an awful slow trip. I'd like to've gone in that old wagon though—like the high school picnics we took in the carryall over to the Iowa River."
"Well, that morning we left Fort Bridger was another beautiful sunrise and, soon after we started up the road from the fort, I saw the prettiest sight I ever did see. Just at the edge of the bluff we saw three deer with their heads raised a-listenin' to see what the noise of the creaking wagon meant. All about us were hundreds of quail a-slippin' through the grass and violets and cowslips. My! But it was pretty.
"So I stand thinking of that time a year gone by. I forget I'm tired. I just feast my eyes and then 'Susie! What does this mean? The table's not even set. Pork's scorched! Mush's dried up! You know I've got to get that sod broken up today and that I planned to be a-field fore now. What a wife you are!' so on, and so on, while I do the best I can to pick out some food that he can eat. The baby has woke up and is crying fit to kill. Well! I guess you know how I felt—but women didn't talk back in those days. I am burning up inside; all day long I steam and sizzle. Just to think of how I work eighteen hours every day: making my own starch from potatoes, molding candles, drawing water at the well house to chill the milk I carry a quarter mile from the house, churning butter, making cheese, grinding corn by hand for our meal of bread and mush, tending my poultry, baking, scrubbing, stilling the baby between whiles, cook-
GRANDMA HUTCHINS—DIPLOMAT
ing meal after meal for Father's uppity relatives—and so I count over my tasks. The more I count, the madder I get. At noon I set out a lunch, but go down to the well house and churn until Father goes back to the field. I tell you if the Union Pacific had run through Utah then, I'd have gone back to Illinois in a jiffy. But there wasn't no train— Pshaw, Nancy, how dull I must seem."
"Oh no, Granny! Stories of the old days are so interesting. I was all attention."
"Well, anyway, there wasn't no train and I stayed on—to sulk that evening at the supper table, to say nary a word to Father all that long day. Next morning he don't call me and goes for the cows hisself. I get up and hustle about, trying to keep my trouble out of my mind. Some way I hurt all over after crying to myself most of the night. And Johnnie is so cross! The whole world seems to have gone hay-wire —ain't that what you young folks say ?—and I so far from my friends and family. No one to talk to. Again I go to the door, look at the sunrise, and wonder how it could have seemed pretty yesterday. I like your
Nancy
549
'Just then an arm goes' round me and Father pulls me close and kisses me sweet-like. 'I'm sorry—turrible sorry. I didn't have no right to speak the way I did and I promise never to do it again. Never!' And he never did, Nancy. Times was different then, wasn't they? Women don't have to take so much nowadays. I'm glad you have spunk. Women need it. Well! Well! Here we are at Lawyer Stout's. You go in first, Nancy."
"Grandma, I'm not going in. I'm going home and make an upside-down cake. Sammy's always wanting me to make one. I must hurry! I'll be over tomorrow after the Society meeting."
"Sakes alive! Whatever changed your mind? Ain't you mad at Sammy?" Granny's eyes twinkled as she turned homeward. "Humph! Women don't change much. Just make them think that you think they're in the right, the man in the wrong, then give them some silly slush. What would Father think of the story I told about us? Fancy him ever getting soft-like. Humph! Oh, well—the dishes are still standing."
The Cross By Josephine Gardner Moench
Oftimes, the cross we shrink from bearing Would be less heavy than the vain remorse Of knowing that another's shoulder Bears the load without recourse.
The cross that's borne with resignation Lighter seems for willing hands; And oft beneath the heavy burden Blessings wait at our commands.
The Greatest Adventure By Clara Perman
Will Your Six Year Old Be Well Equipped?
"MUMMY, may I take Miss Kent some flowers?" came from my six-year-old son who was starting off to school. I was very busy putting up fruit; but I didn't want to discourage this attitude toward his teacher. I took my shears and went out. As I picked the gayest flowers he said, "You know, I believe I like Miss Kent better than you." He smiled at me sheepishly and went on, "You know—she has us do so many things that are so much fun."
"Yes, I know," I smiled back at him. "I knew you would think school was a lot of fun." He was really paying me a compliment. I had worked for six years just to hear that.
"What do you think, mummy, Jackie just sits and bawls—his mother brings him and he hangs to her and don't want to stay—but she makes him, and then he won't read, or play games, or nuthin'."
"Well, he's funny," I said, as I handed the bright bouquet to my smiley boy; but it brought before me that picture of the unhappy child whose mother might have thought that getting his school clothes ready was the only equipment necessary for this greatest adventure.
"Going To School" is the greatest adventure a child will ever make, because all other adventures depend entirely upon this thing called education. The equipment with which he starts forth will determine victory or defeat. He looks forward eagerly to these wanderings on many winding, mysterious paths which lead to dragons that must be encountered, for that is real adventure. If he is well armed for the conquest, he will get a great deal of joy and satisfaction in conquering; but if he meets constant defeat because of inadequate equipment, he is forced to join the group of unhappy children listed as "maladjusted". He will not make the progress that he should; for where there is no happiness, there can be no interest.
The mother of a pre-school child often fails to realize the importance of proper training during this plastic and formative stage in the child's life. She feeds him, clothes him, keeps him from physical harm until he reaches the sixth year; then turns him over to a teacher saying, "It's up to you." She may not know that the personality pattern of a child is set at the age of five. She has made him before she hands him to the teacher with the demand that a good job of citizenship be done.
In order that a child adjust easily to his school environment he must be well equipped physically, mentally, socially and emotionally. Surely it is needless to emphasize the importance of arming him with good health. It has been well established that the necessary powers of concentration, attention, inquisitiveness, and natural alertness are lacking if the child is not physically fit. Good motor coordination will be an added aid to the young adventurer; this can be gained by working with tools, bouncing a ball, or playing with toys that call for muscular activity.
By mental equipment we mean a good background of experience
THE GREATEST ADVENTURE
gained through stories, travel, excursions, and opportunity for self-expression; we do not mean any knowledge of reading, writing, or arithmetic as such. There is the mother, so anxious to have her child well equipped, that she forces these mechanics upon him before he is ready. For instance, the child who is made to count each clothespin that he brings to his mother and each step that he takes in the bringing, when he is anxious to run and play, will hate counting and possibly will form a definite dislike for numbers. Numbers are usually fascinating to little children and they should be encouraged to count if interest is shown in it; but they should not be forced to do so under any circumstances. There is also the mother who has been told that she should teach the child absolutely nothing; so she trembles with fear when he asks to be told the letter on a block or the words on a milk bottle. Our advice to this mother is—Teach the child what he is ready for, what he asks for; capitalize these interests as they appear or they may die in the bud. Although the a b c's are not taught in the first grade, that knowledge picked up of his own volition will not seriously interfere with a child's adjustment. And if grandfather insists upon teaching him to spell c-a-t cat, don't worry! He won't be permanently injured. However, there is danger in the teaching of reading. Mothers do not seem to be easily reconciled to the story method. Not only do they insist that every word be known; but that every word be pointed to as proof. This makes for a slow reader who will not have a wide span or quick eye movement. Stimulate a love for reading through your stories, let him pretend he is reading if his interest runs in that direction—
551
but please leave the mechanics to the trained teacher.
Children at a very young age will want to experiment with paints and crayolas. They should be allowed to feel the pleasure of creating a picture; then every vestige of joy should not be snatched by the question, "What is it?" It is wise to ask, "Tell me about your picture." Many lines and scratches will take on value. Criticism may kill the spontaneity from which all creativeness springs. The best in his picture should be praised; but restrict that urge to demonstrate. Once during my early experience in kindergarten work one of my pupils called attention to his rainbow. As it failed to coincide with my preconceived ideas, I made the fatal error of dashing off my conception of the bowed arch of heaven; then gnashed my teeth for the next six weeks as each child who went to the easel made the exact reproduction of my very sketchy rainbow. The child who has been shown how to draw will have better form, possibly at an earlier age, but not the spontaneity or creativeness.
The mother who can't be bothered to keep her child profitably occupied is usually the one who is constantly wondering why he is so naughty. Mentally alert children need stimulation. It will require less effort on the mother's part if she will provide it. Give him tools and grocery boxes; lead him to feel his own powers and take pride in them; see that he is depending more and more on self and less and less on mother.
THE social equipment of a child is of even greater importance. He must have had experience in dealing with other children in order to learn the "give and take", sharing with others, taking turns, standing on his own feet without the aid of mother's
552
apron strings. He will have many new experiences when he starts to school: unless paths have already been formed in the nervous system to carry off these new impulses, they will be distributed throughout all the channels, causing diffusion. This usually results in crying, hating school, a Jackie who sits and looks on while the others have a good time and are making progress. This is most unfortunate, for the beginning of this adventure is the one great factor in determining its outcome.
The equipment of greatest importance, and that which is most often neglected, is the child's emotional adjustment. He must have self-control learned through experience with parents who exercise self-control. He must have faith, built up from perfect trust, unshattered by domestic strife which should never have reached his ears. He must have consistent home training. A love-blind mother, whose only wish is for the child's happiness may weight him down with unhappiness a hundredfold. A child who has tyrannized his family finds it difficult to adjust to a situation where he must show consideration for others; and usually reacts by open rebellion. One who is of high intelligence will soon overcome this because he is stimulated by the learning and activity program.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The slower child will not respond so readily to these stimuli; he is a problem to the teacher and is usually thoroughly disliked by the other children. The little "monarch" at home becomes the "outlaw" at school.
Much has been said of making the activity program a means of wider freedom which has led some mothers to give their children no guidance or direction, whatever. They should stop to realize why it takes the human being twenty-one years to mature—the animal mother can teach her offspring all that it needs to know in six months. There will be no progress. Unless parents hand down to their children the culture gained through the experience of their generation. They must stimulate, suggest, guide, direct, but not dominate. Domination is the great bug-bear which destroys the child's initiative and causes him to lose faith in himself.
In order that the Big Adventure be a happy and successful one I suggest the following recipe for mothers of pre-school children; Take one fattened child, well spiced with the love of recognition. Add many abiding interests. Keep boiling with purposeful activity. Season well with consideration for others, kindness, generosity, and unselfishness. He will be ready to serve at all times.
Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life By Leila Marler Hoggan
Keep SMILING
"Be glad, little heart of mine: The stars go singing on their way; Night is the harbinger of day; 'Tis good to live and work and pray; "Be glad little heart of mine" —Mabel C. DeVona.
MIRTH is the key that unlocks the door to the little House of Happiness. It is the gentle laughter, the merry whistled tune, the glad song, that woos the world from the lonesome road leading into the valley of tragic endings. Mirth is the fragrant oil of contentment that calms the troubled sea of hopeless regret. The Good Book informs us that:
"A merry heart doeth good like a medicine; But a broken spirit drieth the bones." —Proverbs 17:22.
And we are assured by those who know, that joy and laughter promote digestion, stimulate circulation, and prolong life. In fact, mirth is a most effective curative measure for many maladies.
554
In these distressing times, there is a tendency to take life too seriously. The little mischief maker, Self-Pity, is slipping into many a heart unbidden. The easiest way to rout him is to laugh him out of countenance. The more we brood over a gloomy situation the worse it appears to be. Worry tends to magnify and intensify our trials. If we permit ourselves to go over a sad experience repeatedly, enlarging the unhappy details from day to day, we finally reach a mental condition where we are no longer master of the situation. It is then most difficult for us to look upon the experience from a normal point of view. We have permitted a mole hill to grow into a mountain.
MUCH of the tragedy of the world could be avoided if everyone would cultivate a cheerful, hopeful disposition. Many a distressing situation could be saved if we would learn to see the humorous side of life. Watch for the joke. Let the taut nerves relax. Indulge in a good laugh. According to H. A. Overstreet, "The most liberating ability possessed by man, is the ability to laugh at himself." Wholesome, humorous books could well be made the saving grace of many a home overshadowed by grief, or sickness, or distress. Ralph Waldo Emerson said:
"The inner side of every cloud Is bright and shining. I, therefore, turn my clouds about And always wear them inside out, To show the lining."
"Walt Mason is a better tonic than anything that ever was bottled," Elbert Hubbard informed us. If you are searching for a happy philosophy of life, read Mason's "Terse
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Verse." And if you have not already enjoyed Ralph Parlette's "Pocket-Books and Paradises," you have a treat in store.
WHEN your burdens of care begin to multiply and you feel as if you are nearing the end of your endurance, just mentally change places with your great-grandmother for a day. Would it not be an interesting experience on wash-day morning to build a fire in an open grate, and carry water in brass kettles from a distant spring, only to find upon going for your wooden tub, that the water had dried out of it and it had fallen to pieces? Would it upset your peace of mind to have to stop and strike flint and catch the spark in a bit of dry bark before you could start your fire? How would you enjoy reading by the light of a flickering candle? And suppose you had to cook your dinner in iron pots, over the coals in the fireplace? Could your great-grandmother have risen some morning to all of the comforts and conveniences you enjoy, could she have pushed a button for light and heat and power; would she not have made sure she had suddenly awakened in fairy land?
LET us not forget the supreme courage of our Pioneer ancestors. When the fire of hope burns low on our own hearth, let us recall the fires they built in the wilderness; and in memory of those fires, let us rise and sing, that we too, may forget the heartaches we have left behind. Remembering the household treasures that they abandoned, the long weary marches that they endured, the call of the lone wolf that awakened them in the night, and the charred graves that they left with-
KEEPSAKES FOR THE TREASURE CHEST
out markers; remembering these things, let us rise to higher adventures and more masterful achievements.
LET not the pain of sorrow and loss and disappointment crush the joy out of our hearts, and the song out of our lives. The same Father who comforted and strengthened those Pioneers as they knelt in prayer circles out in the lone wastes, is ready to hear and heed our petitions; to renew and uplift us and prepare us to meet every emergency.
"The test of the heart is trouble, And it always comes with the years; And the smile that is worth the praise of the earth Is the smile that comes through tears." —Ella Wheeler Wilcox.
Abraham Lincoln said, "Folks are usually about as happy as they make up their minds to be." He kept a humorous book at hand in his desk, and when the troubles of state became too oppressive, he took out his book and read from it and indulged in a hearty laugh. When a strain becomes so intense it is nearing the breaking point, laughter will often save the situation. It has been said that Lincoln's sense of humor saved his sanity.
AFTER all, life is a mirror. A frowning, distressed countenance cannot reflect a smile. Echo brings back to our ears the same tone we send out to the world. Life does not weave chaplets of joy for the selected few, and veils of sorrow for the throngs of the underprivileged.
"In everybody's garden a little rain must fall, Or life's fairest, sweetest flowers wouldn't grow and bloom at all. And though the clouds hang heavy, so heavy, oh! My friend,
555
I'm sure that God, who sends the shower, will send the rainbow's end."
Sometimes the ones we love the best toss our treasures into the fire, or go stumbling about in our hearts, smashing our precious idols. Tears will not restore the loss. The greater wisdom would be to seek new treasures. Perhaps the very loss we have sustained will help us to choose more wisely the second time. Sometimes we learn through disappointment, that after all, we have been hoarding up false idols, mere counterfeits of real values. It is hard to begin again, after our most cherished patterns of life have been torn to bits. It is hard to come up smiling after defeat. But what doth it profit us to go on a grouch? Does not a "spell of blues" bring matters to a worse conclusion than a sane reaction would have done? Suppose the sun were to go on a grouch some morning and refuse to come up. But no! On through the centuries shines that never failing light, steadfast, dependable, forever the same. No matter how thick and black the clouds roll up, no matter how fierce the tempest breaks, after the storm is the calm; the sun stretches her glorious bow of promise across the sky and comes smiling through.
In every worthwhile picture there are shadows as well as highlights. And the plaintive minor key adds beauty to the sweetest song.
"Let no soul shrink from the bitter tonics Of grief and yearning and pain and strife; For the rarest chords in the soul's harmonies Are found in the minor strains of life." —Ella Wheeler Wilcox.
556
PAIN and sorrow and anguish of spirit must needs come to all. These are the lessons that purify and refine and make strong, the soul of man. "We develop the germs of truth and beauty that lie dormant within us," said Susa Young Gates, "through study and work and prayer and suffering."
"Think while thou sunnest thyself in Joy's estate, Mayhap thou canst not ripen without frost."
Are we missing all of the joys of today because we are brooding over the sorrows of yesterday? If we do not take advantage of today's opportunity will not tomorrow bring remorse for the loss of today? Do not break under the tragedy of "remembered too late." There is a quiet path that leads into the "land of beginning again." Never believe that the door of hope is eternally closed against you.
"Every day is a fresh beginning Listen, my soul, to the glad refrain, And, in spite of old sorrow, and older sinning, And puzzles forecasted, and possible pain, Take heart with the day and begin again." —Susan Coolidge.
Help yourself to happiness, the happiness that comes from loving and serving. Don't be afraid to give of your sweetness freely. God's love does not diminish because of his great giving. The fragrance of the rose does not go out to man in stinted portions. All of the sweetest gifts of life seem to grow from much giving. Are we locking our doors against opportunity? Let us fling it wide open. Let the lark's song come drifting in. Give the bluebird of happiness a chance to build his nest over our sunny window. There is a blessing from heaven waiting on our door-step every morning, if we will but open our eyes to see it. Oliver Wendell Holmes said, "Mirth is God's medicine." Let us administer a generous dose to our sick souls. Keep smiling. And when we are stowing away the worthwhile treasures, let us not forget that mirth is the magic talisman that insures the safety of our precious collection.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
My Neighbor's Song By Sylvia R. Grant
I put a snowy white wash on the line; But my neighbor can sing a song.
I scrub my pans till they sparkle and shine, No other floor is more spotless than mine, Here no dust ever lingers long.
My window panes reflect glowing fire From the rays of the evening sun. Folks passing by do not stop to admire Mine—for my neighbor's are open near And from out of them comes a song.
At the Close of Day By Joseph Quinney, Jr.
AT THE CLOSE OF Day I catalogued the glory of a well spent day. My friends were kind and good. They gave me "Frankincence and Myrrh." They gave me food, food that feeds the soul and brings it into transforming fellowship with Christ, the Lord. It was my day; it was God's day.
AT THE CLOSE OF Day I catalogued the meaning of GRATITUDE. I found it to be the great stream into which were ever flowing the other high and holy qualities of human life; it was adorable because it was touched with the glow of God and opened up the mind to the everlasting glories of the seen and the unseen; it was the unfolding of the heart and the soul.
AT THE CLOSE OF Day I catalogued the meaning of prayer. I found myself in sacred thought. This holy hour of prayer moved me up to God to feel His power, to know His truth and to see His light. I was moved in mighty love to give and bless, to know and feel. This silent hour was pure in thought and the glow of God was mine. It was my hour with God— alone.
AT THE CLOSE OF Day I catalogued the meaning of VIRTUE. I found myself lifted in thought, the spirit of deep appreciation was upon me. I looked up to God. I thanked Him for this saving grace of life, and said with Emerson, "I love the right; truth is beautiful within and without forevermore; Virtue, I am thine, save me; use me; thee will I serve day and night, in great, in small, that I may not be virtuous, but Virtue." Then, it is said, is the end of creation and God is well pleased.
AT THE CLOSE OF Day I catalogued the meaning of FAITH. I found myself looking confidently up to a power above, trusting, hoping, and believing in that power. I needed the Christ-like faith to lift my doubts and clear my vision, to give me strength to know the living God. I needed faith, a vital and living faith to visualize the glories of born and unborn time; to have the strength from God and the power to bless my friends. I needed the gift of faith to move in God's Holy Light, and to live the right.
AT THE CLOSE OF Day I catalogued the meaning of WORK. I found it to be the great gift of life, the summation of. All that's fine and good, the crowning glory of man, the everlasting discovery of light and truth, indeed, the dignified gift that refuses to grow dim. WORK: It is the sustaining power of all that's fine and beautiful, the vehicle of God with which His creations are made. O, God, grant me the gift of work. Let me ask no greater blessing.
A Sense of Humor By Eleanor S. Muir
THE element of humor has an attractive peculiarity of its own, because it deals with a mystery which is pleasantly interwoven, with the daily life of each of us. It is an elusive thing, but its elusiveness gives it charm. We often say of one of our neighbors, "he has no sense of humor." We may congratulate some on having it. Secretively most of us are convinced we possess it in great abundance.
A sense of humor is difficult to define. We may say it is a refusal to take ourselves too seriously. Life and work should be taken seriously but not ourselves. It is a protection against ourselves and keeps us mentally sound by its wholesome appeal. It is a refusal to be overcome by petty annoyances and occurrences. It saves us from huffiness, murmurings and despair. Such things involve a wear and tear of nature's strength, whereas a sense of humor enables nature to recruit strength. Dr. Grayson, President Roosevelt's personal physician, when asked on a recent radio interview what general health advice he could offer to the nation's people said, "System, diet, exercise, sleep and a sense of humor." It might well be catalogued with the other senses as it enables us to see the other fellow's point of view; to overlook the slights and play the game square and to treat others as we would have them treat us. Only selfish, self-centered and emotionally immature people lack this quality. Humor is an antidote for egotism. The characters Charles Dickens makes fun of are egotists who have not enough humor to hide the overestimate of their own importance. An egotist is a comic person who has difficulty in seeing the comic element. No one believes he is wholly without a sense of humor because the gift is so precious. It flashes forth in times of trial and provides a means of kicking aside the obstructions. It keeps us busy in the joyful occupation of finding the good, enjoying the good, and passing the good along. Older folks are more charming and lovable when they possess this winsome characteristic. GREAT thinker has said, "God gave us laughter to save us from going mad." If the other fellow can be induced to laugh; if he has the ability to know when the joke is on him and the grace to laugh about it, we know there is life within him. Kenyon Wade tells the following experience. "An irate man undertook the huge task of reciting my faults to me in no uncertain manner. When he had finished he looked at me stubbornly, expecting me to be ina rage. Instead, I smiled at him and said: 'I thank you, sir, for your category of my faults, the catalogue of them is a good one, but the list is not complete, for there are so many faults you have left out!' “The man's sense of humor was touched and he broke out laughing. Far from losing his esteem I won him for a friend." Humor is valuable in putting people at ease and winning their good will. It provides a pivot on which to shift a delicate situation. Lincoln knew how to come to the rescue with his kindly humor. A gentleman from Ohio named Brand was interviewing A SENSE OF HUMOR President Lincoln. While they talked a regiment arrived outside the White House and Lincoln was called on for a speech. He asked Brand to accompany him and continued to hold him closely in conversation. But when they reached the portico and the regiment raised a cheer, an aide stepped up to Brand and told him to drop back a few steps. Quick as a flash, Lincoln said: "You see, 559 Mr. Brand, they might not know which was President.' A sense of humor takes the sting out of a caustic remark. It lessens the friction of an unpleasant contact. It has an excellent wearing quality and in general makes us easier to live with. Can you think of a single characteristic of human nature that would go farther toward stimulating cheerfulness? That Old "Rocking, Chair By Bessie C. Rasmussen I am only a broken down rocker, I've been mended, wired, and nailed; If I only could talk like the folks do, I could tell when they won, or they failed. I was Mary's first gift from her husband, And I've known all the sorrows and joys; That she had as a bride, and a mother; {'ve helped raise a girl and four boys. I knew if the farm wasn't paying, Or the debts piling up by the score; Master John soon would come to my refuge, He and I, we would rock on the floor. And if he was happy and carefree, He would hum as he rocked to and fro; And if he was troubled or worried He would grip both my arms tight, and so— I would act as a comforter always, To Mary and John I| was true; As they sat in my framework so comfy, And dreamed and planned anew. Tears of sorrow and gladness I've witnessed, Sickness, laughter, and many a sigh; As I've listened to life passing onward, Sympathetic, but silent was I. I acted as cradle for baby, I was given to guests as the best; I-was even the cause of the first quarrel, When John held me up as a jest. As the cause of a meal being served late, When Mary was painting me blue; How I'd liked to 'ave been able to tell John, That I knew a secret or two, How each morning before he left Mary He would come to my side, say in fun: "I must go now dear, give me a luck kiss, You may sit in my chair till I come." "I'm just joking, enjoy the chair, Darling, It was bought for your comfort alone; How I love to see you and the babies, Sitting here in our very own home." I helped teach five children, their first songs, I acted as time keeper, see— Mary rocked and sang the tunes of the song; And I counted out, one, two, three. I knew first, that Alice was planing, To marry young Bob, first of May; In fact, I was the cause of the asking, Alice sat in me posing that day. I gave Billy his chance at the college, I helped Alton to get his first B; I also was aid, when Jack's clarinet played, I helped Max to get his degree, They call me Mom's old fashioned rocker, But little they know, just how I-— Helped to bring up that family of Mary's and John's; What a trial they all were, oh my! But today they are mending my rockers, And are painting me up again blue; I'm to go and. Rock the new babies; Bob and Alice has twins, Bill and Sue. So I'm still some use as a rocker, As a comforter, still I have charms; And when you are weary and need a rest, You'll find me with open arms. Guides In Buying Textiles By Vilate Elliot IV Furs FUR, for so many centuries confined by royal decree to the wardrobes of the nobility, has become thoroughly democratic. Cheaper furs have been fashioned into stylish garments in abundance until almost every woman can afford a fur coat, jacket or scarf. But the most expensive furs have become scarce, hence the cheaper and poorer furs have been pressed into service to simulate them. The imitation is often so perfect that experts must use microscopes to be sure of their identification. Retail buyers, who are without the benefit of laboratory equipment, could avoid expensive mistakes when buying fur garments if they would learn the real name of the animal from which the pelt is taken and the relative wearing qualities of furs, instead of accepting blindly the tempting pseudonyms sometimes used in selling. "In 1928 the fur industry with the approval of the Federal Trade Commission adopted rules for naming furs which are adhered to by the more reputable dealers. These rules insist that the correct name of the animal must be used and if the fur has been dyed or otherwise processed, this fact must be included in the name as "'seal-dyed muskrat" "pointed fox." If the country of origin is indicated, it must be correct, as "Australian opossum." When the name of a country or place is used to designate a color, this too must be stated, as "Sithadyed fox." The common practice now in use in advertising furs is to place an asterisk after the trade name, giving the real name of the fur at the bottom of the page," If all furriers adhered strictly to these rules, the buyer's problems would be less complicated. Since many of them do not adhere to these rules it is important to deal only with reputable, well established furriers. One should be very wary of a bargain in furs—it is usually a bargain for the one selling the fur. He has lowered the price because of some defect which the customer is not able to detect. It may have been on hand for some time, the leather has begun to deteriorate, or it may be some cheaper fur masquerading un'der the name of its betters, but depend upon it a bargain in furs always has a reason back of it. Durability and price bear little re-, lation to each other, a chinchilla pelt worth several hundred dollars will not wear any better than a rabbit pelt worth fifty cents. White rabbit is made to resemble ermine or white fox but it is much less expensive, the scarcity of the animals and the demand help to set the price of any fur. The finest pelts are always taken in the winter, it is then when the fur is thickest and longest and best supplied with oil. The only exception is the muskrat, which is at its best in the spring. There are two sets of fur in almost any pelt, the short downy fur next to the skin; this is protected by the long guard hairs, which are coarser and glossy. There are a few furs as the beaver, seal and muskrat which are plucked of their guard hairs. I have already mentioned in this paper how cheaper furs may he made and sold as the more expensive kind, unless you know and can identify the fur and have some idea of its relative wearing qualities you are at the GUIDES IN BUYING TEXTILES mercy of the merchant, and again he may not be informed either, so we see the need of an honest label. The life of a fur may be lengthened by the care it receives. It must be stored either in moth proof bags or preferably with a furrier. In the winter it should be hung on a well padded hanger and given ample room in the closet. If a coat or fur becomes wet, shake it to remove as much water as you can, then hang it in a cool airy place where it may dry slowly, never place it near any kind of heat, you will dry out the skin and the natural oil causing it to become brittle. Every fur coat should be cleaned at least once a year by a competent furrier, it should be shaken lightly every time it is worn, if it is inclined to mat comb it with the flow of the fur. Friction of any kind will wear away the fur. For example carrying a purse or bag under the arm, where it constantly rubs, or a hat brim rubbing on the collar or overcrowding the pockets, in fact allowing any excess friction will cause the best of fur to wear. Motoring is the hardest wear any fur coat can receive because of the constant rubbing up and down and back and forth. If a coat or scarf has a greasy matted appearance moisten a soft clothes brush and brush it with the flow of the fur. Do not wet enough to soak the leather. Never place a coat in the sun for long periods as the sun tends to bleach the fur. HOOSIERY HE deceptions practiced on the purchaser in buying silk hosiery are due in part to her own indifference and her willingness to take what is offered her provided the price is right." Then silk stockings are very deceiving. 561 "According to an article in the Textile World, April 28, 1928, entitled "Who knows her Hose," "'so remarkable has become the refinement in the making of synthetic textiles that probably not one housewife in ten can tell, today, from the feel or appearance, whether the hose she is about to buy is of real silk or something else. The recent test, conducted by the Knitting Arts Exhibition in Philadelphia, by the American Bemberg Corporation, produced extraordinary findings along these lines. At the Bemberg booth were displayed ten stockings, five of cocoon silk and five of Bemberg yarn. Visitors were asked to distinguish them. Of all who tested the ten pairs of stockings, only 2% picked all the stockings correctly. The others' figures were: 7.6% failed to distinguish any difference between the silk and Bemberg, 24% picked one right in ten, 22% picked two right, 20% picked three right and 24.4% picked four out of ten." (Taken from Standardization of Consumers' Goods by Coles.) The shopper should have in mind two qualifications when she buys a pair of hose: serviceability and appearance: unfortunately in today's fashion these two qualifications are not always found in the same pair of hose, the wheel of fashion does not turn that way. It usually turns in favor of the producer and as the merchant would say promotes spending. When it was the vogue to wear high top shoes and heavy silk stockings, style did combine happily with serviceability. But the producer was not selling enough hose. New fashions must be introduced to increase the demand of hosiery so the shoes went down and the dresses went up and up and up and that long space between low shoes and abbreviated dresses became very conspicuous, the producers and the merchants 562 were very enthusiastic over this change in style, it meant great demand and increased sales everywhere, it also meant exceedingly sheer hose, very fine, transparent and lacy hose which could demand the highest price without any thought to serviceability. These sheer hose may last a day or at most two or three wearings without runs. Semiservice hose are usually cheaper, they wear better, but as long as the mode decrees otherwise many of us will hold to chiffon hosiery and the hose problem will go on being a very important item in the clothing budget. Especially is this true where there are two or three girls of high school or college age in the family. Mother can never find enough stockings to go around. But dame fashion is very pressing in her demands we feel we must conform. From the ten year old school girl to the dearest and oldest grandmother a pair of sheer silk hose is most pleasing. Important elements in determining the quality of hosiery are fashioning, number of silk strands in the yarn, amount and kind of twist in the yarn, gauge, elasticity, reinforcements, methods of finishing, length and size, and absence of defects. Full fashioned hose are knit flat on many needles and sewed together down the back and along the bottom of the foot to the toe. Shaping is done by dropping (about five stitches) just below the hem, and below the calf of the leg (about 25 or 30 stitches). There should be a wide hem (about four inches) and one or two rows of lock stitch below the garter top to prevent a run. A cheaper type of hosiery is tubular knit. They are placed over forms and thoroughly steamed to shape them, however, this shaping does not always last. A mock seam is placed at the back, small dots are RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE placed below the calf to give them the appearance of full fashioned hose. For women or girls whose ankle is not too slender these hose are very practical for everyday wear. For the number of strands in the yarn is very important, three or four strands are usually used in sheer hosiery, this is not practical and such hose are very apt to have runs at the first wearing, five or six strands are much more satisfactory. By the gauge we mean the number of needles per inch and a half on the knitting machine, the finer the yarn the higher the gauge. Strength is sacrificed to appearances in the higher gauges. Forty-five gauge is considered the border line between wear and appearance. Elasticity is determined by gauge, quality of silk and the number of courses or stitches in the stocking. Unless a stocking is elastic at the top and the instep it will not wear well and runs will develop easily. Competition has induced some manufacturers to reduce the number of courses and skimp on the gauge, such hose are not elastic. Reinforcement should come in the wide hem at the top, heel, toe and sole. Stockings should be purchased at least one-half inch longer than the foot; they are steamed and stretched in finishing and will shrink to the original size when washed. Merchants tell me they cannot sell hose marked in the larger sizes—this is false pride and should be overcome. Rubbing the hose with paraffin wax on the places most easily worn tends to strengthen those parts. Then, too, one may reinforce those parts by darning with long stitches on the wrong side which is very helpful. Another help is leather hose protectors, purchased at most good shoe stores, and are used by many people. They are very good and do add to the life of the hose. God Remembers By Grace Zenor Pratt T had been a rather tiresome day for the collector for the automobile company; not an enviable position at best. But just now conditions were very bad; money was so scarce that the company was suffering many losses. Sometimes Anthony Kane grew almost disgusted with himself at finding it necessary to oversee this end of things; a sort of mental nausea at extracting debts from people that some glib salesman had intrigued. Perhaps oftener than not, the buyer had been reluctant, well meaning and honest at heart, but there was always the piper to pay and sometimes Anthony felt as if he were the piper. It was a hot day of early summer; the dust was stifling; the food at these small settlements, mostly tortillas of corn and flour, and beans seasoned with chili, tomatoes and onion, became revolting during this warm season. The water, too, was bad in some districts. He would have a few more stops here and there among the straggling ranchos then would be on his way to headquarters in the city. He was rather discouraged. His success had been but meagre and he was not taking a very optimistic report to his company's office. He wondered vaguely if he was merely tired or if he were becoming a pessimist. There were stretches of desert where heat waves glimmered and skimmed over the trackless waste lands and the car wheels sent up the choking dust in clouds. There were occasional haciendas with a few stunted fruit trees, a little church of plastered adobe and a few humbler dwellings clustered about; sometimes, but not often, there was a shallow river whose tortuous windings the cottonwoods followed persistently as cottonwoods have a way of doing in Mexico. Once he stopped at a big rancho where a pack of dogs hailed his approach with violence and the inmates were taking their afternoon siesta. A cool drink from the big deep well under the fig trees in the patio and a half-hour's rest in the shade were almost a recompense for the failure of the courteous Don to produce a payment now long overdue. WHEN he again resumed his journey the afternoon was nearly spent. Business made it necessary to be in Torreon early tomorrow. There were many miles yet before him. It would take until late into the night to reach his destination even with the best of luck. However, it was much pleasanter driving in the evening. There was a good moon and a breeze made the air refreshing. As dusk fell the country became more desolate; but the giant cacti and desert palms broke the monotony of the moonlit plain. The headlights revealed far ahead another road which coverged with the one he now traveled. He had known of this road before but he had never before taken it. But now, as he slackened speed, he felt impressed somehow, to take this new road, though it would be a longer and rougher route. Against his better judgment he turned the car marveling at that unseen force which so impelled him. Soon he became reassured as his 564 speedometer reeled off the kilometers and the weariness he had felt earlier left him. He was content with life and all it had offered and given him. Presently he looked at his watch. It was a few minutes to ten o'clock. By midnight he should reach his hotel in the city and its comfort would be welcome. The ruggedness increased; he could make but little time. Surroundings took on an unfamiliar aspect. Perhaps he had been foolish to follow this whim; whims were elusive things. He must keep a look out for some goatherd's camp or a light from a dwelling where he might inquire concerning the original highway. On that other road there were frequent sinall settlements and it was decidedly easier going. At any rate he must be in Torreon early tomorrow; it was imperative, he had never failed to keep an appointment yet. As if in answer to his necessity a clump of trees came into view: a few giant walnut trees sheltering a roadside spring. There would be dwellings near at hand. Yes! There they were, a few straggling adobe huts and the inevitable chapel crowning the little hill, He noticed how the dark cross was outlined against the sky. As he passed through the one narrow street he saw the houses were in darkness but a pack of mongrel dogs appeared and emphasized their welcome of him. Ah—there was the light. And he stopped at the adobe wall of an old hacienda. There was a group of men at the big iron gate and a few stragglers outside who paused curiously before passing. The big house was lighted and there seemed to be confusion. As Kane stopped in front of the entrance and turned off his motor he heard a woman's sobs. A-priest in his long black robe passed across the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE road to the chapel, fingering his crucifix. "Buenos Noches", Kane greeted the group at the gate, quietly, and in his fluent Spanish he told them he had taken the wrong road and asked direction to the city. Before he had finished the gate was opened. "Si, Senor, entra," and a young man left the group and hurried into the house. "We have a very sick man here," the speaker explained. '"The good God has surely sent you. Could you not take the sick man with you? There is no other way." Before Kane could reply the boy who had hastened away from the group returned bringing with him an elderly man who appeared to be in despair. He extended his hand to Kane. "Buenos Noches, Senor. My beloved son is dying. For the love of the Holy Virgin, hasten and take him to the great city! We are but the very poor here. I am a caretaker in the hacienda. There are no automobiles here and by wagon... That would be too late!" The American hesitated for an instant. There had been an epidemic of small pox throughout the district —perhaps—but no! There had been a gay party—a senorita's smile—a lover's quarrel, and the senorita's brother flushed with wine had used a knife in the darkness. Carlos was bleeding to death. Kane understood in that moment of revealing certainty exactly why he had taken the strange road. An almost divine exultation thrilled him. With him, rested the ultima-. Tum whether this boy should live or die and God must will that he should live by all that had occurred. Quickly and silently they set about their task. The wounded man was made as comfortable as possible in the tonneay of the car. He was GOD REMEMBERS young, slender, and far spent; unconscious now, and the heavy bandages were stained scarlet. An older brother supported him tenderly, and as Kane drove swiftly through the night the grey haired father murmured broken fragments—of prayer for his son, interspersed with murmured thanks to the Senor Americano whom the Virgin had_ sent. These were the only sounds. Which broke the silence as the motor hummed smoothly across the miles bringing them nearer their destination. It was an hour past midnight when the lights of the city appeared far ahead and a half-hour later they stopped in front of the big white hospital where: attendants took charge of the patient. Anthony waited for a few moments to hear the verdict after the examination. He was very weak, they said, but there was a splendid fighting chance. ANE felt a certain satisfaction and joy in knowing he had been instrumental in bringing relief in time of need; a gratitude, that he had listened to that intangible voice which had made this possible. He was preparing to drive away when someone called to him, and the father of Carlos was beside the car. "If the Senor Americano can spare me but a moment I will tell him that which is in my heart,' he said. "Some men might say it was but chance brought you our way tonight, but it was God! He is good. Many times has he come to me in my need. There was a time when my poverty was greater than now: there was drought and we had but little food. I could find no work. With sorrow I saw my children hungry. I went to the pueblo early one morning to try and get food. I was weak and I sat down in a doorway to rest. I heard voices inside the store speaking and my name was mentioned. A stranger was searching for me. A distant relative had sent a bag of beans and one of corn from a distant village; and the stranger sought to find me. God had led me there, Senor. And that night I knelt in the chapel and gave thanks to him. And so it has always been in my greatest need. God remembers." The old man paused and bared his head in the moonlight. There was only the sound of the night wind through the dusty pepper trees as the American and the grateful peon clasped hands in the silence of understanding hearts. Notes from the Field Pocatello Stake HE Pocatello Stake Board of Relief Society sponsored a "HuiNui" (Maori word for Big Time), in December, 1934. A two-day bazaar was held in which seven city Ward Relief Societies participated. There were booths for aprons, children's clothes, art goods, kitchen articles, artificial flowers, quilts, candy, etc. One corner of the large stake hall was devoted to a Colonial Kitchen where, backed by old-fashioned dressers holding pewter and "THE LAND O' COTTON," POCATELLO STAKE old china, a cafeteria luncheon was served each day, the waitresses costumed in old colonial frocks. The bazaar was a great success, financially as well as otherwise, nearly all the articles being disposed of. The last evening was devoted to a minstrel show, "The Land O' Cotton," directed by Mrs. G. N. Brunker. This was more than a minstrel show, it was an artistic production, with some of the best talent of the city, singers and dancers taking part in the cast of fifty people. The costumes were in black and white, as were also the decorations of the stage and hall, and the various booths. The Stake Board received many compliments on the success of their venture along these lines. Anniversary Day THE General Board is delighted with reports of celebrations held throughout the organization to commemorate the founding of our great Society. There were pageants, musicals and combination programs depicting the organization and the various phases of the work. We trust that this day will ever be remembered and revered as the day the women of the Church received official recognition. Maricopa Stake HE Mesa First Ward has been using the kitchen adjoining the Relief Society room as a medium of exchange. On each meeting day the members are urged to bring anything NOTES FROM THE FIELD of which they have a surplus and these are sold or exchanged after the meetings. Among things brought are: fresh fruits, pickles and all kinds of home baking, art work and handmade articles. It is the hope that each member will sell enough to cover the year's subscription price of the Relief Society Magazine, the Annual Dues, and a little or big surplus for her own pin money. Lethbridge Stake N the top of a huge birthday cake used as a center piece at the Anniversary Day Dinner, in Lethbridge Ward, was a globe of the world upon which was placed a figure of a woman holding a huge candle. LETHBRIDGE WARD BIRTHDAY CAKE Through this design the message of the Relief Society was given that this great organization is international in scope and influence, and a light to the women of the world. Candles were grouped about the 567 cake and table, and as they were lighted it was explained that they represented a number of the charter members of the Society, the enrollment of the members of the Ward, and the number of books in the Old Testament. The lighting of the last large candle was to symbolize the great light of truth that was shed over the world when the Prophet of these modern times spoke the significant words: "I now turn the keys for you in the name of God, and this Socity shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time." The light of the tiny candles represented the glowing light of all women who had enlisted in Relief Society work. The three members of the Presidency cut the cake, which was served with ice cream. Western States Mission MESSAGES are constantly coming from our missions reporting varied activities and excellent work. Who would have thought that a conference could be held in Denver during the last year (1934) with representatives from sixteen branches out of twenty-six, including delegates from Colorado, Nebraska, New Mexico, Wyoming, Iowa and South Dakota? The members in Denver opened their homes to those from the other localities, which lessened the expense very greatly for the visitors. In connection with the convention there was a splendid display of handwork made by the sisters all over the mission, which pleased them all very much. The Denver papers very generously published notices of the conference, reports of the meetings and pictures of the officers of the various branches. Mrs. Winifred B. Daynes, President of the Relief Societies of the mission, was overjoyed with the 568 results of the conference as well as were all others who helped to make it such a success.: Panguitch Stake (South Ward) N the "Notes" published in the April, 1935, Magazine we regret that an error was made regarding the gift of a set of Relief Society Magazines. The Magazines, consisting of a complete set from the beginning of the publication, was contributed to the Panguitch South Ward by Mrs. Sarah LeFever Houston, instead of to the Panguitch Stake, as was stated. Relief Society Project HE General Board has received so many reports of the excellent work being done in the various stakes and missions on the Relief Society Project, that space will not permit their publication. They have been carefully read, however, and are filed for reference. They have added greatly to the ideas, suggestions and information of General Board members who, in their travels about the stakes, will be able, through them, to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pass on valuable suggestions regarding what others are doing. It is a great satisfaction to the General Board that this Project is receiving so much attention, and that through the interest and ingenuity of our stake and ward officers so many families are being greatly benefited. Northwestern States Mission (Tacoma Branch) SISTER who had recently affiliated with the Tacoma Relief Society wrote several very inspiring verses regarding this new opportunity which had come to her. One of these we publish:
"It's almost a year since I came here, To sunny Tacoma and you. When I think of the things I have learned here It seems too good to be true.
I hardly know how to express this, It's been such a wonderful treat. With the lessons and broad information And friendships endearing and sweet."
PAGEANT GIVEN BY MONTPELIER STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Montpelier Stake
A BEAUTIFUL pageant was presented in Montpelier Stake in February, 1935, featuring the Bible. The pageant was so successful that there was a special request that it be repeated, which was done. All the married people in the community were invited, including non-members of the Church. There was so much interest in this pageant that it has been used by other stakes.
Relief Society Magazine: Mrs. Agnes Pearce, a former Relief Society President of Montpelier Stake, presented her complete set of Relief Society Magazines, from 1914 to 1935, to the stake, and they are now being bound for permanent reference.
Rigby Stake
RIGBY Stake reports an art institute which was most unique and interesting. Fancy needlework and many beautiful quilts were displayed. Demonstrations in basketry, painting, crepe paper, rug making, cut work, tatting and yarn work were
569
given. A department for cooking and beverages was very popular. Chloe Laker is the Stake Art Director.
Relief Society Magazine Campaign (Duchesne Stake)
THE report of the Magazine Drive in Duchesne Stake came to the office too late to be included with the other stakes doing good work. We congratulate the women of this stake on the number of subscriptions received, and thank them for the effort made.
Nevada Stake
IN their enthusiastic Magazine Drive last year, the Nevada Stake adopted the slogan "A Relief Society Magazine in every home." A contest was inaugurated to procure original ideas on means and ways of making and saving one hundred pennies or the one dollar for one year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine. The rules were:
1. Any Relief Society member or officer is eligible to send them in at any time until September 1, 1934.
HAWAIIAN MISSION
570
2. Decision to be made by the three judges to be final.
3. The prize to go to the winner of their decision.
4. On a separate slip your name and address enclosed in the same envelope.
5. Send directly to Dora Atkinson, Box 1815, McGill, Nevada.
Hawaiian Mission
WE are in receipt of a delightful letter from Sister Verna F. Murphy, President of the Relief Societies of the Hawaiian Mission. She reports the safe return of the Hawaiian delegates which attended the April, 1935, conference. It was a great pleasure to receive this delegation and to become better acquainted with our members from across the sea.
Liberty Stake
AS an outgrowth of two years' study of the history of music, the Relief Societies of Liberty Stake presented a closing musicale. Beginning with the music made by the morning stars when they sang together on the morning of creation, and tracing music through the years in both its secular and sacred forms, the history of music was completely presented. The facts themselves, gleaned from a comprehensive notebook carefully kept by the Stake Organist, Adeline Ensign, were cast into poetry by Claire Stewart Boyer and read to appropriately selected
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
organ music. Instrumental music was represented by the harp, the organ and an instrumental trio. Vocal developments ran the gamut from the first hymn, the Magnificat, sung by Mary when she visited Elizabeth, through a speaking choir, the folk song, opera and oratorio. The choruses were composed of more than 200 Relief Society members. Mabel Poulton Kirk and Olive Hickman conducted the choruses while Adeline Ensign accompanied both reader and choruses upon the organ. Love of music was the aim and it can best be expressed in the following excerpt:
Music
Music is eternal spirit, eternally revealed, God is the author, the composer and the director, Each voice is an instrument in his hands; Love is the melody and truth the words; Life plays upon all instruments; Here are the violins that carry the beauty along, Here are the winds, the low sweet echo of motive in song, Here are the tones of brass going cling, clong. So is the symphony divine.
Music gives joy that is art, fair art, Music gives courage that good deeds may start, Music lifts high the hope of the heart— So is the symphony divine.
—Claire Stewart Boyer.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
LOUISE YATES ROBISON: President AMY BROWN LYMAN: First Counselor KATE M. BARKER: Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND: General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD
Emma A. Empey Ethel Reynolds Smith Hazel H. Greenwood Annie Wells Cannon Rosannah C. Irvine Emeline Y. Nebeker Jennie B. Knight Nettie D. Bradford Mary Connelly Kimball Lalene H. Hart Elise B. Alder Janet M. Thompson Lotta Paul Baxter Inez K. Allen Belle S. Spafford Cora L. Bennion Ida P. Beal Donna Durrant Sorensen Amy Whipple Evans Marcia K. Howells
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor: Mary Connelly Kimball Manager: Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager: Amy Brown Lyman
VOL. XXII SEPTEMBER, 1935 No. 9
EDITORIAL
M. I. A. Slogan
"WE STAND FOR SPIRITUALITY AND HAPPINESS IN THE HOME"
WE congratulate the M. I. A. on the selection of this timely slogan. For some years the trend has been away from the home until it has become all too often merely a place where meals were served and where people slept. A place to go away from for pleasure. There has not been time to read the Scriptures or cultivate spirituality in the home, for the members were flitting all the time. In too many cases the task of instilling spirituality in the hearts of the children has been left to the auxiliaries. This responsibility belongs primarily to the parents, it cannot be shifted, and the home is the nursery where it must be cultivated. All too many parents who have been so engrossed in business, church activities, or other affairs, that they have delegated their responsibility of training their children to organizations, will find when too late that no organization can take the place of mother and father and the home.
EVERY home should cooperate to make effective this slogan, "We stand for spirituality and happiness in the home." Home is the foundation of society where love and authority entwine. Men are and will ever be largely what their homes have made them. Fortunate are the children who in their youth have learned obedience, neatness, punctuality, courtesy, economy, respect and love in their homes. In this first of schools, they should learn not only to obey others, but to obey themselves. "Self-obedience is doing what you resolve to do, be it easy or hard; self-indulgence is doing what you want to do under the promptings of the taste or passion." Brent.
EVERY boy and girl should have duties in the home. This will
571
give them better chances of becoming fine personalities. Children who accept service without reciprocation become selfish and think that they should have whatever they can seize without paying the price. "The world is largely a world of compulsions." Those who in their homes have not been taught the inevitability of law and how "to convert a necessity into a virtue" are apt to become embittered or crushed when they go forth from the sheltering walls of the home.
VISION should be cultivated in the home, for while freedom of choice is a most desirable possession, its necessary concomitant, to make it worthwhile, is vision From earliest childhood children should have religious trust instilled into their minds. Brent truly says, "It is as
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ridiculous to leave a child to select his own religious belief and observances as to allow him to select his own literature, his own habits of dress, or his own food. The discipline of simple faith demanded of the child soul by spiritual affirmation, made by parents' lips and conduct, can have no substitute. It often springs in from the past, as the deciding factor in the life of a man, who under the stress of severe trial, is trembling on the brink of ruin, and would be lost but for this breath of a sacred yesterday."
In the home where spirituality is taught and lived, there will be happiness and those who go forth from such a home will be good citizens and will be trained and ready to do their part in carrying on the work of the church and the nation.
Back to School
AS boys and girls return to school this Fall, their fathers and mothers open memory's casket and think how different are conditions now than they were in their school days. Never before have there been such fine school buildings. There are well equipped libraries, scientific equipment, manual training apparatus, domestic science facilities, opportunities for sewing such as the parents never dreamed of available to the young today. School is made so delightful that the days wing their way past. But there are all too many distractions from serious mental work. Sororities and fraternities, athletic sports, auto riding, movies and many other pastimes are taking all too much of the time of many of the young people. There is an overindulgence in sweets. It is no uncommon thing on the campus of our col-
572
leges and universities to see young women eating chocolate bars at nine or ten in the morning. Many laughingly say, "O, this is my breakfast." Candy is not the right kind of a meal, and many of these young women will later pay the penalty for improper diet. These young people need to learn moderation. No matter how good a thing is if indulged in to excess, it becomes an evil. Some students study so hard and become so engrossed in their mental work that they neglect their physical or spiritual needs and many break under the strain. Those attending school should never feel that they haven't time to attend to some Church activities. The spiritual being needs nourishment just as much as does the physical. True education should give a rounded development. One is not really educated who neglects his physical and spiritual needs.
EDITORIAL
573
Elsie Talmage Brandley
SELDOM has the community been so shocked as it was when the unexpected death of Elsie Talmage Brandley was known. Full of life, joyous, ever in the forefront of Church activities, people took it for granted that her earth life would continue for years to come. Although she was sick but a few days, she felt impressed that death would soon summon her to join her beloved father. In her passing the Church loses one of its most brilliant women. Versatile, willing, happy, understanding, she did well whatever task came for her to accomplish. Associate Editor of the Improvement Era, gifted author of poetry and prose, skillful writer of lessons and feature newspaper articles, she always found joy in whatever she was asked to do. Seven daughters came to bless her and her husband. While she was not home much, she prided herself on so planning and directing that she felt her household work was not neglected. She was admired for her brilliant mind. She was loved for her breadth of vision and her understanding heart. She loved life and looked on death as a great adventure that would open the gates for new experience. May our Father bless and comfort her mother, her husband and daughters and her brothers and sisters. May this devoted father be able to guide these daughters so that they may become the women their mother desired them to be.
A Welcome Letter
WE are sure our readers will enjoy reading this delightful letter sent to President Louise Y. Robison from the Mission Presidents of the European Mission. It shows how closely akin are all our organizations. As these sisters were meeting, their thoughts went out to those laboring at Relief Society headquarters. May every success attend these faithful women.
Liege, Belgium July 2, 1935.
Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, President, Relief Society General Board, Salt Lake City, Utah
Dear Sister Robison:
Here in Liege, city of many memories for you, the European Mission Presidents and Mission Mothers are in conference and send love and greetings to you, and to all the members of the General Board.
The musical chimes still waken us at five o'clock in the morning. The near-by flower market is as lovely as ever. Do you recall the clusters of white flowers at every stall, especially the white gladioli and peonies, and then the old-fashioned things like pinks and moss roses? The baker's man comes to the door with his long, unwrapped loaves under his arms, the milkman delivers from cans attached to a yoke that he wears across his shoulders, and the farmer's wife comes to town with a long pole in either hand, from which are suspended her bundles of fresh strawberries. The women scrub their stone door-
574
steps and walls, and wash the sidewalks daily, and both men and women pull heavy carts up the steep hills, with sometimes a dog helping with the burden, pulling between tugs at the rear end of the cart. We walked up to the Citadel, where we saw the war monuments, the Meuse, with its seven bridges, and the distant hills down which the German army came swarming on Liege. We thought if you could manage the four hundred and forty-three steps descending from the Citadel we could do likewise, and we did, and still arrived at meeting the following morning on time.
The conference has been wonderful. It has been conducted by President Merrill, with a fine judicial point of view and breadth of vision. We all feel a new inspiration and eagerness to continue with our work. The meetings have been characterized by a frankness and honesty of discussion, opinion, and narration of experiences that we all deeply appreciate. Our six-and-a-half hour testimony meeting Sunday was a spiritual feast for us all. The Spirit of the Lord was there in great abundance. We have spent much time in discussing Relief Society work, and the understanding we have attained of each other's mission problems in this activity, has created in each of us an enlargement of vision, and a desire to begin more earnest and intelligent work. As Sister Merrill expects to report these activities we shall not go into further detail, except to state that we are deeply appreciative of the help and cooperation you have given us.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
We meet all day every day in the L. D. S. Chapel on the hillside, and the Liege Relief Society has proved, as usual, indispensable in any Church undertaking. The sisters have done some valiant work, cooking hot vegetable dinners for us down stairs— valiant because of the stifling weather and the coal stoves they use. It has been an excellent thing for us to have a vegetable, salad, fruit dinner along Word of Wisdom lines, with a bit of home-made French pastry thrown in occasionally. We feel that our entire experience here has been of the greatest value to us in our efforts to carry out our responsibilities as our Father in Heaven desires us to do.
Sincerely your sisters,
Emily T. Merrill, European Mission. Axeline N. Peterson, Swedish Mission. Elizabeth H. Welker, German-Austrian Mis. Martha K. Gaeth, Czechoslovakian Mis. Vivian E. Knudsen, Norwegian Mission. Hannah Ursenbach, French Mission. Eliza S. Petersen, Danish Mission. Ruth L. Lang, French Mission. Ramona W. Cannon, British Mission. Hermana F. Lyon, Netherlands Mission. Susan G. Kelly, Swiss-German Mission. Bertha Pivamian, Palestine-Syrian Mis.
Lesson Department (For Second Week in February)
Theology and Testimony
LESSON V.
THE PROPHET IN RETIREMENT (Concluded)
1. Undaunted in Adversity. It is impressive to make note of the fact that even while the Prophet was in retirement and his enemies continuously sought to slay him, yet he went steadily forward in the cause of the Lord, exhorting, prophesying, and expounding the truth. His energy never slackened; he turned neither to the right nor the left. He cared but little for his own comfort and welfare; his first concern was for the saints. He feared no man, not even those who daily thought to destroy him. His one determination was to teach righteousness and to serve the God of Israel with all his might and soul. Little wonder that under such conditions he gave to the world some of the choicest truths of his ministry! In the present lesson, emphasis will be placed on the doctrinal development of the church during this period of persecution.
2. Soul Breathings of the Prophet. It is said that the true character of an individual is best shown under the stress of isolation and personal hardship. Under such conditions, the Prophet was staunch, and true, and unwavering.
3. His love for the saints is well shown in the following statement extracted from a letter written to Major-General Law of the Nauvoo Legion while the Prophet was in hiding: "We will take every measure that lays in our power, and make every sacrifice that God or man could require at our hands to protect the peace and safety of the people without collision. And if sacrificing my own liberty for months and years, * * * I bow to my fate with cheerfulness and all due deference, in consideration of the lives, safety, and welfare of others."
4. The Prophet's gratitude to those who assisted him during the time of his retirement is well voiced in the following words: "My heart would have been harder than an adamantine stone, if I had not prayed for them with anxious and fervent desire. I did so, and the still small voice whispered to my soul: These, that share your toils with such faithful hearts, shall reign with you in the kingdom of their God; but I parted with them in silence and came to my retreat. I hope I shall see them again, that I may toil for them, and administer to their comfort also. They shall not want a friend while I live; my heart shall love those, and my hands shall toil for those, who love and toil for me, and shall ever be found faithful to my friends. Shall I be ungrateful? Verily no! God forbid!" (History of the Church, Vol. V, p. 109.)
5. The fervency of his prayer is surpassed perhaps only by that of the Master in Gethsemane. "O Thou, who seest and knowest the hearts of all men, * * * look down upon Thy servant Joseph at this time; and let faith on the name of Thy Son Jesus Christ, to a greater degree than Thy servant ever yet has enjoyed, be conferred upon him,
576
even the faith of Elijah; and let the lamp of eternal life be lit up in his heart, never to be taken away; and let the words of eternal life be poured upon the soul of. Thy servant, that he may know Thy will, Thy statutes, and Thy commandments, and Thy judgments, to do them." (History of the Church, Vol. V, p. 127.)
6. The Book of Abraham. In the preceding lesson it was pointed out that the Prophet was arrested in June of 1841 at the instigation of Governor Boggs of Missouri, on the charge of being a fugitive from justice. The case was later heard before Judge Stephen A. Douglas and the charge dismissed. Again in August of 1842 the Prophet was arrested on the charge of being an accessory before the fact in the shooting of ex-Governor Boggs. Within the interim between these two arrests, specifically during the winter of 1841-2, the Prophet completed the translation of the Book of Abraham and prepared it for publication. (For a full discussion of this matter the reader is referred to Roberts' Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. II, pp. 126-128.) The high character of the Prophet's work and the fidelity and accuracy with which he produced it, even in the face of bitter and relentless persecution, are unexplainable except that he was divinely inspired.
7. The Wentworth Letter. Another document of great historical and doctrinal importance was published at this time, specifically in the spring of 1842. It was written by the Prophet at the request of Mr. John Wentworth, editor and proprietor of the Chicago Democrat, who said that he wanted the information for his friend, Mr. Bastow, who was preparing a history of New Hampshire. Although the letter
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
comprises scarcely six pages in the Prophet's record, yet it is one of the most concise and at the same time comprehensive, narratives of early Church history to be found in Mormon literature. It also contains an unequalled epitome of Church doctrines, which has since been called the Articles of Faith. Almost countless numbers of the Articles of Faith have been published; they have been translated into many languages; and they have been carried to the ends of the earth. They were not written as the result of prolonged and studied effort. On the contrary, they were merely part of a letter sent to an inquiring friend.. Their conciseness, comprehensiveness, and simplicity of treatment may well be regarded as evidence that he who wrote them was indeed inspired of the Lord. (For the entire letter see History of the Church, Vol. IV, pp. 535-541.)
8. Prophecy regarding the Rocky Mountains. On the 6th day of August, 1842, while the extradition papers for the Prophet's return to Missouri were still pending, he in company with several others, went across the river to Montrose, Iowa. A number of the brethren were standing in the shade of a building discussing the subject of persecutions in Missouri and the constant annoyance that had followed the saints to Illinois and Iowa. The Prophet makes record of the following as part of the conversation: "I prophesied that the saints would continue to suffer much affliction and would be driven to the Rocky Mountains, many would apostatize, others would be put to death by our persecutors or lose their lives in consequence of exposure or disease, and some of you will live to go and assist in making settlements and build cities and see the saints become a mighty people in the midst of the
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Rocky Mountains." (History of the Church, Vol. V, p. 85.)
9. Anson Call, who was present when the prophecy was made, and who later came to Utah and helped in building several of its settlements, bears testimony that he heard the Prophet utter this prediction. He states that in front of the school house was a bowery, beneath which was a barrel of ice water. The Prophet had tasted the water and had warned the brethren not to drink too freely; then with the tumbler still in his hand, he made the prediction recorded above. (See History of the Church, Vol. V, pp. 85, 86.) The literal fulfilment of this prophecy is a matter of common knowledge.
10. Baptism for the Dead. Throughout the period of his retirement, the Prophet was deeply concerned in the matter of baptism for the dead. Although he had mentioned it on several previous occasions, yet it seemed to occupy an unusually prominent position in his mind at this time. When he appeared from seclusion and attended the meeting of the Relief Society, he informed those present that he intended to speak to the saints on this subject in the near future.
11. In the afternoon of September 1, 1842, during a brief respite of semi-seclusion at home, he addressed a letter to the saints dealing chiefly with this matter, but said that he was writing in haste because of the alertness of his enemies. He explained to the saints the cause of his seclusion and expressed the hope that he would soon be with them again. He adjured them to be diligent in their work on the temple; indeed he asked them to redouble their efforts, and reminded them that the prophets and righteous men of old were persecuted before them. He gave in-
577
struction concerning the keeping of records, and closed with the promise that inasmuch as he was unable to address the saints, he would write them from time to time. (See D. & C., Section 127.)
12. Again, on the 6th of September, 1842, while in seclusion at the home of Brother Edward Hunter, Nauvoo, he wrote another letter to the saints dealing chiefly with the subject of baptism for the dead. He says: "I now resume the subject of the baptism for the dead, as that subject seems to occupy my mind and press itself upon my feelings the strongest, since I have been pursued by my enemies." (D. & C. 128:1.) He again emphasizes the necessity of keeping records and having them witnessed by two or more competent persons and says that this is in conformity with the will of God, prepared for the salvation of the dead before the foundation of the world. (Verses 2-5.)
13. He declares that the ordinance of baptism for the dead is a function only of the priesthood through revelation of Jesus Christ, wherein he promised that "whatsoever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven." He remarks that some will regard this as a very bold doctrine, but answers the objection by stating that whenever the Lord has established a dispensation of the priesthood by actual revelation, this power has always been given. He further declares that "For him to whom these keys (of the priesthood) are given, there is no difficulty in obtaining a knowledge of facts in relation to the salvation of the children of men, both as well for the dead as for the living." (Verse 11.)
14. Then he makes the following appeal: "Brethren, shall we not go on in so great a cause? Go forward and not backward. Courage, breth-
578
ren; and on, on to the victory! Let your hearts rejoice, and be exceedingly glad. Let the earth break forth into singing. Let the dead speak forth anthems of eternal praise to the King Immanuel, who hath ordained before the world was that which would enable us to redeem them out of their prison; for the prisoners shall go free. Let the mountains shout for joy, and all ye valleys cry aloud; and all ye seas and dry lands tell the wonders of your Eternal King." (Verses 22, 23.) This does not sound like discouragement or despair, and remember that it was written only three days after the Prophet fled from the back door of his home while his enemies were pounding at the front for admission.
15. The Stamp of Divinity. In point of service to the children of God, the doctrine of baptism for the dead marks the Prophet Joseph as the outstanding benefactor to mankind of all modern churchmen. Many sectarians have declared that those who do not have the opportunity to hear and receive the Gospel cannot be saved: others of the more merciful type, have passively taken the stand that God will be just. But no one except the Prophet has provided a means by which the saving principles of the Gospel can reach the dead as well as the living. Christianity, in its sectarian form, reaches but a very small fraction of the children of God, but as revealed through Joseph Smith, it reaches all.
16. Comprehensiveness of Mormonism. On the first day of January, 1843, while the Prophet was awaiting trial at Springfield, Illinois, before Judge Pope of the Federal court, he made the following statement to Mr. Justin Butterfield, United States district attorney: "The most prominent difference in sentiment between the Latter-day Saints
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
and sectarians was that the latter were all circumscribed by some peculiar creed, which deprived its members of the privilege of believing anything not contained therein, whereas the Latter-day Saints have no creed, but are ready to believe all true principles that exist, as they are made manifest from time to time." (History of the Church, Vol. V, p. 215.)
17. From the standpoint of breadth of vision and comprehensiveness of purpose, this statement doubtless surpasses any principle ever announced by the sectarian world. To the Latter-day Saints it possesses a two-fold purpose: It contains the announcement that the Church has no creed, which in substance may be interpreted to mean that its members should be slow indeed to reach dogmatic conclusions concerning things of which little is known. (Doubtless this applies with especial emphasis to teachers within the Church.) The other part of the statement announces that the Latter-day Saints are ready to accept all truth as it is made known from time to time. This of course applies both to truth revealed by the Prophet of God and to truth discovered by his children. It makes of Mormonism the most comprehensive of all religions—really the system of universal truth— and it encourages Latter-day Saints to delve into every honorable field of research, knowing that whenever truth is found it comes from God, the creator of heaven and earth and all things within them.
Suggestions for Discussion and Review
1. When are you personally the most easily discouraged, in times of hardship or of ease? Why?
LESSON DEPARTMENT
2. Are you personally willing to sacrifice your own pleasures for months and years for the welfare of others? If so, why? If not, why not?
3. What does the Book of Abraham contain? Give a brief review.
4. Can you recite the Articles of Faith? Try.
5. Are you heeding the Prophet's advice to go forward in the great cause of baptism for the dead? Are you converted to it? How fully do
579
your deeds reveal the extent of your conversion?
6. To what extent are you willing to accept truth when it comes to you? Are you obeying the instructions of the modern Prophet with respect to the Word of Wisdom? Tithing? Loyalty?
7. Do you really love the truth? When it comes to you are you willing to accept? When the Prophet speaks are you willing to obey?
Teachers' Topic (For February, 1935)
"A soft answer turneth away wrath, But grievous words stir up anger." Prov. 15:1.
TO assume that life can go on with an even tenor of its days for any individual is a fallacy as we all know. In this proverb we have a formula for obtaining mastery over situations that might cause regrets and damage beyond repair.
'One hot word, one peevish reflection, one angry demand, one spiteful contradiction, begets another, and a third, and so on, till it proves like the cutting of a dam: when the water has got a little passage, it does itself widen the breach, bears down before it, and then there is no stopping it, no reducing it."
Why does a soft answer turn away wrath? Wrath is usually exhibited by loud harsh words or manners that are unseemly. To meet wrath with a soft word when harsh words were expected in return is to give the individual time to recover himself. Here again the element of contrast may be used to good advantage and the surprise of such a. Coping with the situation usually ends the disagreeableness and respect is engendered for those exercising self-control by refusing to be badgered into resentful words.
Christ has given us the high law of action: "And unto him that smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also the other." We might very well call the above proverb the "forerunner" to bring us to this higher law for if we cannot control our own tongue how then can we turn the other cheek? This proverb deals with the pressing necessity of the moment.. The Apostle Paul goes a little farther in his epistle to the Ephesians when he admonished them saying: "Let not the sun go down upon your wrath. * * * Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth."
The applicability of this proverb is universal. The mother, the father, the husband, the wife, the teacher, the student, find this an equally valuable code of conduct in their relationships. Angelo Patri, the famous child authority, has said that the surest way to catch the attention of an angry, clamoring child is to answer its loudness with a mildness of speech and a softness of voice.
Browning in his poem, "A Wom-
580
an's Last Word," describes a man and wife quarreling, and the wife (a very wise woman) stops the dispute with a word not of anger, but of reconciliation. She says it is fatal for you and me, who have every reason for living together to become so absorbed in our quarrel that we lose Paradise.
"Let's contend no more, Love, Strive nor weep; All be as before, "Love, —Only sleep.
"What so wild as words are? I and thou In debate, as birds are, Hawk on bough!
"See the creature stalking While we speak! Hush and hide the talking, Cheek on cheek.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"What so false as truth is, False to thee? Where the serpent's tooth is, Shun the tree—
"Where the apple reddens, Never pry— Lest we lose our Edens, Eve and I."
To meet the fire of wrathful words with the self-control extinguisher of soft answers—here is wisdom for all.
1. Discuss in connection with this proverb the proverb: "The beginning of strife is as when one letteth out water; Therefore leave off contention before it rolleth onward."
Handwork Department
"Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home."
THE Work and Business program is not only to help the needy but to teach how to improve and beautify the home. Handicraft for Everywoman is full of ideas and suggestions for home decoration and improvement. Stake or ward leaders should use it to make plans for the handicraft section. See last paragraph in "Foreword" by President Robison. At the first meeting introduce it with so much enthusiasm that "everywoman everywhere" must have a book. Read the Foreword to the members, also part of Acknowledgments emphasizing third paragraph. Summarize "Contents." Use any good method your prolific minds suggest to do the work. Questions and suggestions are welcomed by the General Board.
Suggestive Study on Consumer Problems
THE changes that have occurred in general economic conditions since 1929 have forced drastic readjustments of all kinds. As a result business is struggling along attempting to find its way to a new basis. Likewise consumption has greatly changed and consumers are gradually working their way towards new standards on stable grounds.
Consumer interests are as broad as their desires from the penny article to the more expensive tapestry or painting. How to get the most satisfaction for these desires and human needs as food, clothing, health, recreation, investments, and other things according to the income and
LESSON DEPARTMENT
standards of the family is the big problem of consumption.
The aim of these discussions is:
1. To make women consumer-conscious.
2. To urge housewives to become intelligent buyers.
3. To aid in better cooperation with local grocers and markets it is to help educate the consumer in problems vital in increasing the purchasing power beyond their own every-day needs.
The majority of people are trying to make ends meet, but when confronted with the problem of readjustment to lower standards, these efforts and trends toward better economic conditions will need be supplemented by careful study in consumption. The household buyer must balance her own needs against her purchasing power in terms of merchandise within her own possibilities. She needs to know her marketing problems and if she would be a better buyer she needs to consider her present buying custom, such as:
1. Box, package, sack, can, or small, medium and large, rather than weight or measure, are terms used to describe quantities of goods bought.
2. Little attention is paid to name of producer.
3. Labels on packaged or canned goods not read.
4. Does not ask for brands.
5. Does not look for forms or composition.
581
6. Relies too much on advice of clerks and salesmen.
7. Influenced by flowery advertising.
8. Acts too much on judgment of friends.
Questions
1. Define consumption.
2. Differentiate between consumers and producers when discussing these problems.
3. What percentage of household buying is done by women.
4. What in your opinion are some of the difficulties involved in household buying.
5. Why have consumer problems been slow to receive public attention as far as government policy is concerned.
6. Discuss the buying habits of the women in your community.
References
Bureau of Home Economics, Washington, D. C. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Washington, D. C. Consumers Counsel A. A. A., Washington, D. C. Consumers Advisory N. R. A., Washington D. C. Consumers Research, Washington, N. J. American Home Economics Ass., Baltimore, Md. Government Bulletins. Bulletins and Leaflets from local High Schools and Colleges.
Literature (For Third Week in February)
ADVENTURES IN READING
BOOK FRIENDS
"Come, my best friends, my books! And lead me on."—Cowley.
582
MEN and Women of Bookland—what a delectable company! Characters made not born, the creation of a poet's brain. Linking men to men, nation to nation, century to century they have become monuments to the creator of Man.
Friends and companions of Man, he summons you at will to do his bidding, to jest and smile with him, to push back far horizons, renew a vision of beauty, to whisper a message of hope. By man for man you were made, from man to man you go, "The choir invisible whose music is the gladness of the world."
Book Friends
To create a character and send it down the ages to be a friend to man of all climes and conditions is the work of a master artist spirit. Literature has a gallery of men and women of such variety and humanity that to know them makes "The whole world kin." No nation is foreign when we may become a bookland visitor at will. Book people are world citizens.
As the years pass, the friends of the reader form a goodly company. No two companies, however, will be alike. In some lists of book friends, Horace, Omar Khayyam, Carlyle, Goethe will find a place; in others Ibsen, Stevenson, Dr. Johnson will be favorites. But to all the world the great characters of literature are friends, among the most-loved characters are the universal favorites: Ulysses in Homer's "Iliad" and especially in his "Odyssey," King Arthur in Malory's "Morte D'Arthur" and Tennyson's "Idyls of the King," Beatrice in Dante's "Divine Comedy," Don Quixote in Cervantes' "Don Quixote," Falstaff in Shakespeare's "Henry IV" (Parts I and II) and "Merry Wives of Windsor," Hamlet in Shakespeare's "Hamlet, Prince of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Denmark," Robinson Crusoe in Daniel Defoe's "Robinson Crusoe," Faust in Goethe's "Faust," Leatherstocking in James Fennimore Cooper's "Leather Stocking Tales," Pippa in Robert Browning's "Pippa Passes," Becky Sharp in Thackeray's "Vanity Fair," David Copperfield in Dickens' "David Copperfield," Silas Marner in George Eliot's "Silas Marner," Jean Valjean in Victor Hugo's "Les Miserables," and Uncle Remus in Joel Chandler Harris' "Uncle Remus: His Songs and His Sayings," and "Nights with Uncle Remus."
They call to us these book friends, to laugh with them, love with them, and dream with them.
"Men and Women" — Robert Browning
Robert Browning, Victorian contemporary of Alfred Tennyson, analyzed and interpreted the complexities of human life. Whether he was writing drama or dramatic monologues, the literary form which he largely perfected and popularized, his chief interest was the "History of Souls." The student of the life of Browning is struck with its consistency, its robust courage, and its joy of living. Browning through life was a theist—"God's in his heaven, all's well with the world" was his creed. Life to him was a period of probation and it was man's duty to "Hold on hope hard, in the subtle thing That's spirit: though cloistered fast soul free."
The poet's doctrine of individualism is the key to his message. Few men have remained as true to their purpose as Robert Browning. In fifty-seven years of creative labor,
LESSON DEPARTMENT
"Italy was his second country, The Alps, Appenines, the blue waters of the Mediterranean, every pine forest, church, palace, town-hall, painting or marketplace, every great life that had honored, admired or made romantic Italy, the great mother of beauty was his inspiration." All that he met and remembered was woven into lyric or narrative or drama in his heart. His best and finest work, "Men and Women" chiefly dramatic monologues is one of the notable achievements of English poetry. No other writer has so effectively used his imaginative ability to create representations where the mental characters of individuals are revealed by themselves as Browning has done in his dramatic monologues. The poet's purpose was not only to portray individuals, but to present the characteristics of an age, a type of people, a religion, or an emotion. For his situations he searched the annals of humanity, history, and literature, for his inspiration he mingled freely in the world of men and women.
The drama was the first literary form used by Browning for his literary expression, but this was a mistake. The stage only reveals characters in action. Therefore, the plays "Paracelsus," "Strafford," "The Return of the Druses," and others were failures, because they were silent dramas of the mind and heart of man. It was necessary then for the poet to find a new literary form for his great purpose:
"For a nobler stage the soul itself Its shifting fancies and celestial lights, With all its grand orchestral silences To keep the pauses of the rhythmic sounds."
583
The scenery is laid in the chambers of thought, his persons are feelings, his situations are emotions, his crises and catastrophies are moods. The new form originated for this great expression was the dramatic monologue. Mrs. Orr in her excellent work, "The Handbook to Browning," states, "These monologues in which the human spirit is represented as communing with itself, contains some of the poet's noblest dramatic work."
In the last poem written, the poet gives a faithful analysis of himself:
"One who never turned his back but marched breast forward, Never doubted clouds would break Never dreamed, though right were worsted, wrong would triumph, Held we fall to rise, are baffled to fight better. Sleep to wake."
Pippa, the Silk-Winder of Asolo
One of the most valuable legacies left to the world by Browning is the spirit of good cheer found in Pippa's song, "God's in his heaven;" it is the epitome of the poet's philosophy of life. "Pippa Passes," a drama for reading, published in 1849, won for Browning his first public recognition. The poem is a lyrical soliloquy and the dramatic element is introduced by dialogue throughout the four acts. The action represents the course of one day— "Morning," "Noon," "Evening," and "Night," the four acts. The occasion—Pippa, the girl from the silk-mills of Asolo, has a holiday, it is New Year's Day. Pippa resolves as she springs out of bed this first day of the year, to make it an inspiration for the whole year. Her plan is to impersonate the happiest persons in Asolo. Ottima and Se-
584
bald, happy lovers, shall have the morning; Jules and Phene, the bride and bridegroom, shall have the noonday; Luigi and his mother, contented and peaceful, shall have the evening; and Monsignor, a holy man of God, shall have the night.
Ottima and Sebald have murdered the husband, and Ottima is trying to silence the remorse of her lover, showing no sorrow for the murder of her husband. She has succeeded in dulling his conscience till Pippa passes singing her song—
"God's in his heaven— All's right with the world."
and their hearts are softened to seek an end to their wickedness.
Jules, the gifted young sculptor, has been cheated in his wife. He thought her cultured and refined, but he finds her an ignorant girl. At first he is angry but later realizing his moral responsibility, decides to give her all the money he can spare and let her go. He is just doing so when Pippa passes singing her song. His conscience awakens and he decides to keep his wife and educate her soul.
Luigi and his mother are in their turret. He believes his mission is to kill the Austrian Emperor. His mother is pleading with him, using the lover Chiara as a plea. The mother has almost succeeded when Pippa passes singing of a great and just king of days gone by. Luigi renews his courage to crush tyranny in the form of the Emperor. He goes out to perform his mission missing the police who were awaiting him.
The dusk awakens into night as Pippa approaches the Duomo St. Aria. Some girls are sitting on the steps exchanging wishes as they watch for Pippa, to lure her into conversation. Monsignor is planning Pippa's destruction. She is the child
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of his brother and stands between him and the wealth he is enjoying. Everything has been arranged for the girl's disappearance when, unrecognized, she passes singing of her childhood and her trust in God. Something in her song stings the conscience of Monsignor and the plan is abandoned. Pippa goes home at the end of the only holiday of the year, unconscious of the power of good she has wielded by the suggestions of her simple songs.
The poem is unique in form and conception, the language musical and dramatic, and the message of universal appeal. The poet, Browning, acknowledges his personal preference for this poem.
Charles Dickens, Novelist
To know the life of Charles Dickens, of his home life, of the environments of his youth, and when famous, of his unhappy wedded life, gives the reader of his works a deeper admiration than he had before. Charles Dickens, one of the most popular novelists of the nineteenth century and one of the greatest humorists that England has produced, was born at Sandport, a suburb of Chatham, February 7, 1812. John Dickens, the father of Charles, was employed as a clerk in the Navy Pay Office, Portsmouth. Thus the venerable chalk hills, the deep green lanes, woodland and marshes of Rochester and Chatham became in the words of Charles Dickens "the birthplace of his fancy." The very first number of "Pickwick Papers" describes the ancient yet homely Rochester, and it was at Chatham that poor little David Copperfield on his solitary tramp to Dover "slept his Sunday night's sleep near a cannon happy in the society of the sentry's footsteps." Dickens de-
LESSON DEPARTMENT
scribes himself as a queer small boy, a not over particularly cared for boy. After his mother had taught him to read and had sent Fanny, his sister, to a small private school. Charles was apprenticed to Mr. Creakle and Mr. Mell in "David Copperfield."
At the age of seventeen, Dickens secured employment as a reporter. He made himself the best reporter in the Gallery of the House of Commons. For his sister, Fanny, Dickens evinced the tenderest attachment and there are many unmistakable allusions in his works. "My sister George Stroughill, he reproduced as Steerforth in "David Copperfield."
One of the two great passions of the childhood Charles Dickens was his devotion to books. "The pleasant days came to an end when the family returned to London, and in the darkest period of the family went to the Marshalsea Prison. In December, 1833, the Monthly Magazine published a sketch Dickens had been found and passed in March, 1836, with the first Publication of “Pickwick papers.” There is none like the writings of Dickens for unflagging and never unwise merriment. If there is nothing so humorous in "Pickwick Papers" as Sam Weller ,there is nothing so pathetic in it as the relation between him and his master. During the years of literary fame in prison, Dickens resided chiefly in London. "David Copperfield," I Dickens visited America, where he received an enthusiastic welcome. “American Notes" and “Martin Chuzzlewit” are the poduct of this visit. The readers of Dickens admire his skill in telling a story and in painting portraits, his frolicsome humor and general kindliness and goodness of heart and his readiness to smite entrenched evil in the ho[pe of leaving a better world behind. Of the large gallery of portraits, those that will 586 linger in our memory are Mrs. Gamp, Fagin; Peggoty; the others have become universal types—Mr. Micawber, Mrs. Jellyby, Old Scrooge, Mr. Pechshiff, Uriah Heap. "David Copperfield" To Charles Dickens, "David Copperfield" was his favorite child. The story was in part his own story as it became "The Personal History of David Copperfield" imagination colored, experiences, smiles, and banished tears. In the opening chapters of the novel we see David and his pretty child-mother, Peggoty his nurse with her unexaggerated goodness; her needle-marked finger, and her red cheeks. The early visit of Peggoty's family was a great occasion to David. Yarmouth, the fishing port, became a veritable Aladdin's lamp to David's childish imagination. The romantic boat-house, its owner, Mr. Peggoty, a "bachelore;" its inmates, Ham, his nephew; little Emily, his niece; and Mrs. Gummidge, his old fishing partner's widow. It was a glorious two months. David returned home to find his home and mother in the hands of her new husband, Mr. Murdstone, and his sister, Jane, a grim thinlipped, metallic woman. The Murdstone passages are hard to read. David is disciplined by flogging and isolation in his room. Finally he is sent away to school. The school, its masters, and its pupils are vividly portrayed. The unscrupulous Mr. Creakle is a relief from the Murdstones. At Salem House tear-blotted copy books and whippings were his portion. David the lonely child, gave all his love and idolatry to a Jonathan, in a big, handsome, strong, kind boy, James Steerforth. To Tommy Traddles, another unforRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tunate boy, David owed his enduring tenderness towards life. The death of David's "little mother" left him alone in the world save for Peggoty. He was sent to London to work in the wine factory of Murdstone and Grinby. Living with the Micawbers, life was a struggle with poverty. The immortal Micawber was always "waiting for something to turn up" to solve his problem. Mrs. Micawber did her best to help the family resources by keeping a school, a Boarding Establishment for Young Ladies. When the Micawbers were imprisoned for debt, David helped the family as long as he could. His own miserable condition was relieved when Nurse Peggoty sent him money to go to his aunt, Betsy Trotwood, at Dover. Robbed of his money, David trudged along, starved and weary. It was a ragged figure that came to Betsy Trotwood in her garden one morning. It was the beginning of a new life for David. Now known as Trotwood Copperfield life was a new type of adventure with a pair of delightful ec-. Centrics, Miss Trotwood and her loyal friend, Mr. Dick, as guardians. Later David was sent to school at Canterbury. Boarding at the home of Mr. Wickfield, the lawyer, David has for a companion, Agnes Wickfield, a girl of his own age. All his perplexities, hopes, and dreams, David poured out to Agnes. Upon the loss of Betsy Trotwood's fortune, David was forced again to go out into the world. This time he became a reporter of the Parliamentary debates; later he wrote for magazines. Then David met Dora, a diminutive frail little blossom of a woman. It was a tender meeting. Dora is a wonderful creation. The courtship, marriage, and death of Dora are affecting records of a child-wife, her LESSON DEPARTMENT little follies, her shortcomings, and her sweet lovableness. The story of James Steerforth is closely interwoven with that of David Copperfield. Steerforth had visited the boat-house of the Peggoty's at Yarmouth with Copperfield on one occasion. Guided by his own restless will and aided by his mother's wealth, Steerforth was lounging through life taking what he wished for his pleasure. After the death of Dora, David returned to Yarmouth for rest and quiet. Ham, a physical giant with the heart of a gentleman, loved Little Emily. The wedding was arranged, but Little Emily left before with: Steerforth. Peggoty went and found his little girl and brought her back. Years later David was visiting Yarmouth again. A storm was raging. Ham went to the aid of a sinking vessel. This storm took as its victims, Ham, the valiant sailor, and Steerforth, the human derelict. The characters are all at home again when the Micawbers return from Australia, financially secure. The perfidy of Uriah Heep, Mr. Wickfield's humble assistant, is discovered. Betsy Trotwood's fortune is recovered. Traddles is happy and successful. David marries Agnes. Life continues in serenity. To end "David Copperfield," the 587 about its author was said at the Dickens Centennary in London, 1912, by the Bishop of London: "Dickens' way of interesting people helped him immensely to find an interest in those people. Ah, if we only had his insight, we, too, would find something to care for, to love and to pity in every human being that lives." Guide to Preparation A. Suggested topics for Lesson Assigninents. 1. Book Friends. Personal reports by three members of books they consider friends. 2. The great characters of Literature. Select a few of the characters given in the lesson for brief reports. 3. Review: Pippa Passes. 4. Charles Dickens, Humanist. 5. David Copperfield and His Creator. 6. Reading: "The Bishop's Candlesticks from "Les Miserables."' Guide to Reading A. Take the great literary characters mentioned in the lesson and renew or make a new acquaintance with them. Tenderest, truest thing ever said Social Service (Fourth Week in February) LESSON V. THE NEW FAMILY HOME Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross, Chapter VI. The General purposes of this lesson are: 1. To appreciate the importance of the home in modern civilization. 2. To acquire, through increased knowledge, a greater feeling of responsibility in building a_ better home. 588 'A nation is what its homes are. With these it rises and falls, and it can rise no higher than the level of its home life." Wise, Stephen S., "Parent Versus Child." A review of the principal facts in the rise and fall of nations will show a very close relation between the success of a people as a nation and the success of the average family in that nation as a unit. The family has been rightfully called the basic institution of society upon which all other institutions have been built. In social studies an institution is described as an established phase of the public mind. It is the universally approved method of organizing and regulating the relations of men and women in performing a desirable and needed social function. A number of basic institutions are recognized, among which may be mentioned, in addition to the family, the church as an organized system of religious expression; education as the authorized means of passing the information of the day on to the next generation; government as an accepted means of control of social action, and property as the established means of protecting individual property rights. Others may be mentioned, but probably none are as basic. The ultimate right of all institutions to exist is the efficient performance of desirable social functions. Wherever these functions are not performed efficiently the institution should be so modified and changed that it will serve the best interests of society. The home is called basic in institutional life, because from it evolves the very nature of social organization and national security. From it the child derives his basic ideas of obedience, of citizenship, of respect for authority, his spiritual and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE religious ideals, and even his ideas of speech. Upon the integrity of the home rests the future promises of life itself. The home of today stands out in marked contrast to the home of earlier periods. It is losing many of its desirable social functions. A primitive woman was not only a mother; she was a farmer, a carrier of burdens, a miller, stoneworker, basketmaker, weaver, potter, meat curer, cook, and baker. In many of these arts the women were extremely skilled. In many North American Indian tribes the women held a position of supreme importance, often having rights superior to those of the men in such things as land transfers, negotiating terms of alliance, the holding of the wealth of the tribe, and important legislative and judicial matters. The typical North American pioneer home is still remembered in most communities. In periods of economic insecurity we read almost with envy of the bounteous provision of a well managed home, the work being largely that of the mother of the family. (See text, p. 75.) The Mormon pioneers were exceptional in establishing admirable home conditions under trying circumstances, and the women were examples of frugality and social accomplishment. "Spinning wheels and rope bottomed chairs made of willow and buckskin graced the rooms, and wellmade rag carpets covered the floor of the living room. In many of the homes were musical instruments. "Teach home was a center of hospitality. Strangers along the highways were never refused meat and bread. The people shared with one another, and the 'parties' and games of those bygone days made everybody happy. Their friendship for one another grew with the years. It LESSON DEPARTMENT was a common saying among travelers: 'Where the bishop lives, there we will receive a hearty welcome.' If one settler lost his crop, the others shelped him through the winter. If a man was unable to work, 'the neighbors turned out to assist him'." Young, "The Founding of Utah." In spite of the difficult conditions under which people lived, such as their lack of convenient appliances with which to work, and of the economic difficulties in obtaining working materials, the pioneer home possessed, as a rule, the essentials for efficient social living. To it, the children and their friends turned for joy and amusement. For its upbuilding and sustenance they gave of their time and efforts. It was there that they received their social, civic, and spiritual ideals of life. By working with their fathers and mothers, and by enjoying common amusements, the children unconsciously absorbed those elements of industrial and social culture which are essential to national security and individual well being. The modern family stands out in marked contrast to that of all previous ages. Ease, comfort, and release from many former difficulties are its characteristics. The technical processes of housekeeping have been reduced by automatic and electrically operated equipment. The hard labor of the home is often removed entirely, or performed by specialists from the outside. Central heating plants, thermostatically controlled; automatic air conditioning to maintain a comfortable temperature in both winter and summer, electric refrigeration; and the world's greatest music and lectures 589 by the mere touch of a button, are just a few of the miracles which the modern home expects. While all the changes that have come into the modern home have brought ease, comfort and joy to the family, like all good things in life, each has its price. As was pointed out in Lesson II the domination of the machine has deprived the home of its former socializing opportunities. More and more the duties and responsibilities of parents for the education, training, religious teaching, and even supervision of physical development, is being turned over to other agencies. The culture of the coming generation is too-often the culture of outside socializing influences instead of the culture of the home. The challenge to parents is how to enjoy all the modern conveniences of our age and still maintain that spirit of the home, and those family ideals and cultures which will make of the family the basic institution of society, and thus build a still greater nation and spirituality. "Real joy comes not from ease, not from riches, not from the applause of men, but from having done things that are worthwhile." Wilford T. Grenfell. Activities Read Proverbs 31:10-31. Compare the ideals there set forth for a wife and mother in a home with the accomplishments of the pioneer women of North America and then with the accomplishments in homes of today. Does the comparison reveal any social obligation on the part of parents of today? If so, what? 590 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mission Lessons HEALTH LESSONS 1935-36 LESSON V. FOODS GREAT French surgeon and scientist by the name of. Doctor Lucas Chamtioneera, went to the Balkan countries some years ago, and made a study of the Roumanian people in their habits. He noted that in the rural districts they were pretty strictly vegetarian, while in the cities they had a mixed diet. He discovered that the rural Roumanian people where they were strictly vegetarian had one case of appendicitis to every two thousand two hundred of the rank and file, while in the cities where there was a mixed diet with meat added, there was one case to every two hundred and twenty. In other words there was ten times as much appendicitis with the meat eaters as there was with the vegetarians. This same great author says the same thing is true of the Arabs and the Japanese. The meat eating Arab has appendicitis, while the vegetarian Arab escapes. It seems to be a general rule that the eating of meat is one of the prominent causes of this dreaded disease. Now nature indicates that we need some of that meat food to make up the waste of protein in the body. But if we take too much of it we predispose ourselves to appendicitis, and other diseases such as high blood pressure, chronic kidney inflamma: tion, etc. We answer in the language of the Word of Wisdom, eat it sparingly, and especially in diminished quantities in the warm summer months. People who live entirely on vegetable foods develop anemia and lower their vitality accordingly. We should learn to be wise in all things. To replace the body wastes we need a mixed diet consisting of starches, fats and protein. If we leave any one of these out entirely, we throw our nutrition out of balance, just as we would by overindulgence i in any one of them. Sugar is a necessary part of our diet. It is so nearly akin to starch that a very little chemical change converts the one into the other. Sugar is the gasoline to the engine. As the automobile has a gasoline tank to hold the overplus of fuel and deal it out gradually as the carburetor consumes it, so we have a storage tank in the liver which takes up the starch and converts it into glycogen, a form of sugar that can be held in reserve and doled out as the body needs to consume it. Now this sugar cannot be used by the body until it is acted upon by insulin, a normal product of the pancreas. If we take too much sugar the pancreas is overworked and gives up its task completely and for good. This condition of failure of the pancreas to produce insulin is known as diabetes. The sugar which cannot be utilized because of the failure of insulin is thrown off by the kidneys. The individual so afflicted gradually loses weight and strength, and drinks quantities of water, there is great over-activity of the kidneys, and much discomfort from that cause. Nearly all the sugar, which is the real force producing part of the food, is thus thrown to the waste, the gradual decline ends finally in death. Differing from most every other disease diabetes is a much more serious disease in young than in old people. A Canadian doctor named Banting learned how to extract the LESSON DEPARTMENT insulin from the pancreas of the sheep. This can be used with a hypodermic syringe, and it offsets much of the disability of the diabetic, and may prolong life to the ordinary expectancy. In the time of the American Civil War the per capita consumption of sugar was nine pounds per year, but at the present time in America it is over one hundred pounds per year, and diabetes has increased proportionately, until we have more than a million diabetics at the present time. The confectioners have put up sugar in such enticing forms in their fine chocolates and creams that children and young people particularly are tempted to eat altogether too much of it, and they are paying the price of their pleasure in later years by developing diabetes. We need some sugar of course in our diet, but we should carefully avoid over-indulgence in it. It occurs 'in such variable forms that it is hard to indicate just how much one should eat, and each will have to be his own judge, keeping in mind always moderation. Children should be restrained from eating large quantities of the various sweets and candies sold by the confectioners. A great London surgeon, by the name of Sir Frederic Treeves, used to teach that the people who develop appendicitis almost invariably have the habit of swallowing their food whole without proper mastication. Not only appendicitis, but other digestive disturbances are caused by this indiscretion. Digestion is a chemical process, the purpose of which is to so reduce our food that it can be absorbed and assimilated. Common sense should teach us that the food should be ground fine in our mouth if we expect the proper chemical changes to occur in it in the stomach and intestine. 591 We should take a lesson from nature. The ox swallows his food whole at first, but nature has given him three stomachs instead of one. After he has filled the bunker with enough grass hastily eaten he goes and lies down under the shade of a tree and brings it back into his mouth and grinds and grinds it to fine consistency, and then swallows it again, when it goes into another stomach ready to receive and digest it. This we call chewing the cud. Now we ought to have as much sense as oxen, hadn't we? Instead of trying to atone for our diatetic sins by taking the pepsin of the ox's stomach for medicine, we ought to take hold of the other end of the problem, and learn to grind our own food to the proper consistency. We cannot chew the cud, but we can chew our food until it is reduced to the degree of fineness that will make digestion easy. We should avoid also over-eating, because an excess of food is not only unnecessary, but it is very harmful to the body. Questions What relation has meat eating to the development of appendicitis? What are the three kinds of food we need to make good the wastes of the body?" What happens if we discard meat entirely and live on vegetable food only? What does the Word of Wisdom say about meat eating? What is the objection of éating too much sugar? Describe the disease diabetes. Show how it has increased in America, and state why. What has science done to help the diabetic? Why should we chew the food well before swallowing it? Why should we avoid over-eating? The Plea of the Relief Society Magazine By Sarah A. Garvin The material on this and the following pages was written for the Magazine campaign of 1934. We think some will be glad to use it in the coming drive —Editor. AM not very large, but when even a small magazine goes out with the one object in life of doing good and bringing cheer and happiness it can fill its mission even if it is small. I am not so very old, my life began in 1914, but for one so young I have traveled to many lands. I always keep good company I never mix with cheap or poor magazines. You would never expect to find me in a rack in a pool-hall or at one of the many magazine stands about town, I keep better company, the best society is more to my liking. Poor people are my friends and I am very happy when I can go to their homes and give them joy. I have found my place in many homes and I have helped make many homes happy. I have seen the faded eyes of gray headed women brighten when I arrived and they carefully turned my leaves and with joy they read me. I am never thrown on the floor or put in the waste basket. I remember one time after I was read I was carefully placed on a shelf and it seems I must have been sleeping and awoke hearing a discouraged voice saying: "We just cannot spare the money; there are always so many other things we need." Then the gentle voice I knew said: "You may take my magazine, my dear, and I hope you enjoy it as I have."' Then I was taken from my resting place, how eagerly the trembling hands took me and I went to another home. It was a poor home but I was happy there for I was giving happiness to others. I thought how glad I would be if I could be sent to new homes, so more could enjoy me. One time I lay on the table all day while a little mother was working. Things were going wrong, the baby cried, angry words were spoken. The mother was very tired and nervous. I lay there wanting to help her. The time came when I did help her. She took the baby and picked me up. Soon the baby was resting in her patient arms, and as she read me her nerves relaxed and peace came to her face. A few tears fell on my pages. HAVE the power to mellow my readers to tears. I was sent by kind friends to the home of a dear old lady. She had very little pleasure, I was so welcome there she read every page and pressed me to her lonely heart. I heard her murmur, "Dear little magazine I love every page of you because you have helped me so much." This made me very happy. One evening a father came home and I was right there in his paper rack. He picked me up and read my front pages, and said, 'Mother, have you read this?" She answered, "No I have not had time but can hardly wait to read it." He told her it was the best article that he had read for a long time. I message is given, women have Paused to think of Him. To read the theology What en joyment in the literary lesson to learn of great people in all lands and ages. You can forget your Surroundings and live with" the authors, I am sure you all like the Social Service lessons. Have you noticed that my stories carry a message to you? I make one feel more charitable to others, me atta few of the things found each month in me. I want to know you all. I want to help you all. Will you not let me? Take me in your home and I will Soon find my Place in your hearts. I have so many friends. You be my friend, let me come each month to you and at the end of a year you will Say, "I have received more 800d and more joy from that dollar than any other dollar have spent MY MAGAZINE: By Mary P. Hoyt I heard the Postman whistle AS he went back down my walk, I thought, "My, he's early!" As I glanced Up at the clock. My Morning's work Wasn't finished, had still Some tasks to do, but I looked into the mail box For a letter, or maybe two. With its Pages folded over Lightly Pressed within the cleft f the box, was My magazine The only thing he had left. I thought, "I wish I had time to read it." And I turned the Pages o'er, I opened it at the editorial Page Or there I knew I'd find, Something Worth the keeping In the chambers of my mind. I read them once, twice, three times, breathed a Sigh, 7 Does the temperature Tise or fall When I Am I given to fault-finding? AM I untidy, selfish, lazy, or am I just? Do I spend my time Profitably? Or am I only a Pessimist? These are some of the questions My Magazine offere to me, And I Paused on my Way to the table, Wondering, Pondering, thinking deeply. Then J thought of the words of the savior, When he talked to the Pharisee, When the lawyer tried to trap him ith the law and the man-made creed, The first commandment js greatest, € second is like the first 594 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Program for Relief Society Magazine Campaign By Clarinda M. Green TWO children walk on stage carrying a large Relief Society Magazine. Magazine made out of large placards in form of book. Children dressed in pages costume enter at right and walk across to left of stage. Place magazine on stand while officers sing "Our Magazine" by Eliza Catmull. As song is finished, one child turns the cover of the magazine and another child points to article on first page "Quinquennials" (July Mag. P. 408). As child points to article a Relief Society woman enters from right and briefly gives contents of that article. Exit. Child turns second page and another child points to article "Emotional Reactions to Unemployment and Relief" (July Mag. P. 387). Relief Society woman enters from right and gives contents of that article. Exit. Same action is carried out in the following articles: Story. "To your Tents, O Israel" July Mag. P. 427. Editorial "Utah State Flag" July Mag. P. 439. "For Young Mothers" Feb. Mag. P. 98. Poetry. "My Investment" by Estella Wilson Peterson. Frontispiece Oct. 1933 Mag. "Happenings" from any magazine. "Building a Diet" poem by Eliza Catmull. "Notes from the Field" Dec. 1933 Mag. "Notes to the Field" Aug. 1934 Mag. Teachers' Topic. "Courage to Meet Life's Problems" Apr. Mag. P. 238. "Your Home Beautiful" as child points to this article, curtain rises on See page 595. "A Home Beautiful" Characters: Father, Mother, Betty age 10, Nora age 14, Nell age 16, Ted age 19. At right down center, father sitting in large easy chair reading Relief Society Magazine. Nora sitting on foot stool in front of him, studying. Nell and Ted sitting at each end of Library Table at center back, studying. Mother down left center working on yarn cushion with Betty watching her and holding candy dish in hand and eating candy. At end table with small bank on it at side of mother's chair. Ted: Hey, Sis, Mother, put that candy dish down on this table, what is the big idea taking it off? Betty: It's good. Father: Sure it's good, bring it back here. Nora: Yes, pass it around, you don't need it all. (Betty passes candy around). Nell: Mother, this fudge is better than mine, where did you get the new recipe? Betty: She got it out of the Relief Society Magazine and I helped make it. Nora: Mother, we have to write an essay on Church Government for Seminary. Where can I find some information? Mother: Doc. And Cov Section 20. Vol. I of Church History, or you can find a good account of it in the Feb. 1933 Relief Society Magazine. Nora: Where is it? Mother: In that bound volume on the library table. (Nora goes to table, gets book and returns to her stool and reads). Father: (Who is still reading magazine). Quite a trip these Relief THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Society women had at the World's Fair last summer. Mother: Yes, it just thrilled me to read the report of the International Congress of women, and the account of the whole trip and the climaxing of the trip by the unveiling of the Relief Society monument at Nauvoo. It certainly tells the story of women's achievements. Ted: (rising) Guess I'll have to go down to the library for a little while, I've got to get a reference book for my psychology. Mother: What is the name of the book? Ted: "Influencing Human Behavior." Mother: Why, I have that book, it is right there in front of you. Ted: (looks over books on library table and picks up the one he wants) Well, where did you get it? Mother: It has been there for two years. We studied that in Relief Society in our Social Service lessons. There are some good outlines on each chapter in the 1931-32 Relief Society Magazines. Nell: Maybe the Relief Society Magazine can give me some help. Where can I find something on Biblical Literature? Mother: You will find that in the March 1934 magazine. I also have a book "The Story of the World's Literature," by Macey which will give you a lot of valuable information. We have been studying from that book a year and will continue it this winter. Father: Here is a little pink slip says your magazine has expired. Have you renewed yet? Mother: No, Father, I haven't quite enough pennies (reaches bank from end table and holds up). Father: What is that? Mother: That is my Relief Society Magazine bank. 595 Father: A bank? I thought that was some kind of an ornament you had been making in Relief Society. How many pennies do you need? Mother: I counted them the other day and I need eight more. Father: (putting hands in pocket) Anybody got any pennies around here? (children and father all go to pockets and purses and find ten pennies) There, now, that makes the hundred pennies and two to start on for next year. Looks as if this were a very valuable magazine around here. Mother: Yes, father, it is a valuable magazine. It is an inspiration to me. Not only for the educational values I receive from it, but the stories and articles are all an inspiration to me. *Each topic was allotted three minutes' time except the Story and little play which took a little longer. It just took up the time of the Sacrament meeting which was given to us by the bishop. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE (Tune: Maryland) By Eliza Catmull A little story I will tell About a book we love so well; Upon its pages you will find The gospel's truths—God's word divine. Chorus: Our magazine, our magazine, The little book we so esteem; The readings all are good and clean In this our R. S. Magazine, It brings a message of good cheer; The teachers topics for the year, A college course that's up to time— Lessons planned to improve the mind. Its efforts all the Lord has blessed, It is the keynote of success. We ask you kindly to subscribe, And help it as it onward strives. Come sisters rally to the call, We want your help, we need you all, "A magazine in every home'— The gospel seed will then be sown. 596 MY FRIEND By Sadie Adamson They tell me we have no friends That are really truly so, They are just acquaintances we meet As we travel to and fro. I differ with these statements For I have a friend so true, I depend upon every month To bring me thoughts anew. My leisure time is so controlled So happy and so fine, I'll gain an education Just through this friend of mine. When I'm steeped in thought My vision seems to climb, And somehow shape the way for me To heights that are sublime. You'd never guess the rapture That flows within my breast, When the postman bows and smiles Mrs..........-. Here's your guest. I extend my hand in greeting Like a Miss of seventeen, And settle down in comfort sweet With my Relief Society Magazine. MAGAZINE SONG Springtime in the Rockies) (Slowly) When it's autumn in the Rockies It's Magazine time in the Ward, Little journal of the mountains With your cheerful, pleasing words; There is poetry and there's fiction And there's lessons fine for you, When it's Autumn in the Rockies It is journal time for you. A FAITHFUL FRIEND By Emma Jesperson (Tune: I'm looking for a magazine That comes each month to me And if you'd like to know its name 'Tis Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE It has been my loved companion Since nineteen twenty-three, And oh, what joy and comfort It has always brought to me. It has taught me to be brave and strong In all I strive to do, It has helped me to be a faithful wife And a better mother too. It has taught me to be cheerful If sometime things went wrong It has kept me in a better mood All of the day long. So I'll say hurrah for our magazine! And subscribe for it each year. For it will always be a friend of mine As long as I am here. ~ THE MAGAZINE By Eliza Coleman (Tune: Magazine, O Magazine, On this day we cheer; Learning truth and honor From your pages dear. Help us ever magazine, With your messages right; May we ever cherish Thy way of life so bright. Chorus: Magazine, O Magazine, We thy cause hold dear, Giving truth and courage Magazine we cheer. We are full of valor, For thy wondrous way, Pure in thoughts of honor To those who blazed the way. Help us ever magazine With hope for victory Bidding all a welcome For opportunity. Onward Christian Soldiers) Begin Next Monday Prepare for a position in business as Secretary, Stenographer, Accountant, Bookkeeper or Office Assistant. Technical business training, added to your previous education, will qualify you for a foothold in a business office, where you can forge ahead. Secretarial, Business Administration, Accounting and Finishing courses. Successful placement service. Send for free catalog. L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City Preserve Your Magazines by having them permanently bound & "THERE is a vast amount of valuable reference material in your Relief Society Magazine. You can preserve this material permanently and in attractive book form by having your volumes bound. SPECIAL RATE FOR QUANTITIES The Deseret News Press Pioneer Printers, Binders, Rulers ) When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 70 North Main Street 29 Richards St. Wasatch 1812 Salt Lake City, Utah TRUE LOVE They were accustomed to the good things of life; he was a loving husband and father who provided well—but not wisely, for he neglected that very important duty of arranging. For their future happiness. More hardships are prevented and more: comforts provided by Beneficial Life Insurance than by any other form of financial provision. Don't make this same mistake—see a Beneficial representative for the plan best suited to your individual needs. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY Salt Lake City, Utah HOME OFFICE HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT & DIRECTOR EARLE W. PEIRCE, ASST. TREASURER J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., VICE-PRES. & DIR. EUGENE T. WATKINS, SUP. REG. LOAN DEPT. DAVID O. MCKAY, 2ND VICE-PRES. & DIR, WALDO M. ANDERSEN, AGENCY SUPERVISOR GEO. J. CANNON, EXECUTIVE VICE-PRES. & DIR, JOS. FIELDING SMITH, DIRECTOR AXEL B. C. OHLSSON, SECRETARY & DIRECTOR E. T. RALPHS, CLAIMS ADJUSTER & DIR. LEO. E. PENROSE, ASST. SECRETARY ORVAL W. ADAMS, DIRECTOR VIRGIL H. SMITH, ASST. SECRETARY STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN, DIRECTOR The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Volume XXII OCTOBER, 1935 KEEP MONEY AT HOME! Utah Home Fire Insurance Co. Fire—Automobile A HOME COMPANY, OWNED BY MORE THAN 200 STOCKHOLDERS LIVING RIGHT HERE SEE OUR AGENT IN YOUR TOWN — Heber J. Grant & Co. Some of the Books Recommended For Your Reading Men and Women—Browning Pippa Passes—Browning (In Browning's Complete Works)........ Two in one Book...............$1.00 David Copperfield—Dickens...............$1.00 Les Miserables—Victor Hugo.........-$1.00 Civil Sociology—Ross $1.60 by Mail $1.75 In Utah—Add 2% For State Sales Tax on Receipt of Price this new dustless stoker slack. GIVE BOOKS FOR CHRISTMAS BLUE BLAZE COAL DESERET BOOK COMPANY. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine SALT LAKE CITY Ask your coal dealer about Salt Lake City Telephone Wasatch 3286 General Agents These Books and Any Other Books Sent COMPANY 29 Bishop's Building AN AID TO HEALTH AND BEAUTY. Only NuBone can give you perfect figure control, for only these modern garments feature the famous Woven Wire Stay,' which bends freely and naturally in any direction while firmly molding your figure to the lines of fashion. Write today for FREE "Figure Charm" leaflet. Phone or visit our Salt Lake City Shop for an expert figure analysis. NuBONE CORSET SHOP (Across from Hotel Utah) A few choice Utah and Idaho territories open to ambitious women Phone Was. 2927 207 Templeton Bldg. Salt Lake City Service Above All DESERET MORTUARY CO. NO SUBSTITUTE There is no substitute for quality. The lowest priced merchandise isn't always the cheapest. O. P. Skaggs System Stores have low prices but only "Quality" foods. O. P. SKAGGS STORES "A Surety of Purity." — When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. XXII OCTOBER, 1935 No. 10 CONTENTS A Trout Stream in New Mexico.......... Frontispiece Drouth..............Grace Zenor Pratt 597 Fourfold Culture......Judge Nephi Jensen 599 MUSIC...Kate M. Barker 603 In Embryo...Hattie C. Jenson 605 Not Bread Alone...Elsie C. Carroll 606 Lucy's Decision.......Virginia Nielson 611 A Friend.......Norma C. Adamson 613 Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life.............. Lella Marler Hoggan 614 The Red Sea Wilderness.......... Bertha A. Kleinman 618 Mother Deserved a Vacation......... Mabel S. Harmer 619 Ladies...Estelle Webb Thomas 626 Life's Medicines........... Ezra J. Poulsen 627 Dame Nature's Washday -........ J. B. McKenzie 629 Your Words Make or Unmake Your Child............ Claire Stewart Boyer 629 Blue Marks...Annie Wells Cannon 631 Travel.......Vernessa Muller Nagle 632 Ask......Elsie E. Barrett 632 Batching........ Caroline Eyring Miner 633 Girls...Jane C. Weaver 634 Reclaiming the Desert........ Evangeline Viner 634 Some Rain Must Fall........ Ruth M. Ostegar 635 A Personnel Department for the Home.................-. Leola Seely 639 Notes from the Field............ Julia A. F. Dund 641) Editorial: Campaign for Peace.......-.. Narcotics Education.......... A Wonderful Year.......... Value of Travel........ Lesson Department.......... At Eventide.......... PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine TO OUR CUSTOMERS AND OTHERS WHO ARE PLANNING ON COMING TO CONFERENCE: Come to our store in Sugarhouse and leisurely inspect our big stocks of new merchandise. You will be able to save considerable money on purchases, to apply on your expenses. COME AND MAKE YOURSELF AT HOME WE ARE BUSY We are big buyers for cash and take advantage of all discounts. Our trucks are delivering every week all over Utah, southern Idaho, parts of Nevada and Wyoming. Granite Furniture Co. 1050 East 21st South, Sugarhouse—Out of the High Rent District HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS FROM FACTORY TO YOU We Solicit Your Mail Orders No. 88. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New New Style $.65 Style $.85 No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and New Style $1.10 Ladies' New Style............... $.85 No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double No. 85. Very Special Non-Run Garments—Guaranteed—Not To Back....... $1.35 No. 81. Heavy Wt. Old Style Run Rayon. New Style Only. Double Back........22-......... $1.50 Special...... $1.10 We Mark Garments for 10 cents — Specify when ordering, your bust, trunk and length, whether new or old style, and if men's or ladies'. We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. Now..... INSURED SAVINGS FOR DESERET FEDERAL SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION MEMBERS— The safety of your investment in this old, reliable Association is fully insured up to $5000 by the Federal OFFICERS AND Savings & Loan Insurance Corporation, Washington, D. C. DIRECTORS Among the safeguards which surround your savings invested in this Association in addition to insurance are these important features: Nephi L. Morris, 1. Federal supervision and regulation. President 2., Sound share re-purchase provisions. Joseph Christenson, 3. The time-tested lending methods under which this Association operates, in making conservative, direct cash Vice-President reduction first mortgage loans on real estate, mainly Henry T. McEwan, homes. Write or call for free booklet Treasurer Deseret Federal Savings & Loan Association (Formerly Deseret Building Society) SALT LAKE CITY 44 South Main When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine A NEW For School Lunches EUREKA MOTOR-DRIVEN BRUSH LIGHT—EASY TO HANDLE Requirements of those who desire a motor-driven brush but recognize the necessity of "High Vacuum" (powerful suction) for the thorough removal of embedded dirt. Unnecessary weight and awkward size have been carefully avoided. It is quiet—agreeably quiet. The demonstration! It is spectacular — sensational — thrilling. Embedded soda fairly 'boils' from the rug. Sand dances— how it dances! Surface litter — lint, hair and threads — are instantly removed by its motor-driven brush. This new Eureka cleans faster—cleans better. $5.00 Down Easy Terms Eclipse Coal Stoker BEST BY TEST Installed In Your Home $175.00 Larger size for CHAPELS, APARTMENTS, INDUSTRY Low Price—Fully Guaranteed Wasatch 520 Martin Coal Co. 49 Main St. We Sell Coal and Stokers SALT LAKE CITY Order Your Coal Now — Oil-sprayed slack coal, dustless during the time it is in your bin, reduces ash and gives you more heat value, MUTUAL FUEL CO. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Fisher's Vitamin "D" White or Whole Wheat Bread is perfect for school lunch baskets. It supplies quick pick-up energy plus the extra Vitamin "D" all school children need. Ask for this better bread by name at your grocer's. FISHER'S Vitamin "D" BREAD Products of the American Lady Bakery 177 East Broadway 1014 West 2nd South AGREEABLY QUIET This sensational new Eureka with motor-driven brush our customers to meet the requirements but recognize the necessity for Demonstration Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 4764 Phone 1224-1225 Drouth By Grace Zenor Pratt In that far land of long ago, where famine reigned for seven years; Where streams were stayed and thirst remained unquenched, A stern-browed prophet climbed a mountain high, and prayed— And rising, saw a cloud no larger than his hand Spread over all the sky, and raindrops fell... And seeing this, he thanked his God... The drouth was stayed. We see no cloud, day after day, the sky is burning brass; The lowing cattle stand beside the stagnant pools, athirst. The brooklets all have ceased to be; the river, once so turbulent Is now a thread between its sandy banks. The very leaves turn yellow, falling ere their time; Mournful the wind and sere the falling leaf. The cricket chirps in pastures brown and bare— cornfields lie withered, famine stalks the land... Water!... We watch the distant horizon, our thoughts a prayer For one small cloud, the darkening sky... The wind... The rain Upon this parched and thirsty earth— That with that man of old who knelt to pray, We, too, might kneel to say 'We thank Thee, God!" A TROUT STREAM IN NEW MEXICO The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXII OCTOBER, 1935 No. 10 Fourfold Culture By Judge Nephi Jensen It was one of those thrilling moments in the history of scientific discovery. An excited throng had gathered about the Leaning Tower of Pisa, one fine day early in the Seventeenth Century. At that time the philosophy of Aristotle was held in very high favor by the learned. This Greek philosopher had by a process of simple reasoning arrived at the conclusion that the speed of falling bodies vary according to their relative weights. The rumor had got out, in Pisa, that a professor of mathematics in the University of Pisa was about to make some experiment that might reflect upon the accuracy of Aristotle's conclusion. The circulation of this report was the occasion for the gathering of the populace. While the throng waited in expectancy, the mathematician Galileo calmly ascended the tower, carrying two weights, one that weighed one pound and one that weighed three pounds. When he reached the top of the tower he unceremoniously dropped the weights at the same moment; and in spite of Aristotle's solemn conclusion, and the belief of the world for over a thousand years, the two weights struck the ground at the same instant. Owing to the gross superstition of the times, the assembled believers in Aristotle's philosophy concluded that some evil power had aided Galileo; and as a consequence he was forced to resign his position as professor of mathematics in the University of Pisa. It is a very simple incident. And yet it has tremendous historical significance. It was one of the humble pioneering attempts at ascertaining truth by experimentation, out of which came the great modern scientific method that has flooded our world with the glory of light and truth. The circumstance is interesting here for the reason that it exemplifies one of the accepted ways of learning truth. It gives us a simple understandable illustration of the scientific truth seeker at his specialized task. Discovery of truth is a basic aspect of the educative enterprise. The contributions of the scientific discoverer of truth to the efficiency, convenience, health, comfort, pleasure, enlightenment and technological skill of man are marvelous beyond human power to estimate. The effectiveness of the scientific fact finding process in the physical and technological realms is so manifest that it is sometimes thought of as identical with the whole learning process. 600 There is grave danger in this tendency to make fact finding and truth discovering the sum total of the cultural life. There are a great many vital truths we do not, and cannot learn in the test tube or with the measuring devices of physical science. A glimpse at a thinker at his exalting task will furnish convincing proof that all of man's intellectual development is not the result of scientific fact finding. Herbert Spencer, the man of profound meditation, was seated at his desk. About him were untold volumes on the origin of the theories of right and wrong. He was at work on his monumental work, Principles of Ethics. Just at the time we are referring to he was writing his chapter on the biological aspects of goodness and badness. As he meditated and wrote, he left for us this conclusion. "Human life is the highest thing in the world." From this basic premise he concluded that everything that tends to degrade or destroy human life is bad; and that everything that tends to improve and ennoble human life is good. What was Herbert Spencer doing here? He was not discovering truth by scientific experimentation. He was merely meditating. He was philosophizing. Or, in other words, he was correlating or unifying truth in the moral realm. This process of arriving at truth by determining its place in a system of truth, is also a valued way of learning. In fact, this method of ascertaining the relation of a given truth to the sum total of truth is the only way we can evaluate a moral truth. We cannot take Herbert Spencer's conclusion about goodness and badness into the scientific laboratory and there determine its accuracy. Truths in the field of ethics are measured philosophically. Let us now for a moment leave the scientist and philosopher and look at RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE another aspect of the learning process. It was a warm sultry day. A man of some culture stood looking at a framed bit of winter scene, which had been touched into realistic life by the deft touch of artistic genius. As the elderly coatless man looked with esthetic delight at the artistic creation, he remarked meaningfully. "It is so real it almost makes you feel cool." Here we have an example of another way of becoming aware of truth. This man of culture did not come by his knowledge of the element of the beautiful by a process of experimentation nor by philosophical meditation.. He actually felt and experienced the truth he expressed by a sort of sympathetic appreciation, John Burroughs, the great naturalist, who was not only an eminent scientist but also a real artist in the field of literary craftsmanship, in his essay "A Prophet of the Soul," distinguishes the way the scientist learns from the way the artist learns. He says, "We do not know a work of art in the same way that we know a work of science or a product of analytical reasoning; we know it as we know those we are in sympathy with; it does not define itself to our intellect; it melts into our souls." Burrough's conclusion is profoundly true. We learn the pleasure of the realistic blending of light and shadow in the picture, the endearing charm of a cherished bit of landscape, and the delight of poetic rhythm as we "learn to know those we are in sympathy with." FOURFOLD CULTURE Let us now take a glimpse at still another learning process. In the early thirties of the last century there was living in the state of Ohio a young college graduate of lofty mind and pure aspirations. Through his sister he was induced to investigate Mormonism. As a result of his reading the Book of Mormon he became convinced of the divinity of the religion which his sister had already espoused. He was baptized into the Church. After his initiation into the Church he became deeply anxious to learn from a divine source whether the religion of his recent espousal was really true. He sought a secluded spot near his home and sought in devout earnest prayer for the desired testimony. The young man's account of that sincere appeal of faith is most interesting. He says that while he prayed the Spirit of God completely enveloped him and filled him from head to foot with light, life and unspeakable joy and glory. All darkness left him; and he felt the presence of a refulgent "light and knowledge." This young man became the fifth president of the Church. His experience here referred to exemplifies what we might call the inspirational method of learning truth. He attained absolute certainty regarding a vital religious truth by the direct inspiration of the Holy Spirit. Or, in other words, he was made alive to truth by the awakening power of the Holy Ghost. It was this type of experience the Master had in mind when he spoke of the Spirit of Truth "guiding into all truth;" and that impelled Moroni to say, "By the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things." It would not be doing violence to the text to make Moroni's words abundant life." 601 read, "By the power of the Holy Ghost you may be made alive to all truth." For the real effect of the inspiration of the Spirit is to awaken us to the reality of the beautiful, the good and the true. Or, in other words, inspiration is an intensification of the power to know, feel and enjoy beauty, goodness and truth. This idea of becoming alive to truth by the quickening power of the Spirit is one of the great corner stones of the Master's philosophy of human development. He speaks of "entering into life' as the highest quest of the finest souls; and declares that it was his specific task to give his followers "the abundant life." "Entering into life," as the Master understood it, means essentially becoming intensely alive to the deep things of God; and to become abundantly alive is the attainment of "the The possession of this deeper and fuller life is the distinctive thing that entitles one to be called spiritual. The abundant life is essentially the life to the spirit. It is intensified spirituality. And spirituality is that liveliness of spirit that intensifies appreciation of the beautiful, deepens love for the truth, kindles love for the good, and makes the heart beat in harmony with the moral forces of the world, enhances delight in the realization of high ideals, and quickens in the soul the joy of being in actual partnership with God in the perfection and ennoblement of mankind. The attainment of spirituality is the highest aspect of culture. This spiritual refinement and ennoblement comes through working in the spiritual laboratory—the laboratory of prayer and worship, fellowship and communion with the Divine. We learn the truths of the physical 602 realm by scientific investigation and experimentation. We learn the relation of a moral truth to the sum total of truth, through philosophical meditation. We learn the charm of the beautiful through sympathetic appreciation. And we learn the truth about our relationship to the Divine and eternal through inspiration. A complete culture involves discovering truth, unifying and systematizing truth, artistic glorification of truth, and the intensification of the power to know and feel the truth through the inspiration of the Spirit of Truth. The inspiration of the spirit is the only means of certainty regarding life's deepest spiritual experiences. Dr. G. Stanley Hall, the late eminent psychologist recognized this fundamental truth. He asserts that "The supreme criterion of truth in the realm of human experience, as distinguished from physical science, is that it rings true to the individual soul." This "ringing true to the individual soul" is a kind of inspiration. Why should we doubt the inspirational side of the cultural life? You have on many a radiant morning walked into a flower garden, when the hearts of the roses were breaking under the kisses of the sunlight; and when you came near the flowers you were awakened to esthetic delight by an unseen something that radiates from the soul of the rose. You call it fragrance. But what is fragrance? Three Kinds of Trouble How many kinds of trouble do you bear at one time? Edward Everett Hale said, "We should never attempt to bear more than one kind RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE You do not know. No one knows. The scientist with all his marvelous instruments of technology, has never caught the fragrance of a rose in his test tube and analyzed it and determined its chemical constituents. And yet you know as certainly as you know anything that the fragrance of the rose ministers to your purest delight, by a sort of inspiration. Saints and prophets of all ages solemnly aver that there is a Spirit, like the fragrance of a rose—a Spirit of light, life and joy—that radiates from the presence of God, and that when the human heart is pure this divine Spirit inspires the soul with the unspeakable delight of being in absolute harmony with the God of goodness, beauty and truth. If you cannot deny the inspiration of a rose, why should you doubt the inspiration of the Spirit of Truth? There is a time and place within the scope of the larger culture for scientific investigation, philosophical meditation, artistic appreciation and spiritual inspiration. If we would enjoy the full fruits of this complete culture we must keep companionship with the books of science from which we obtain facts, live with the books of philosophy from which we receive ideas and ideals, enjoy the books of literary art from which we derive esthetic delight, and receive life from the divine books of spiritual power; and participate whole heartedly in all the activities that promote the discovery of truth, the systematization of truth and the glorification of truth. of trouble at once. Some people bear three kinds—all they have had, all they have now, and all they expect to have," Music By Kate M. Barker Music has always been an important part of our church service. The Prophet Joseph organized the first choir and was a regular attendant at rehearsals. He admonished the saints to cultivate as high a state of perfection in their music as the standard of the faith which he had brought was superior to sectarian religion. In revelation God speaks to man and in prayer man speaks to God. In song God comforts man and man expresses his undying trust in God. Thus song is both revelation and prayer. No Latter-day Saint group can sing "Come, Come Ye Saints" without being spiritually helped. It tells of God's promise to his people and of that people's sublime faith in God. Each generation as they sing it can recapture something of the strength and courage received by that band of pioneers and apply it to their own particular problems. The gospel is the Lord's plan to bring about the development and happiness of man. The church with its different organizations is the machinery for the realization of this plan. The Lord understands human nature. He knows what is needed for complete development and happiness. He knows that man has certain fundamental spiritual hungers—for peace and hope and communion with God. The church was organized to help satisfy these hungers. It is the center of true religious education. But religious education means more than to impart this logical information. A knowledge of God's laws and of his dealings with man are important, but it is even more important to have a close relationship to the Lord and a feeling of reverence for all things associated with him. For this longing to worship is a very fundamental spiritual hunger which must be satisfied and our churches to perform the highest service must help to satisfy it. Worship is a natural longing. In worship the soul of man is lifted up toward and into communion with the Infinite. "It is the divinity within us reaching up to the divinity above." Emerson says:— "'Tis certain that worship stands in some commanding relation to the health of man, to his highest powers, so as to be in some manner, the source of intellect." "In true worship man is at his best. It is the moment of clearest insight, highest aspiration and most devout consecration. For the time at least the best in one is in the ascendent and reaches out to God not only in longing but in willingness to do his will." In our very simple church services where we have no elaborate ritual, it is easy to neglect the worship. We have music, prayer and the sacrament. We have stressed the teaching side of our service as it pertains to teaching the laws of the gospel, but I am afraid we have not made the most of our opportunity for true worship in our music, and the Lord delights in the song of the righteous. 604 Someone has called a hymn "a little sermon in verse." "An echo of a great soul-giving lyrical expression to a truth apprehended through a high experience, in words that both use the common speech and transcends it." We all have feelings —feelings that to us are inexpressible. In our songs a poet has expressed these feelings. A hymn expresses a poet's experience higher than our own. He clothes it in words of beauty. Through the song we can express our feelings and gain a vision of and longing for the heights he has reached. "For a true hymn is conceived in the feelings, and is most often born from some poignant personal experience, and aims to awaken the feeling in others." But feeling must have its roots in understanding if it is to be more than mere excitement. Thus feeling and understanding must go hand in hand. Music in our services has a twofold purpose. It creates the desired spiritual atmosphere for the service. It stimulates the worshipful attitude and prepares the setting for the whole meeting. It is also a means of self-expression and opportunity to satisfy our spiritual hunger to worship—to pour out our hearts to God in praise and thanksgiving. For in the church services as in all of life all receiving and no giving means spiritual death. If listening is all we have to do at church we might enjoy a service over the air. But the fellowship of worship imparts a blessing that a radio service can never give. Group singing is a social experience. It is a spiritual fellowship and we receive much from the group. And here lies the opportunity for constructive worship. After a lesson or talk where our minds have RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE been stimulated, our emotions touched, the soul desires appropriate expression. We should understand the spirit of the song so we can really express our feelings. "I do not care how fine the tones are without the proper spirit, the song is worthless. Spirit, that is the word, without feeling it the singer cannot transmit it to others. It is the idea behind the song that gets it over." This does not mean we should not strive for fine tone and technique: Any offering to the Lord should be as beautiful as we can make it. The Lord at one time rebuked a people for not giving their best in offerings. How important it is then to learn the words of the songs, so as not to be a slave to the books but be free to pour out our spirit in love and thanksgiving. If we recognize that music is one of the most important parts of our service, because it means worship, then we realize the care that should be taken in choosing both the song and the musical instrument. The musician has a message for the congregation just as the speaker has, and should receive the same respect, attention and prayerful help. He is our mouthpiece and if we are one of the worshipers we should say in our hearts what he is expressing. The musicians should realize too that they have a great responsibility. They have not been asked to entertain, nor been given an opportunity to display a beautiful voice or skill in performance but have been honored in being given an opportunity to use their talent as spokesman for the group in expressing thanks, praise, and prayer to God in a fine spirit of worship. The music chosen should be such as will add to the spiritual atmosphere of the service. MUSIC We wish to feel that the one who thus expresses our devotion is just as sincere as the one who utters the prayer for the group, that he is joining us in worship. This spirit is disturbed when the musician leaves before the close of the service. Are there not enough musicians in our church that one need not accept two invitations for the same hour? There is a spiritual message in every church service. Just as the reception of the radio message is 605 clearer and finer when there is no static, so the reception of the spiritual message in the hearts of the people is finer and clearer the less disturbance there is. Cannot the Relief Society help to raise the standards of the music in all of our church services—in making of it a very dignified sublime part of the program—in making it—as it was meant to be—a pouring out of our hearts in worship? Such worship would be good for our souls. In Embryo By Hattie C. Jenson If not for me the laurels Of a poet's noble brow— I still can see the beauty Of a sunset's crimson glow. I can thrill with joy and rapture At a strain of music sweet; And the press of baby fingers Fills my soul with joy complete. On the mountain, in the valley— On the lake, or by the stream— Poetic fancies fill my being As I sit and idly dream. Or, in action, in the battle Of my daily life's demands— I can feel the power of genius Near; yet far from me it stands. When the winter storms are raging With a tempest, wide and wild— Or the summer rain is falling, With a patter soft and mild— When the lightning shafts are darting And the fearsome thunders roar— Why! Poetic inspiration Fills my soul with urging power To express, in rhyme and meter, Rhapsodies (my soul enthralled), To the infinite, majestic, Glory, beauty of it all! Is it God who speaks within me, Bringing memories from afar, That my soul expands, and throbbing, Strives to ope' the gate ajar, For a broader sense, and vision, Of a glory once my own, When my spirit found expression As I worshipped at His throne? Ah! Perhaps the spark of genius Prisoned in this earthly day, May in heaven find expression At some future, glorious day! Then, with free, poetic fervor, Tethered now within my soul— I may sing with joy and gladness, Not a fragment—but the whole. Not Bread Alone By Elsie C. Carroll Linda's firstborn was eight years old. Today was Eddie's birthday and he was going to have a party. There were two other children now. Jenny Lind was five and Mark would soon be two. Linda and Henry still lived in Ike Lacy's house. They had built on two more rooms, piped in the water, painted the house and fence, and planted lawns and flowers. This morning while Linda was busy preparing for the birthday party, Ike had come to see her. He had written repeatedly to ask if they didn't want to buy the place, but they had always told him they had no way of doing that, and besides they were not planning to remain in Cedar Basin. Ike had looked over the place before coming into the house and Linda could see that he was greatly pleased. "It's some joke," he said, "Me. Writin' to ask you folks to buy my place. Why didn't you write back and ask what I'd give you for your place? When I walked down the durned street, I thought I was lost. I couldn't find that old house Cissy and me had built and lived in for near twenty years; but here was this stylish looking house standin' where ours ought to be." "You don't mind our changing it, do you? You remember we wrote and told you we were fixing it up from time to time. We wanted to do that to pay for living in it—you charging so little rent." "Well, you've made some place out of it. If Cissy was with me I wouldn't be surprised if she wouldn't want to stay. It looks like you've been renovatin' the whole town too. It don't look like Cedar Basin to me. When you come here they wasn't a house in the whole burg had any paint on, was they?" "Some of them had been painted," Linda laughed. "That's what gave us the idea of setting the fashion again." "Well, you've done wonders; I wouldn't a thought it could be done. And it all started, I was just thinkin' as I walked around, with your bringin' that piano of yours here, and puttin' it in the church and givin' lessons free to the kids. We can't ever thank you for what you done for Emmie. She's gone right on with her music and is still doin' fine, and they tell me that Phoebe Larson is in Boston playin' in a church." "Yes," said Linda, "we're very proud of Phoebe." She thought of the time when she herself had dreamed of studying in Boston or New York and becoming a great pianist or singer. That seemed ages ago. Yet she knew she loved music as much as if she had gone on. Now her dream was that some time one or more of her children would achieve the goals she had once set for herself. "Is that the same piano?" Ike asked as he looked through the door leading to the next room. "Yes, the very same. Perhaps you didn't know that we got up some programs and had bazaars and a few other such things, and finally raised enough money to buy an organ for the church. After that, I NOT BREAD ALONE brought the piano home because I couldn't go away to give lessons after the babies began to come—and I couldn't give up giving lessons." Linda thought happily of all the little fingers she had guided over those ivory keys during her nine years in Cedar Basin. "I just bet you couldn't," Ike laughed. "But didn't I hear once that you sold the piano? What was it? To pay for a doctor to come out when someone was sick, wasn't it? I know how awful Cissy and me felt when we heard it." "Oh, but didn't you hear the lovely thing that happened afterwards, when we got it back? That's why I keep giving music lessons free, Ike. I'm selfish. I get such enormous pay in the long run. You were the first one to start my dividends, and you'll never know what it meant when you let us come here to live just because I'd given Emma a few lessons." "Well, we always felt guilty for chargin' you anything, after all you'd done for her, and hearin' how you was fixin' the place up. Cissy and me has said a lot of times, "Well, we'll just wait till they git ready to buy, then we'll make it up to them,' and if we can't do it that way we'll do it some other way. But what happened about your piano?" "It was when Eddie was born that we sent for Dr. Grieg. We'd heard he wouldn't come for less than five-hundred dollars, and we thought the baby was dying. So we sold the piano to Jim Bancroft. He'd wanted it before on the mortgage he holds on the farm." "And that old skinflint would take it after all you'd done for the town." "I did hope that maybe he'd leave it in the church, or that I at least might rent it to keep on giving lessons. But before I was able to be around, Henry came home one night and said the Bancrofts were going 607 to move and would take the piano. "Well, I didn't sleep at all that night. I've decided since that it's wrong to let oneself become so attached to things, but it just seemed like that piano was a part of me. I learned another lesson, too, out of that experience. That it's foolish to suffer over things before they happen. "Here Henry and I were going about like two funerals while—what do you think was happening? The minister, Reverend Mr. Stone was visiting every home in town and getting people to sign a paper that they'd give so much to Jim Bancroft if he'd leave the piano. And the very day I thought it was going away without my ever seeing it again, here came a grand surprise party—the whole town with picnic and speeches and as a glorious climax, a paper signed by Jim Bancroft that the Linda stopped rolling gingerbread and wiped her eyes. Recalling that scene always choked her. "It was no more than they had ought to a done," declared Ike blowing his nose. "All I wish is that Cissy and me had been here." "How's Henry's Ma?" he asked a moment later. "About the same. She's still troubled with rheumatism and doesn't get around much. They still have more than their share of troubles. The farm doesn't make enough to quite keep up the taxes and the interest on the mortgage, and every year a little more of the land has to be sold. Yet Mrs. Bowers and Melville always think its going to pay better next year and are not willing to give it up and all of us get out somewhere else and start over." "That's what I had to do. This is a Godforsaken part of the country," Ike said. "It sure wasn't meant for farmin'. No one has made a decent 608 livin' off the land since the place was settled over sixty years ago. I don't blame you and Henry for not wantin' to settle here permanent. Where do you expect to go?" "Our plans never get that far. I sometimes feel that we'll never get away. That's why we're trying to make the best of things as we go along—planting trees and flowers and buying a piece of good furniture or a picture once in a while—even when we can't afford it. Henry doesn't feel that he should leave when the others want to hold onto the land." "It's a bad situation. I'm sorry, and I believe if Ed Bowers had a lived he'd a pulled out long ago. He was beginnin' to see how hopeless it all was before he had his stroke. Course now, if somebody'd strike that oil we used to think was in the basin, things would be different. But I guess everybody's purty much stopped talkin' about it." "Why, I never heard that there was such talk," said Linda surprised. "Oh, yes. That's how the basin come to be settled. It was Jim Bancroft's granddad that come out here first. He claimed that some expert had told him the country was rich with oil and he got different ones to come out. My father was one, and Hen's grandpa. That's what brought all the first settlers. They didn't find oil, and they didn't have money to go no place else; so they started to farm. And as I was sayin', this place wasn't meant for farmin'. Later folks thought maybe old Jake Bancroft had just started that oil story to get a bunch of suckers to pay him the filin' fee he was supposed to be collectin' for the goverment. Leastwise, the Bancrofts has always been the only one's in town with any money." Ike stood up and apologized for staying so long. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Linda insisted on his having a glass of lemonade and a piece of gingerbread. "Just a taste of Eddie's party," she explained. WHILE he was eating, her son called her to the other room where he and his little sister were making favors for the birthday guests. When Linda came back there was a frown of worry between her eyes. "Ike," she asked, "did you and your wife ever feel that you were at the end of your wits to know what to do with some of the problems you had with your children?" "I reckon all parents who really care about their kids are feelin' that way purty much of the time." He held out his hand and said goodbye. Linda stood looking out of the window, still undecided what to do about her problem. Since his infancy Eddie had shown a strain of selfishness or greed they had been unable to root out. She had worked hard to try to help him overcome it, for she realized that such a thing" could warp his whole life. Las night she had made paper daisies an written nursery rhymes on the petal and pasted a brightly polished penny in the center of each. These were to be the favors. Eddie had seemed delighted, and was happy when hi mother had showed him how to so the names of his friends on the flo er stems. When he had called to her, however, it was to show her that he ha taken all the pennies from the flowers and that he and Jenny were painting yellow centers in with their crayons. "See, Mommy," he had cried. E can have the pennies, and the flowe look all the prettier this way." Linda had looked at him for moment in dismay. Her impulse h NOT BREAD ALONE been to snatch the pennies from the grasping little hand and to punish him for his naughtiness. She had purposely devised the plan to give him the pleasure of giving. But she realized that she must not spoil his birthday, and that she must try to find a way to make him want the other children to have the pennies. So she had told him to finish painting the hearts in the flowers and that she would come back in a few moments. What was she to do? In everything else he was so dear. But she must find some way to help him overcome that weakness. The clock struck twelve. She set the table for the children's lunch. Henry had taken his to the field where they were harvesting. Linda showed the children the gingerbread men she had been making and the plates of sandwiches all ready for the party. They knew, too, that there was a freezer of ice cream in the cellar, which Daddy had turned before going to the field. Eddie's black eyes danced with happiness, and all the time he kept jingling the pennies in the pocket of his blouse. BEFORE they were through eating, the baby awoke from his morning nap, and while Linda was caring for him Thad's young wife Kathie came. She had offered to help with the party. Linda had still thought of no solution for the problem of the pennies. "How is everybody?" Kathie. "Oh, the old lady thinks she's worse and Dicky i is bad again. Effie said if you aren't too tired after the party, she wishes you would come up. You are the only one who can make him forget his poor legs." "Of course I'll go. I intended to she asked C09 run up last night, but I was so busy." "Linda, I just can't stand staying there," Kathie cried. 'Won't you and Hen let Thad and me come here and live with you? We could have a tent to sleep in and I could help you with the kids. Please, Linnie, say we cancome. It's just hell living there with the old lady and Mel. I'm afraid I'll get to hating Thad too if we don't get away." "Hush, Kathie. You mustn't talk like that." Linda looked significantly at the children. She felt terribly sorry for the girl, knowing only too well what she was going through. "I've been thinking of a plan I'll talk to you about a little later. Now we must get busy with the party— mustn't we, sonny?" "Yes," Eddie answered with importance. "There'll be. Twenty-five of them, Aunt Kathie, and I've got twenty-five pennies. See." He drew the coins from his pocket. "All that money besides the books and the harmonica and the pocket knife you showed us this morning? My goodness, Eddie, I wish I could have a birthday." "But the pennies are for the guests, Aunt Kathie," Linda said evenly. "We're going to wrap each one in a piece of paper and tie a string around it and hide it someplace out in the yard. Then we'll give each boy or girl a string and let him find his penny."'. "But Mommy," Eddie began, looking up at her in surprise. "It's my birthday and I thought the pennies—" "Don't you see, dear, that's just why you want the others to have the pennies. It's your birthday and you have all those nice presents. Now you want the others to know how it feels to be surprised as you were, and to be glad too that it is your birthday. Come on. Let's fix the 610 pennies and get them hidden before the children come." Eddie, somewhat puzzled, followed her into the other room and emptied the coins onto the table. THAT night as Henry and Linda lay talking after they had gone to bed, she told him how worried she was about Eddie. He felt that she was making too much of the child's weakness, and could even smile over the episode of the pennies. But to Linda it was very serious. She felt that the early traits of a child indicated the trends of later years, and she wasn't so sure as Henry that Eddie would outgrow his unnatural love of money and tendency to be selfish unless they did more to help him than seemed in their power just now. "We can't expect the children to be absolutely perfect,' Henry told her. 'In fact, we wouldn't want them to be. When we compare their chances for finding the real things in life with those of most children, with you right on the job as you are, I don't see that we have much to worry about. Look at poor little Dicky. By the way, how is he tonight?" "Henry, I don't think he'll be with us much longer. You talk of his handicap. It's heart-breaking to see him suffer and to think of his twisted little limbs; but a twisted conscience would be much worse. Dicky has such a brave little soul. Isn't it ironic the way he's always wanting to fly high in the air, and how close, if he should live, he'll always have to stay to the earth?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Did Kathie say anything to you about them wanting to come here and live with us? Thad says she hates staying there with mother." "Ves, she mentioned it. Her I had another plan." "I don't think they should come here,' Henry continued. "Mother and Mel have never got over our pulling out—making an added expense. With the children coming along, it was the only thing for us to do, but—" "Kathie and Thad will be having children, too," Linda reminded him; "and they ought to be by themselves. What I wish could be done is to have the land divided—each of you work part of it and pay part of the expenses and upkeep. But each have what he could make on his share. It would give you more incentive to see what you could do. You could try it out for a year or so, and if it worked, you could make a permanent division; if not, nothing would have been lost by the experiment." "I've been thinking of that very plan myself," Henry told her." I was about to mention it to Mel today, but thought I would think out a few more details first." As Henry was dozing off Linda said, "I forgot to tell you that Ike Lacy was here today. He thinks we've done wonders with the place. Say, I didn't know before that they ever thought there was oil in this region." "Ves"? Henry yawned. "Jim Bancroft's grandfather started that rumor years ago. I believe that's how the place came to be settled." (To be continued) I told Lucy's Decision By Virginia Nielsen RS. STEWART rose from M her deep armchair and went to the door in answer to the knocker. She was a heavy woman with enough height to enable her to carry herself gracefully. As Lucy Maddon watched the older woman's heels bury themselves in the soft rug, she thought, "This is the way I want to live." The room was so harmoniously comfortable and quiet that one felt nothing unpleasant could take place within its walls. A spirit of restfulness hung over the simple but lovely furnishings which were imbued with the personality of the gracious, grayeyed woman who had chosen them. Mrs. Stewart came back with atelegram. "Do you mind?" The flush of excitement on her cheeks made her look very youthful in spite of her gray hair and the lines experience had etched on her face. "Nine pounds!" she cried, happily. "It's my daughter, Adah," she explained. "I'm so glad to know she is all right. She has a new baby boy." "Nine pounds," echoed Lucy, from her comfortable chair. "It must be a fine baby." Mrs. Stewart's eyes were misty as she sat down again opposite her young guest. "It's a wonderful experience — motherhood. I remember so clearly the day Adah was born. And now, She has a child of her own. No woman can know what it means until she has experienced it." She looked at Lucy—at her mature though youthfully rounded face, and her trim, business-girl figure. "I can't wish any more happiness for you, my dear," she said, slowly, "than that some day will bring you what today has brought Adah." The color in Lucy's cheeks heightened at the reference to her approaching marriage. "I'm afraid it won't," she said, meeting the older woman's eyes candidly. "Fred and I have decided not to have children." "Why?" cried Mrs. Stewart. "They're so expensive," said Lucy; making a deprecatory gesture with her gloves. "And Fred says they annoy him." "How do you feel about it?" "Well," said Lucy, a little hesitantly. "I shan't mind. I've always dreaded the thought of being tied down. When one has been as independent as I—" "You're going to keep your job?" asked the older woman, quickly. "Oh, no," said Lucy. "It takes me out of town too much." Mrs. Stewart, who was 'Mother Stewart" to a host of young people, looked at the girl with real concern in her eyes. In the few months since Lucy had rented an apartment in the house next door, the two had become very good friends. Mrs. Stewart believed that back of the laconic remarks and the even, controlled features was a Lucy who was wanting to face life honestly and interpret it rightly. Her thoughts went back swiftly to her own marriage. It would not have occurred to her that a woman might make such a decision as Lucy was now making. A childless woman was an object of pity in those days. Truly, times had changed. This 612 generation was meeting problems and situations that she could only try a little helplessly to, understand. But suppose she had taken Lucy's attitude then? Not to have known the clasp of little fingers around her throat, the joy of drying little tears, or in a single, terrifying moment of illness, the deathless burning quality of mother love! And now, to be alone, as she was, without having her fingers on the pulse of a half dozen other lives—Adah, on the west coast, with her firstborn—Charles in Colorado, with a successful little business and a modest family—Bart, the wanderer, over whom she had worried night and day, yet who never failed to win her love and forgiveness with a gay, endearing letter— Ah, Lucy could not know what she was renouncing. It was worth the cost, however dear. "But how can I make her understand?" she wondered. She hesitated, then said, "Will you take a walk with me?" UTSIDE, Mrs. Stewart took Lucy's arm and directed their steps toward the city park a few blocks away. "Pm going to show you something," she said, gravely. Lucy looked at her questioningly, but she said nothing more until they had entered the park, and had come upon three children playing, while a young girl watched them. Mrs. Stewart pulled Lucy down beside her on a bench not far from the little group. "Watch them," she said, and looked at her watch. ''The woman I brought you to see will be here in a few minutes." Lucy looked at the children. There were a fairheaded, sturdy boy, a dark-eyed little girl with the air of a princess, and another boy, scarcely RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE out of babyhood, with a halo of light curls.: "Now let's play Sleeping Beauty," begged the girl. "Aw, you always want to play that," said her older brother, disgustedly. "Well, you always want to play Indian, an' that's no fun," retorted the girl. There arose a heated argument which was finally settled by the nurse girl, who introduced a game of her own. A woman in a dark tailored suit approached them from the other end — of the path. When the children spied. Her, they ran to her with cries of happy greeting. Lucy felt a queer little twinge at her heart when she saw the light that illumined the woman's face as she bent down to the youngsters. "Their mother?" she questioned. Mrs. Stewart shook her head. The woman was pulling some gifts from her pocketbook. She sat down beside the nurse girl, and drew the children to her. "When she was married," Mrs. Stewart told Lucy, "she promised her husband that theirs would be a childless marriage. They were both young. She was very much in love with him—still is, I think—" Lucy watched the face of the woman in black as she listened to Mrs. Stewart's quiet voice. "She went too. Far in trying to keep that promise, and when they changed their minds, it was too late. She can never have a child." She stopped. "Tell us a story," the children were begging. The woman in black glanced at the nurse girl, who looked at her watch and nodded her. The children clapped their hand gleefully. And their visitor drew them closer to her as she began talking in a low voice. LUCY'S DECISION 613 Mrs. Stewart turned to Lucy, her eyes shining with understanding. "You can see she adores them." Lucy's throat was dry. The little scene was affecting her strangely. "She comes through here every evening on her way home from work. She lives a lonely life except for these few minutes each day." Lucy moistened her lips. "But if her husband feels the same way—" she began. Mrs. Stewart shook her head sadly. "The man who was her husband is the father of these children," she said, softly. "After four or five years he divorced her, and married another woman. He's raising a family now— The woman was bidding the children goodbye. As she passed the two women who watched, she glanced in their direction, and nodded to Mrs. Stewart. Lucy's heart contracted at the hunger and unhappiness in her dark eyes.. The nurse girl called the children together, and taking the baby's fat hand, led them off in the other direction. Lucy and Mrs. Stewart arose and started home. Lucy was silent for a long time. The older woman watched her rather anxiously. "I hope you didn't mind my bringing you here," she said. "It's not my way to meddle, but—Lucy—I don't want you to make any decisions you'll regret—" Lucy turned misted but luminous eyes to her friend. "I won't," she promised. A Friend By Norma C. Adamson When life's darkest shadows were round you And you felt there was nothing worth while, Did you see how the shadows were lightened When a friend pressed your hand with a smile? You may not possess worldly riches But your life will be rich to the end If you feel that your living has brought you The handclasp and smile of a friend. You may drink from the cup of life's pleasures, But the taste will be ashes and dust. If you haven't that gift sent from heaven, A friend whom you honor and trust Don't forget, in the rush of existence, That the spirit of love you must send To bring back that treasured possession, The handclasp and smile of a friend Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life By Lella Marler Hoggan KEEP TRUE "All the poised balances of God would swerve, Did men not get the blessings they deserve; And all the rigorous scales of Fate would turn, Did men not get the punishments they earn." —Edwin Markham. Truth is the interpretation of life from the divine point of view. It is changeless and eternal. According to Dr. Frank Crane, "Truth is the logic of the universe; it is the reasoning of Destiny; it is the mind of God. And nothing that you can devise or discover can take its place." In Scientific Aspects of Mormonism, N. L. Nelson says: "Mormonism defines absolute truth to be 'things as they are, as they have been, and as they will be,' when interpreted by God." Jesus, speaking with his disciples in the temple, promised them, "Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." John 8:32. And even as his disciples desired the freedom that comes from a knowledge of the truth, so do men in all ages. KEEPSAKES FOR THE TREASURE CHEST Through the years, the question is repeated, What is truth? What is this power that shall liberate mankind from ignorance and fear and sin? Men have been searching for it since the dawn of time. They grope in the darkness for the precious white light of truth, that will lift humanity to a higher plane; that will make the world a safer, happier, better place in which to live. Down through the dim ages of the past they caught a gleam now and then. Some of these truths were recorded and preserved for those who would come after. From age to age, pages have been added to the book of wisdom that men might live by a greater light. But what is recorded by one generation as true, is often discarded by the next generation as untrue. Discoveries from year to year, continue to change the pages of science and philosophy. The test of a truth is that it works. But often it takes long periods of time to find out if it works. The scientist in his laboratory tries again and again, records his findings, and then begins all over. But he can not put all of life in the test tube. Sometimes what science has sought for years to find out, is given to an unlettered man, a mere boy, in one glorious flash. And in that one flash more truth is revealed than scholars have been able to evolve in hundreds of years. There is only one code of truth. It is applicable to all life, in every field of endeavor. A great scientist recently said that he recognizes truth, and reverences it equally as much, if he reads it in the rocks as if it comes from the lips of an inspired prophet. Back of all law is the Author of law. And as the ages roll He reveals to man, from generation to 615 generation, the light that seems to be sufficient unto his needs. Prophets and poets, teachers and leaders of men, the world over, are given greater light than others; in order that they may mark out paths for the multitude, and hold the torch high for those who are to follow. Their love for God's children and their all absorbing desire to better conditions, makes their need greater; and according to the greater need, they receive more generously from the source of all light. The Master's love for humanity rose to the most sublime height. He was ready to give his life for the salvation of mankind. That, perhaps, is the reason why he received more light than all other men. One of God's greatest gift to man is the monitor he has placed in each breast; that shall teach him what is true and what is false, that all his actions may be guided thereby. The truths that we need for our individual guidance are held in store for us, when our hearts are open to receive them. The revelation of truth, whether it be some great law for the guidance of a nation or the salvation of the human race, or whether it be a simple rule for the direction of one of God's humblest children; such revelation, comes only in answer to a deep sincere longing. There must be the desire. There must be the request. And the request must be more than a passive asking. It must be a willingness to search, to struggle, to wait, to pay the price. This is the requirement to the attainment of truth, and God's blessings generally. "When hands are idle, words are vain to move the stone. An aiding angel would disdain to work alone." 616 You remember the story of Hercules, who found the man's chariot caught in the mire. The man was praying for help, but putting forth no effort himself. Hercules' reply to his appeal for assistance was, "Have you, yourself, tried to move the chariot? Put your own shoulder to the wheel; God helps those who help themselves." Jacob wrestled all night with the Lord for the blessing he desired. And the Children of Israel cried long and loud unto him before he sent Moses as their deliverer. The Master gave the key to his disciples for the attainment of all blessings when he said, "And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you."—Luke 11:9. Does not the research worker seek, when he spends years in unknown climes in quest of truth? Does not the scientist knock, when he watches long hours under the searchlight? Have not men through the years, asked and received divine aid, in establishing the things which have most greatly benefited the race? Untiring endeavor brings its reward. The years will repay every high effort. But remember, "Struggle precedes mastery." There are certain fundamental laws that govern all of life. Long years ago students of logic evolved these three simple laws of truth. They do not change with the years. "Whatever is, is. Everything must either be, or not be. Nothing can be, and not be, at the same time." Other laws of truth are quite as self-evident. Emerson said, "A perfect equity adjusts its balance in all parts of life. The dice of God are always loaded. Crime and punishment grow out of one stem." And Joseph Smith, the Prophet, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE gave the following revealed truths: "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of the world, upon which all blessings are predicated—and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated."—D. And C. 130:20. And further, "I the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say: but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." D. And C. 82:10.: This is not a world of chance. Men and women do not happen to get good positions and flattering honors. Somewhere in the past there were long hours spent in study, hard tasks performed for little or no pay, patience and endurance learned from repeated failures. The musician does not attain the perfect touch; the singer, the velvet tone, merely from wishing. It takes practice and drill to achieve worth while results. We do not grow from a crude state into finished perfection in a day. Long weeks and months and years of drudgery are required to accomplish success. "The law of nature,' said Emerson, "is, Do the thing, and you shall have the power; but they who do not the thing, have not the power." "Everything has its price, and if that price is not paid, not that thing but something else is obtained." It is for us to decide the sort of gift we shall buy from life. We may choose the small cheap pleasures that will last for a day; or, we may select the enduring joys that will go on throughout eternity. The question is, what price are we willing to pay? The rarer gifts are not on sale at a reduction. The values never change. David Starr Jordan says, 'The price which every good and perfect gift demands, we would somehow or other get out of paying. But we can | KEEPSAKES FOR THE TREASURE CHEST never cheat the Gods. There are no short cuts to happiness." All around us we see men and women who do not want to pay the price. Who do not want to play the game of life according to the rules. They are looking for easy money. Something for nothing. They are "honest in spots," as Dr. Brimhall used to say. They interpret the law to their own liking. We may deceive our fellows. We may succeed in keeping our mistakes hidden away from the world; but we can not fool Mother Nature, she never forgets and she collects with interest, all that is coming to her. Neither can we hoodwink our God; he reads our hearts like an open book. Why should we attempt to delude ourselves? If we build the foundation of our life's structure of bubbles, the bubbles will burst before we reach the pinnacle. We can't follow a twisted, distorted pattern and hope to erect a strong, symmetrical building. Is it fair to let the young person of today do the things that the old person of tomorrow can not undo? If we do not live now, so as to be good company for ourselves later on, will it not be a lonesome, sorry road we shall have to travel? Whenever we go counter to truth, we are out of harmony with the divine plan. If we would be in partnership with the Master we must follow the path he has marked out, be it ever so straight and narrow. Realizing that the road to greatness is cumbered with difficulties and heartaches, impetuous youth cries out, "I do not want to be great, I want to be comfortable." He does not realize that there are two kinds of comfort. He has yet to learn that a troubled conscience can plunge one 617 into a purgatory so distressing; that all the beautiful downy cushions, and oriental rugs, and soft lights, and luring music in the world, cannot make one comfortable. Material wealth is not a measure of success or happiness. The Great Judge asks what we "are," not what we "have." Men of intellectual pursuits, who are too busy with life to find time to become wealthy, are not committing suicide in sheer desperation. Those whose souls are set like flint, against sin, seem to have very peaceful days in their ripe old age. The deepest satisfactions do not come out of banks and purses. The best gifts cannot be purchased with money. A well developed mind, a refined, cultured personality, these things are beyond price. A life enriched by the Christian virtues, has forward looking years of satisfaction. "Joy and peace are not to be juggled from God or nature," said Frank Crane. "Doing right brings peace and poise to the soul." If we would make our last years rich in eternal values, we must not "cheapen life." If we would find lasting joy, we must keep faith with ourselves. Being true to our conscience now, will eliminate explanations and apologies later on. To keep on happy terms with ourselves we must be sincere and genuine, true to our highest ideals, true to the truth. We set our own standard. We make our own deadline. We reward and punish ourselves, according to the eternal plan of justice. Judas sold his soul for thirty pieces of silver; while Christ gained an eternal salvation by giving his life for all men. 618 For the sake of tomorrow; for the sake of the sweet companionship that may exist between ourselves and our trusting children; and that deeper fellowship that may hold between ourselves and our God, to comfort and sustain us in our hour of need, let us play the game fair. Let us be true to our trust, and make of life a glorious worth while adventure. John Burroughs knew the law of compensation when he wrote: "The waters know their own, and draw The brook that springs in yonder height; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE So flows the good with equal law Unto the soul of pure delight. The stars come nightly to the sky; The tidal wave unto the sea; Nor time, nor space, nor deep, nor high, Can keep my own away from me." God's choicest blessings are held in reserve for those who are prepared to receive them. Revealed truth is the foundation of all righteousness. Let us be wise enough to "prove all things, and hold fast to that which is good." The Red Sea Wilderness (A Sonnet) By Bertha A. Kleinman You stand at last and face the great Red Sea, The goading hosts behind—what can you do? There's no retreat, no way around. To flee, Then plunge ahead, straight on ahead and through. The multitudes set straining eyes on you, Then lift your torch and flout the plagues of night— The Red Sea waits, then plunge ahead and through. The waters swirl, the tempest rocks the shore, The terrors of the wilderness assail, Then lift your faith above the billows' roar, And plunge ahead, your courage must not fail. The dawn's across, the pillar moves for you, Plunge on ahead, straight on ahead and through. Alcoholic liquor undermines and weakens the physical forces of a man and thus destroys his body. It degrades, coarsens and bestializes the soul of man and thus destroys his mind. It degrades, coarsens and bestializes the soul of man and thus destroys his moral and spiritual life. 'Strong drink impoverishes men. 'The drunkard shall come to poverty." (Prov. 23:21.) "It shuts men out of the Kingdom of God. 'No drunkard shall inherit the Kingdom of God.....'" (I Cor. 6:10.) —The Union Signal. Mother Deserved a Vacation By Mabel S. Harmer Emily stepped to the door to see if Bob was in sight. She knew that he disliked being called from his play to do anything around the house but she felt she could not spend all the time and energy necessary to bring the fruit jars up from the basement when she had a twelve year old son who could do it just as well. "Bobby!" she called and immediately realized her mistake. For more than two years now the boy had refused to answer to anything less manly than 'Bob'. The hammering on the other side of the garage indicated where he was and also that he was going right on with his work. "Robert!" she called sharply and a moment later he came slowly in sight. "I need you for a short time." "Whaffor?" he demanded. "Can't you see I'm working? I got to put some new boards on my dog house." "That can wait," replied his mother. "I want thirty fruit jars brought up from the basement. You may have to wash them, too." "Omigosh!" he exclaimed in a pained voice. "That's a girl's work. What's Loretta doing that she can't help a little around the house?" "Loretta was out late to a party last night and I'm letting her sleep this morning. There will be plenty for her to do when she wakes up anyway, with all these apricots to peel and stone. Take this pan to carry the jars in." Bob picked up the pan and went to the basement muttering in low tones about the uselessness of girls in general and his eighteen year old sister in particular. After he had brought the jars up to the kitchen, he spent another half hour moodily dowsing them in soapy water and when the last one had been washed and rinsed he made a rapid escape back to his carpentry. Mrs. Stevens had just settled herself with a large panful of apricots on her lap when the telephone started a loud and persistent pealing. "I never knew it to fail! I only hope it isn't someone who wants to gossip half an hour!" "Hello, mother,' came the answer to her brisk greeting. "I just called to remind you about the rolls you promised to bake for me. Can I have them about one o'clock?" "Oh, dear," exclaimed Mrs. Stevens, "is it today that your club meets? I really had forgotten. I'm just surrounded with apricots. Couldn't you get them from the store this time?" "Oh, mother," came Julia's pleading voice. "Couldn't you possibly do it? Nobody makes rolls like yours and the girls do look forward to them so." "I'll make them." "And could you have Bob bring them over and take Junior back with him. I'll just have to get him out of the way for the afternoon. He'll be bound to shriek his loudest while the book review is going on." "You know that Bob wouldn't be seen wheeling a baby through the streets," protested her mother. But we'll manage someway." She felt that she would save time by getting back to her work and thinking a way out of the difficulty rather than by arguing about it. She seated herself in the kitchen 620 once more and was busily engaged in preparing the fruit when Loretta appeared in black satin lounging pajamas. "Hello, Mums," she said breezily, as she bestowed a light kiss upon her mother's cheek. "I am extremely busy and would appreciate a little help," was the reply. "All right, darling—sorry I overslept. I'll just garner a bite to eat and then I'll be with you. It was on the tip of Emily's tongue to reprimand Loretta for her flippant way of speaking but she reflected a bit wearily that she had done so a good many times before without any noticeable results and decided to save her breath for the present. After a hasty breakfast, Loretta put on one of her mother's large aprons and sat down with a pan of fruit and a paring knife. "Did you have a good time at the party?" inquired her mother, as she refilled her own pan from the seemingly bottomless basket. "Oh, scrumptious! There was a grand crowd and Paul Aiken asked to take me to the lake tonight with some of his friends from out of town. I haven't been so thrilled in years. Could you possibly finish my new sport dress in time for me to wear it? I haven't another thing that will do." "I don't see how I can, dear, with all this fruit to be bottled today. And I have promised Julia to make rolls for her luncheon at one." Mrs. Stevens had rather poignant memories of the closet full of dresses she had already sewed for her young daughter that spring. "I'll help with the fruit and you can finish the dress in no time," said Loretta disposing of the matter with a wave of her paring knife. Loretta was no adept at household tasks and her mother was extremely RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE dubious as to whether or not the exchange of services would be very much to her advantage but she said no more about it and went steadily on preparing the fruit until it was time to mix the rolls. She had just started them when Ross, her twenty year old son, burst in through the front door. A moment later they heard him bounding up the stairway. Shortly after he pounced in upon them in the kitchen, panting and disheveled. "Why didn't my light suit go to the cleaners this week?" he demanded. For the simple reason that you didn't put it out, I suppose," calmly answered his mother. "I've told you a dozen times to lay your things in the front hall when you want them to go." "You really can't expect your clothes to walk there, you know," joined in Loretta. Ross ignored this last remark as entirely unworthy of his notice and demanded, "Who in the dickens has had my white tennis sweater? It's a funny thing the way my belongings disappear around this house." "Now, I'll bet that sweater has gone walking," offered Loretta. "Will you be still!" he shouted. "Children," pleaded their mother. "I haven't seen anyone with your sweater, Ross," she went on. "Is there any great hurry about it?" "Well, I'll say there's a hurry," he answered wrathfully. "I am to meet Henry Kirke in less than an hour to go out to the Davises for that weekend party. You remember my telling you about it and here I can't find a thing and my only decent suit isn't pressed." It was perfectly clear that he held everyone but himself responsible for the predicament he was in. "Bring your suit down and I'll press it,' said Emily, "and you can 621 MOTHER DESERVED A VACATION be packing your other things in the meantime." She quickly finished mixing the rolls and set them to raise while she worked on the suit with feverish haste. It was pressed by the time Ross appeared again and with a hasty thanks and a kiss he grabbed it and bounded upstairs to put it on. Without coming back into the kitchen he shouted a goodbye from the front door and went out leaving an almost audible silence behind him. By the time Bob appeared for his lunch, Emily had the rolls baked and packed ready to send to Julia. She allowed him to eat a hearty meal before she said anything about his errand, knowing that any male, however young, is more approachable when filled. When he had finished she gave him an extra piece of cake and said sweetly, "I have a little errand for you to do, Robert. You are to take these rolls over to Julia and bring Junior back." "Me!" he exclaimed indignantly. "Wheel that baby through four city blocks? What's the matter with Loretta doing it?" "Loretta is helping me and there isn't anyone else to go so you will have to. Run along now like a good boy and I'll make it up to you some other time." "Will you mend my ball pants this afternoon?" asked Bob, who was never known to pass an opportunity to drive a bargain. Visions of the still unbottled fruit and Loretta's dress passed through Emily's head but she wearily nodded an assent and started Robert on his way with the rolls. By four o'clock the fruit was all bottled and she had begun work on Loretta's dress. The baby had been an additional care throughout 621 the afternoon, refusing to go to sleep in a strange bed and exhibiting a remarkable fondness for apricots. The kitchen floor was still unscrubbed and showed ample evidence of the day's labors but Emily reflected that it could wait or go unscrubbed as was necessary. She just did manage to get the dress finished in time for Loretta to slip into it before a car full of young people called for her. "She does look lovely," thought Emily, watching Loretta adjust her hat to a perky angle. "It was a pleasure to do things for her if there were only a little more time." She was obliged to set on a cold supper but she thought Horace wouldn't mind this once. With a pang she remembered Bob's ball suit and hoped that she could snatch a few minutes after the table was set in which to mend it. Instead of being late, however, her husband rushed in a few minutes early and presently she heard him rummaging about in the rear closet. "Another fishing trip!' Emily almost groaned. "Why did it have to happen today? Well, she had started him off on a good many trips during their twenty-five years of married life, she supposed that she could manage one more. She let him take his time about coming to supper and seized the opportunity to take the promised stitches in Bob's baseball clothes. Horace was fairly bubbling over with enthusiasm when he finally appeared for supper. Jed Travers had said that the fishing was great up on Aspen Lake. They were going to leave at four in the morning. Could she throw a few cans of something or other and a few loaves of bread together? Emily fervently wished that it were as simple as that, but she had 622 dealt with Horace's appetite for too many years now to be so optimistic about it. Horace went to bed early in order to be up for a good start and after ten o'clock when Emily had packed what food she considered might reasonably be expected to last him through an ordinary fishing trip, she dropped wearily onto her own pillow. She was too tired even to go to sleep for a while. She wondered if she were really being an excellent mother, or if she was just making a doormat of herself by waiting upon her family so continuously. It was true that the day had been an unusual one, still, she spent most of her days in working for them one way or another. Did they appreciate it? She supposed not. Children were apt to take their parents for granted. She wondered what would happen if she were to go away for a time. What a rude awakening there would be when they found there was no mother to do the dozen and one things they demanded in a day. It might be a good thing all the way around. She certainly deserved a rest and they might learn to appreciate her if they had to do a few things for themselves. Horace had often asked her to go on a fishing trip, but she disliked camping out. She preferred doing her cooking at home where she didn't have to worry about getting cinders in her eyes. It had been a long time now since he had even asked her to go. Before dropping off to sleep she had half settled on the idea of going away. She could go to her sister Helen. It-had been years since she had paid Helen a real visit and then she had taken the children along and waited upon them much the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE same as when she was at home. Helen's would be the ideal place to go. Helen was a widow whose two children were long since married, so there would be no children or husband about. There was a maid to do all the work and a big quiet house to rest in. Nothing to do but rest! The words became music in her ears and lulled her to sleep. During the three days that Horace was away the idea remained with her. Everyone else was talking vacations and goodness knew that if anyone deserved one she did. She went so far as to write to Helen and received an enthusiastic invitation in return. Helen always had thought that she was foolish to slave for her family the way she did and told her that it was high time she got away from them for a while. When her husband returned, Emily calmly broke the news that she had decided to take a vacation. Everyone was stunned at first but Horace rose gallantly to the occasion, when the children began to voice half-uttered protests, by saying, "Why, of course, you must take a vacation. You'll all agree, children, that mother deserves a rest." There was no denying this so they all agreed to cooperate to the fullest extent with 'Amelia' who was to be called in to do the heavier part of the housework and cooking. Loretta insisted that she buy some new clothes, although her mother said that she wouldn't need anything more than a few new porch dresses to "sit around and rest in." Loretta remembered Aunt Helen as very modern and with very modern friends and in the end marshalled her mother to town for some new dresses although Emily firmly drew the line at having a permanent wave. MOTHER DESERVED A VACATION Emily felt her first pang of doubt as she boarded the train and looked into her children's faces as they waved good-bye. It was the first time in years that she had left them for more than overnight and now she was to be gone for three weeks. Horace had insisted that she take a good rest while she was at it. Which reminded her that she deserved one, so she attempted to forget the somewhat woebegone faces at the station. Helen was delighted to see her. They had supper that first evening on a vine shaded porch. It was heavenly to sit there in the cool of the evening and be served a meal without having to jump up half a dozen times to bring something to the table. Helen's comfortable income allowed her to devote her time to club work or anything else that she might be interested in. It was delightful to sit on the front veranda afterward, watch the people pass up and down the street and chat with her sister without having the telephone ring or someone dash up and down the steps every few minutes. "We don't get up for breakfast," said Helen as they parted for the night, "so sleep just as late as you wish. Mina will bring you a tray about nine." Emily was used to awaking early. She lay in bed and fidgeted about until the maid appeared with the breakfast tray. She would very much have preferred getting up and having her breakfast in the usual way but she hesitated to interfere with the regular household routine. She had not eaten in bed since Robert was born and she felt decidedly awkward and self-conscious about it. She arose as soon after eating as she felt could be done with pro623 priety and went down stairs. Helen was not up so she seated herself on the front porch. After a while it grew monotonous and she wished that she had some darning or mending to do. But having come for a vacation, she had brought nothing of the sort along. In the afternoon, Helen had a committee meeting and invited Emily to sit with them. She could understand very little of what they were talking about, in fact their club phraseology almost amounted to another language. She felt rather envious of these women who made such important sounding plans and decisions. She could not help but notice what beautiful, white hands they had and she contrasted them surreptitiously with her own work-roughened ones. These were women who worked with their heads instead of their hands. By the end of the afternoon her estimation of herself and her place in the existing scheme of important things had gone down almost to the vanishing point. The evening passed much the same as the one before had. Supper on the rear veranda and a quiet evening on the porch afterwards. Emily was still convinced that she was enjoying the change very much and that it was merely a matter of habit that she listened every once in a while for the sound of hurrying feet or shrill voices. She was having a much deserved vacation and was enjoying it very much. She settled back in her chair to rest a little more thoroughly. By the end of the third day she began to wonder what the home folks were doing and how they were getting along without her. She was quite sure that Bob would go swimming more times than was good for him although she had warned him against it. She wondered if anyone 624 would remember to water her rose bushes. They had just been set out this year and she had cared for them with such solicitude that it would be a shame to have them die now for want of a little attention. There was a sameness about Helen's days. She arose in time to oversee a very few household tasks before noon, then attended to her rather voluminous correspondence and almost invariably had a committee meeting in the afternoon. Emily wondered how the world ever struggled along before Helen took over so much responsibility in her various committees. By the end of the week she thoroughly hated the sound of the word 'rest.' She had rested on the front porch until she was tempted to look to see whether or not she had worn the paint off the chairs. She groaned inwardly when she remembered that her vacation was to last three weeks. How absurd to have set the time at three weeks. She might have known that she would be bored to death in half that time. Well, it would never do to go home before the time was over. No one would ever be able to understand such inconsistency. She would have to continue to rest, no matter what the cost. The morning that ended the first week of her visit, Mina brought her a hastily scribbled note with her breakfast tray. It read: "Emily dear: I have been called to Standish by telegram this morning. A district meeting of the Federated Clubs is taking place and Mrs. Evans, our state President, is ill, so I have been asked to go in her stead. I shall only be away three or four days, so just continue to make yourself at home and get a good rest. Mina will take good care of you, I am sure, Love, Helen." "Mina will if she gets a chance," RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE said Emily aloud. She dressed and packed and soon had written briefly to her sister: "Dearest Helen: I am sorry to run away in your absence but I am needed urgently at home. Nothing serious. Will let you know later. Thanks so much for all your kind attention. I feel thoroughly rested in just the one short week I have been here. Love, Emily." On reading it over she could see no statement that was not justified. After a solitary lunch she caught an early afternoon train and found herself beaming at intervals on her fellow passengers. She hoped that most of them were going home and not just starting out on a vacation. She took a taxi from the station and shed a tear of happiness when they drove in sight of her home. It looked just the same—thank goodness! Now if the family would be equally obliging, all would be well. She almost flew up the front steps and into the hallway. "That you, Ross?" came Loretta's voice from above. "No, it's I, darling," Emily answered, trying to still the tremble in her voice. "Mother! Oh mother!" cried Loretta as she dashed down the stairway and crushed her mother in her arms. "You darling, how on earth did it happen?" "Let me get my breath and I'll tell you," answered Emily happily. It was almost worth going away, she reflected, to get such a tempestuous welcome. "Your aunt was called out of town and so naturally I didn't feel like staying on there alone." "Well, you're just in time," said Loretta breathlessly, "otherwise I should have had to get engaged without asking your consent and that would never have done. Come into MOTHER DESERVED A VACATION 625 the living room and I'll tell you about it," said Loretta dragging her mother into the room and putting her into a chair. "Paul wants me to become engaged to him and I love him so much, but of course I wanted your consent first and I couldn't possibly have waited three weeks." "But my dear," pleaded Emily, "you are only eighteen." "How old were you when you became engaged?" "Well," admitted her mother, "I was just eighteen too — but times were different then." "Perhaps," agreed Loretta, "but I don't imagine people were. May I tell him that it is all right?" "I'll have to talk it over with your father first," was Emily's only concession, "and I should like to take off my hat, if you have no more startling news for me."; "Whoopee! If it isn't our good old pie-maker back again!" and Bob practically tumbled into the room, the flippancy of his welcome was softened by its warmth. "You're just in time," he continued after a hug of the bear variety. "So I have learned," smiled his mother. "The scouts are having an outing for mothers at Lacy's Grove. Gosh! It wouldn't have been anything at all if you couldn't have been there. And you don't even have to do any of the cooking," he assured her. "We are going to do it all ourselves. Aren't you glad you came home?" "Yes, I'm glad, son," she answered in good scout fashion, then turning to Loretta, "How are Julia and the baby?" "Julia's all right but I believe the baby is upset." "I'll run right over. There will just be time before dinner and then I won't have to worry about him," said Emily with her accustomed energy. She walked quickly to her daughter's. How rapidly life and events moved, she reflected, and how essential it was always to live to the fullest and not let any of the worthwhile moments escape. Inside the house, she found Julia vainly trying to soothe a fretful baby. "Oh, mother," she sobbed, "I'm so relieved you've come. I can't seem to do a thing for him. Everyone says that the second summer is the hardest and I'm scared to death." "Well, everyone is wrong," declared her mother as she picked up the baby. "The second summer is no harder than any other summer if you use a little common sense. Let's give him a cool bath first and then see what else should be done for him." Emily tied one of Julia's aprons over her 'good' dress and then proceeded to undress and bathe the baby. He seemed to feel at once that he was receiving more expert care and his wailings began to subside. When she had finished with the final deft administration, Julia, who had been watching her intently, said, "What wonderful hands you have, mother. Every move they make is so capable." Emily held out her hands and looked at them as if seeing them for the first time. Then as she smiled, she said, "Yes—I suppose there is a difference in hands." Babies By Estelle Webb Thomas Babies are sweet; there is no denying, Whether they're cooing or whether they're crying, Whether they're smiling or kicking and squealing, Babies are certainly most appealing! Whether they're skinny—or dimpled cupids, Whether they're brilliant—or darling stupids, Whether they're terribly red and young, Or babbling words in a foreign tongue, Whether they're older and slightly paler And staggering 'round like a tipsy sailor, Whether they're jolly or weary and weepy, And most especially when they're sleepy— From their downy heads to their ducky feet, Babies are absolutely sweet! Life's Medicines By Ezra J. Poulsen Life has a way of lifting us out of the deep vales of despondency by its own natural buoyancy. It constantly throws us new life lines, as the older ones break, or as we became confused and let go. Wise are we if we cooperate in these efforts at self rescue, for thereby may we keep our feet on the solid ground, and progress toward the hill tops of life. Often, to be sure, we sink back with a sigh, feeling that we need to be rescued from routine, sorrow, from sheer weariness with living. But at that moment we are challenged with new glimpses of beauty or truth—a picture, a landscape, the smiling countenance of a friend coming through the gate. Then who can deny the refreshing force that quickens our being? Thus life is very kind. When we would close our eyes and like the proverbial ostrich thrust our head beneath the sand, we are drawn back into the sunlight. Charles Lamb, in his delightful little essay, Dream Children, teaches us to find happiness even in sorrow. Sitting in his chair by the fireside, he permits us to go with him back through the fading years. Before him sit his children — his dream children, listening wonder-eyed to his winsome tales of boyhood and young manhood. As readers we follow, impressed by the author's warm, joyous humanity, set off by the rich, glowing tapestries of an English country side. Then swiftly comes the climax, revealing stark disillusionment — sorrow. Tears seem the only outlet for our poignant grief. Such is the way with life. There are moments when not a single ray of hope can struggle through the clouds of grief. Or at least this seems to be so. In reality, however, the ray of hope does arrive. It is as sure as the daylight that follows the darkness. Hence, as we turn again to Lamb, we catch something of his marvelous buoyancy; the spirit of mirth returns, and smiles drive away the tears. Charles Lamb, sitting by his fireside, yearning after his dream children, seems to symbolize life. Sorrow—and he knew sorrow as few of us have had to experience it—is the lot of humanity, yet beneath sorrow lies joy, the great underlying harmony of existence. Every shadow is eventually wiped out by the sunshine. The genial author of dream children seems to be saying, "After all it is glorious to be alive." It is important to realize that there is an element of happiness in all life situations. This truth is in the very essence of things. It can be discovered and cherished until it becomes a sesame to its possessor, opening all the closed doors of opportunity. To be happy in the midst of struggle, to see in disappointment the possibility for new conquest, to be responsive to the beauties of the commonplace—these are some of the ingredients from which we derive joy. Charles Lamb could wander through the most obscure streets of London, and find a wonderland of romance. That same wonderland awaits others who walk down the obscure side streets of life, provided they have eyes to see. Must we always believe people are 628 happy because they are rich, or powerful, because they are here rather than there, or because they were born lucky? This is putting too much reliance on mere externals, not enough in the soul of things. Yet the external world is teeming with the materials of happiness. If we can match the life without with reasonable responses from within, we are winners in the game of living. A young woman living in an attractive rural community was recently asked by a friend to name some of the more common wild flowers in her locality. She was dumbfounded to think anyone should be interested in such commonplaces. She had never noticed them. This incident illustrates one of humanity's most glaring oversights—the failure to see the perfection in God's creations. Possibly we need help. In this case we might seek the poets. Hand in hand with a Bryant, a Whitman, or a Wordsworth, we may find new life in the cool canyons and by the pleasant streams. We can go alone, but the poets make good interpreters as we struggle with the first simple monosyllables of nature's language. Under their direction we can learn the grandeur in every quaint by-way beneath the heavens. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Furthermore, if God is waiting in the solitude, he is even more easily found in the midst of the multitude. Thus to the extent that we take a wholesome interest in others, we again revive our own sinking spirits. We are rejuvenated the moment we see our own acts relieving the distress of others. This is the very genius of the Relief Society organization. The idea of dedicating one's self to the creation of the good neighborhood, will go far, if adhered to in practice, to lift us to the higher levels of joy. Satisfactions abound, then, in the land of people and things. The basic law of compensation guarantees a bright side to every situation. It is merely for us to seek endlessly those positions from which the best can be seen, and obtained. Life is a process of working to solve the mysteries of a complex and changing environment. We are in a mansion of many rooms. It takes a different key to open each room, but around us are a thousand keys. Books, poets, music, children, hobbies, service, are a few of the keys, each leading to a realm of wonder and enlightenment; then there is the master key— faith—which is the greatest of all. Dame Nature's Washday By J. B. McKenzie Dame Nature had a wash-day She started in the night, She flashed her lights, and crashed her tubs, Till she had us in a fright. The night wore on, the morning broke, The sun came out to see, The many shades of new-washed green On willow, grass and tree. Miss Aspen tossed her pretty head, And shivered in the breeze, While birds burst out in joyous song, As they flew among the trees. Now all the world is beautiful The flowers are clean and bright, For Dame Nature had a washday And she did it all at night. Your Words Make or Unmake Your Child (A CHALLENGE) By Claire Stewart Boyer The purpose of the home," says a recent book on the family, "is the preservation of culture and the development of personality." Now culture is largely preserved and personality is best developed through the cultural spirit of one person inspiring another. Usually the medium of spirit is words, well chosen words that lift hearts to a higher level. There are words used in some homes that brand children in their own minds for a lifetime. Certain of these are criminal phrases because they put a child on a bestial level. From which he never rises, they kill the spiritual bud so that it never comes to full bloom. These are: liar, thief, brat, pig, little devil. Idiot. They are the harshest, most cruel words that can be used. To the impressionable they are stabs which always leave a scar. They give children complexes which they find difficult to eliminate. The cultured soul will not allow such words to befoul the lips. A child usually wishes and somewhat intends to live up to what his mother expects of him. If she brands him with the title Liar, he immediately knows that she does not consider it beneath him to lie. So he is more likely to do so. "Give a dog a bad name and hang him," is still a truism. But woe to the parent who puts the stigma upon her own child! The divine within each child must be maintained and the major responsibility lies with the mother. Now instead of using this negative method of giving a child a sense of right and wrong, the psychological method of raising a glorious standard before his eyes is the only wise one to employ. Through it even criminals have been resuscitated. The shining strength of truth, the satisfaction of honesty, the possibility of a child rising to the level of a god can easily be phrased. Call a child a pig and he may be only a grunting little animal with no cleaner ambition. Brat is the most devastating of all words. A woman who thinks of children in terms of brats, whether they are her own or her neighbors', is sadly in need of spirituality, but if she utters the word she is little short of contemptible. Slightly less despicable are words and phrases which degrade children by giving them a sense of shame. "Shame on you," is the easiest reprimand for the parent. Analyze shame and you will feel the blot it leaves on the soul. I was happy the other day when my own little laddie in speaking to his dog said, 'Fritz, I can hardly be proud of you for doing that. I'd like to be proud of you all the time. Remember that." Sometimes in off moments a mother sees the fruit of her teaching and it carries its own glorious satisfaction. I have the testimonies of several women that one word given by a thoughtless mother has been a lifetime handicap, an open sore. The child that is growing fast is often termed "lazy". The child with admirable will power is disparaged by being called "stubborn." The ambitious child is often regarded as 630 selfish and that spoken reproach deadens this most precious virtue. Other such destroying imps of words are: stingy, simpleton, dumbbell, ‘fraid-cat, story teller. There is no need of using any of these. For stingy there are several delightful quotations such as "the gift without the giver is bare," "we keep only what we give away," "when I do a thing for you I do it for myself, do you mind." Or for smaller children, "doesn't it make you happier inside to make someone else happy?" There are as many phrases for developing generosity as there are cultural people who will take time to think in well-chosen words. For simpleton, King Solomon might well be referred to. For 'fraid cat, "I am God's child, no harm can come to me," has saved thousands of children from terrors untold. In handling the story teller phrase a difference between the child's whimsical imagination and his desire to deceive must be made. One mother made a contract with her children to let their eyes twinkle when they were imagining. The scheme worked. Mother and children laughed together over delightful exaggerations and the truth was kept on a high and trustful level. For helpfulness—'"be a good scout" might be used effectively; for concentration—"screw your courage to the sticking place and you'll not fail;" for endurance—"be a good soldier;" for patience—'remember Job," etc. There is a world full of heroes that may be referred to. For tiny tots there are good fairies, brownies, guardian angels, gentlemen, queens and knights. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE We need not even retire to the past for our inspirations. We have our Lindbergh, our Byrd, our Cadman—thousands of heroes and heroines of today. Let us use gentle phrases, not harsh terms; encouraging words, not disheartening ones; inspiring words, not dispiriting ones. Let this be our new resolution, for our phrases can make or unmake our children. Culture is marked by sincere aspiration toward a spiritual personality. —PLEA— Give the little lads your dream They can hold its precious wonder, Tell them of the lives that gleam — With a glory just as tender As the story of the saints That the Bible proudly paints; Tell of men who walk today In the same appointed way. Give the little lads your dream They can shape their aspirations From your gentle words that beam With the light of inspiration; Tell them of a world made whole By the courage of the soul; Let them know the men today Who would make the world that way. Give the little lads a dream They can but rejoice in sharing Let them know that love and truth Are the standards they are bearing. Give the little lads a dream Even though the world may seem At the point of crucifixion,— Give them faith in resurrection! Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon INDIAN Summer — nature bedecked, like an Oriental queen in jewels and richest fabrics, enchants her artist and poet lovers to pour out the adoration of their souls. MARIE JOSE LAVAL, charming daughter of the French premier, in becoming the bride of Count de Chambrun became a citizen of the United States as well as of France. This is the only case of a woman being a citizen of two nations. All descendants of General Lafayette have honorary citizenship in the United States and according to French law the wife takes the nationality of her husband. MEXICAN women have been given the franchise and for the first time in Mexican history recently voted in municipal elections. EDNA MILLER RICH, new president of Hull House, was co-winner with Jane Addams of the Nobel peace prize in 1931. PARIS stylists are showing models of skirts for street wear shorter than since 1929, though the length is determined largely by the wearer. NANCY McKNIGHT, 103, of Michigan, gives as a recipe for longevity, "Never to eat cake or pie or go to the movies." Who wants to be 103 anyway? ESTHER W. STEPHENS, formerly of Utah, has been appointed state chairman of music of the California Federation of Women's Clubs, in appreciation of her fine work in local and district music circles. GALLI-CURCI while resting after her goitre operation believes she will soon thrill the world again with her golden voice, while Grace Moore and Gladys Swarthout recently returned from Europe are busily preparing for their appearance at Hollywood and the Metropolitan, respectively. LILY PONS, Metropolitan star, after her summer work on the film "Love Song" says she considers her opera, concert and radio days as vacations. JERITZA VIENESE, prima donna, was married last summer to R. Sheehan, film producer, at Santa Barbara mission. EVANGELINE LEHMAN, student at Fontainbleau, France, has composed a symphony based on the Mormon trek called "Journey's End." DOROTHY DICKSON broke the American record in swimming at Manhattan Beach this summer and Elizabeth Cowles of Cal. Set the record of mountain climbing by women when she reached the top of Teton Mountain, while two Russian girls made a new record in parachute jumping. Each of them was given 15,000 rubles by the Russian government. CHARLOTTE PERKINS GILMAN, at one time rated by Carrie Chapman Catt as the foremost woman in America for her advanced thought, died last summer at the home of her daughter in Pasadena, California. Teaching By Vernessa Miller Nagle ONE should seek to be well-informed, to be spiritual as well as "worldly-wise". To be able to impart to youth the desire to grow spiritually and intellectually; to give to youth the impetus for a greater enrichment of life is in itself a mission. Such people are the friends of youth,—the youth of energy as well as the youth of words and dreams. Perhaps in everyone's life there moves a dream figure,—one who stimulates, encourages, awakens the best that is within each of us. Regardless of our shortcomings and inevitable mistakes we like to think that someone has interpreted life to us in its true beauty, and, although we may be disillusioned at every cross-road, we never lose faith that life is good and worth all our efforts. I like to think of Alice Louise Reynolds as such a person. I like to believe that her greatest gift to me was not so much a store of information as a glorious degree of inspiration. It was she who made me love to seek out the wisdom of the masters. It was she who caused me to see the exquisite beauty of a lovely poem, or, to enjoy the "best and happiest moments of the happiest and best minds." It was not especially Miss Reynolds' class-room technique that I recall at this time, but rather the little informal chats with her, her charming stories of beautiful old Vienna with its imposing architecture, its genial gayety—its art, music, and dancing. I recall her interesting tales of schooling abroad, reminiscences of personal acquaintances with men and women of international importance. I learned almost to know personally Alfred Tennyson and Robert Browning from Miss Reynolds' vivid stories of her knowledge of their homes. In retrospect I hear her, even now, telling of the emotions she experienced in viewing for the first time the Passion Play of Oberammergau. I seem almost to hear the insurgent rhythm of her voice as she tells of the triumphant entrance into Jerusalem, the exchange of money, and finally the wind-swept scene of the Cross of Thorns. From the printed page she taught her students to see the beauties they had never noticed. We learned to feel that the love of beauty in life is a potent factor in the soul's constant search for the essentials of happiness and success. My associations with Alice Louise Reynolds will ever remain with me a harmony of things remembered and beloved. Autumn By Elsie E. Barrett Autumn days are in the making With a forecast of the Fall; Brushes ready full of color, Motives from a paisley shawl. Soon we'll see the seed pods changing Into dresses aureate; She will fill our hearts with rapture With her strokes elaborate. May we cherish Autumn's beauty To inspire when drab days vex It will help the thoughts soar upward When earth's schooling seem complex. Batching By Caroline Eyring Miner "BATCHERS" at Colleges have been more numerous the past few years than they have ever been before. No doubt each mother who reads this article knows a special reason why. Depression has stolen the family purse but not its generous supply of ambition, and boys and girls with ambition, but without employment or money, make a compromise between remaining at home in idleness and attending college in a leisurely fashion, by "batching." "Batching" is an unromantic name for the adventurous undertaking of living away from home and being one's own cook and bottle-washer. Most anyone is eligible for this adventure. However, between the ages of sixteen and twenty-five it may be observed in its truest form. With a few provisions from home, consisting of some canned fruit, a supply of eggs and butter, a few loaves of bread, and a generous supply of home-baked cookies, together with an insignificant number of dishes and kettles and personal linen, and with very little money, the average "batcher"' leaves his comfortable parental home and sets up in "batching" headquarters in some College town. He has been instructed time and time again by his anxious mother that he must take good care of himself; he must keep his place warm; he must take time to cook what he needs. And he proceeds immediately to disobey everyone of her ten commandments; not wilfully, but because of the force of circumstances. I speak as a "batcher" with four years' experience, and I speak in defense of the offender. I know he becomes ill; I've actually seen cases of chronic appendicitis aggravated to the point of acuteness under "batching" fare; I've seen pneumonia develop and one severe case of mastoiditis. And as for colds, they are too numerous to mention. But he, the "batcher," cannot help it. Time is an item in the first place. When a student carries a full curricular and extra-curricular load, he doesn't have the time to keep house in any fashion worthy of the name. You know how your boy or girl stays in bed in the mornings at home. Well, he does it just as consistently or more so while batching and in consequence he doesn't even have time to make a fire or get breakfast. So he does without either. At noon there is time for only a cold bite and at night, if there isn't a big social planned to save him, he is very likely to cook and eat enough potatoes and gravy and meat to founder an ordinary hard-working man. And so the routine goes. As long as the provisions from home last, there is pretty good fare, but shopping takes time and money, neither of which is plentiful, and it is neglected. "What am I to do about it?" the anxious mother asks. "He knows better than to do the way he does and there isn't money for him to board." Of course he knows better and the only thing he can do is to "batch" if he goes to school at all. Just don't worry about him. Keep advising him if you wish but don't worry about him if he doesn't follow your advice. It isn't going to hurt him very seriously, and how he will appreciate home and mother when the "batching" days are over! Gifts By Jane C. Weaver DID you ever dream of possessing a wonderful voice, of being able to sing a soulful inspiring song? Have you ever had a great desire to write a poem or transfer a beautiful scene to canvas? Have you ever felt an inner urge to express in beautiful language some hidden overpowering emotion? Was your faith equal to your desire so that you were willing to work and make your dream come true? If so you were on the first round of the ladder and ready for a steady climb. You felt that you had a gift or talent and you were prepared to make great sacrifice for its development. THERE is no royal road to the possession and retention of a gift. The path in its mastery and culmination is often strewn with obstacles and discouragement, but we cannot command success without intensive labor and persevering application. All gifts and talents however humble have for their object the happiness and uplift of mankind. They all improve, exalt, and gladden life. They stand for wealth and are an ornament to riches. Our talents are our jewels and their grace is lost in their concealment. Let us develop our talents and gifts and thereby bring happiness to ourselves and others and glorify our Father which is in heaven. God's creatures in their natural way Well comprehend their powers; While we, whom reason ought to sway Neglect the talents which are ours. No gift develops by itself Through effort it may shine; A hidden gift will fade and rust And lose its spark divine. God gives his children talents rare, Gifts for the good of man; He pleads with us these gifts to share To consummate His plan. Reclaiming the Desert By Evangeline Viner This land was fashioned for men like stone, Who feared not to face the desert alone; Who hewed out homes with the toil of their hands, And snatched their fields from the desert sands. They toiled and labored through heat and cold; What they gained, they continued to hold. Brave were their women, who did not complain When they bore children in sorrow and pain, With no hands to ease or comfort them, But the rough, kindly hands of their men. They suffered the pangs of hunger and thirst, But they hung on, from the last to the first. None of that glorious band would retreat; Not one would admit he had met defeat, Until they had driven the desert away And brought in the water, forever to stay. Some Rain Must Fall By Ruth M. Ostegar JEAN ROWLAND'S spirits, like the barometer, showed a decided low. The day was cloudy and cold. The wind howled, moaned around the shabby, little house into which the Rowland's had been forced to move, then took itself off to shake down more leaves for Jean to rake up. The whole world looked dark and dreary. Pausing in the middle of doing her morning work, Jean went to the dresser, pulled out her purse and slowly counted the pennies, nickles, dimes and quarters therein. "Four dollars and eighty-five cents," she told herself, "and Jimmie needs new shoes, Beth and Lena both need new coats and neither Henry nor I have had a new thing in months!' She thrust the purse savagely into the drawer and choked back the tears. "It's terrible, to be so poor! I can't see why the Lord has to pick on us. We've always been faithful, paid our tithing, and tried to do right, and here Henry has been without regular work for nine months. It isn't fair! It almost makes me wish I had married for money like Susie Wright, or gone on teaching school and never married. I know there isn't a woman in town whom fate has treated so cruelly as it has me. At one blow, when the bank failed, we lost all our savings and Henry was thrown out of a job. Then we had to let the car and our home go, and—" The door bell suddenly interrupted her tirade; she hastened to open the door. "Good morning," smiled. Her visitor "Why come right in, Sister Meecham, we were going Relief Society teaching today weren't we? And I'd forgotten all about it. Sit down, I'll be ready in a minute." "Oooo—the car feels nice after being in that cold wind," Jean said a few minutes later as she climbed into the car, and added, "Where are we going first today?" "I think we had better call on Sister Merritt. You know her baby is awfully sick." "What a shame! I hadn't heard of it. And she only has the one, too. What's the matter with it?" "Pneumonia, the doctor says." As they entered the Merritt home they were greeted by the grave face and low voice of Brother Merritt. His hair looked a little whiter and his face showed the strain of the anxiety, worry and loss of sleep he had been suffering. He led them to the little bedside where Sister Merritt was so patiently awaiting the climax and doing what she could to ease the little sufferer. The sight went straight to Jean's heart. What could she do or say in the face of such a situation? She knew the Merritt's whole life revolved around the little child, as they, like Sarah of old, had waited years before they had been blessed with a baby. But Sister Meecham, who was older and more experienced, with a few gentle words and an arm slipped around the tired mother seemed to soothe her pent up feelings and bring new cheer and hope. "Have you made arrangements 636 for anyone to stay with you tonight?" Jean finally asked. "No! I couldn't sleep anyway!" "But you must have some one or you will be sick yourself. While I don't know much about nursing, I'd be glad to come and relieve you." "But you have your own children to look after," Sister Meecham interrupted. "We'll see if we can get Mary Green. All her children are practically grown and Betty is old enough to cook for the boys and her father. In fact it would do her good to have a little responsibility placed upon her. The sisters finally departed, leaving a more peaceful spirit behind. "We might as well go on right down the street and make our calls as they come," said Sister Meecham. "Getting a nice early start like we have this morning, there will be time enough to see Mary Green when we get there." The next two calls proceeded in the usual manner, Sister Meecham giving the teacher's topic at the first place and Jean giving it at the next one. After their message was given and discussed they visited a few moments and hastened on their way. For their fourth call, they left the street on which they had been calling and went up on the hill to visit at the home of Susie Wright, whom only that morning Jean had been envying. Ever since Susie had married Evanstown's wealthiest citizen she had neglected the church, and treated the Relief Society sisters rather condescendingly, if indeed she saw them at all. More often her maid simply stated that Mrs. Wright was not at home, even though they had seen her being driven in by her chauffeur but a few moments before. The call on Susie, therefore, was usually not a very RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE enjoyable affair. As they walked up the path through the beautiful flower beds, beautiful still though summer was gone, Jean looked at her shabby clothes and almost wished that once again Mrs. Wright would be "not at home." This time, however, they were admitted and shown into the beautifully furnished drawing room. Jean looked around the lovely room and sighed as she thought of her own weather-beaten little cottage. "Oh it must be wonderful to have a beautiful home like this, with all the money you need and a maid to do all your work," she thought. "If only I could change places with her for a little while! It would do her a lot of good to be real poor for a while. It would take a lot of snobbishness out of her, too.' At first when Susie entered there was a cool, aloofness about her which, although Jean had known her ever since they were children together, made her feel rather uncomfortable. But dear Sister Meecham started in on the topic with her usually clever manner and little by little Susie seemed to become interested in spite of herself, and would add a word or make a comment here and there. "It seems to me," Sister Meecham finally remarked, "that a great many of our social problems could be solved if there were only more real, true, self-sacrificing love in the world, and not so much greed and selfishness." "Love!" It was almost a moan that escaped Susie's lips and both her guests looked up quickly to see her eyes fill with tears. For a second it looked as though she were going to break down and cry, but she quickly gained her self-control and changing the subject, remarked, casually, "Beastly weather we're having, isn't it? Autumn is so gloomy, it always makes me terribly blue." The talk changed to lighter subjects for a few minutes until Jean unwittingly chanced to make the remark, "Oh, Susie, you surely ought to be the happiest woman in the world, with beauty and culture all around you and all the money you need; especially now that there is so much poverty and suffering on every hand." "Happy? The happiest woman in the world?" Again Susie's eyes filled with tears, but this time it was a little too much for her to hold them back, and she sobbed, "How can I be happy when I have no one in the world to love?" With this she broke down and sobbed almost hysterically for a moment, then: "My husband never loved me. He just married me because I was beautiful and popular." Her words were punctuated with sobs, but she continued, "I have no children — he doesn't want any—I hate him! My father and mother are both gone, and I have no real friends, they care only for my money. Oh, if I only had someone to really love." Then she broke into uncontrolled sobs before her astonished visitors. After a few moments, while Sister Meecham tried to once again act as a comforter, Susie ceased crying and apologized for breaking down before them. She blamed the weather again for her despondency, and begged them not to breathe a word of what had happened. Finally she bade them goodbye, after they had assured her of their friendship and help if she ever needed them. As they once more walked through the garden, the utter loneliness of her situation struck both of them, and Sister Meecham said, as she shook her head, "All is not gold that glitters." SOME RAIN MUST FALL 637 MRS. JONES, the next lady on the list was not at home. "She's probably doing her own teaching since this is the last day," Jean remarked. "And that leaves us only one more, doesn't it?" "Yes, just Mary Green, and I surely hope she can stay with Mrs. Merritt part of the time for a few days." As the car stopped in front of the gate, the front door opened and Mary Green, with red, swollen eyes, and a worried look, walked rapidly down the path and greeted them. "Oh, I'm so glad to see you, I just needed someone. I believe God must have sent you to me." "Why, what's the matter?" both women asked. "What's wrong?" "It's Betty," she told them as they walked into the house. "You know she has been running around with that Benson fellow. Everybody knows he's no good. I've tried my best to make her see what she was doing, but she just refused to listen, and last night there was a terrible scene. You know how stubborn and hard her father is; he never understood her, and last night he forbade her ever seeing him again. I know it was very unwise. He realizes it, too, now, but some time during the night she ran away." "Ran away!" again came the chorus. "Yes, I called her early this morning to get up and get breakfast while I started the washing, and she wasn't there. Her room was empty." "Perhaps she is just with some of her friends," Jean suggested. "I thought of that, but I've called every one I can think of and no one has seen or heard of her. I'm almost crazy! Her father's gone now to see if he can locate Benson. I don't know what will come of it all." After doing what they could to cheer her up and reassure her, Jean 638 left, as it was not far home and she wanted to get her work done up early, as she could see that it would be out of the question now to ask Mrs. Green to go and spend the night with Mrs. Merritt. Jean felt that she could be spared from her home now that her husband wasn't working, and she was anxious to do something to help. Mrs. Meecham, who had long been Mrs. Green's best friend, decided to stay with her for a few hours, as Mrs. Green had begged her to do so. WHEN Henry Rowland returned to dinner discouraged and blue after an unsuccessful attempt to find work, he was greeted by a singing, smiling wife. Kissing him, she led him to the nearest rocker RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and brought his slippers, which she assisted him to put on. Then she sat on the arm of his chair, facing him, and taking his tired face between her hands she said, "Cheer up, dear, it isn't so bad to be poor." "You're a brick, dear. It's on your account that I've hated it so much." "Oh, there's lots of things worse than poverty. I went Relief Society teaching today, but it was I who learned the biggest lesson. "In all life some rain must fall.' But, Henry dear, we have love, faith, children, friends, we're all well and we have no family troubles or broken hearts, and though poor, we've still so many things to be thankful for!' With another kiss she ran in to take up the steaming dishes she had prepared for dinner. MRS. MARY DURNEY, OF ST. ANTHONY, AND HER SEVEN DAUGHTERS Sister Durney has given over twenty-five years' service in Relief Society. A Personnel Department for the Home By Leola Seely NOT all girls are happy on entering college, but—they could be, said Nettie Neff Smart, Dean of Women of Brigham Young University, in a recent interview. And from her years of observation and personal acquaintance with the problems of hundreds of girls Dean Smart suggested a workable plan through which all girls might enter college in confident anticipation of a joyous new life. What our girls need when they come to college is a broader and more secure foundation upon which to build the framework of the new lives they construct in college, Dean Smart believes. They need more conviction and assurance in their judgments as they make adjustments to their new environment. As a project for the New Year, in anticipation of the entrance into colleges of hundreds of girls next fall, Dean Smart offered this brief outline of her practical plan: A Family Personnel Department, corresponding to the Personnel Department of the University, could be established in each home. Its purpose would be to become acquainted with all the little quirks and twists in the individual natures of its members that make each a different and interesting being, and to adjust everyone's quirks to fit everyone's twists congenially. Father might be the head of the department with Mother as chief advisor. Each of the children would hold a responsible office, for this is one small unit of investigation and group instruction. Suppose we assign to Father the duty of studying the individual personalities in our family group. Perhaps this week he can point out a few good points in each personality that we would do well to strengthen, and suggest a few really practical ways for improving the one or two qualities which are not so admirable that he finds among us. Supplemented by a few simple rules formulated by Mother, telling us just what characteristics of personality will make us charming, well-bred, well loved girls, we have a summary of the individual personality of each of us to compare with the standard Mother puts up for attainment. For this week one of the girls, an older one, could consult a reliable source of information and find out in just what points college girls are negligent, and suggest a few items that all girls need to know when they enter a University. She will no doubt include such common rules as courtesy, consideration, honesty, reliability, responsibility. For this week it will be enough to discuss these first principles, courtesy and consideration. WHEN a girl comes to Brigham Young University, she finds a great many people willing and eager to help her to have a good time. They demand, however, that she be a refined girl, that she not make herself unpleasantly conspicuous by loud talking and laughing on the campus or streets that she respect the rights of other girls with whom she lives. Mothers who take girls into their homes as boarders or roomers expect those girls to be a happy addition to their homes. Consideration of the wishes of these housemothers, adherence to the standards they set up for their own families, appreciation of the efforts of housemothers to make things comfortable and pleasant for the girls, stamp a girl as being refined. Girls who are careless of these fine details which are so vital a part of that foundation which Dean Smart would have them build, find it hard to fit into the life of the University. Suppose we ask another of the girls at home to find out what ideals the University social life sets up. If we discuss these in our family circle we can determine a number of ways to adjust to them when we get to college. Perhaps our ideas about boys are the hardest for us to agree on. Our modern Mother will not impose ridiculously old-fashioned rules: she will advocate the refined and gracious atmosphere of pleasant companionship. She will probably tell us to bid our gentlemen friends good-night by twelve o'clock, not because that is the only possible hour, but because most of the fun there is can be squeezed in before that, and that first class comes so early in the morning! And besides, there are other nights. A whole nine months' worth of nights for enjoyment. Within the social groups of the campus the girls uphold high ideals. All have definite rules against such conduct as smoking or drinking. All sponsor a high standard of scholarship, sportsmanship, and loyalty. The girl who infringes on the rules is quietly eased out if she will not adjust. One other sister in our family group might look up the problems of study that a girl always faces when she enters college. What shall she study? Does she want a home? Most of our girls do, Dean Smart RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE confided. Almost all Mormon girls have that goal set as their objective, and that is as it should be. Should a girl study for a career? Why not? She is enriched for her own home life if, along with the fundamentals, she can develop a talent or two. As an expert of domestic art or domestic science, a student of education, music, or the arts, she builds a splendid addition to her ability to become a good wife and mother. And every girl should know some business, Dean Smart declared. All wives have household accounts that need intelligent attention. Should a career supplant all other activities? Dean Smart believes not. All the fine things that can be packed into one short lifetime, all the things that enrich, enlarge, and intensify our joy should go into that life, and college is over-flowing with all of these things. Girls are coming to college younger now than formerly. They need definite standards, reliable judgments of values, powers of discrimination, Dean Smart emphasized. These they must get at home before they come to college. On these rests their ability to adjust successfully and quickly to the new life. DEAN SMART believes that it would be a worthwhile project for every home, this New Year, to initiate a Personnel Department whose officers and members are Father, Mother, and the Children; whose purpose is to get acquainted with themselves; to help each other to develop those ideals and powers so necessary to a complete adjustment; and to lay that broad, secure foundation upon which to build a beautiful character, whose influence will exceed the limits of individual capacity and spill over into the lives of others, Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary Carbon Stake AS the time approaches for our Magazine Drive, the splendid efforts of the sisters during the past year come to our attention. The picture below is of the Helper Ward Relief Society, which staged the delightful little play, "The Spirit of the Magazine." This was presented to a large and enthusiastic audience of Relief Society workers and friends. The cast of the play was composed entirely of Relief Society members who acquitted themselves with great credit if the comments from the community are to be taken as evidence. The play not only was helpful and entertaining, but it did much to help in the Relief Society Magazine subscription campaign. Northern States Mission ANOTHER evidence of the fact that the Relief Society work is a great factor in the Missions comes from the Northern States. Recently an order for twenty-seven copies of Handicrafts for Every Woman, was received. The enthusiastic and devoted leadership in this mission is most anxious to give to the sisters the advantages that arise from the THE SPIRIT OF THE MAGAZINE—HELPER WARD use of this fine book, along with all the other educational programs offered by the Relief Society. British Mission AMONG the very delightful callers at the office during the Summer was Sister Trixie Cussans, President of the Belfast Branch of the Irish District Relief Society. Sister Cussans, in her visit to Utah gave a very fine report of Relief Society work among the Irish sisters. Many young women, non-members of the Church, participate in the work. 642 Woodruff Stake (Diamondville Ward) THE picture below is interesting as it is so typical of the spirit of Relief Society, including, as it does, the mature sisters who have had the experience of life and the young women who approach it with courage, faith and hope. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "To satisfy a need common to us all—a need for a greater appreciation of the spiritual values of life, the Music Department of the Tooele Stake Relief Society has inaugurated a study of the origins and themes of our Latter-day Saint Hymns. Songs of worship express the thoughts and aims of man in his ideal DIAMONDVILLE, WARD Tooele Stake THE following quotation from the Tooele Stake Chorister and Organist, Sisters Lizzie Barrus and Ada Higginson, needs no explanation: state, and as such, help to elevate and anchor our thoughts, and through our thoughts, our actions to the more lasting joys of living. "We stimulate discussion and research by preparing a questionnaire on some of our hymns for each Union Meeting. We hope that the uplifting influence of the literary gems embodied in the words and the soul-satisfying expressions found in their wonderful melodies will become an integral and permanent influence in our lives." Timpanogos Stake ANOTHER evidence of the great interest in the scripture reading project comes from the Timpanogos Stake. The delightful pictures which appear tell the story of the beautiful pastoral—Ruth, which was part of a program given on January 22, 1935, in honor of the Visiting Teachers of the Timpanogos Stake Relief Society. In this stake there are 145 teachers, and all have made 100% visits the last four years. The program consisted of community singing, ladies' quartette, piano and 1. Naomi and her family as they journey to Moab. 2. The kinsman gives Boaz the right to buy the property of Naomi and to marry Ruth. Violin selections, and six dramatized Bible stories from the Old Testament, one given by each of the six wards. These were well presented and the staging and costuming very attractively worked out. Three hundred were in attendance at this convention in the afternoon, after which refreshments were served. Four hundred Primary children then assembled and enjoyed a review of the Bible stories in pageant form that had been so well prepared and presented to the Relief Society members. Big Horn Stake A VERY splendid report of the activities of the Big Horn Stake came to the office recently. Reports of the past have indicated how enthusiastically this Relief Society puts into effect the activities sponsored. Sunday, May 12, three members Pastoral Ruth presented by Timpanogos Stake of the stake board accompanied two representatives of the Seventies Quorum to Ten Sleep to attend a Sacrament meeting, traveling a return distance of two hundred and thirty miles. The Relief Society officers were given an opportunity to explain the purpose and function of this organization. At the close of the Sacrament meeting President Hazel N. Boyack presided at a meeting of sixteen women interested in effecting an organization. The requirements for such an organization were presented by the Stake officers after which the sisters expressed unanimous desire to have an organization. The officers were then sustained and set apart under the direction of President Partridge. A young mother, Doris Rice, is the president. Ten Sleep was formerly a part of the Worland Branch. There are about sixty-seven Latter-day Saints residing in this locality and this is their first auxiliary organization. There were eight organizations in the stake seven years ago when the present board was appointed, and there are now fifteen. St. Joseph Stake THE Layton Relief Society of St. Joseph Stake recently carried on a very successful project. After the literary lesson on biography, the teacher asked each member to write a sketch of her mother. They were to be brief word pictures portraying character. Thirteen women responded. The meeting where extracts from the sketches were used was most interesting. While our space does not permit our printing these sketches, we commend the teacher and the writers for successfully carrying out this valuable project THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth LOUISE YATES ROBISON -: President AMY BROWN LYMAN.-:: -: First Counselor KATE M. BARKER -: Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND -::: -: General Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Ethel Reynolds Smith Rosannah C. Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Jennie B, Knight Lalene H. Hart Elise B. Alder: Janet M. Thompson Lotta Paul Baxter Inez K. Allen Belle S. Spafford Cora L, Bennion Ida P. Beal Donna Durrant Sorensen Amy Whipple Evans Marcia K. Howells RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: Mary Connelly Kimball Manager -: Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager: Amy Brown Lyman Vol. XXII OCTOBER, 1935 No. 10 EDITORIAL Campaign For Peace THE Women's International League has announced that it is launching a world-wide campaign for peace. A People's Mandate to Governments to end war will be circulated throughout the world. The campaign was opened on Jane Addams' birthday, September 6, 1935, when it was expected meetings would be held simultaneously all over the world. Following these meetings the campaign for signatures will be carried on. It is hoped that at least 12,000,000 signatures will be obtained in the United States. "The Mandate calls on Governments having renounced War in the Kellogg-Briand Pact to stop preparations for war, use existing agencies to settle present conflicts, and secure international action for disarmament and economic cooperation." Mass meetings, conferences, group meetings——every kind of activity at which public opinion can be aroused and signatures secured—will be undertaken. Well-known speakers of the Women's International League will be sent to every possible country. The work will be carried on through organizations. Every possible group, labor union, church groups, women's clubs, business men's clubs, peace organizations, college organizations, political organizations. Etc., will be asked to cooperate. All should work together to maintain peace. Narcotics Education THE Foundation for Narcotics Research and Information reports that great strides toward the proper education of high school and college students in the grave dangers of narcotics, principally beverage alcohol, are being made by the Foundation. Professor Irving Fisher of Yale University, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, has enlisted the support of more than 5,000 high school principals in a campaign undertaken only a few weeks ago to have narcotics education included in the 1935-36 curricula. Professor Fisher suggests in a letter to 23,000 principals that the text book "Narcotics and Youth Today," by Robert E. Corradini, be used. Through funds of the Foundation it is possible for these principals to have a free copy of the book. "Narcotics and Youth Today" was published by the Foundation for the use of schools and colleges. It deals with every phase of the narcotics problem. Alcohol, which has falsely been considered as chiefly stimulant, is shown to be actually a depressant giving only the illusion of stimulation through first paralyzing the governing or control functions of the body. The Foundation realizes that never before has there been greater need for accurate information on the narcotic question. We quote the following paragraphs from "Narcotics and Youth Today." "Youth has the right to demand of scientific research the truth, clear and impartial, as to the findings on alcohol and other narcotic drugs. This book has been written to meet that need. "The coming of the machine and the release of tremendous power units of energy into the hands of men technically unprepared, and of some temperamentally unfit, are creating problems with which no previous generation has had to cope. "Young people today must face the narcotics question, especially the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE alcohol problem. It is inescapable. Advertising—much of it misleading —is facing us in the press, in magazines, entering our homes over the air and filling the screen of our amusement centers. What attitude should the young people take on this question? On the one hand, there are prejudices and the traditions of thousands of years, handed down from generation to generation. On the other, we have the new knowledge which comes from our research laboratories almost daily. Often tradition and science do not coincide. "The intelligent, scientific attitude of our youth today should be to face the narcotics question in the light of our present-day knowledge. It should determine the course of future action by what it has learned in school about nutrition, chemistry, physiology, biology, psychology and all the other sciences which put at the disposal of the modern student such a wealth of information, the like of which no previous generation has ever known. "A totally drunken person is not very dangerous as he cannot operate modern machines. If he attempts to operate one, he can be 'spotted' immediately. "The really dangerous man today is the moderate drinker who is only slightly under the influence of alcohol. He is quite capable of starting and operating a machine, certainly an automobile, but in an emergency he may miscalculate the speed of an approaching car, or the distance between himself and a pedestrian... The drinker, overestimating his ability, will take chances which may end in a fatal accident. "The effects on the nervous system after an ordinary drink will last for several hours. The average individual cannot consider himself normal for several hours after a EDITORIAL drink of alcohol, even though he may not feel any particular effect." A Wonderful Year THE time draws near for our opening meetings. We expect our 1935-36 year of Relief Society activity to be an outstanding one. We hope all our officers are enthusiastically planning to make this the best year in our history. Each season should surpass the previous ones, for we have them to profit by. To insure this, every detail should be attended to, every office filled with efficient, enthusiastic officers. The program should be carefully planned and provision made so that there shall be no failures. People should be notified of the opening meeting and cordially invited to attend. Meetings should begin on time. Officers should not wait for the people to come, but when the time arrives for commencement, the opening song should be rendered. Meetings should also close on time, so that the members will know exactly how long they will be in meeting. Our music should be made more effective. Our lessons should be better socialized. Our work days will this year receive new impetus through our book "Handicraft for Every Woman," and through the suggestions offered in the Magazine. Let all remember, however, that no matter how well every detail is attended to and how carefully the work is planned, unless through prayerful seeking the Holy Spirit is present with its directing power and sweet influence the meetings will lack their most potent power. We extend greetings and best wishes to all our officers and members and hope that their joy in Relief Society work will be greater than ever before. Value of Travel THE other day I met a charming woman who had traveled extensively. I was impressed with the clear vision she had of problems and how well she understood people. Her eyes flashed as she said, "It is the people, the people, I am interested in." Those who are fortunate enough to travel should make the study of peoples their greatest problem. It is a joy to visit beautiful buildings, it is interesting to see what man has accomplished, but the greatest value of such opportunities is that it makes people realize what man has wrought. People who have come from their travels should again and again dwell upon their experiences. To recount the beautiful things they have seen and to tell of the interesting people they have met impresses these things upon their minds and makes their trip of far greater future value. Travelers should always return from a journey with a deeper understanding of people and their problems and with more love for and interest in mankind. Lesson Department (For First Week in March) Theology and Testimony LESSON VI INTRODUCTION OF THE TEMPLE ENDOWMENT 1. The Brick Store. In modern times, the temple endowment was introduced by the Prophet Joseph Smith in a large upstairs room, often spoken of by him as the "Council Chamber," situated above his store, Wednesday, May 4, 1842. It will be recalled that when the Prophet moved to Nauvoo, he took up his abode in a log house which was present on the ground at the time of its purchase. The house faced the south and was situated on a slightly elevated tract of land only a few rods from the edge of the mighty Mississippi, which at this place flowed locally toward the southeast. The principal north-south street of Nauvoo was so located that it passed within a few feet of the east side of the house. The first east-west street to the north was Water Street. This arrangement of the streets and the river gave the Prophet a triangular tract, at the southeast corner of which was his residence, and the northwest corner, his store at the banks of the river and Water Street. 2. The building itself was a twostory brick structure facing the north. It was roughly thirty feet wide by fifty feet long, substantially roofed and ornamented with a somewhat massive cornice. At the front, on the ground floor, was an ordinary double door, flanked on each side by a window about as large as the door itself. Above on the second floor were three windows of. Slightly smaller dimensions. The building in its entirety was not unlike the regulation "co-op store” subsequently built in many of the smaller villages and towns of Utah. The upper story of this building was the Prophet's "Council Chamber,' and, as stated above, marks the place where the temple endowment was first given in modern times. 3. Divine Instruction. The doctrine of baptism for the dead was first made known to the saints in a sermon preached by the Prophet at the funeral of Elder Seymour Bronson, August 10, 1840. Thereafter for a short time the saints were given the privilege of performing this ordinance in the Mississippi river. Then on the 19th of January, 1841, the Prophet received a_ revelation giving further information on this subject. Touching the matter of baptism for the dead, the Lord said: "For a baptismal font there is not upon the earth, that they, my saints, may be baptized for those who are dead—for this ordinance belongeth to my house, and cannot be acceptable to me, only i in the days of your poverty, wherein ye are not able to build a house unto me. But I command you, all ye my saints, to build a house (Nauvoo temple) unto me; and I grant unto you a sufficient time to build a house unto me, and during this time your baptisms shall be acceptable unto me." (D. And C. 124: 28-31) It is well known, of course, that even long before the temple was completed, the baptismal font was dedicated and extensively used. 4. But the revelation above quoted LESSON DEPARTMENT is plainly not limited in its purpose to the matter of baptism for the dead, as witness the following: "How shall your washings be acceptable unto me, except ye perform them in a house which you have built to my name? For, for_this cause I commanded Moses that he should build a tabernacle, that they should bear it with them in the wilderness, and to build a house in the land of promise, that those ordinances might be revealed which had been hid from before the world was. Therefore, verily I say unto you, that your anointings, and your washings, and your baptisms for the dead, and your solemn assemblies, and your memorials for your sacrifices by the sons of Levi, and for your oracles in your most holy places wherein you receive conversations, and your statutes and judgments, for the beginning of the revelations and foundation of Zion, and for the glory, honor, and en-_ dowment of all her municipals, are ordained by the ordinance of my holy house, which my people are always commanded to build unto my holy name. And verily I say unto you, let this house be built unto my name, that I may reveal mine ordinances therein unto my people; for I deign to reveal unto my church things which have been kept hid from before the foundation of the world, things which pertain to the dispensation of the fulness of times." (Verses 37-41) 5. Then the Lord makes the following significant promise: "I will show unto my servant Joseph all things pertaining to this house, and the priesthood thereof." (Verse 42) 6. The First Endowments. The precise date upon which the Lord fulfilled this promise to the Prophet does not appear to be of record. But inasmuch as the endowments were 649 given only slightly more than a year after the promise was made, it must have been within that time. Why the Prophet did not wait until the temple was completed is likewise unknown. He may have been spurred on by a desire to share the incomparable blessing with his brethren, or he may have feared that his life might be cut short by his ever-threatening enemies. More likely, it was the result of direct instruction from the Lord. 7. Nevertheless, on the fourth day of May, 1842, he gathered together a number of his faithful brethren in the room above his store and administered the endowment to them. Here is his own statement of what occurred: "I spent the day in the upper part of the store in council with General James Adams, of Springfield, Patriarch Hyrum Smith, Bishops Newel K. Whitney and George Miller, and President Brigham Young and Elders Heber C. Kimball and Willard Richards, instructing them in the principles and order of the priesthood, attending to washings, anointings, endowments and the communication of Keys pertaining to the Aaronic Priesthood, and so on to the highest order of the Melchizedek Priesthood, setting forth the order pertaining to the Ancient of Days, and all those plans and principles by which any one is enabled to secure the fulness of those blessings which have been prepared for the Church of the First Born, and come up and abide in the presence of Eloheim in the eternal worlds. 8. "In this council was instituted the ancient order of things for the first time in these last days. And the communications I made to this council were of things spiritual, and to be received only by the spiritual minded; 650 and there was nothing made known to these men but what will be made known to all the Saints of the last days, so soon as they are prepared to receive, and a proper place is prepared to communicate them, even to the weakest of the Saints; therefore let the Saints be diligent in building the Temple and all houses which they have been, or shall hereafter be, commanded of God to build; and wait their time with patience in all meekness, faith, perseverance unto the end, knowing assuredly that all these things referred to in this council are always governed by the principle of revelation." (History of the Church, Vol. V, pp. 1, 2) The Prophet states that on the following day he and his brother, Hyrum, received in turn from the others, the same that he had communicated to them the day before. 9. Extension Intended. That the Prophet planned that the endowment should be extended to all of the worthy members of the Church is plainly evident from the following statement, made by him at a conference of the church, April 8, 1844, scarcely three months before his assassination. At this time the baptismal font was dedicated and in use, but the temple was not yet completed. Here is his statement: "As soon as the temple and baptismal font are prepared, we calculate to give the Elders of Israel their washings and anointings, and to attend to those lost and more impressive ordinances, without which we cannot obtain celestial thrones. But there must be a holy place prepared for that purpose. There was a proclamation made during the time that the foundation of the temple was laid to the effect. Every man who wishes to save his father, mother, brothers, sisters, and friends, must go through all the ordinances for each of them RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE separately the same as for himself, from baptism to ordination, washings, and anointings, and receive all the Keys and powers of the Priesthood, the same as for himself." (History of the Church, Vol. VI, p. 319) 10. Concerning the Nauvoo temple Dr. James E. Talmage in his book, The House of the Lord, says: "By October, 1845, the building was so well advanced that large assemblies therein were possible. The general autumnal conference of tHe church for that year was held within the walls; and the congregation present on October 5th numbered fully five thousand souls. During December, 1845, and the early months of 1846, many of the saints received their blessings and endowments in the temple, for which purpose parts of the structure had been duly consecrated; but not until the end of April was the building as a whole ready for dedication." (p. 133) 11. Growth of the Work. It is a source of much satisfaction to the saints that a work of so small a beginning has expanded into such gigantic proportions. On that original day some six persons received their endowments. But although quite unsuited to the purpose, the Council Chamber above the store at once became a sacred shrine—the "first ordinance temple" proper in the church. Today the church has seven magnificent temples built and dedicated especially for this purpose. Many millions of dollars are invested in these structures. They are by far the most beautiful buildings in the localities in which they are situated. They represent the best efforts of the Latter-day Saints. They are regarded as most sacred, and only those who are faithful in living the Gospel of Jesus Christ to a high degree are permitted to enter. LESSON DEPARTMENT 12. At the time the first endowment ceremony was administered, the church had a population of, roughly, 25,000; today it has increased to nearly three-quarters of a million. On the occasion of the first endowment not a dozen persons were in attendance; at present thousands of people visit the temple daily. 13. Universality of the Requirement. It should be readily apparent to all sound thinking people that no goal can be reached without complying with the laws that make its attainment possible. If we would reach a distant objective, we must travel to it. If we would satisfy our hungry bodies, we must give them food. If we would attain desired intellectual heights, we must make the necessary efforts. There is no such thing as getting something for nothing in nature. There is no such thing as chance or fortuity; on the. Contrary, every result is based on the operation of law. The Lord, through Joseph Smith, states the matter thus: "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." (D. And C. 130:20, 21) 14. As applied to the subject matter of this lesson these facts mean that if baptism is necessary to the salvation of any one of God's children—whether living or dead—it is similarly necessary to the salvation of all others; otherwise the requirement would not be based upon law, for it will be recalled, there are no exceptions to law. 15. Just how the great majority of Christian people reach the conclusion that God will make definite requirements of one individual—and 651 condemn him to everlasting punishment if he does not meet them— and not of another, is indeed difficult to understand. The attitude is not only unreasonable but disharmonious with every human experience. Perhaps the most outstanding achievement of modern investigation is the discovery of the invariability of law and the total absence of chance or fortuity. It is quite apparent, therefore, that if the temple endowment is requisite to the highest degree of human attainment for those who are alive, it is similarly requisite for those who are dead. 16. Nor does the fact that the work for the dead has to be done by some one else detract from the soundness of the argument. Cases of vicarious work are well-nigh universal. Attorneys act for their clients; boards of directors perform the business of the stockholders; the President of the United States officiates for the American people; and the Savior died for the sins of the world. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1, Have you any suggestions as to why the Lord permitted the temple endowment to be introduced at such a humble place? 2. Why in your judgment is it necessary to perform the ordinance of baptism for the dead in an especially prepared sanctuary? 3. Imagine the church without temples and without the temple endowment. What strength would it have lost? 4. What strength comes to the church through the extension of the temple endowment to the entire worthy membership, rather than to a few of its leaders? 5. Ascertain from your genealogical 652 committee the rate at which baptism for the dead is going forward in your ward. Your stake. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 6. Discuss the injustices that would arise if Divine requirements were not universal. Teachers' Topic (For March, 1936) "A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favor rather than silver and gold."—Proverbs 22:1. GOOD name comes as the result of living in accordance with high standards and ideals, some of which are: honesty, righteous living, trustworthiness, dependability, industry, true unselfishness, spirituality. Someone has said that the progress of a family, a city, a state or even a nation, depends upon the good name and character of the people. Every individual must make a name for himself. He may inherit a name that is good and honorable, but only by sustaining it with his own righteous effort—that of a good and acceptable life, can he retain or hold it. Even though once established through a lifetime of living in accordance with the highest and noblest standards and ideals, a good name may become tarnished by a lapse of interest and effort in maintaining it, or it may actually be destroyed by bad behavior, dishonesty or evil doing. A good name may be injured by one's associates either intentionally or thoughtlessly. To injure a name or a character is a most serious matter. Such a wrong may never be righted. A good name is its own reward. A good name, with all those factors which produce it, brings satisfaction, contentment, peace, joy and success. In fact it brings that loving favor which is preferable to silver and gold, or any amount of piled up wealth. Andrew Carnegie once said, "I would prefer to lose my wealth rather than my good name and character which I have tried hardest to build and maintain." What a satisfaction and reward comes to the man or woman whose name inspires confidence and trust, whose name stands for all those virtues which men regard as most important and worthwhile! What a satisfaction and comfort comes to their friends and associates because of this good name, and the good life and character which upholds and sustains it! The testimony in court of a witness who bears a good name has great weight, and counts for much. In the financial world a good name is like magic. The importance and desirability of a good name should always be paramount in our lives. In our quest for success, which we _ sometimes think comes from position and power and worldly wealth, let us not lose sight of this unchangeable truth that "A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favor rather than silver and gold." Topics and Questions for Discussion 1. Why is a good name "rather to be chosen than great riches?" 2. How long does it take to build up a good name? 3. How long does it take to destroy a good name? 4, Why should one be careful never to besmirch another's good name? 5. Memorize: "Good name in man or woman, dear my lord, Is the immediate jewel of their souls: Who steals my purse, steals trash; tis something, nothing; *Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands; But he that filches from me my good name, Robs me of that which not enriches him, And makes me poor indeed." —Othello—Shakespeare. Work and Business The picture of the wicker chair opposite page 45 of Handicraft for Everywoman is of one in which President Louise Y. Robison rocked her babies. It was worn and almost useless until Mrs. Beeley found it. Now it is repaired and refinished and will become a treasured heirloom to be enjoyed by her children. SUGGESTIVE STUDY ON HE responsibility of the consumer for the kinds of goods on the market, and for better conditions of labor and fair wages is being emphasized. Her demands may work for or against rapid change in fashion and supply and her manner of living may effect the demand and hence the value of commodities. The peculiar type of thought and emotion one has in buying some articles, especially clothing, plays a bigger part in her wise selection than her intelligence. One of the important reasons for success in modern advertising is that these very human traits have been carefully, studied by advertisers and their methods adapted to take advantage of the same. Can not these same methods be used in an effort to further the use of standards, grades and proper labeling. In trying to make selection whether over the counter or in catalogues one has a feeling of helplessness about deciding which item best suits her needs. On pages 167 and 185 references are given of sources of information about Basket Weaving and Willow Craft. Pages 42 to 45 tells how to refinish Reed and Wicker Furniture. It is worthwhile to know how and to do this sort of work. Try it. CONSUMER PROBLEMS Grades and descriptions are so much alike that she has to rely chiefly on price, an indirect measure of quality. Evaluation of Guides Which Most Consumers Use A. Advertising. 1. Has only few if any definite statements regarding quality of products. 2. Most appealing by use of bright attractive colors, by endorsements of famous people, love of beauty, vanity, pride, rather, than by actual value of goods. 3. Limited information not dependable. B. Advice of Clerks. 1. Majority of clerks do not give accurate information regarding quality of merchandise. 2. Clerks do not always agree on information given out from time to time. 3. Most of them do not deliberately misinform—they lack training. LESSON DEPARTMENT 653 654 C. Trademarks—Guarantees. 1. Because trademarks give no information one has to rely entirely on company's integrity. 2. Unless guarantees are stated in clear definite terms they have no value. 3. Labels differ in amount of information they give but some valuable help is obtained if everything on label is read. D. Price. 1. Varies too widely. 2. Most expensive articles not always best in quality. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Questions for Discussion 1. Evaluate the guides most women use in household buying. 2. How much technical knowledge of commodities is practical for the average housewife? 3. Why are manufacturers and producers reticent about accepting a program of standards and specifications for consumer buying? 4. What would be the advantage of the housewife in buying by specification? 5. How does demand in certain commodities effect their value and price? 6. In what way is the consumer responsible for labor conditions and fair wages? Literature (For Third Week in March) ADVENTURES IN READING El Dorado "I am part of all I have met, Yet all experience is an arch where-thru Gleams that untravell’d world, whose margin fades Forever and forever when I move." -Tennyson THE world moves apace but the wonders still remain for knights seeking an El Dorado. Some to the four corners of the earth go to satisfy their yearnings; some to the misty past to discover pages unworded and heroes unsung; some find magic enough in the throbbing humanity of a great city's heart. If perchance to the quest comes the reward of finding a hidden meaning to the wonder of it all, the quest of El Dorado is well paid. Rudyard Kipling—Literary Vagabond Rudyard Kipling, a modern Ulysses sailed beyond the sunset. India, Africa, and America were his horizons; “drinking life to the lees" he sailed home to his beloved Sussex Downs to dream and to tell tales and to sing songs. So widespread were his travels and so deep his understanding of the peoples that he met, it is said that if you follow him about in his books you will see the world and you will know better how to read the book of mankind. In Bombay, "where the world end steamers meet" Rudyard Kipling was born in 1865. His father was a professor of architecture in the School of Art in Bombay, while his beautiful, gifted mother was sister LESSON DEPARTMENT to the wife of Sir Edward Paynter and the wife of Sir Edmund Burne-Jones, distinguished Englishmen and artists. Like all Anglo-Indian children, “Ruddie" early learned the language of his "ayar," his native nurse, and the stories of Shir, Hari, and Mowgli. At an early age the boy was sent to England to school a lonely "Wee Willie Winkie." After a brilliant record with well-earned prizes for literature at the United Service Military College, Kipling returned to India. In 1883 he became attached to the editorial staff of the Civil and Military Gazette at Lahore. After varied service for the paper, the young journalist begged permission to go to the frontier to write up "Tommy Atkins." He came back with material for the well-known "Departmental Ditties" and "Barrack-Room Ballads;" also an understanding of animal and human nature to be later. Fused into the wonderful "Jungle Books" and "Plain Tales from the Hills." Finding no sale for his stories, Kipling left for London visiting Hong Kong, San Francisco, and New York on the way. Soon the rugged honesty of theme and expression caught the attention of London readers and Kipling was established as a teller of tales. With the publication of "The Man Who Would Be King," the vagabond went on his way again, round the world once more. In Vermont he met and married Miss Carolyn Balestier, 1892. For five years a home on the mountain slopes of Brattleboro, Vermont, was made. Here two children were born and many of the famous tales were written for their nursery days; also "Captain Courageous,"' a stirring tale of the Grand Banks and the sailors, was written. In 1897 he left the United States a South Africa and later for Engand, 655 As one of the most venerated figures of contemporary literature, Kipling has been honored as rector of St. Andrews, Scotland, and winner of the Nobel Prize for literature in 1907. When the World War came, Kipling gave his son and a record of his sorrow in a small book of verse "The Years Between." Today he is the one writer of English who satisfies two audiences, the multitude who read to be amused; and the cultured minority who read for art's sake. Devoted to the quiet home. Life on Sussex Downs, Mr. Kipling is still deeply in earnest about his writing—''not an Amos or an Isaiah" but as Irvin S. Cobb found him, not "Englishy English," but a cosmopolitan. Kipling's Place in Literature It is said that when Kipling arrived in the literary circles of the Puritanical and Classical, book lovers were shocked, the tone and the flavor of his expression offended. But in almost lightning time, his songs and tales were welcome because the world knew his Mulvaney and Gunga Din; they understood his "Tom-, my Atkins" and "Danny Deever;" they could carry the rhythm of "Mandelay;" they recognized the world-wide sympathy of a manysided genius. Today Rudyard Kipling stands, the one English writer whom criticism cannot injure because his followers and his friends are legion. His best prose works are "Puck of Pook's Hill," a romance of the days of Roman Rule in early Britain, "Kim," "Plain Tales from the Hills," and "The Jungle Stories." The best creations are "Mowgli" and "Tommy Atkins;" this is as faithful a creation as Shakespeare's Falstaff. To the world, for many years, Rudyard Kipling was a ballad-singer because of his "Barrack-Room 656 Ballads" and the "Departmental Ditties." Then came the awakening of the English people to the realization that he was something more. The poem "Recessional" was accepted as one of the significant poems of the age. The whole world accepted the truth "we are neither children nor gods, but men in a world of men" and must be reminded as such "lest we forget." "The Recessional" was the Jubilee Ode and all the British Empire was celebrating. But in no way did the ode celebrate victory, but emphasized the truth expressed by Mathew Arnold that the English National character was built on an idealism that proceeded from the Hebrew mind rather than from Greek thought and from the influence of the Reformation rather than from the Renaissance,—it was less concerned with intelligence than with conduct. Kipling brought this truth to the view of all by the words of the prayer which closed the "Recessional."' "God of our fathers, known to all— Lord of our far-flung battle line— Lord, God of Hosts, be with us yet, Lest we forget, lest we forget." In later poems Kipling expressed more definitely his religious belief— the religion of human endeavor. Self-knowledge, self-reverence, and' self-control are embodied in the beautiful poem "If," a rigorous code expressed in the simplest language. In the poem, "Life's Handicaps," not as well known, we note: "By my own work, before the night, Great overseer, I made my prayer." In a poem not sufficiently wellknown Kipling sees man perfected: "And only the Master shall praise us, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and only the Master shall blame; And no one shall work for money, and no one shall work for fame,. And each for the joy of working, and each in his separate star Shall draw the thing as he sees it, for the God of things as they are." Kipling's religion is a religion of action, one the Mulvaneys, Godsbys, and Stricklands can live, a religion for the cloisters of the day' s work. From the post-war poems in the volume, "The Years Between," "Zion," "Mary's Son" and "Gethsemane," bear testimony to the depth of religious feeling to which this poet's expression is tuned. Alfred Noyes—Knight of El Dorado Alfred, Noyes, melodious singer, whose poetical recreation is hunting with Robin Hood in Sherwood Forest, whose quest, a literary El Dorado, and who gives his postal address "in care of Oberon," is one of the most youthful spirits in contemporary literature. Alfred Noyes is truly a man. Abounding in physical vigor sparkling with personal magnetism, and mellowed with humility of spirit, his ballads and tales have brought a freshness to contemporary literature which is more than stimulation, it is contagious. Born in Staffordshire, England, in 1880 he early set out to make a living with his pen. Educated at Oxford where he rowed with a winning crew, his versatility is still a slogan. He has not grown old and wise with the years, for he still sees beauty in the twilight and can hear the music of the wind in the heather. With vivid imagination Alfred Noyes has recreated stirring scenes and romantic figures of the past For his purpose he has made many LESSON DEPARTMENT experiments with meter and rhyme. He has been likened unto a deft musician in command of a fully equipped organ for the shades of sound and feeling he produces in his songs. Tennyson and Swinbourne, Noyes accepts as his literary masters. Experience with the British fleet during the World War gave him the raciness of the sea. The classroom has added much to his human understanding for as a lecturer on modern poetry at Oxford in 1914 and Princeton in 1923 he was more than successful. It is said when Alfred Noyes read poetry at Princeton he held his class like a boat race. Students under the spell of his fine voice and dramatic interpretation fairly sat on the edges of their benches. His philosophy of teaching—the desirable thing to do is not to set students to writing verse but to living and loving it. To hear Alfred Noyes read "The Highwayman" is never to be forgotten, so say his students. Every year marks new things from the pen of Alfred Noyes, some of them lovable simple things, some pretentious, some mere poetical recreations, some deeply significant in thought, but all marked with melody. "The Tales of a Mermaid Tavern" is one of the best known poems. The reader can almost see the immortal Elizabethans as they brought nightly to their rendezvous the news of the day, gossip of Elizabeth's court, the latest success of Bill Shakespeare and his actors, and the progress of England on the high seas. We can almost hear the old tavern shake with laughter as Ben Johnson with quip and satire passes comment on men and affairs, or disarms Bacon with his ponderous pedantry. Marlowe, Drayton, Dekker, Beaumont, Fletcher, Chapman, Raleigh, Bacon, all take part but perhaps most interesting is the literary gossip, the gossip of the theatres, because most of the Mermaid's guests were interested in the drama of the day. "Forty Singing Seamen" is a ballad romance using the yarns of Prester John, a wandering sailor. The swinging melody is pungent of the sea and its adventures. In the "Highwayman" Noyes reveals another characteristic, the use of figurative language and repetition. The imagery is colorful and the cadence irresistible. "Drake" is a long metrical tale almost epical in nature. In this very ambitious poem Alfred Noyes has recorded the deeds of the great English seaman, Francis Drake. The poem is epical inasmuch as it records the epoch making spirit of the Elizabethan Age, the spirit of discovery and colonization which led to the expansiveness of the British Empire. In "Sherwood" the traditions of Robin Hood were collected and reproduced in romantic style. With all the variety of expression noted it is by two simple poems that the man and the poet lie best revealed "Newspaper Bay" and 'The Barrel Organ." Of the "Barrel-Organ" William Lyon Phelps says: "Out of the mechanical grinding of the hand-organ, with the accompaniment of city omnibuses, we get the very breath of spring in almost intolerable sweetness. The poem affects the head, the heart, and the feet. I defy any man or woman to read it without surrendering to the magic of the lines, the magic of old memories, the magic of the poet." It is sunset and an organ-grinder with his organ is on one of London's busiest corners. Tune after tune—some sad, some gay—sounds forth over the din of the traffic. The hurrying crowds must listen to the tunes—business men, clerk, laborer, society woman, 658 varsity man, loafer, woman of the street—each passer-by is moved in his own way by the music. Each lives over the younger, happier days which are now "in the land where the dead dreams go.' The changing of the tune and the changing moods of the listeners is skillfully suggested by changing rhymes and rhythms. Between each tune is the lilting refrain: "Come down to Kew in lilactime." A new book of poems, "The Book of the Earth," is one of the most intense works attempted by the poet. In it the scheme follows the best expression of the ages. Beginning with the "Creation of the Earth" the poet sees and knows "that to the Inscrutable, Man must bow his head." Pythagorus, Aristotle, represent Greek culture and its gifts to man; the lives of the early Christian saints, the art of the Renaissance, the beginnings of science, all are noted. All are torch-bearers of civilization. Of more than passing interest in the volume is the chapter "Goethe, the Prophet." After drinking of the wisdom of the world he was taught the meaning of it all, he was given "A glimpse of the unknown light beyond the world." In the Epilogue to the poem is found the most exalted expression: "Man is not exiled New every morning the creative word Moves upon chaos. Grows young Here, now the eternal miracle is renewed Now, and forever, God makes heaven and earth." Yea, our God Alfred Noyes has never assumed the role of a philosopher in his poems, yet his message to the world rings with the same simple directness as that of his national contemporary, Rudyard Kipling. For him God is still obvious in all things, "The world is all a fairy tale, but Oh, the tale is true!" To his generation he gives the thought: "Kingdoms melt away like snow, Gods are spent like wasting flames, Hardly the new peoples know their Divine, thrice worshipped names, At the last great hour of all, when thou makest all things new, Father hear thy children call, Let not love go too." Guide to Preparation A. Suggested topics for Lesson Assignments. 1. A Literary El Dorado, Kipling's India. Kipling's Characters. Reading: "The Recessional." Selections from the poems of Kipling. Retold Story: "Wee Willie Winkie." Alfred Noyes, Balladeer. Selections from the poems of Alfred Noyes. 2. 3. 4. 5. Guide to Reading A. "Puck of Pook's Hill" and "Captain Courageous." Kipling will appeal to all boys. B. "Sherwood," Noyes. The spirit of Robin Hood is revived in this series of ballads. C. "Tales of a Mermaid Tavern," Noyes. The lovers of Shakespeare will enjoy this glimpse of the great literary figures of the Elizabethan Age. D. "The Years Between," Kipling. The volume of poems written after the World War reveals to the reader the depth of understanding which made Kipling the LESSON DEPARTMENT poet of "The Recessional." E. "Wee Willie Winkie." 659 A story for the mothers of lonely little boys. Social Service (Fourth Week in March) LESSON V MACHINE DOMINATION OF THE PRESENT AGE Text: Civic Sociology, E. A. Ross, Chapters 3 and 4 THE two chapters used as a basis for this lesson are to be applied in the following way: 1. To understand to what extent our lives are controlled and dominated by the machine production of goods. 2. To understand the social forces drawing young people from rural to industrial city life. 3. To help young people to adjust intelligently to the problems of urban and rural life. Of the recent social trends in American life perhaps the reorganization of industry is one of the most fundamental. The remarkable growth of cities is a part of the great industrial revolution. With the development of the machine age the entire pattern of life has changed, and with the reorganization of industry a new era has come into being. The home, no longer the center of economic production for the family, is often deserted by father, mother, and children for the lure of the pay envelope. Since many machines can be operated by children as efficiently as adults, and at but a fraction of the cost, the evil of child-labor has become prevalent, and especially in industrial centers. Factories and industries compete with the home for the time of the mother of a family. Economic necessity often allows no other choice. These industrial demands have brought about a thorough redistribution of population. There has been a constant decrease in the percentage of the people engaged in agriculture, and a rapid growth in industrial life in cities as a basis of organized industry. In 1790, about three per cent of the people of the United States lived in cities; today, over half of the people live in cities. The proportion in each state varies according to the amount of manufacturing done in that state. The relative importance of agricultural and manufacturing industries in their demands upon workers in the different states is shown by the following table of representative states, giving the distribution of population for 1930, according to the 1930 census. The table shows that a majority of the people of the country are living under the influences of the city. Per cent of people living in State Rural City Cities Utah........ 241,583 266.264 52% California. 1,516,655 4,160.596 73 Idaho....... 315,525 129,507 29 Oregon...... 464.040 489.746 51 Washington 678,856 884.539 56 Illinois...... 1,994,927 5.635.727 74 New York... 2,066,114 10,521,952 83 Rhode Island. 52.068 635,420 92 New Mexico. 316,501 106,816 25 Arizona..... 285,717 149.856 34 Nevada..... 56,594 34,464 38 Colorado.... 515,909 519.882 50 Wyoming 155,468 70,097 31 United States 53,820,223 68,754,823 56 660 Figures are not available showing the composition and characteristics, nor the distribution of population in Canada and Mexico. The total population of Canada is 10,376,786; and of Mexico, 16,552,722. The demand for semi-skilled labor because of machine production, has brought about this constant migration from the country to the city. As pointed out in the text, the movement is chiefly among the young people and those of middle age, while the older and extremely young people are being left behind. The city, therefore, has such a large proportion of young people that it is becoming increasingly difficult for them to find occupation. The progressive domination of the machine age is making the vocational adjustment of these people an increasing hazard. Formerly it was taken for granted that the boy would follow in the footsteps of his father and the girl would get married and become a home-maker. The resultant vocational adjustment of the young people is, therefore, a major responsibility resting upon parents. This responsibility assumes two phases: first, that of finding a specialized occupation for which the individual boy or girl is suited; and second, that of providing the proper education and training which fits him for success in this occupation. The difficulties which grow out of the improvement of processes and methods of industry, and the invention of labor-saving machinery present another problem which must be met. The invention of new labor-saving machines constantly displaces thousands of workers. This displacement often comes late in life after a worker has spent the greater part of a life-time learning a trade or occupation, and adjustment to another occupation is extremely difficult. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The first problem can be solved through a scheme of vocational guidance and counseling on the part of schools and parents. No longer can the son of a craftsman expect to follow the trade of his father by being an apprentice, a journeyman, and then a skilled artisan. The situation is described thus: "For the great majority of young men and women the problem of finding an occupation is no longer simple. Only a very small percentage— even of the farmer's children—follow the parental example. In this rapidly changing industrial life today such a plan would not be possible for the majority, even if it were desirable. Consequently, most of our boys and girls look out upon the confusing and changing multitude of narrow, specialized occupational niches of modern industry and business, and through an awkward trial-and-error process seek the jobs that pay. What skill they happen to acquire, if they are fortunate enough to acquire any, they pick up in the course of wandering from one job to another. In this process many become "floaters"—on the job today and gone tomorrow. Many dissatisfied with their lot, bitter against the capitalistic system which they think keeps them down, find a sort of religious zeal in a war on capitalism."—Gillin, Dittmer, Colbert: Social Problems, p. 307. From the point of view of those who live in the country, perhaps there has been too great an emphasis on the social and economic problems of the city. However, an important cause of the rapid growth of cities is the prevailing rural policy. If young people leave their country environment for the lure of the city, it is because rural life is not adequate to the needs of youth. The rural problem is the counterpart of the city problem. The community, to hold its own in the eyes of youth, must assume the responsibility of supplying wholesome amusement, recreational activities, and the building of a community spirit. The labor of a young man on the farm should be just as productive as in a factory. However, he often fails to receive the tangible reward which he receives for his industrial labor in the city. New lands of a desirable nature no longer being available, a father can neither give his son a parcel of land as a reward for his boyhood labor; nor can the boy acquire it on his own part, as formerly. Therefore the old farm must either support a new generation of families, or the sons must seek employment elsewhere. Agricultural life is faced with the need of more scientific and technical methods of farming, and of more efficient and costly equipment. Also, the problems of marketing are becoming so acute that some of the best thought of the nation is now being devoted to this problem. Agricultural producers must learn the lessons of cooperative marketing which are so well demonstrated by manufacturing associations. A reorganization of rural, economic, and social institutions must be accomplished to compete with the forces of the city. The educational opportunities, as a basic foundation for life, must be enlarged to equal that given in the city. Much is already being done through consolidated schools and state equalization funds, but 661 further vigilance is essential to ultimate success. The high cost of land, the large expenditures of capital that modern operation requires makes the problem of ownership extremely difficult. "Closely cooperating farm communities may do much in the way of common joint ownership and use of machinery, community supplying of scientific knowledge in the shape of expert advisers, and community cooperation in obtaining the necessary credit for young farmers without means to begin the ownership of a farm. Something of this kind is being attempted by the State of California, the State providing the land, supplying the capital, equipment, and expert advisers, the owner paying for his farm by annual payments at a low rate of interest covering a long period of years.... Without some modification there is danger of a rural tenant peasantry supplanting altogether the independent farm-owning population which has been the basis of much of the best life of America."—Beach, An Introduction To Sociology, p. 257. Activities Make a study of the vocational help that has been given to the children in your own family with the view of helping them to adjust to the problem of earning a living. Unless the inquiry shows that something very definite on the part of the home and the school is being done, is it not true that we are negligent of our full duty? Discuss the results of your inquiry in class. 662 Mission Lessons Health Lessons, 1935-36 CONSTIPATION LESSON VI. THE waste product of our food is stored in the large bowel, just as we store the waste product of the kitchen in the garbage can. Nature maintains this living storage receptacle for much the same reason that we keep the garbage can, so that waste products may accumulate in a harmless condition until they can be conveniently disposed of. The food in our stomach and intestine sustains a larger and larger number of bacteria as it moves onward, until the bulk of the waste, after the food element is mostly absorbed, is made up of remnants of food and bacteria in about equal amounts. These bacteria live on the remnants of our food, and many of them serve a useful purpose in the digestive process. But many of them are harmful, and they cause more damage if they are permitted to remain an undue time in the bowel after they have served their purpose. We absorb poisons from them which are detrimental to our health, and which may cause serious illness if we allow them to remain in the intestine at the body temperature, and in the presence of moisture. It is nature's intent that this waste should be eliminated from the body at least every 24 hours. If it is allowed to remain longer than that some mischief is sure in time to follow. Many people are afflicted with constipation. This may be of any degree of severity, from a retention of two or three days, to one of many days, and sometimes of a number of weeks. People of sedentary life are more likely to develop it. Heredity also has much to do with it. Like RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE many other ailments it seems to run in families. But by far the most common cause is neglect to attend regularly and at the proper time to the calls of nature. Improper selection of food may also be a causative factor. Such articles as cheese, strong tea with the tannic acid it contains, concentrated meat foods, etc., are causative agents. Failure to drink enough water is another cause. To some variable extent a large percentage of the population of any country suffers from chronic constipation. It may cause indigestion, anemia, headaches, etc., and predispose them by its devitalizing influence to the more serious conditions of high blood pressure, kidney disease, etc. It also causes nervous troubles, especially the milder types of melancholia, and it sometimes seems to be the main cause back of insanity. By irritating the bowel over long periods of time it may be a fruitful cause of cancer of the colon. How shall we cure ourselves of this serious condition if we are unfortunate as to have developed it! We should take plenty of water. Now one will ask what is plenty of water? An average amount would be something like this: two glasses before breakfast, two before lunch, two before dinner, and one on retiring. In the summer when we are perspiring we need more, and in the winter less. A larger person would need more than a smaller person. Again the person who has chronic constipation should eat freely of fruits of most any kind, and vegetables, especially those like cabbage, string beans, and celery which have an abundance of indigestible cellulose in them. Brown bread, graham, or whole wheat, will be better than white bread for such a person. The writer of this article knew one prominent man who cured himself of chronic constipation, after almost everything else had been tried for years, by taking for his breakfast ordinary bran prepared like a cereal with milk and sugar, and taking no other food for the morning meal. All these things may be helps, but the real cure for the great majority of people who have chronic constipation is of quite a different nature. There are many muscles concerned in the evacuation of the bowel, and all must act in unison if the result is to be satisfactory. The muscles of our bodies are all capable of being trained to certain habits, if we persist in that training patiently and long enough. We should attend to that function once a day, and it should always be at the same time of the day whether there is any desire or not. The best time is after a meal, say the breakfast meal, because food in the stomach starts peristaltic waves along the bowel, and they move the content onward. Immediately after the breakfast meal, then we should task ourselves to attend to the bowel function, whether we have any desire or not. We should not miss any single day, because we are training the muscles of our bowel to a habit, and repetition at regular intervals is the way to form habits. We should never be in a hurry about this function. It is wise to take with you a book or a paper, and take plenty of time entertaining yourself with what you are reading. There are very few cases of chronic constipation that may not be permanently cured by this method. But it must be LESSON DEPARTMENT fail of success. 663 carried out intelligently and persistently. After a time it will be such a mental habit that it becomes automatic in our daily routine, and requires little if any effort. The use of purgatives and laxatives for constipation should be avoided wherever possible. Instead of curing the condition, they often tend to make it worse. They may give immediate relief but entail a weakened condition of the bowel which makes the constipation more stubborn than it was before. The mineral oils are least objectionable if any laxative must temporarily be used. There is the same objection to enemas, which should only be taken as an emergency measure. If we start out with the dominant idea that we are going to establish a definite habit, and work persistently and regularly to that end we will not fail. It is the one who gets discouraged easily and fails to persevere that will Many, many people are struggling under the shadow because of this disease, when they might come out into the sunshine of happiness just by a little persistent effort. Questions Name the general causes of chronic constipation. What other diseases are liable to follow in the wake of chronic constipation? State what you can about the diet which should be followed by the subject of chronic constipation. What about purgatives and laxatives for the subject of chronic constipation? Describe the habit cure of chronic constipation. State how constipation may cause cancer. Why should the evacuation of the bowel follow the taking of a meal? Thoughts at Eventide WOMEN'S WORK By George H. Clark As we look back upon the years When women's rights were few, And men assumed to be their peers In all there was to do; We recognize an unjust pride That ever made it so, For, truly, women side by side With man, should work and grow. The first great women's work began In eighteen forty-two, Among that faithful Mormon band Then living in Nauvoo; 'Twas there the prophet Joseph Smith, Through heavenly inspiration, Called them in and blessed them with A women's organization. The prophet clearly did foretell What women's work should be, They should endeavor to excel In works of charity; Should nurse the sick, feed the poor, And comfort those bereft, Then visit oft from door to door Lest needy ones be left. And of each member whom they chose The prophet also prayed, That confidences, when imposed, Should never be betrayed; That faith and works and trust in God And love of all that's good, Must ever faithfully be taught To perfect womanhood. From this beginning, then so small Has grown a work so great, That "Relief Society" withal Is known in every state; In times of war or times of peace It struggles just the same, To bring humanity relief That's worthy of the name. Yes, over seas as well as here It's work of love has gone, And while mortality endures It will continue on; Till people everywhere may know That when this race began, Women were designed to go Hand in hand with man. YUCCAS Las Candelabras del Nuestre Senor (The Candlesticks of Our Lord) By Elzada C. Brinkerhoff You stand in ever solemn piety, You faintly tinted candlesticks—ten score. For Christ, the Son, who died and rose once more, You live, an emblem to eternity. I think to happiness you hold the key. Your shrined spires grow not on verdant shore; The parched desert sod one must explore To find a blossom half so fair to see O you, in never-ending reverence, Keep sweet incensed cups to sky upturned. On altar hills you stand a multitude And always in a reverent attitude As if to worship God you'd early learned— You shame my idly slumbering conscience. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Volume XXII NOVEMBER, 1935 No. 11 HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS From Factory To You—We Solicit Your Mail Orders No. 88. Lt. Weight Men's and Ladies' New Style $.65 No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style 1.10 No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double Back 1.45 No. 81. Heavy Wt. Old Style, Double Back 1.50 No. 86. Extra Fine Rayon and Double Combed Yarn, Ladies' New Style Only 1.25 No. 87. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles..$.85 No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style 85 No. 85. Very Special Non-Run Rayon, Men's and Ladies' New Style Only 1.10 No. 83. Extra Fine Silk-Rayon Double Combed Yarn. Better Than Part Wool. This Comes in Winter Weight Men's New Style 1.65 Short Sleeves, Ankle Length We Mark Garments For 10c We Charge 10% Extra For Extra Sizes. We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. Please Specify When Ordering Your Bust, Trunk and Length, Whether New or Old Style, and if Men's or Ladies'. THIS IS ALSO THE PLACE TO OUTFIT THE MISSIONARY WITH ONE OF THOSE FAMOUS RAMBOULLETTE SUITS This is one of our Specials $48.95 Ramboullette Serge. Extra Pants, $4.00 Single or Double Breast. WE HAVE A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF HEAVY WORSTEDS AT $39.95 Extra Pants, $4.00 WE ALWAYS GIVE SPECIAL DISCOUNTS TO THE MISSIONARY 14 SOUTH MAIN, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH BLUE BLAZE COAL Ask your coal dealer about this new dustless stoker slack. BLUE BLAZE COAL COMPANY Salt Lake City TASTES BETTER BECAUSE IT IS BETTER Day after day through the years because of its uniform high quality—Arden Milk has become the leader. It is truly ''Nature's Most Perfect Food." PHONE ARDEN DAIRY for Home Delivery or ask for it at your Grocer Salt Lake City—Cedar City Ogden— Pocatello When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Peerless Laundry SNOW WHITE CLOTHES Exclusive Family Service Service Above All SALT LAKE PROVO OGDEN PRICE PAYSON MANTI DESERET MORTUARY CO. NO SUBSTITUTE There is no substitute for quality. The lowest priced merchandise isn't always the cheapest. O. P. Skaggs System Stores have low prices but only "Quality" foods. O. P. SKAGGS FOOD STORES "A Surety of Purity." When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 1184 East 21st South Phone Hy. 2182-2183 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. XXII NOVEMBER, 1935 No. 11 CONTENTS Going to the Sun Highway, Glacier National Park Frontispiece Forebodings Agnes Just Reid 665 November Emma Rigby Coleman 665 Curtains Grace Zenor Pratt 667 Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 672 Not Bread Alone Elsie C. Carroll 673 Golden Hours Dorothy Clapp Robinson 677 Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life Lella Marler Hoggan 679 Relief Society Conference Julia A. F. Lund 684 Opening Session 684 Officers' Meeting 703 Officers' Meeting 709 Thanksgiving Eva Willes Wangsgard 711 Achievement Josephine Gardner Moench 711 Editorial 712 Joseph Lyman Robison 712 What Every Latter-day Saint Needs 712 Love Divine Carrie Tanner 713 Lessons Department 714 One Day Bertha A. Kleinman 730 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine LIVING ROOM DINING ROOM AND BEDROOM SUITES 300 to Choose From—Prices $29.50 to $275 BUY WE GIVE OUT OF THE & H. NOW AND HIGH RENT GREEN STAMPS SAVE DISTRICT WE DELIVER EVERY WHERE GRANITE FURNITURE Co. MURRAY 1050 East 21st South, Sugarhouse PARK CITY Combustioneer Coal Stokers TORRID ZONE FURNACES AND AIR CONDITIONING GIBSON ELECTRIC REFRIGERATORS VERY CONVENIENT TERMS Why not buy the best and enjoy it on our easy payment plan. HOME APPLIANCE COMPANY 2115 So. 11th East Hyland 4544 L. D. S. GARMENTS, CUTLER VALUES No. 68. Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton, Old Style 85c—New Style $.75 No. 500 Super Non-run Rayon Short Sleeve and Knee Length 1.10 No. 74 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Fine Combed Cotton 1.19 No. 73 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Combed Cotton Silk Stripe, Ladies' New Style Only 1.25 No. 64 Lt. Med. Wt. Bleached Combed Cotton 1.25 No. 62 Med. Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back Combed Cotton 1.65 No. 56 Extra Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back Combed Cotton 1.98 No. 82 33 1/3% Wool 3.15 In ordering garments please state if for men or women, and if old or new styles are wanted; also state bust, height and weight of person. Marking 10c. An additional charge of 20% will be made on orders for persons weighing 210 pounds or over. CUTLER'S SALT LAKE CITY UTAH 57 Years LDS. GARMENTS Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. No. 144. Light weight cotton, New or Old Style $.85 No. 33. Spring Needle, Lt. Wt. Cot. New or Old Style 1.25 No. 205. Fine rib, Med Weight, New or Old Style 1.35 No. 405. Run resist rayon, New or Old Style 1.35 No. 464. Rib. Knit, Med. Wt., New Style Only 1.00 No. 70. 10% Wool Silk Stripe 2.25 No. 1118. Med. Hvy., Wool and Cot. 3.50 No. 472. Elastic Knit, Light Weight, New Style Only .75 No. 609. Run resist rayon, Ladies New Style Only 1.10 No. 758. Ecru or White, Med. Heavy Old and Men's New Style 1.65 No. 908. Heavy Weight Cotton Ecru Old or New Style 1.95 BARTON & CO. Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Mayor Louis Marcus Wishes to express his sincere appreciation for the wonderful support accorded him at the Primary Election and.... To pledge a continuation, if re-elected, of those governmental policies and actions that have had the interest of all the people—men, women and children—at heart.. VOTE FOR— Marcus For Mayor ELECTION NOVEMBER 5, 1935 He has and will continue to make Salt Lake City a better place in which to live and work.... PROMISES MADE AND KEPT ARE BETTER THAN PROMISES ONLY CHROMIUM PLATED AND SILVER PLATED Sacrament Trays NOW AVAILABLE THE WATER TRAY These Beautiful Chromium Plated Sacrament Sets as Illustrated Are Made in Salt Lake, Exclusively For, and Sold Only By Us. Write For Prices Deseret Book Company 44 East So. Temple St. Box 958 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH BREAD TRAY Re-elect John M. Knight City Commissioner For the past three years his honesty and fearlessness have been a protection to your health, your lives, your homes and your property. He has saved the taxpayers $248,000 during the three years of his office. Economical GAS HEAT! SAVE 15% on installation of a GAS furnace for hot-air, hot water system. And an AIR CONDITIONING UNIT. 36 MONTHS to pay Conversion burner $25 installed MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Come in for full details. 36 South State Street Wasatch 1300 LOOK FOR THIS "Mark of Merit" ON EVERY LOAF FISHER'S Vitamin "D" BREAD The Vitamin "D" Seal on the side of every loaf of Fisher's Vitamin "D" Bread assures you that you are getting the finest bread it is possible to bake. Energy for vitality—protein for muscle building—and the extra Vitamin "D" all boys and girls need, Fisher's Vitamin''D''Bread Baked by the American Lady Baking Company And Fresh at Your Grocers Each Morning Best Quality TRUCK COAL Storage Lump......$6.75 ton 3 Tons 6.35 ton Nut 6.25 ton 3 Tons 6.00 ton Pea Coal..............$5.75 ton BENNION COAL COMPANY 2240 So. State Phone Hyland 5935 THE HOME! Now, More Than Ever--ELECTRICITY IS THE BIGGEST BARGAIN IN Under our New Low Rate Plan—with Extra Electricity at Half Price—Electric Servants work longer hours for you at a lower rate of pay! TAKE FULL ADVANTAGE OF IT! UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Forebodings By Agnes Just Reid "Twas November, The clouds were heavy, And their faces threatening; Winter was coming Cruel and relentless; Dread filled my heart For I was idle. *Twas November, The clouds were soft and gray, They wrapped about me Like the folds of a soft shawl; Winter was coming But I was gay and joyous For I was busy. November By Emma Rigby Coleman Hark! Listen to the wind! It whistles through the branches, green no more, Nor tinted with the wealth of autumn's gold. It now foretells of winter's fast approach, Of hoar frost's lace, And icy fingers—cold. GOING TO THE SUN HIGHWAY, GLACIER NATIONAL PARK Photo by Hileman The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXII NOVEMBER, 1935 No. 11 Curtains By Grace Zenor Pratt MOST every one has a hobby of some kind. A certain country doctor had a collection of white Angora cats. He was very fond of them and about the only time he was seen to lose his temper was when some thoughtless person teased one of his cats. Minna was a woman who would never have been interested in the usual thing. Stamps held no attraction for her; it was rarely she noted even the color. She would perhaps never have noticed that the Mother's Day stamp is engraved with a picture of "Whistler's Mother." Often she laughingly said, when some neighbor showed her her choice roses, that she just didn't have a knack with flowers, or plants, that she couldn't even make an onion grow. But after all Minna had a hobby —just an every day sort of one it's true, but disturbing, nevertheless. Perhaps Minna's folks were not very observant or they might have discovered it many times, in different ways. When the new magazines came, especially "Good Housekeeping" or the "Ladies' Home Companion," with their pages on interior decorating, and illustrations, one might have seen the eagerness with which Minna turned the pages and critically studied the draperies; not the furnishings in particular, nor the rugs, although she loved the harmonious colors, the graceful turn of a stair, and appreciated the built in simplicity of a cabinet; it was always to some window decoration she turned, with draperies of sheer nets or pretentious folds of silk and velvet; bedrooms with crisp cool panels of swiss or voile held Minna's eyes. Then putting the book down with a sigh, she would look speculatingly at the windows of the room where she sat and imagine if she had the money to spare, how different the shabby dining room would look with cream and blue drapes, and a set of new cushions for the couch, to match. John might have noticed on that trip to town each month, to buy the household supplies, that Minna always looked longest at the store windows which featured draperies, but John was usually concerned about the price of potatoes or oats or corn and often grew impatient waiting for her on the next corner. WHEN Minna and John were first married and making a home of the little adobe house with its small plain windows, they had smiled more than once at the pains she had taken to curtain each win668 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE dow adequately at the sacrifice of other more important details. Those same little unpainted windows were always polished and shining and the simple cheap curtains were always immaculate through those hard years when there was always so much to do for the children, for the big household, for herself and the baby, who had developed from time to time, and still looked queer in the dim light. Each window had been carefully measured and illustrated in her mind for ampler proportions, and the measurements laid away with the magazine clippings and illustrations of styles in window draping and drapery material. PERHAPS it was that night at the movies that put it into John's head; Minna seldom took an evening off and this was such a treat. She could scarcely wait until they were through their shopping and in the quiet cool theatre. It was a play about wealthy people with their lovely homes and Minna enjoyed every minute. She said, "John, isn't that curtain of the heroine's bedroom a dream, I adore curtains. And she herself had come to indulge her hobby; she fairly gloated over the thought for days, but one afternoon, she saw Rob riding in with a worried face. The prize Jersey was dead; that was the price of a whole houseful of curtains. JOHN had come home the next day from the village with a pleased expression and a huge bundle under his arm. "Bought you some curtains, Minna, I figured you dont have any fancy ones and old man Larsen's were selling out. Bought their tools and they just had these curtains left. Pretty nifty, too." Minna smiled; sometimes it's hard to smile, and took the bundle indoors. There were three coarse lace drapes with some sort of pretentious iceberg design but none of them were mates. "Antiques !" she exclaimed. It was just too bad! With that money John had spent for those old things, she might have bought some beautiful new curtains of the style that was almost a fade-out, even then. But time passes rather swiftly when one is always busy and there are little children to care for and sewing and mending to be done, chickens to raise, strawberries to gather and preserve, even the old curtains were forgotten. When baby came along one must forget trivial things, yet when things were right side up again and Minna washed and ironed the frayed old curtains the vision returned, though not quite so buoyantly. She wished she might be reckless, gather the poor things up in a heap, put them in the old chest out in the shed and turn the key. The old house had long been replaced with a newer, more commodious one. Little by little there came a better car, newer machinery, a bigger barn, and finally a radio. There were big clear windows in the new house but Minna was almost afraid to indulge in her dream now. The girls were at home so little. And styles had changed. Minna was a little afraid of the criticism of these grown-up sophisticated daughters of hers. One evening she and John sat talking things over. It was so pleasant on the big veranda in the easy chairs. It is always so restful to talk things over at the close of day. "I think, Minna, I'll go into town for a couple of days this week end; you come along, too." You know we're out of debt now and that little piece of land I sold last week netted us a couple of thousand, cash. It's in the bank. You don't need to slave with setting hens and strawberries and butter now, Minna. Let's get a little fun out of life!" That was a long speech for John, but it made Minna happy and they sat there late, planning the new pieces of furniture they would buy, and just how they would spend their holiday. 'John, I do believe I'll buy curtains for the whole house while I'm at it. I could get one of those decorators to help, couldn't I?" "I don't know about that, wife, I guess their pretty high falutin' and expensive, too. You could do that part yourself as good as any decorator." Minna lay awake studying over her curtain problem and gloating over this dream about to be fulfilled. THE very next afternoon, Dan Gillespie stopped at the gate with the news that the Farmer's Bank had failed. "O John, and all our money gone!" That was all Minna could say as she looked at John's strained face, then she had gone back to work with the hens and little chickens. How futile! How many hundreds of these little chickens she should need to raise to make 669 up two thousand dollars! How many tons of hay John would have to mow and rake and bale to make two thousand dollars! But still life goes on! MINNA had always loved music but there had been so many small music lessons to oversee she had neglected to keep up her own practice. Now, the big piano was often silent only when the children were at home. "John," she said, suddenly, one day as she sat down on the piano bench to chat a moment, "you used to like to hear me play, didn't you?" "U-huh," John grunted, glancing up abstractedly from the newspaper. John was soon engrossed in the market prices and politics. Minna searched among the stacked music. She had always loved a certain Prelude by Chopin; she wondered if she could play it now. Her slender hands were roughened and veined by other tasks, and browned by sun and wind. She played softly, the opening bars, then gaining confidence, she forgot John's indifference, and the roughened hands, the divine power of the music flooded her soul as she played on. She finished, softly, the stately movement. Her technique may not have been perfect, but the interpretation had been all that a lover of Chopin could ask. "My dear," John had laid the paper aside, and had been listening. "My dear, why don't you play more? Do you know I like your music better than the girls' fantastic things." He was growing roses on the side—rare varieties; they seemed to supply for John that something that he needed these days for complete contentment. But there was yet "an unfinished symphony" of blues and creams; of snowy nets and conventional designs in some recess of Minna's brain. Ada would finish College in June and would be home in August, the other children would be along for a visit, too, about then. How she would like to freshen things up a bit—why all those old curtains looked as if they had come from a rummage sale. Curtains! That was it; she would measure the windows this very afternoon. The rugs needed cleaning too, and there was need of paint and polish also. There was the strawberry and apricot jam to be sealed and put away. How those boys would enjoy that sun-made jam. She could still remember how they'd eaten such quantities when they were little boys, and thought smiling to herself as she fastened the lids securely, how they had never outgrown the habit. But she must hurry to do all she had planned for the afternoon. Somehow she'd been so busy with graduations and weddings, she had just neglected her house. She was again anticipating a pleasant adventure. AFTER lunch, John went to the village store for some mower extras, and Minna hurriedly put the lunch things away and fed the flock of young chickens. She remembered the collection of illustrations she had put away in those earlier years. How long to wait to realize a desire! The windows, pictured in the little box, as well as their draperies, were rather odd looking and out of date. She decided to do the measuring and get expert help in the furnishing department. That would be a simple matter these days when there was money to pay for it. Those tall casements in the dining room were difficult to reach; Minna searched about for something convenient to climb upon; the step-ladder was almost too heavy to carry RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in alone. She found a small narrow table on the back porch. This would be just the thing; Minna, who had once been so quick and light of limb, found it now, rather a task to climb to the table and steady herself while she reached upward. She had seen some lovely old blue brocade just last week, the very thing; it would look well with the creamy walls and the shelf of old delft ware, near the buffet. She glanced across at the shelf—and was clutching at the air; the table tipped, and Minna's slender body was a crumpled heap on the dining room floor. MANY hours later, in the hospital she awoke to consciousness. John was there with a worried face. Ada was there—and Ada had been so busy with graduation: and Ron, too! Why they were all there, and they all had their own work to do. John needed to be mowing hay. Was it only yesterday she had been playing Chopin to John? "Feel better, mother?" Ron asked, as a white aproned nurse came with a thermometer. She remembered now, quite suddenly, a shelf of blue delft ware, and something about curtains! Measuring the windows, that was it, and the table tipped! Minna laughed, those pesky curtains, she'd never, never get them now! "What is it, mother?" She tried to speak, but the room and beloved faces faded away in a mist of cream and blue. THE summer had somehow slipped away amid pain and lethargy, and now the tang of autumn was in the air and autumn flowers bloomed in riotous profusion on the spacious hospital grounds. Down home, the hills would be blue and smoky; the late grapes would be delicious now. Minna had intended trying some of that new conserve for winter. She had bought those tall slender glasses for containers. My! Things must be in a dreadful mixup, at home, with only a hired woman to see to things, and it was so difficult to get an efficient one. But Minna was going back next Sunday. She was glad to think of going home again, almost well— anyway she could walk. They had been afraid for a time that she never would. That would have been a tragedy. But she dreaded the condition of the house after all this time. She had meant to have everything so nice for the children's annual visit and now she had spoiled everything. Minna had taken cold the day she had taken that airing at the hospital; that meant a few more weeks spent impatiently until she could sit up again. She could see from her windows, that the maples were crimson and sycamores russet and gold. The aster beds were in flower. It was near Thanksgiving time. T was Thanksgiving day when John and Ada came in to drive her home. John had brought her the loveliest dress, silvery grey with a touch of soft delicate blue. When she came out to the sitting room, John came to meet her. "Why, Minna, you look like the sweetheart of mine you used to be. It's done you good to be here. A good rest was all you needed to make you slim and pretty. Your hands are white like they used to be. You will play for me, Minna?" Minna had smiled and blushed and called father "an old flatterer." OW nice and homey the house looked, and the other children were there too; Ron's roadster and 671 Stanley's Buick were at the gate. How nice to see the children at home again. As they came down the walk they cried, "Welcome home, mother!" There was a wood fire burning softly in the big fireplace in the living room, and an odor of appetizing food was in the air. It was a sunny day, but as Minna entered the big room there was the impression of a rosy, pleasant color scheme apparent. "Here, mother, rest on the couch awhile." "What perfectly lovely cushions!"' Minna sat up suddenly. Why the rug was new, a rosy tan, soft and silky. Her gaze strayed upward. The windows! She was standing now, clasping and unclasping her hands. "I want to know who did it so beautifully, so perfectly? Why, it's my dream come true!" The crystal vase on the piano held two or three of father's late exquisite roses; she crossed the room slowly and caressed the flowers with trembling fingers. Through the open doorway she could glimpse the dining room with its long table spread with snowy linen and silver, on to the tall casements beyond draped in old blue and creamy marquisette. "How perfectly lovely!" "But children, John, how did you know; how could you guess?" It was Ada who answered, "Why, mother darling, you talked about nothing but curtains, for days, at the hospital. Rose for the living room to match father's roses: blue and cream for the dining room and nets and swiss for all the bedrooms. Come take a peek." Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon NOVEMBER—Some wait for a great gift to be grateful while it's life's daily kindnesses that bring gladness to the soul. EMMA NAYMAN, member of the Turkish parliament, says, "In no other country in the world has woman made such dramatic progress. She now enjoys complete equality with man." MLLE. INAIDE HANAPYI, Circassienne of Moslem faith, joined the Ethiopian women in mobilizing for defense in war. MARIE of Rumania at 60 years of age is still said to be the most beautiful and versatile queen in the world. RACE ABBOTT was chairman of the United States delegation to the Pan-American child congress which met in Mexico City last month. ELLEN WOODWARD is in charge of projects launched to aid women under the MRS. MARBA CANNON JOSEPHSON and Miss Aurelia Bennion, both young women, have been signally honored this year. The former appointed associate editor of the Improvement Era, the latter president of the Utah Library Association. EDITH M. NEILSEN, 22, of Utah, is said to be the youngest woman editor in the United States. She publishes and edits two weekly newspapers, the Garfield Leader and Magna Times. HELEN E. HAINES in her new book. "Living With Books," discusses the province of the public library and the problem of book selection that meets demands of taste and needs. ELLEN GLASSGOW, Virginia novelist, has captured the hearts of the literary critics with her new novel, "Vein of Iron." The book testifies of her "dignity of authorship" in its fine interpretation of human experiences. ANNE LINDBERGH'S "North To The Orient" is a true story of adventure more thrilling than any work of fiction. MARY MERWIN PHELPS in her biography of Kate Chase, daughter of secretary of the treasury during Lincoln's administration, gives a vivid picture of this period and a dramatic chronicle of the romantic life of this dominant woman. ANN BRIDGE in her latest novel, "Illysian Spring," has shifted for her setting from the Orient to picturesque Dalmatia. Aside from the charm and romance of the story, there is an enjoyable glimpse of the beauty of that interesting country. SALLY LEE BELL has written a romance of old Louisiana, '"Marcel Armand." The story has the charm for a film production though somewhat lacking in literary finish. REBECCA WERT'S "The Thinking Reed, '""The Lake Legacy" by Alice Hegan Rice, "Edna, His Wife,' by Margaret Eyer Barnes, "Lucy Gayheart," by Willa Cather and "Gypsy Weather," by Margaret Houston, are among the new books this fall. This page is devoted largely to new books this month as so many requests have come for suggestions on late books. Not Bread Alone By Elsie C. Carroll VI Tt was another September day ] nineteen years after Linda Bowers first came to Cedar Basin. And she was still there. Today her two oldest children, Edwin Peter and Jenny Lind, were leaving home for the first time to go to school in Mendon. Eddie was ready for college and Jenny would be a junior in high school. It had been hard for Linda and Henry to decide what to do about sending the children away — and hard, too, to raise the money to do so. Jor ten years Henry had been running part of the farm himself, paying his share of the interest on the mortgage and helping to keep up the taxes and other expenses. When the division had been made, Melville had kept the larger share. And the best portion of the land— explaining he had his mother and Effie to keep. Thad and Henry worked the north fields and co-operated much in their work, though each ran his business independently. Thad and Kathie lived in part of her mother's home and had two daughters now. Henry and Linda had another boy, named for Dicky who died the year before the baby was born, and a little girl, Bonnie, now five. Linda sometimes thought that she Should feel terribly old with five sons and daughters, two of them taller than herself. And sometimes she was surprised by remarks from the children which indicated that she was old to them. But she didn't feel old to herself, not even when she realized that she would be forty her next birthday, or when one of the children or Henry found a gray hair among her blond waves. She was sure that to herself she would never seem old, because she was still looking ahead to life, always expecting things— things she was now quite sure in many cases she would never realize, but still always expecting and planning and working as if she knew her dreams would all come true. And some of them had come true. This very day was seeing one fulfillment—the children going away to school. It had been a long struggle. Linda had substituted in the school the winter Molly Wheeler had a nervous breakdown, and she had taught special high school course several years for young people who were beyond school age and didn't want to go in the bus every day to the county high school in Bear Valley thirty miles away. And after her Uncle Peter's death seven years ago, she had started a little store in her front room with the small legacy he had left her, carrying a stock of things Sam Mercer refused to carry in his store, but which she knew would sell. She had continued to give music lessons too. There were a number of pianos in the town now, and some of her students paid her money. The parents of some others sent her a quarter of a mutton or a sack of flour occasionally. Some still accepted lessons free, and she was glad to give them if a child was interested, for to her music was still a big part of her life. She had gone to Arizona to see her uncle the winter before he died 674 and had taken Effie with her for a trip. Her uncle had lamented at that time that his years in the sanitorium were eating up the money he had hoped to leave her for the education of the children. He hadn't left her much money, but there had been almost a truck load of books and magazines and music and pictures. These were more precious than money to her. She also had a free title to The Hutch. She couldn't bear to sell it for the little such a place would bring, and there was no opportunity to rent it; so she permitted one of her uncle's friends to live there for taking care of the place. Peter Marks' books were carefully covered and stamped and arranged in one corner of Linda's store as a library. She hadn't realized before how hungry people could become for something to read. "I wish Uncle Peter could know how his influence is going on and on in the good his books are doing," she once said to Henry. "They are giving these people that something more than bread he was always so interested in." "And your music and your love for flowers and other forms of beauty are doing the same thing," he told her. "We used to think we couldn't stay here because the place lacked everything we wanted most. But it's changed a lot in the last nineteen years—largely through the things you've given." "But we still have to send the children away for school. That's hard when they're so young." "You must not worry. They'll be all right," he assured her. "Nothing else I ever did in my life did-me as much good as going away from home to school. Why, that's how I found you." "But there are so many temptations RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE now. And perhaps you were —stronger in some ways than Eddie is." BOT Eddie and Jenny were overjoyed at the prospects of going away. To them it was a glorious adventure. They were to keep house in a small apartment near school. Linda wished they could afford to have them live in dormitories. There would be a certain supervision by older people there. But it had been all they could do to save enough money for tuition and books and rent and other bare necessities. Most of their food would be sent from home. Henry was going to take the children in the farm truck. He would bring back a new plow for the fall plowing and some supplies for the store. When it was time to say goodbye, Eddie put his arms around his mother and kissed her. He was tall, handsome, Linda thought, and had a personality that quickly won him friends. But his mother was much more worried over him than over his pretty, quiet sister a year young: er. Eddie still had a tendency toward—Linda didn't know whether it was exactly selfishness or just an unnatural greed for money—but it had always worried her. Perhaps if they had had more money it would have been different, she sometimes thought. "Don't you worry about us, Mom," Eddie told her. "We're going to get along keen. I'll just show you and Dad what a good business man I am. It'll be great managing my own affairs and handling more than a quarter." Linda's throat tightened. There it was, even now. And she had worked so hard to subordinate that feeling and build up other qualities NOT BREAD ALONE in him. Sometimes she would feel that she had succeeded. Then some little phrase, apparently as innocent as the words he had just uttered, would fill her with apprehension. "Ed's right, Mommy. You mustn't worry," Jenny had added, her soft young arms holding Linda close. "Everything's going to be grand. We know how hard you and Daddy have worked so we can go, and we're going to study and study and study and make you as proud as anything Of vs." A moment later the children were both in the seat with Henry, waving goodbye to the group about the door as the truck started down the road. Linda wiped her eyes and held Bonny's hand tight as she went in to begin the work of the day. WILL we go off to school like this when we get big?" Linda heard Bonny asking her brothers a little later. "Sure we will," Mark answered, digging about the potted plants with a small trowel, "if we want to. But I'd just as soon stay home, myself." Linda looked at the children thoughtfully, trying to realize their futures. That speech was characteristic of Mark. He loved home, and the soil—watching things grow. "Well when I go off to school," said Richard, "I don't want it to be just a regular school where they make you take problems and spelling and old stuff like that. I want to go where they have just music and I want to have a violin like those fellows that play over the radio, and I want to make up tunes all myself." Linda stood still, her heart was pounding. She turned the face of her youngest son up to her, so she could look into his eyes. "Richard, is that the kind of school you want to go to?" 675 He nodded vigorously. "Are there schools like that?" "J think there are, son. But of course we have to learn the problems and the spelling too. But there is a violin you can have. It was Uncle Peter's. Mother will get it this minute and maybe you can begin right now—making up tunes." She was excited. She had given the older children music lessons, from the time they were infants, but none of them had shown any unusual talent. In fact Jenny Lind and Mark had found practicing such drudgery that she had ceased to trouble them with it. But she had been so busy since Richard was born and he had seemed more frail than the others, so she had never taken the trouble to teach him, always thinking she would start a little later. Now she remembered that he had always liked to amuse himself at the piano, and that he loved her Uncle Peter's phonograph records. She wondered how she could have been blind to the spark of genius which she now believed he had, and which she had been searching for in vain in the other children. She spent all her spare time that day with Richard and his music and found that he did have little tunes of his own running through his head. This new happiness helped her over the loneliness the going of the other children had left. But that night after she had tucked Bonnie and Richard in bed and Mark had gone across the street to play with one of his pals, she sensed the emptiness of the house with Eddie and Jenny gone, and wished that Henry were home. She sat trying to read, but found her thoughts flitting far from the printed page, and was glad when she heard the kitchen door open. She thought it was Mark and 676 called, "I'm glad you didn't stay, son. I'm lonesome." "Then maybe you'll let me come to see you." She started to her feet as Melville came to the middle door. "I thought it was Mark," she said. "Come and sit down, Mel." She tried to act natural, but she always avoided being alone with Mel, and she wondered why he had come tonight when he knew Henry was away. "How are your mother and Effie?" "Oh, they're as usual. Not much company for a fellow. Ma always complaining and Effie never saying anything." "You ought to get married, Mel." She regretted the words as soon as they were spoken, for she knew Mel's attitude of martyrdom. "Small chance for me to get married, having a family left for me to look after. That's what comes of being the oldest. The others didn't feel any responsibility. They could get married and have their pleasure while I was worrying about holding on to the farm and making a living." "T don't think you should take it that way, Mel. Things probably would have gone just as well if you had married. Maybe even better. At least you would have been happier, and that would mean something." "How do you mean happier. I'd still have had the whole responsibility on my shoulders, and maybe a lot of others. You and Hen worry. Your heads off about your kids all the time." "But we're getting a lot of happiness from them too." She wished he would go. She couldn't help thinking of the unpleasant experiences she had had with him looking at her in a way she couldn't endure. And there had been the night she had fainted and he had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE held her close in his arms; and the time he had kissed her, in anything but a brotherly fashion, when she had come back from a visit to her uncle. "But I have had some good luck at last," he said moving to a chair nearer the couch where she sat. "Oh, I'm glad. What is it?" She was relieved to have the subject changed. "There's oil on my land." "There is? Oil on our farms? How wonderful!" "It's just on my part. I've had a man testing all over the basin by the latest methods of discovering oil, and there are only two places where there are any evidences—that's on Jim Bancroft's place and my forty." "That's splendid, Mel." Linda had caught his implication that it was his land, even though the farm had never been permanently divided. "That means you'll be rich. You can marry now and live as you'd like to." He got up and stood looking down at her. "Yes, I'll be rich. That oil expert offered me $40,000 for my land, and I didn't take it because I think it's worth a lot more. But I don't want to marry. I've had all the looking after a family I can stand. I'm a man though, and I have a man's natural impulses. You've guessed that, Linda. That's why you'll never stay in a room with me. You're afraid, aren't you? Is it just me, or are you afraid of yourself too?" "Mel, you don't know what you're saying," she cried, springing to her feet, her face white and her hands clenched. "Oh, yes, I do. Listen Linda, you want money to give your kids a chance. You're working your head off to send them to school and give them what you call advantages. Why NOT BREAD ALONE won't you let me help you? Nobody would ever know. Hen's as blind as a bat. He'd think I was giving him the money. And you'd have it easy the rest of your lives. What do you say, Linda?" He moved nearer, his eyes with that look, searing her soul. She 677 cringed back. Sway. "God in heaven," she prayed, "don't let me faint." He reached out his hands toward her; but the kitchen door opened. "Mommy," Mark's voice called. (To be continued) The room began to Golden Hours By Dorothy Clapp Robinson "A little Home among the trees, A warming sun, a cooling breeze, A childish voice, a welcome light, A man that whistles home at night. A cheery fire, a savory dish. What more could any mortal wish? A feeling that you'll never roam. These are the things that make a home." Thus sang Agnes Just Reid and such philosophy has been the dominant factor in shaping her life. WITH all our hearts we admire women who can set their goal early in life and with great singleness of purpose fight their way toward that goal. Usually home and family are made incident to their success. Those who have done this make up our list of great women. Then there are those of equal potentialities who pause in their upward struggle to perform life's humdrum obligations. The rise of the latter is not so assured nor their work so likely of reaching a degree of perfection. But what shall we say of the woman herself? Certainly her usefulness or the sum total of her efforts are not lessened by the widening of her interests. Preeminent among women of the latter class stands the Idaho poet, Agnes Just Reid. It was in the late sixties, a Danish freighter by the name of Nels Just, while traveling through Snake River Valley, lost his horses. He tracked them across a high dry bench into a fertile valley drained by the Blackfoot River. Here was grass and water in abundance and land to be had for the taking. In the spring of 1870 Nels Just came back to this paradise with his young English bride, Emma Bennett. They carried all their earthly possessions in a covered wagon drawn by four oxen. It took them eight days to go from Malad to fifteen miles northeast of the present town of Blackfoot. They trailed three cows. There Emma's first home was a "hole" in the side of the hill. She suffered all the annoyances and hardships of pioneer life but reaped its joys and blessings. There her ten children were born without benefit of medical profession. There Agnes, her tenth child and only living daughter, was born. However. By that time, the three original cows had multiplied into hundreds; Presto had a Post Office; Snake River Valley, a railroad; and the "hole" in the hill had been replaced by a comfortable ranch house. The little girl grew up in true 678 ranch style. With her brothers she rode horseback, drove cattle, learned to read the signs of the place and seasons. Different from many only girls, she was carefully trained in household tasks. She still prefers horseback to any other method of getting about and she and her horse are familiar figures on the byways and highways of that community. Agnes was born with the "divine afflatus." The dreamy, challenging romance of hills and lavas and untilled acres called insistently to the poet in her. She loved the ranch, the West, the Spirit of the Age. By the time she could wield a pencil she was writing poems and short stories. As she advanced in school her talent became more pronounced. By all signs, her future stretched before her, rosy with possibilities. There is every reason to suppose, had she gone on with unwavering intent, she could have marked her own heights. But rather than make writing her life, she made it just a part of, and subservient to, life. She says, "I have always wanted to be first a mother, and second a writer." THE old ranch has always been her home. When her years at school were finished, she came back joyously, eagerly to it. There she has waited all these years for Bob Reid's "whistle coming home at night." And the same ranch house where she was born has been the birthplace for her family of boys. Oh, the hours and hours and weeks and years of care and work those five boys have cost her. Imagine how far that many hours spent on writing would have taken her. She has preferred to work with more lasting material. But her writing was never forgotten. It nagged at the back of her mind demanding expression. Often the gravy, or the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE washing has had to stand by while she put some insistent thought on paper. She claims hard work brings her finest inspirations. Her first published book was a volume of verse called "The Range Cayuse." That was followed by "Letters of Long Ago." With its publication her place among Idaho authors was made secure. Primarily it is the story of her parents' life on their ranch but fundamentally it is a history of the conquest of Snake River Valley. It is simply and charmingly told. It is pioneer life as life was lived with no dressing up, but seen through eyes that could see "books in brooks, sermons in stones, and good in everything." It was written while her mother was alive so every date and fact was vouched for. Because it is true in fact and spirit, it will likely live as a very human history of eastern Idaho. WHILE contributing to many magazines and papers, Agnes is best known to Latter-day Saint women through her stories and poems published in the Era and Relief Society Magazines. The quantity of her production has fallen far short of her dreams, but the quality is a credit to any writer. Its charm is not so much in form nor technique as in good honest heart warming philosophy. Her poetry appeals to the women because it is so understandable. It sings itself into one's heart with the first reading. She does not believe in forcing herself to write, believing rather that there must be something to be written and a great urge to write it. The form, she thinks, is then likely to take care of itself. MRS. REID has another outstanding characteristic, the ability to make friends. She draws GOLDEN HOURS friends as a flower draws bees. For one who has always lived in one place, and that place a ranch, their variety is astonishing. From far and near they come, writers, poets, statesmen, business men and women and just plain people and neighbors. To all she is the same modest, unassuming, yet keenly alive personality. A woman who can listen as well as talk. Broadminded, yet with definite ideas and moral values of her own. Her secret of friendship could be put in one sentence, she sincerely recognizes the value of the other fellow and lets him know it. She is an ardent "dry" and never fails to throw her talent and influence into the fight when a moral issue is at stake. As a reader of her own poems, she is in great demand up and down the valley. Often she appears on a program along with such dignitaries as 679 the Governor of the State, Senator Borah and others. Hers is a well-rounded personality; a talented writer, equally at home with friends from any social group: a woman to whom "'the art of making butter took on a new dignity;" yet with the warm impulsive nature that makes for good wifehood and motherhood. She is essentially sincere when she writes: "And when at night they are safe in bed With their touseled heads in sight, I joyfully kneel by their sleeping forms And kiss them all goodnight. Then Daddy comes in to join me there And the kisses fall in showers. Oh, never was mortal so blest as I— These are my Golden Hours." —A. J. R. Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life By Lella Marler Hoggan KEEP BUSY WORK is the salvation of the human race. Nothing is accomplished without exertion. The fact that Jehovah rested from his labors after the creation of the world, plainly implies that effort was required to complete that majestic undertaking. The highest achievements and the most satisfying joys come through work. To make, to create, to produce something necessary or beautiful, at once lifts man to companionship with the Gods. When man finds the work that his heart cries out for, and prepares to perform it with finish and artistry, then his effort becomes a high ceremonial. Since that long ago day when the Creator closed the gates of Paradise against our first parents, and bade them earn their bread by the sweat of their brow, men and women have bowed in service to provide the world with the common necessities of life. These necessities are earth-born, gifts from the Creator it is true, but gifts that must be wrested from life by the work of our hands. It is prudent that we should learn early in life to perform with skill 680 and efficiency, this primitive work of providing food, shelter and raiment for ourselves and others. These sweet homely tasks hold men and women to wholesome lives; and put iron in the blood and courage in the soul. "Every mason in the quarry, every builder on the shore, Every woodman in the forest, every boatman at the oar, Hewing wood and drawing water, splitting stones and clearing sod, All the dusty ranks of labor in the regiment of God, March together toward His temple, do the tasks His hands prepare: Honest toil is holy service, faithful work is praise and prayer." —Author Unknown. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE From the bee, the symbol of faithful work, they learned to use prudently both their time and their materials. By their diligent efforts they searched out the sweets of life and wrought them into their soul structure. No precious thing was wasted. All was conserved to the advancement of the commonwealth, to the service of God. ALTHOUGH work is a blessing, there are times when it fails to fulfill the purpose for which it was instituted. Labor that requires time and effort beyond one's strength to perform; that breaks the body, impairs the health, and prematurely ages one, is a detriment rather than FRAGRANT rose gardens did not greet our Pioneer ancestors at the close of their long trek. They had reached the land of promise, but the promise was yet to be fulfilled. They must first subdue the elements, and make peace with the Indians. Then they must work and wait with patience and with stamina until they had paid the price of the desired blessing; the price that nature always exacts before the barren waste can "flow with milk and honey." a blessing to the children of men. When there is no upward-looking joy, no romance in one's effort, no hope of promotion nor release from ceaseless toil; then work becomes slavery and is no longer a power for good. The attitude with which we approach a task helps to make it either drudgery or a sacrament under our hands. The laborer who turns the soil with gladness, who feels the comforting touch of the soft earth under his feet,-and catches KEEPSAKES FOR THE TREASURE CHEST OF LIFE 681 with pleasure the wholesome fresh odor from the new furrows, is getting more than bread from the soil. His life is a struggle with the elements, the conquest of which gives him keen delight. There is satisfaction in mastering the things we undertake to do. There is a joy in any performance that we can execute with ease and accuracy. To efficiently complete a task, to finish every least detail as perfectly as it is possible for us to do it, gives us confidence in our ability to meet life. Orison Swett Marden says: "Every half-done or slovenly job that goes out of your hands leaves its trace of demoralization behind. There is an indescribable superiority added to the character and fiber of the man who always and everywhere, puts quality into his work." "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread."—Gen. 3:19. "It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God."— Matt. 4:4. Thus do the Scriptures signify that man requires spiritual as well as temporal sustenance. The work that is the easiest or the pleasantest to perform, is not always the most desirable. Work that we love, work that is an answer to the cry of our inmost being, is the labor that we can perform under the most trying conditions. The assurance that we are in the hands of destiny, that we are filling the measure of our creation, brings a deeper joy and satisfaction to our souls than any material wage could ever supply. To feel each day that we are developing strength and power; that we are living up to the fulness of our best possibilities; doing the biggest thing that we are capable of doing; this is high romance, this is life. Stuart Sherman, in Shaping Men and Women, tells us that a desire for truth and self-realization are two of the greatest incentives in life. "If you haven't any romance in your life," says he, "it's a failure. Romance is the deep cry which excites you to your best and utmost. Romance is whatever calls you out of your languor and indifference and half-heartedness—and uses you, consumes you, adequately—so that all the accumulated material of your life—your wisdom, your experience —takes fire, and gives off light, heat, warmth, and the beauty and red wings of flame." IN purchasing life, time is the medium of exchange. "You have to live on this twenty-four hours of daily time," says Arnold Bennett. "Out of it you have to spin health, pleasure, money, content, respect, and the evolution of your immortal soul. Its right use is a matter of the highest urgency. For we want to live, not merely exist or muddle through." In the unsettled economic condition of today, numberless men and women are left with much free time on their hands. They may choose whether they will loiter it away, bitterly deploring the mismanagement of the world, that leaves them without lucrative work; or, whether they will use it for improving themselves mentally and spiritually; that they may be better prepared to meet the changing conditions of life. There are spendthrifts of time, who never learn the value of an hour; who never realize that spare moments can be put to a wise use. Time is not lost if it has added health and strength to our bodies, or growth and development to our souls; if it has brought permanent beautiful things into our lives; or has ad682 vanced us a little nearer toward the goal we are seeking to reach. Just as pennies grow into dollars, so do minutes grow into hours. And both may be conserved to our benefit and happiness. "Every day! In those two words lies the secret of all attainment," said Dr. Crane. "Every day! That is the road to perfection. Almost everybody wastes enough hours in ten years to get a doctor's degree in any university. No force is so great in any man as the stored-up power of what he has been doing every day." SOME one has recently spoken of the vast army of college graduates as "the lost generation." After their earnest effort to prepare themselves for positions of trust and responsibility, there is no opening for them. Their services are not in demand. And yet, is not the man with a trained mind and a skilled hand better prepared to serve humanity than the one less richly endowed? Is not his soul attuned to higher appreciation and deeper joy than the one lacking these accomplishments? Must we measure every gracious attainment, every far-reaching development, by its remunerative returns? If we make our lives rich in worthwhile values, we need have no fear of poverty; for our soul's need shall be supplied from the source of all good. Albert Edward Wiggam, in Marks of an Educated Man, offered the sage advice, that we should fit a man for his job, because he must make a living; but we must also provide him with ideals, because he must make a life. It is not prudent that all of our leisure time should be spent in study. We need hours of recreation and play quite as much as we need work. To the child, play is more than mere entertainment. It is his chief RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE occupation. And he should be given time and opportunity to pursue it: for it greatly influences his mental as well as his physical growth. It is a most essential factor in the development of his inherent powers. "When a man plays," says Wiggam, "he is satisfying, not a mere foolish desire for pleasure, but is fulfilling the deepest organic needs of his being." If our daily work takes us into fields far from the occupation of our desire, we can make a hobby of our desire, and thus in our leisure hours find expression for our highest aspirations. Electricity, God's gracious gift to man, has cut our work in two and thus doubled our leisure time. It would be well for us to program this free time, in order that it may render us the greatest possible satisfaction. But hedged in by environment and circumstance, it is hard for us to budget our life's effort. Realizing that our time and energy are most precious commodities, we must not give them up too easily. They are the coin with which we purchase life. How can we teach ourselves to choose wisely? We must first make sure that we are not buying white elephants. And secondly. We must know that the price is right. The world is full of traders who are selling black magic. Do not permit your golden hours to go into the purse of the charlatan. There is an old saying that, "The priceless ingredient in any article, is the honor and integrity of him who produces it." Be sure that your purchase bears the reliable stamp of genuine worth. Intellectual growth and development are not transferable. Real and enduring values are not being passed out in surprise packages. All of us know the old fable of KEEPSAKES FOR THE TREASURE CHEST OF LIFE 683 the Dervish and the Camel. You remember how the camel begged to put his head into the tent of the dervish to protect his eyes from the shifting sand. No sooner had the dervish consented, than the camel felt the need of sheltering his shoulders and his back also. The dervish made no vigorous protest, and so the camel finally crowded his entire body into the tent. The tent was too small to shelter both of them; therefore, the dervish was left out in the sand-storm while the camel rested quietly inside. Many of us are using no more wisdom than the dervish. We permit the things that we do not especially want, to come into our lives and occupy our time, and crowd out our heart's best desires. We permit others to spend our time and shape our lives, sometimes, to the detriment of our families and our homes. Suppose we were given an extra hour of leisure time each day. What would we do with it? Spend it in discussing the latest neighborhood scandal with some chance caller? Should we not be truly thankful for our greater hours of free time, and use them in shaping our lives nearer to our liking? Too often we permit today's convenience to outweigh tomorrow's development. If we allow our lives to be filled with a multiplicity of small obligations, we shall have no time nor place for the larger objectives, the cherished projects that would bring us eternal joy. Some persons deplore any expenditure of time that does not yield a money value. Whenever they indulge in any cultural pursuit, they feel that they are stealing the time so used. What is life for, after all, if every precious, lovely thing has to be taken by stealth? Time will vindicate us if we cherish and cultivate our high ideals. If life begins at forty, as Walter B. Pitkin asserts, then it is not too late for us to seriously consider the pursuit of the visions that have shadowed us through the years. It is possible that we can gather together the odds and ends of the strands of life, and weave them into some beautiful, enduring thing. Let us not be afraid to set about materializing our long cherished dreams, even though it requires years to complete our undertaking. The accomplishment will bring us satisfaction that is beyond price. Truly, industry is a foundation principle in the construction of life. We certainly desire to include it with our treasured keepsakes. Relief Society Conference October 2 and 3, 1935 By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary The Semi-Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held on October 2 and 3, 1935, in Salt Lake City, Utah. The following is the attendance at the Officers' Meeting, held in the Assembly Hall, Thursday, October 3, at 10 a. M. Ninety-five stakes and fourteen missions were represented —Mission Presidents 14; Stake Presidents 73; Counselors 108; Secretaries 45; Board Members 384; Total 624. There was a full representation from the General Presidency and Board for the opening day. During the second day the presence of President Louise Y. Robison was greatly missed. This was occasioned by the serious illness of her husband. All the sessions on Wednesday, October 2, were devoted to the educational program of Relief Society. At the Opening Meeting, held in the Tabernacle, subjects dealing with the opportunities offered through the courses of study were discussed, and stress laid upon the spiritual values in life and teaching. In the afternoon Department Sessions were conducted with the chairmen of the various courses in charge. At all the meetings there was a large and enthusiastic attendance of women eager for help to develop the fine educational programs offered. The consultation service in the Music Department attracted many choristers and organists who received valuable instructions from Charlotte O. Sackett and Alta B. Cassity. Glenn J. Beeley was in attendance to discuss problems and suggest activities for the Work and Business supervisors. Thursday, October 3, the General and Stake Officers and Board Members met in the Assembly Hall. In the afternoon the General Public Session convened in the Tabernacle. The music furnished in the General and Department Meetings by the Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the direction of Charlotte O. Sackett, assisted by Alta B. Cassity, Emma Lucy Gates Bowen, Frank Asper, William Hardiman, Lydia White Boothby, Inez Robinson Preece, Blaine Keddington, Cyril Martin, Ida Hepworth, Dorothy Rosebraugh, Crissie Bixon, Eliza Bringhurst, Enid Orlob, made this a very delightful and inspirational feature of the Conference. Opening Session—Tabernacle October 2—10 a. M. President Louise Y. Robison, Presiding Wednesday, October 2, 1935 TABERNACLE GREETINGS PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON I AM honored this morning in extending greetings to you from the General Board of Relief Society. Many of you have come great distances in the Christ-like desire to be of assistance to others. We hope RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE your desires and prayers for help in your work will be realized in the program we have arranged, for we, too, have prayed and planned. We are most fortunate in securing men and women who are outstanding in educational and spiritual fields to be our speakers. A great responsibility comes with the office of class leader. Attendance at Relief Society meetings depends largely upon the success of your teaching. Of more importance than attendance is the interest you arouse in your class members to create the desire to live richer lives. SPIRITUAL GROWTH THROUGH THE RELIEF SOCIETY COURSE 685 Greater faith is built through knowledge, but belief is incomplete unless merged into action, so yours is the opportunity to stimulate women to read, to think, and to apply in their lives the truths which they believe; to establish ideals which will hold them true, believing with Carl Schurz: "Ideals are like stars; you will not succeed in touching them with your hands, but like the sea-faring man on the desert of water, you choose them as your guides, and following them, you reach your destiny." OF STUDY M. LYNN BENNION Member of General Board, Deseret Sunday School Union MAZZINI, the Italian Philosopher, defined democracy as "The progress of all, through all, under the leadership of the wisest and best." I believe this definition is applicable to the Church. During 1934 there were 84,042 officers and teachers in the auxiliary organizations. There were 15,167 Relief Society officers, exclusive of Visiting Teachers. Practically every Latter-day Saint has an opportunity to lead in some capacity, and follow in many capacities. This mass participation in spiritual activity is the key to spiritual development. Truly it is the progress of all, through all, under the leadership of the wisest and best. I was greatly impressed when I read of the purpose in founding the Relief Society. A broader, more comprehensive foundation for spirituality can scarcely be imagined than the goal set for you by the founders of this great organization nearly a century ago. They are: "To manifest benevolence irrespective of creed or nationality; to care for the poor, the sick and unfortunate; to minister where death reigns; to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to raise human life to its highest level; to elevate and enlarge the scope of women's activities and conditions; to foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement; to develop faith; to save souls; to study and teach the Gospel." Spiritual Growth through the Study of Social Service: To develop spirituality through the promotion of human welfare is your primary aim. That aim is basic in our religion, and the Relief Society has led the way. The task of ministering to the needs of people demands a loving heart and a high order of intelligence. Even in these strenuous times people need spiritual food, intellectual stimulus, far worse than they need bread. The Relief Society has not been content to pass out charity, but has sought, through a Social Service course of study, to understand the complex problems inherent in health, education, sani686 tation, poverty, crime, child welfare and personality development. Christ gives us a picture of the ideal social welfare case worker. The Good Samaritan knew what needed to be done for the man in need, and he did it. I enjoy trying to read into Bible characters more than is apparent from the brief account given. The Good Samaritan was a student of human nature and also a lover of mankind. His heart and mind were prepared for this service. He had rendered already great services to many and through that experience was a finely developed personality. This is why he rendered such intelligent and loving service in the Bible story. Do not be discouraged over the slowness of your own development. Spiritual development is usually a slow, gradual progress. It is like the ear of corn which produced first the blade, then the ear, then the corn in the ear. Psychologists have discovered a great weakness in much of our educational practice. We learn all about the theory of something, but it does not influence our conduct, and because there is no activity or practice in what is studied there is no growth. One writer said: "Character as an intelligent, effective and dependable way of life, will result not from talking about character, but from actual experience in living the good life." It is far better to pray for and visit the sick than to merely define religion in terms of visiting the sick. The great question in my mind, as I have worked with young people in the Church, is: 'Will the facts they learn about Church history and doctrine influence their behavior and conduct." I more and more believe that we must see that they have actual experience in being honest, truthful, cooperative, and so forth. So RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE we are stressing pupil activity through problems and projects. Let the child learn to do by doing. It is the application of knowledge for the spiritual welfare of man that constitutes the "Mormon'"' ideal of education. Now I believe the Relief Society is ahead of us in this program. You have had much of the actual work of relieving the poor, caring for the sick, clothing the naked. You have met the actual problems, and it is in the solution of problem that the highest spiritual growth lies. It calls for the best that is in you and it makes you thoughtful of the ills of mankind. Furthermore nothing is more provoking of hard mental effort than concrete problems to solve. I used to wonder how it was that missionaries developed so rapidly. You know the answer. They have problems to solve. It may be to make clear a principle of the Gospel to a person, or to soften another man's heart. These problems drive the missionary to study and to his prayers. He fills up his mind and heart and then he gives, and O, how he does grow! One of the most stirring incidents in Scripture is Moses pleading with God to spare backsliding Israel, offering to efface himself if only they may be spared. When he came back from his communion he so radiated the spiritual life that he had to cover his face for the Israelites could not abide his presence. I see in the Social Service work of the Relief Society the very essence of "pure religion." Those who give most will grow most and live most abundantly. Spiritual Growth through the Study of Literature: "All that mankind has done, thought, gained or been; it is lying as in magic preserRELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE vation in the pages of Books.""— Carlyle. "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom, seek learning even by study, and also by faith." Brigham Young grasped the significance of that commandment. "I want to have schools," he said, "to entertain the minds of the people and draw them out to learn the arts and sciences." "We should be," President Young said, "a people of profound learning pertaining to the things of the world. Every accomplishment, every political grace, every useful attainment in mathematics, music, and in all science and literature belong to the Saints, and they should avail themselves as expeditiously as possible of the wealth of knowledge the sciences offer to every diligent and persevering scholar." He defined education succinctly when he said before the University of Deseret Board of Regents: "Education is the power to think clearly, the power to act well in the world's work, and the power to appreciate life." The best way I know to appreciate life is to contact life in the flesh, or from the pages of literature. During the last few years my reading hours as a student have been crowded into the books of the past. I often found myself hungry for the books of life, and I went to them to find courage, strength and faith to renew my labors. There is nothing more stimulating in all this world than contact with a truly great personality. You just cannot help being lifted by such people. Blessed are those who receive many such contacts in person or from the pages of literature, for they shall grow spiritually thereby. Longfellow was asked by a student at Harvard University, "How is it, Mr. Longfellow, that after all these years of teaching you remain 687 so fresh in your point of view, and so stimulating?" The wise old teacher pointed to a peach orchard through the window, and said, "You see some of those trees are young, and some are old. The old ones grow enough new wood each year to produce beautiful fragrant blossoms. I try to read and study enough to keep alive mentally." Another great teacher, said, "I want my students to drink from a running stream and not a stagnant pool." We are all teachers in this Church of ours. One of the surest guarantees that your husband, your children, your friends will grow spiritually is that you yourself are expanding in the good life. Think of the power Christ had to stimulate people. "One half of my goods I give to the poor," said Zaccheus, the mercenary little tax collector, in response to the appeal of the Master, "and if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold.' What a glorious spiritual response to a superb teacher and a great Personality. Richard C. Cabot, scholar, teacher of ethics at Harvard University, and fine Christian, said: "I caught my religion by contagion through contact with people." This man has contacted the great and noble of all ages through the pages of literature. He mentioned also his indebtedness to two living people—Dr. Grenfell, physician, who left the comforts of a London home to serve the Eskimos on the bleak coasts of Labrador. "When I was with Grenfell," said Dr. Cabot, "Jesus Christ seemed not more than five feet away." The other person who touched and melted Cabot was Jane Addams, that good woman of great sympathy and understanding, who sought to serve others. I saw this noble woman receive the honorary degree of Dr. of 688. Laws at the University of California last spring. Her face was radiant with spirituality. Spiritual experience had brought her a rich development. Love has been defined as "The energy of a steadfast good will bent on creating fellowship." Jane Addams was filled with this energy. It led her day and night through the slums of Chicago seeking to make fellowship with humanity. No one can estimate the stimulus of spiritual growth that will come to you through your literary course of study. Its influence will be felt in your home and in your communities. A teacher of literature recently asked a visiting mother at school, "In what college did you study literature?" The mother replied, "I received my training through the Relief Society." We can agree with Charles Kingsley, who said: "Except a living man, there is nothing more wonderful than a book, a message from human souls whom we never saw, who lived perhaps thousands of miles away— they speak to us, amuse us, inspire us, teach us, open their hearts to us as a brother. Before leaving the subject of literature, I wish to recommend a book that every mother will love to read— Ella Lyman Cabot's The Seven Ages of Childhood. This book will give you greater insight, understanding and patience with children. Spiritual Growth through the Study of Theology: The most important channel for spiritual growth offered Relief Society members is through the study of theology. Perhaps the most valuable lesson gained from this study is the knowledge that we are the children of God, made in His image, having His attributes in embryo and destined to become like Him. This definition of man is a great contrast to one I reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cently heard: "Man is a small but boisterous bit of organic scum which for the time being coats one of the lesser planets." Man needs to understand the nature of his origin, for it will help him to bring unity and oneness to the inner life. It will help him resolve the struggle expressed in the verse: "Within my earthly temple There's one that's humble, one that's proud; There's one who's broken-hearted for his sins; There's one who unrepentant sits and grins; There's one who loves his neighbor as himself; There's one who cares for naught but fame and self. From such perplexing cares I would be free If I could once determine which is me." Gospel study will help you to live in harmony with the will of God. What has brought traditional religion into disrepute with many people? It is because some have allowed religion, or spirituality, to become a department of life instead of the core and heart of life. They have locked it up in a water-tight compartment so that it does not influence the whole of life. The same disuse has affected our educational system... Glenn Frank, President of Wisconsin University, says that our Western education with its many separate subjects has educated men in narrow grooves without the power to see the relationship between things. We have made specialists but we have failed to build men. Now we need the unique contribution of the specialist, but we are more in need of the man of all round development, who sees the divine purpose in things, and whose talents are dedicated to the spiritual welfare of God and man. The fine old cobbler emulated the spiritual life. The RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE sign over his door read: 'God first, man second, shoes third." Character may be defined as "The ability and disposition of the mind and the body to control conduct in accordance with a system of values." The Latter-day Saint system of values is the highest and most comprehensive system in existence. How did we obtain gospel values? We did not get them by experimentation, which is the way of science. We did not receive them through reasoning, which is the way of philosophy. We did receive them from God, through divine revelation. How are we going to attain the ability and disposition to control our conduct in accordance with these divine values' First we must understand these values. That means constant study and prayer. No man can be saved in ignorance, for knowledge is the concomitant of salvation and ignorance is a sin where there is an opportunity to be informed. Not only must we study the gospel, but we must live it. Christ challenges us to make the pragmatic test. "If any man will do my will he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself.'' Study the gospel and honestly live the gospel and you will have the ability and disposition to control your conduct in accordance with gospel values, and that is "Mormon" character! The highest in existence —what a challenge for us to grow in character! Furthermore those who live the gospel know that it is true. I have made this discovery: most people who are dissatisfied with God's plan of life, and who seek some new experiment, do not understand God's laws and. Have never fairly tried them out. Why should you study theology? Because religion is the core and heart 689 of life. It is the glowing center of all values whatsoever. It is a positive, creative, dynamic and integrating power that makes all our relationships in the family, in our vocations, in our intellectual pursuits, in enjoyment and in moral conduct, beautiful and God-like. To be a fine Latter-day Saint is a great achievement, the achievement of a life-time, for it means a life of devoted study and growth-promoting service. "Man is that he might have joy." Obedience to divine laws brings divine joy. Recall with me now the most joyful experiences of your life. They are spiritual in their nature. There is no expression of the mind, or the body that man cannot have in its highest, most thrilling and most lofty form through the gospel. What a pity so many miss these blessings through choosing a base expression of their lives. How grateful we are for the spiritual experiences of life. They are as real, and the evidence of them as substantial as any scientific experiment performed in a laboratory. I firmly believe that one who feels the joy of spiritual growth will no more be satisfied with baser things than a boy would be satisfied with a sour apple if he had a ripe one in his hand. The Relief Society members have a splendid Adult Education course of study. It comprises a study which seeks broadly to discover truth and beauty. Most important they have remarkable opportunities to apply the knowledge gained in the interests of human welfare. That is the sure avenue of spiritual growth. Our women in the Church do have spiritual experience in great abundance. That is why they are so fine, so sensitive to the promptings of the Holy Spirit. May God ever bless them, Amen. 690 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ESTABLISHING CONDUCT CONTROLS IN TEACHING BELLE S. SPAFFORD Member of the General Board "THE Relief Society, though basically charitable, is also Educational in the best and highest sense of the word, dealing with subjects that tend toward the elevation and advancement of women." The goal of all Latter-day Saint women is to live efficient, effective and satisfying lives. There are two elements which run through all departments of "satisfying living," the first is rich, abundant living and the second is living which enables us to constantly move forward, to progress. The Relief Society Membership consists of the Mothers of our Church—a group upon whom rests heavy responsibility—that of maintaining the integrity of the home, of rearing and disciplining the children for effective and happy participation in adult life and of exerting influence in securing wholesome community life. In addition they are striving for personal growth and development, that their own intellectual, aesthetic and social horizons may be constantly broadened. In obedience to commandment and recognizing the responsibilities and desires of our mothers, a balanced program has been provided; one designed to stimulate study and provide opportunity for attainment of these objectives. Upon the Class leader rests the responsibility of teaching the subject matter in such a way that the ultimate aims of the educational program will be achieved. It is not her problem to say what shall be admitted to the educational course but, "What shall I lead my class members to get out of the lesson material which has been provided." We must see our lessons as more than subject matter, we must see them as a "Way of Life," as a definite guide to conduct. Conduct is largely determined by such factors in one's makeup as the knowledge he may possess, the habits formed, the skills which are his, the attitudes, ideals, tastes and interest he may have acquired. These things we speak of as "Conduct Controls," since they control or determine behavior. The teacher's chief concern should not be subject matter, but the outcome of presenting this subject matter. She should ask with reference to each lesson presented, "What information, skills, habits, tastes, attitudes, interests, etc., must I establish in presenting this lesson, that the class members will conduct themselves in an improved and more acceptable manner. Subject matter is valuable but only in so far as it leads to the establishing of intelligent conduct controls. The greatest concern of teachers of the past has been subject matter, implying that knowing a thing, one would conduct himself in accordance with this knowledge. Now educators are realizing, this is not always true and that subject matter is valuable only in so far as it leads to improved conduct. The first step in well planned teaching is the setting up of lesson objectives in terms of conduct controls. Then we must consider just what contribution this attitude, ideal, etc., will make toward the ultimate objective of our educational program. We must consider always whether or not these controls when established, will really help our RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE mothers in the many activities in which they must engage in order to live completely. Our instruction should not be the SPIRITUAL GROWTH 691 mere imparting of facts nor the indoctrinating of dogma but the establishing of intelligent conduct controls. THROUGH Music JANET M. THOMPSON Member of the General Board WHAT is music? What is the purpose of it? Do we experience spiritual growth through it? The dictionary defines Music as "the science and the art of tones or musical sounds, the art of combining tones in a manner to please the ear —melody or harmony. Charles Kingsley said, "Music is a sacred, a divine God-like thing and was given to man by Christ to lift our hearts up to God and make us feel something of the glory and beauty of God and of all which He has made." Another writer tells us "Music is well said to be like the speech of the Angels—God is its author—He laid the keystone of all harmonies— He planned all perfect combinations and He made us so that we could hear and understand." When we hear good music and understand it, it becomes a part of us—it gives significance to life—interprets life and unfolds it. In the unfolding of its great purpose we experience spiritual growth. Music speaks a universal language which the heart alone interprets. "It merges all humanity into God's children regardless of race, creed, color or culture. It makes us forget the differences that separate the human family and welds all into one great symphony of life." It is one of the arts that interprets the mission of our Redeemer—it illuminates life and thought — has power to uplift—capacity to soothe and comfort. It educates the soul, mind and body—gives spiritual strength—a feeling of harmony within and without which at once becomes religious—it gives hope, peace and joy. So we say Music does influence one in a spiritual way. Everywhere and always music— both vocal and instrumental—has been considered an indispensable part of public worship. From early Bible days down to the present time it has been employed as a means of worship. It has been said our songs in the form of hymns are among the most powerful agencies we have for developing the religious sentiment of our people. Strange as it may seem there has never been any great religious movement without the use of the sacred song. When the children of Israel sang, because of their deliverance from the hand of Pharaoh, Miriam, the sister of Moses said, "Sing unto the Lord, for He hath triumphed gloriously." In the life of Martin Luther we find another example of spiritual uplift through song. During the most dangerous period in his life he wrote "A Mighty Fortress is our God— A Bulwark Never Failing." This song was inspired by the 46th Psalm, which states in part—''God is our refuge and strength—a present help in trouble." Luther found great comfort in this hymn. When danger seemed imminent he would turn to his companions and say, "Come, let us sing the 46th Psalm." He believed music to be a profound help to the religious life. His enemies said he 692 made more converts by his hymns than by all his preaching. Some of our finest oratorios are based on Biblical text—the Messiah being one of them. It voices the deep religious feeling and faith of its composer, George Frederick Handel—and has proven a musical blessing to all mankind. Surely the rendition of this sacred composition gives one spiritual uplift and strength—greater vision, faith and hope. With the establishment of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints upon this continent, the sacred song had its place in that most eventful religious movement. As Mormonism was founded on revelation it became necessary to make a collection of hymns which would conform to the new revelations and the restored gospel, as taught by the Prophet Joseph Smith. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The Doctrine and Covenants gives us this revelation, in part—"And it shall be given thee also, to make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasant unto me to be had in my church. For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." When we know the extraordinary religious influence that swayed the lives of our composers and writers we are assured there has been spiritual growth through music—there will be greater spiritual growth if we aim to make our songs a prayer unto the Lord—if we will understand and sing the gospel in our hymns. The Lord has given the gift of music to the world. May we employ every available means to develop a growing love for it and make that love ever more intelligent and discriminating. THE BIBLE JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary-Treasurer THE Roman soldier said to the Apostle Paul, "with a great price purchased I this freedom." So we might say, "with a great price was the Holy Bible purchased for us." The untiring zeal of the great scholars who devoted their lives to preserve the treasured manuscripts, and the blood of the martyrs who gave the sacred writing to the people in their own language!—Huss and Jerome,—burned on the public square of Prague, Wycliffe, a fugitive his whole life through; Luther and Calvin, battling through a long life against the mighty power of Rome; and William Tyndale strangled at the stake—these are but a few of the illustrious names who accomplished the greatest feat of the Reformation—giving the Bible to the people. This mighty book has been the great civilizing, judgment forming agent through the ages, the foundation for religious belief of all really progressive nations. To tell of what we owe to the Bible in Art, Literature, Law, Music, would be an endless task, but the debt should be acknowledged with reverent gratitude. The Anglo Saxon races have been the defenders of human freedom, and have evolved the highest efficiency RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE in the science and practice of government. The majestic structure of the English law, under which all English speaking peoples have built their civil governments, has been developed along lines rooted in Hebrew, rather than Pagan sources. Sister Thompson has told of the inspiration the Bible has been to music, and we have but to note the glory of the Cathedrals, the matchless beauty of paintings and sculpture, to realize something of what art owes to the Bible. The greatest classic in the English language is the Bible. Every form of literature—history, drama, oration, genealogical and other catalogues—wisdom treaties, poetry of various types, and rhapsodies that defy strict literary classification or comparison, are to be found. The freshness of primitive life is depicted as well as in Homer, without Homer's absurdities. The beautiful idyllic simplicity of Ruth is vastly superior to the artificiality of Theocritus. The orations of Deuteronomy are nobler as models of library culture than the production of Cicero. Compared with the Psalms, the lyrics of Pindar seem provincial. A great critic says: "If the philosophy of Plato and his successors has a special interest as a starting point for a progression of thought, that is still going on as modern science, the field of Biblical wisdom offers an attraction just as great but of a different kind." The spiritual mystery and beauty of the Bible writings are not approached by any other types or by Pagan writers. Insofar as the mythology, aspirations of philosophy of other nations has any single thing of beauty, or good to offer, this same quality is more than matched in the Bible. There are many interesting parallels that are evident distortions 693 of Bible narratives. These are shown through the traditions of Assyrian, Persian, Greek, Norse, but the Bible stories are more reasonable and convincing. There is overwhelming evidence that the Gospel was preached in ancient times, and the neglect of the Hebrew culture in our University courses is deplorable. The Bible gives the most complete and perfect record of humanity, fully depicting a typically human race at various stages of its development. All the virtues and vices of the human family are set forth, together with the inevitable consequences thereof. Individuals, families, tribes and nations are all dealt with in the same incredibly accurate manner, and on a scale incomparable in Pagan histories. Its honesty and sincerity give to it the strength of truth and immortality. Like all great treasures the Bible should be treated with reverent and careful discrimination if we would have our children understand and love it. There is a message for every soul, and for every occasion. In great crises of life people turn for guidance and consolation to the Bible rather than to any other ancient or modern thought. We should seek to understand its picturesque language, for like all oriental literature, it makes abundant use of imagery, and we often mistake the use of the symbolism and misinterpret the words. Ancient people used the word fear with the meaning we now give to reverence. It is possible to make the Jehovah of the Old Testament a Being to be feared, while the actual narrative proves Him to have walked and talked with the prophets of old, and to have possessed endless patience, tolerance and love for His erring children. We must be selective in the material 694 we give to our children, and always show that it is broken law and human selfishness that brings misery to the world, for God is always love. There is a perfect unity through different kinds of writing—narrative, lyric, drama, rhapsody—the grand central theme remains the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE same. The plan of the one true God in relation to humanity. President Wilson said in his address to the soldier boys: "Read the Bible, for there you will find the bread of life." In contributions by writers over a period of at least eighteen centuries, all testify of one great plan— one God, 'one Christ. THEoLtocy DEPARTMENT AUDITORIUM BISHOP'S BUILDING Lotta Paul Baxter, Chairman, General Board Relief Society THEN ANNIE WELLS CANNON Member of the General Board Hew true it is that history repeats itself. There are years of peace and progress down the centuries, and again years of war and disasters. With all the changes the fact remains that an over-ruling power controls the world, and in due time right conquers might. Nine hundred and sixty-nine years before the flood the Lord made known unto Enoch that great tribulations would be among the children of men, “But," He said, "my people will I preserve and truth will I send forth out of the earth to bear testimony of mine Only Begotten, and | truth will sweep the earth to gather out mine elect from the four quarters of the earth." The ancient people who inhabited this western hemisphere had the highest civilization until wars and wickedness swept away the glory of the ages, and only a savage remnant remained. When nations war progress ceases. Prior to, and at the beginning of the nineteenth century, there was destruction in the earth. Napoleon the First was waging war throughout Europe, until he met defeat at Waterloo in 1815, and everywhere there was unrest. The Latter-day Saints believe that certain spirits are born in the world to fulfil certain purposes. To sense this fact one must realize the immortal—the life eternal. The Lord showed Abraham the intelligences that were organized before the world was, and said to Abraham, “Among these were many of the noble and great ones." Early in the nineteenth century there was born into the world a host of great "intelligences" — philosophers, poets, artists and prophets, not the least among these "great ones" Joseph Smith, the "Mormon'"' prophet. How ripe the time for a message from on High—the day foretold by Enoch that "the truth should come out of the earth to bear testimony of mine Only Begotten." "The trees were God 's first temples," and even as the star shone o'er Judea's hills to usher in the birth of the Redeemer, so in the sylvan depths of the forest near Palmyra, a glorious light shone round a lad in prayer, to usher in the restoration of the gospel Jesus taught. The boy was Joseph Smith, and in this glorious light appeared the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 695 Father and the Son. They told him and to join no church. In the region where the Smith family dwelt—Western New York —countless stone implements and arrowheads were found in the hills. According to the Hook of Mormon it was this region where the final battles were fought between the Nephites and the Lamanites, and on Cumorah, the highest hill, the Nephites made their last stand prior to their extermination. It would seem the Smith family were divinely led to migrate to this place, nor does it seem strange that a humble youth, without guile, of prayerful heart, should be the chosen instrument of the Lord to fulfil his purposes. When the boy told of his wondrous vision, and declared that God was like other men, glorified, he was called an imposter and a blasphemer, threatened and ridiculed. Three years past and then, after a persistent prayer, Joseph was again visited by a messenger from heaven. He said his name was Moroni. He told Joseph of the record on plates of gold concealed in the hill Cumorah, and gave instructions concerning many matters. Four years later Joseph was permitted to take away the plates for translation. He was then twenty-two years old. The work was completed in less than two years, and in 1830 the first copy of the Book of Mormon was issued and the great missionary work of the Church begun. Other "great ones" born near the same time as the prophet, heard the "word" and became his friends, coworkers and leaders in spreading the glorious message and building up the Church. Bitterness, hatred and persecution followed the Saints, resulting in drivings from State to State into the wilderness ; even to the martyrdom of their prophet and patriarch. But Zion was established in the mountains. The words of the prophets were fulfilled. Truth did come out of the earth to bear witness of the "Only Begotten” and the elect were gathered from the four quarters of the earth. The Golden Book—the Book of Mormon—was brought out of the earth and "Worlds without end will testify The wondrous things of prophecy." SECOND COUNSELOR. KATE M BARKER THE words of the prophets were fulfilled, as ever are the promises of our Heavenly Father. Truth and righteousness did come out of the earth to bless mankind. The prophet did see and talk to the Father and the Son, and had the strength to stand by his testimony, even to the giving of his life. But with their leader dead, where were those who were left, and who had not seen the plates or the vision to get the strength to carry on through hardship and persecution? Even before the Church was organized the Lord gave to the world one of the most glorious promises ever given to mankind when He declared through the prophet : "Whosoever believeth on my words, them will I visit with the manifestation of my Spirit." For the first time since the Savior and His Apostles were on the earth, this promise was given. How wonderfully it was fulfilled ! Through the manifestation of His Spirit, faith had been implanted in 696 the hearts of those early members of the Church too deep to be ever eradicated. From all parts of the world it brought people and made of them one people united, faithful Individual testimony was the strength of the Church in the beginning—it is the strength of the Church today. It brought the pioneers across the plains, it gave strength to those who were called to pioneer the second time. Because of their testimony these pioneers, their children and their children's children in turn have worked and sacrificed to send their sons and daughters on missions, taking to the world the same promise they had received. Today the Church has 750,000 members. Truth and light are gradually permeating the thought of the world. But so many of the old orthodox beliefs are gone that the churches seem to have lost their foundations. Their leaders are uncertain. They are lacking in positive beliefs. Meanwhile the people of the world have been passing through trying times. Man now begins to feel the need of something outside himself to help him meet the tests of life. Millions of people are troubled. That there must have been a creative power somewhere, sometime, to account for the universe they nearly. All agree. But has this power a plan for the world, and for human life? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Can it understand and respond to human needs, prayers, sorrows? One teacher of religion recently said, "The universe, life itself, tells me there must be a God—but personal? I wish I could believe it!" No uncertain answer will satisfy the world today. It must be as positive as Job's "I know that my Redeemer lives." How does the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints answer these questions? Again the scene is at the Hill Cumorah and the Sacred Grove—at the dedication of the monument. President Grant and President McKay and many of the General Authorities were there. They bore their testimonies to the people of the world as strong, certain, unwavering as those borne by our first leaders over one hundred years ago, that through the manifestation of the Spirit they know that God lives, that He is our Father, that Jesus is the Christ, that through the Prophet Joseph Smith the Gospel has been restored in all its beauty—and that the promise of the Lord still holds if they "ask God the Eternal Father in the name of Jesus Christ if these things are true, and if ye ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, He will manifest the truth of it unto you by the power of the Holy Ghost." LITERARY DEPARTMENT Marcia K. Howells, Presiding BARRATT HALL Wednesday, October 2—2 p. M. N her preview of "Adventures in Reading,” Maud Beeley Jacob gave as the objective of the course, to give all women an opportunity to enjoy literature through their own niche, which each one must find for herself. Literature is a vehicle of spirituality, and the place of the literary lessons in the spiritual life of Relief RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Society women will be determined by the quality of literature, the satisfaction obtained through reading, and the presentation of the teacher. Aristotle gave as a measuring device for literature, that it imitates life, interprets life, and provides a criticism of life. Man's life is the sum total of expression of his thoughts; civilization is measured by his desire to know, to possess and to create. Ruskin says that books are houses in which souls are to live, they preserve fancies, satisfy memories, noble histories, faithful sayings 697 and precious thoughts. The role of the teacher is to transfer the ideal of form, beauty, imagination and appreciation into life, to refresh courage, faith and love. To the teacher, today is a day of days, today is a day of man's greatest needs. Millions are asking, seeking. What will you give — joyous thoughts, wisdom and an understanding of life. Mary C. Kimball conducted a class denionstration on "The Glory of the Commonplace." Sociau SERVICE DEPARTMENT Emma A. Empey, Chairman DESERET GYMNASIUM Wednesday, October 2—2 p.m. PREVIEW of Social SERVICE Lessons 1935-6 MATTHEW F. NOALL OOD citizenship and intelligent participation in community life require on the part of each individual knowledge of many phases of life in the modern world. Knowledge of our social surroundings is essential to those who would take a constructive part in the course of events. But the rapidity with which social, economic, and political life is changing necessitates continued study for more complete and accurate information about present sociological conditions. It is necessary, therefore, for adults constantly to keep informed about the changing aspects of group life in order to do their part in making every day life more worth while. Perhaps no line of thought could offer more direct help than a general course in sociology illustrated with examples from currrent social problems. The gospel of Jesus Christ teaches the principle of continuous study that we may "be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God that are expedient for you to understand." (Doctrine and Covenants 88:78) It is expedient that we understand the principles upon which human beings are socialized and those which may be used for the improvement of life among mankind. The lessons based upon contemporary problems and general principles of sociology have been written for this purpose. The object of the course is to help Relief Society members to improve their understanding of human relationships that they may help to develop better human relations, and secure greater joy in life by giving improved service to humanity. We may advance toward these ideals by taking the following three steps: first, by recognizing the problems of 698 the day. Facts of daily existence are apt to dull our consciences and understandings. Often-times systematic study is essential to enable us to be aware of a specific problem of life; and often, further study is necessary to understand the problem after we have become aware of it. Second, the making of plans to solve these problems should always follow the study. Mere knowledge has no particular virtue in improving life. Third, by using all those forces and powers which we may command to solve these problems. Upon the extent to which this third principle is carried to a successful conclusion depends the value of the lessons we are to undertake. "By their fruits ye shall know them" is the criterion of judgment given by the Master. The lessons in Civic Sociology are organized in such a manner that class leaders can help each individual take the three essential steps. Insofar as possible the class room should be a laboratory, an open forum, and a place of selfexpression. Growth in understanding and tolerance of the opinions of others are products of constant practice in thinking, reasoning, and generalizing on problems of contemporary life. We learn only as we assimilate new meanings and new facts and principles into our own experience. Ability to understand and to think. Critically about modern social problems will grow only through practical experience along such lines. Class leaders are urged to see that these opportunities are extended to each individual in the class. There are five distinct parts to each lesson. They are as follows: 1. A statement of the specific purposes to be accomplished by the lesson. This is quite different from the title of the lesson which indicates RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the nature of the subject matter. Yo develop the necessary reaction from any lesson it is imperative to get clearly in mind the objective for which the subject matter is considered. The subject matter may cover a very wide range of factual information which may have little, or no value unless that information is directed toward some desirable goal. These goals are indicative of a personal reaction to be gained by each individual in the class. 2. Suggestions for the achievement of the specific purposes. At times the suggestions may be specific and pointed; or, the purposes may be determined through a selection of factual information which can be readily shown to have direct bearing upon the specific purposes. 3. Much factual material not found in the class text will be found in the lessons published in the magazine. This is both to supplement the text and to give more pointed application to the specific purposes selected. The correlation between the principles discussed in the lesson and the teachings and lives of the Latterday Saints is also given. The basic principles of sociology are illustrated through the study of the current social problems. 4. Suggested activities are given to be conducted under the direction of a class leader contributing to the realization of the specific objectives set forth. Upon the successful carrying out of this principle depends largely the value of the study. The activities in connection with the lessons are directions to do something which will carry over into actual life the specific purposes sought. These activities should deal as concretely as possible with the immediate environment of the local community and region in which the people live. Since each stake and each ward has RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE an environment of its own and problems peculiar to the locality, the activities should be so multiplied and so directed that a personal application can be developed therefrom. Here is a real challenge to stake leaders and individual class teachers. It is probable that the activities suggested in the magazine cannot be carried out in your particular -ward. Each leader should supplement this phase of the work as far as is necessary to make it vital to each class niember. 5. Additional reference material will be given when it is deemed advisable. However, with a text to follow and magazine lessons to supplement the text and guide our thinking, additional readings will seldom be necessary. The individual ward is a laboratory holding endless opportunities for continued effort. Special attention should be directed to the general purposes of the 699 entire course. These will be found in the Introduction, published in the May issue of the magazine. The general purposes should be studied carefully as to full meaning and import. Each lesson in the entire series should contribute to the realization of the general aims. It should always be born in mind that the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ are never called into question by a study of any world situation or problem of humanity. On the contrary, they should bring light to our minds that we may exercise better judgment in interpreting life situations. Growth in understanding, tolerance in our judgments of others and situations, more correct thinking, and more meaningful spirituality should emerge from a study of contemporary life. These should develop within each one of us a more vital testimony of the truth. POSSIBILITIES IN THE SOCIAL SERVICE LESSONS DONNA S. SORENSON Member of the General Board HE poet Thom has said of teacher's work: "Delightful task! To rear the tender thought, To teach the young idea how to shoot, To breathe the enlivening spirit, and to mix The generous purpose in the glowing breast."' In a consideration of Relief Society teaching three factors must be considered: varied conditions prevail in different stakes, opportunities for enrichment of these lessons are unequal, and we are teachers in an Organization that grew out of our religion. It would seem that in this course in civic sociology one of our major possibilities and opportunities would be "'to breathe the enlivening spirit." The ways to achieve this might be profitably considered for if we can foster this in our teaching and develop it to such an extent that these lessons will live we may do much to measurably affect the lives of those whom we teach. We have then, a real opportunity to make these lessons live by being builders of faith. If we have the vision to see above and beyond our changing social heritage the hand of God working for increased intelligence and enlightenment of all His children, we can do much in these lessons to increase faith, to build 700 understanding, to further tolerance. To be a teacher in this "dispensation of times' when so much has been revealed, when social trends are coming into being and they in turn being supplanted by new social phenomena is to have great responsibility but with it great possibilities. We cannot build an enlivening spirit into these lessons unless we are enthusiastic and that enthusiasm must carry over to those we teach. Do you see yourselves as members and teachers of a great Relief Society organization of 70,000 members engaged in voluntary service for the good of their fellow men and women? Do you look even beyond that and see yourselves as a part of a recent social movement of adult education, members of a group of 500,000 engaged in training and directing on a voluntary or professional basis 20,000,000 adults annually? Do you recognize that the social environment into which we must fit ourselves is not static but is rapidly changing and that some of those whom you can reach think in old ways and live in a new world? If you recognize these things you cannot help but be enthusiastic about this course in civic sociology and the challenge which comes to you as Relief Society teachers. Use the element of contrast in age groups in the women you _ teach. People are most ready to act upon those convictions which they have helped to formulate in their minds and those based upon their own experience and observation. In our classes we have the older woman with her rich experience and knowledge of "times" as they used to be. We have the younger woman with her knowledge of modern day trends and her ability to contribute to the class because of her increased opportunity. To have these older RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE women, along with the younger, contribute facts from their experience will give them a sense of adequacy in their contribution. You can not make these lessons live unless as teachers you are be. Lievers in and doers of exploratory work along sociological lines. That means that you must cultivate an alertness of mind in detecting that which will be useful in your work; that means that you must read fully and widely all material available to you; that means that inasmuch as there is such a wealth of material available to you in the cheaper print of magazine and newspaper that you read these, intelligently and critically. People generally are more interested in human association of the present time and the phenomena arising from such association, therefore it would be a profitable thing to give your lessons a current setting. Let me illustrate: Pres. Roosevelt passed through our city last Sunday on a cross country trip. This incident might be utilized very well in the lesson on "Socialization through Communication and Transportation." In these social service lessons there is a real opportunity "'to mix the generous purpose in the glowing breast." Relief Society and its educational program has been concerned with the development of rich and many-sided personalities capable of living well together in a society. This course in civic sociology offers us the possibility of helping women to see themselves as not only contributors to our present social heritage but participators in that heritage. If you can accomplish the active participation of our women in their rights of franchise surely the course will not be without its merits. If you can do more than that and arouse curiosity about and develop an appetite RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE along sociological lines then you will have realized some of the possibilities of this course. There is a great opportunity for you to open up to those Relief Society women whose children are no longer dependent on her to a great extent, a field of usefulness after her busy motherhood. There is an increasing importance of a recognition by the individual of his responsibility of the national welfare. Accept this challenge and do your share as teachers in developing this responsibility in your women which will result in right action. We have been considering the possibilities in the social service lessons and in order to achieve the same entails much work on your part to efficiently prepare but you will never realize your fullest possibilities in these lessons without the help of the Lord and His Holy Spirit whfch will "bring things to your remembrance and show you things to come." Seek His divine aid in humble prayer and you will be able to say: 701 "Lord, what a change within us one short hour Spent in Thy presence will prevail to make! What heavy burdens from our bosoms take, What parched ground refresh, as with a shower. We kneel, when all around us seems to lower... We rise, and all, the distant and the near, Stands forth in sunny outline, brave and clear; We kneel, how weak! We rise, how full of power! Why, therefore, should we do ourselves this wrong, Or others, that we are not always strong— That we are ever overborne with care— That we should ever weak or heartless be, Anxious or troubled—when with us is prayer; And joy, and strength, and courage are with Thee." IMPORTANCE OF MENTAL ACTIVITY FOR ADULT WOMEN COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN THE course of study in the Relief Society is based upon the principle of the need for study and is in harmony with the great adult education movement which is being featured in the principal civilized nations. There was a time when it was felt that education and learning were for children and youths, that after maturity and marriage such work was over. As the professions were developed and more highly specialized, however, it was found that those who wished to enter these must have a longer training, so education for some, in some fields, became more extended. Adult women however were supposed to be through and to settle down to regular duties and the cares of life. Today we have the conception that education is a continuing process for all; that we should not become stagnant intellectually and rest on our oars; that even graduation from school or college is but the beginning of real life experience. We believe that we should go on with mental activity and education after marriage and as long as we live; that, after all, marriage and family life not only furnish the greatest opportunity for continuing education but 702 that they give the greatest incentive for such continuance. Communities today are not judged negatively by their per cent of illiteracy, but positively by their ability to bring joy and happiness to the world and salvation to men; by their ability to help build up human morale and to cure human ills. All of this requires intelligence and study and opportunity for advancement for everybody. The progress of adult education throughout the country today is most gratifying. It has recently been greatly stimulated by Federal Aid, the object of which is two-fold: First, to give opportunity to adults desiring to study which has been a great boon to men and women out of work, and secondly, to give work to able teachers and instructors who are in need of it. Since the work in Utah is typical of that going on elsewhere and bears out our idea of the need and importance of study for adults, and their response to opportunity, a few comments on this state's work will be to the point and will also be illuminating. Last year in this state 275 teachers were employed by the Federal Government for the purpose of adult education and 15,000 students were registered for the work. Of those registered 40% were men and 60% were women ranging in age from 18 to 80 years. So great is the interest that this vear 330 teachers RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE have been employed and a much larger registration is expected. Sixty subjects were taken up last year depending upon the desires of the local people. The subjects most popular were English, History, and Community Problems such as those which are included in our lessons for the Social Service Department. The most popular -of these three courses was Community Problems in connection with which public forums were held where there was open discussion and ample opportunity for people to express themselves. In Salt Lake City over 2,000 registered for the course. Americanization work was also popular and proved to be most important and far-reaching. In Salt Lake City alone 600 registered for this work. Of these 200 took out citizenship papers. 300 others outside of Salt Lake City also took out citizenship papers. The adult education work has been given under the supervision of the school principals of the junior high schools generally. How fortunate that the Relief Society sees fit to feature educational work for its members! And how fortunate that along with religious and cultural study subjects of such vital interest and importance as, Community Problems are included in the course. TEACHER Topic DEPARTMENT Hazel H. Greenwood, Chairman RECREATION HALL—LION HOUSE Wednesday, October 2—2 p. M. GREETINGS HAZEL H. GREENWOOD Member of the General Board O be a teacher of teachers is a very sacréd calling. The results of teaching, and its influence are more widely felt perhaps than any RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE other group in our Relief Society, organization. "Teaching has always been one of the major activities of the Latter-day Saints, not only to its membership, but to the world. This is a great day for study and preparation. Women are grasping every opportunity for advancement. Recognizing the law of self activity, women are taking every chance that is presented to them to participate in activities that give them experience. Knowing that the best life is the fullest one, and that happiness lies in action, we are giving our best in service to others. Following the welcome by the Chairman every phase of the Visiting Teachers' work, and the contacts she makes, were discussed in a most able manner. The following topics, and the sisters who treated 703 them, will indicate what a valuable Department this was: "The Teachers' Topic Class Leader," Elise B. Alder; "The General and Specific Objectives of the Teachers' Topic for 1935-1936," Amy W. Evans: "How to Introduce the Topic in the Following Types of Homes" (a) The Indifferent Home, Elizabeth L. Cox, Teacher Topic Leader, St. George Stake; (b) The non-L. D. S. Home, Jane P. Bowers, Cottonwood Stake Relief Society; (c) The Home Where There is Sickness or Other MisforneTU, Ina S. Carlson, Teacher Topic Leader, Logan Stake; (d) The Busy Home Where the Hostess is Unusually Occupied, Vida Thomas, Teacher Topic Leader, Salt Lake Stake; "The Teachers' Topic from the Viewpoint of the Hostess," Lisle F. Graham, First Counselor Liberty Stake Relief Society. Officers' Meetin § Counselor Kate M. Barker, Presiding ASSEMBLY HALL Thursday, October 3—10 a. Ml. OFFIcIAL INSTRUCTIONS COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN I AM sure you can realize, my dear sisters, what a real task it is for Sister Barker and me to try to take Sister Robison's place in connection with these meetings today, and we ask an interest in your faith and prayers that we may be able to carry on in some way that will be satisfactory and also helpful to you. The roll call, as always, was very interesting, and shows a good attendance. It reminds us how large and comprehensive our organization is. And that it encircles the whole globe. Since our last April Conference we have had the following organizations and reorganizations: Organisations Date Stake Appointed President Sept., 1935 Highland Nellie O. Parker May, 1935 North Idaho Falls Mary L. Hatch June, 1935 Oahu Eliza Salm 704 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Reorganizations Date Stake Released Appointed President May, 1935 Deseret Martha C. Adams Inez B. Allred Sept., 1935 East Jordan Elfreda L. Jensen Alta Andrus Aug., 1935 Ensign Janet M. Thompson Radie O. Hyde Sept., 1935 Juab Edna J. Cazier Florence R. Winn Aug., 1935 North Sanpete Elizabeth D. Christensen Ruby S. Jensen Sept., 1935 Pioneer Edna T. Matson Lottie Fullmer Name of Fremont Stake changed to Rexburg Stake We are pleased to express appreciation for the excellent services that have been rendered by those Stake Presidents who have seen fit to give up the work. We appreciate all they have done in helping to forward our great cause during their administration. We also are pleased to welcome the new Stake Presidents, and sustain them with our faith and prayers. We want to say a few words today about the Magazine. Probably you have heard of that subject before. One thing that brings it forcibly to our minds is that we have just received a telegram from the Big Horn Stake, stating that they have gone over the top 107 %. That was cheering news. We would like to announce that we still have some back numbers of the Magazine, beginning with May, 1935. Many people who are subscribing for the first time are anxious to get these back numbers because the lesson outlines began this year in May. We have had some questions this year regarding our Magazine Drive. Some have wondered if we could change it to some other period, so that it would include the months when the lesson outlines begin. Some people start their subscriptions in the Fall, and are anxious lest they will not get the back numbers which gifts you could make. Contain the lessons. Others subscribing at the same time prefer to start with the current month, and still they would like to have the lessons. There is one way to surmount this difficulty, and that would be to subscribe for the year round. I do not know whether anyone has ever thought of that as a real answer to this question. If you would subscribe for the year round you would always have your back numbers and also your current numbers when they are current. At whatever time one subscribes there is always this question about lessons, as it is necessary to publish them rather far in advance. We have been receiving some three months subscriptions. It is really quite difficult to handle them, difficult for the Stake and Ward Agents and also for the office. We prefer that no subscription be for a shorter time than six months. We are very much delighted with the interest that is being taken this year in the Magazine Drive. We have one or two suggestions to make. We think it would be a very fine thing for you, when you desire to send gifts, to send a subscription to the Magazine instead of flowers. Also a subscription for the Magazine for Mother's Day or for a Christmas present would be one of the loveliest This would Sept., 1935 North Davis Elizabeth H. Layton Sept., 1935 South Sevier Annetta Christensen Mary L. Barton Jetta Marquardsen RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE be very helpful and encouraging to your Magazine Agents. They are having quite a struggle, working very hard, and it would be courteous and fine thing if we could support them in any way we possibly can. In our visits to the Stakes this year we have been very much pleased with the fine flower shows that have been given. We think it is marvelous for our women to be so interested in building up and beautifying their communities that they spend time and effort in raising and displaying lovely flowers. These shows have been a great attraction, and have given satisfaction to both local people and to visitors. Brother George F. Richards was very much delighted with a flower show given at a conference he attended recently. We are very anxious for our women to be civic and community minded, and it would be a marvelous thing if we could not only raise flowers, but if we would make an effort to do other things to make our communities more attractive. I have often wondered why, during this depression, when so many men have been out of work, somebody did not mobilize them in the interest of community improvement—repairing broken fences, cleaning up streets and cemeteries, eradicating weeds, etc. I hope that by next Spring we in the Relief Society will have some plans for this work. Of course, there are still some things that can be done this Autumn, but in the Spring let us keep this in mind. If we desire to have our young people remain in our communities, and be interested in them, we must do something to make them more attractive. It takes real effort, but I believe if the Relief Society women would decide on projects of this type we could do a great deal to beautify our homes and communities. The question has come up a number of times about the attendance of Visiting Teachers at regular Ward Relief Society meetings. A Ruling has recently been made in the General Board that Relief Society teachers should attend regular Ward Relief Society meetings. Course their duties are rather arduous, but how Relief Society teachers encourage others to come, how can they explain what is going on in the meetings, if they do not attend themselves teachers who feel that they cannot an important thing for the teachers to know the work in the closest touch with it. A great Many County Welfare Boards have been appointed recently, ties that there are fine women everywhere who have spent a great deal the interest of welfare members 07 such Boards. You would think there ought to be at least two women on the board composed of six members, and the same proportion 706 where they are larger. I believe that if we will make a little effort in this direction we will be able to accomplish something. We also feel that women should be represented on Boards of Education, and on City Commissions. You know women have a definite viewpoint, and wherever human welfare is involved we think there should be a woman's viewpoint. It is a strange thing that men are always willing for women to keep up their own homes, do their washing and ironing, cooking, mending, etc., but when it comes to institutions of the State, where there is much housekeeping to be done, they think they can supervise them without assistance from women. Where human beings are housed in a State institution there should be women on the Board of such an institution because of the housekeeping to be done, supplies to be purchased, clothing, sheets and pillow cases, etc., to be kept in repair. Women also have definite and valuable contributions to make in civic and educational affairs, and should have the opportunity to help in these fields. We have the vote, let us see what we can do toward stirring up an interest in this direction. We have fine women in all our communities who are qualified for community work. One time I was sitting in a meeting where Stake appointments were being discussed, and a woman had suggested another woman's name for one of the appointments on a State commission. As soon as her name was mentioned these men began to get uneasy in their chairs. One man finally said, "We really ought to have a lawyer in this place. Is this woman a lawyer?" The sponsor said, "No, but her husband is a lawyer. I think she could get advice very quickly from him." "Well she RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ought to be so qualified herself." In a few days the appointment was given to a man. The woman sponsor then asked, "Is this man qualified? Is he a lawyer?" "Well, no," was the answer, "but he is a man." Therefore he was qualified. It seems that women must have special qualifications. Of course, in recommending women for public positions, we should recommend women who are able and fitted for such positions. Let us be interested in these things, and let us see what we can do towards extending the appointment of women in these particular fields. This year, in our Work and Business meeting we are recommending a book, Handicrafts for Every Woman, and we hope that you will all be interested in this book, that you will go through it, and see if you cannot apply some of the suggestions in your own Stakes and in your own homes. There are many phases of work outlined in this manual, with instructions and illustrations, and we believe that in every community there is something in it that will be helpful. I opened the book the other day at the chapter on painting. You know paint is not very expensive, and with a little instruction from this book we could all paint up our porches and old chairs. There are also instructions on how to renovate and modernize furniture. We do not know exactly how you will want to take up the work in the manual, but we are leaving it to you to go through this book. And pick out the things which will be most helpful to you in your own homes and communities. We feel this book should be in every Ward library in the Relief Society. The question has come up a number of times regarding quilting. Minimum prices to be charged for quilting are suggested in the Handbook. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE We think that no quilt for custom work should be quilted for a smaller price than the price listed in the Handbook. When you make fancy quilts you should charge what the work is worth. I was. In a Stake recently where twelve women worked all day on a quilt—four on one side, four on the other, and two on each end. They worked all day and charged about $2.00. This would average sixteen and two-thirds cents for each woman's work. This is not enough. In another Stake, they charge by the spool or amount of thread used. This is a little better. A few years ago one of our Stake Presidents brought up this question in our Officers' Meeting. She said, "You know out in our Stake we have been making some very beautiful quilts, and one of the well-to-do women in Salt Lake found out about it, and asked us to make a quilt for her. We did not charge her very much for it, and she told everybody in her neighborhood. We soon received several orders for quilting and we were terribly over-worked— even had to neglect our homes to finish them. I think this was poor management on our part, and very poor business." I believe we are all agreed that if you are doing quilts for custom work you should charge what your time is worth. On the other hand where you are doing quilts for needy families, we are very happy and glad, as you always are, to have that done for nothing in connection with our regular welfare work. We are more than willing to do sewing for people who need it, but where we are out to make money by quilting, let us charge enough so that we can pay for the time that we spend. You will remember that at our April Conference we decided to adopt a uniform Membership Card 707 in the Relief Society. It was announced at that time that the General Board would be pleased to furnish these cards for the Stakes, and that we would begin using this uniform card in January, 1936. Some of the Stakes have in the past already had membership cards which they furnished for themselves. This little yellow card I am presenting has lettering in blue. It represents Relief Society colors, and it reads: "Membership Card, National Woman's Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1936. Name.................. Stake... Ward............ This card will serve as a receipt when the Annual Dues are paid, and the Secretaries should be supplied with them and should see that when a woman pays her Dues this Membership Card is given to her. During the Conference Relief Society Stake Presidents may call at the Relief Society office for the cards. Each Stake will be given a number of cards equal to the membership report last December by such Stake. These cards are now ready for you. We expect to extend the use of this card to the Missions, but our final arrangements have not been made as yet. For a number of years the question has come up regarding membership, and membership dues. The Relief Society has really struggled with this problem. I think I never visit a Stake, and I believe most of the General Board members can say the same, but what I am asked. "What are we going to do about inactive members in the Relief Society? May we have two rolls? What about Dues for the inactive members?" Last Spring at our President's Breakfast, we had half a dozen letters asking about this. The General Board has very prayerfully 708 and studiously considered this matter, and at last we have reached some conclusions in the matter, which we hope will be satisfactory to you, and I believe they will be. I am going to read some rulings recently made. Membership in Relief Society I. Beginning January, 1936, a Membership Card will be used in the Relief Society, and will be given as a receipt for Annual Dues. (These cards will be furnished free to Stakes and Wards.) II. Membership in the Relief Society is based on the following: (a) Attendance at Relief Society meetings. (b) Payment of Annual Dues. (c) General interest in all other phases of Relief Society work. The Relief Society roll may be divided into three sections: Section A. For active members, (Attendance Roll). Section B. For honorary members who pay Dues but are unable, through illness or other circumstances, to attend meetings. Section C. For inactive members of the organization — those who fail to attend meetings, and fail to pay Dues for one year. Note 1. Every effort should be made to encourage inactive members to become active and participate in all phases of the work. However, they should be informed of the requirement for active membership.: Note 2. Where a faithful member of the organization, whether active or honorary, III. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is unable to pay her Dues for a given year, arrangements should be made by the Ward Officers to pay such Dues and present her with a Membership Card. Such Dues may be taken from the General Fund. IV. A record should be kept of the transfer of inactive to active members, and a note of this made on the Annual Report under "Remarks." V. Percentage of Membership Dues will be based on the active and honorary rolls, but all enrolled members will be counted in the statistics of the organization. We believe that this will take care of all the troubles that you have all been having regarding membership, dues and the rolls. We realize that there are women in the Relief Society who would feel badly to have their names taken from the rolls. In some cases they have paid their dues, but in others they have not, and it has been a burden for the Ward Presidents to try to raise their dues to 100%. Before closing I would just like to express appreciation for the excellent work you are doing in the Stakes and Wards. I wish you could hear the reports that are given by the General Board members when they return from the Stake Conference-conventions regarding the work you are doing and the fine topics your workers present on the convention programs. We. Still have some Stakes to visit, those which have not been visited will be visited after the October Conference. We are conscious at all times of the splendid work you are doing, and as a General Board we extend to you our thanks and gratitude. Our constant prayer is that the Lord will RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE bless and strengthen you in all your efforts; that He will help you to be pillars of strength morally and spiritually in your communities; that He 709 will help you to maintain all the standards of the Church; and we ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. The address of Mark K. Allen will appear in a later issue. Officers Meeting The Relief Society MAGAZINE ELNORA SHUPE President Maricopa Stake Relief Society It is conceded that any organization, whether national or local, whether religious or civic, needs a guide or organ of functioning authority to direct its officers and members in their concerted action, first for the progress of the organization, and second for the mutual benefit of its members. Our National Woman's Relief Society is not to be behind any like organization in its up-to-date mediums of expression, so we have the organ we are proud to own and foster the world over as The Relief Society Magazine. As the Church has grown, so has our Magazine, until today it has become the central means through which a great organization operates. Different departments have been formed to spread current happenings from one field to another, to teach social service, which is so important today, to teach the beauty of enriching literature, science and the arts, extolling the accomplishments of great men and women, and to give an outlet to the genius of its own members in presenting its interesting and invigorating stories together with choice and inspired verse. By reading its pages we will never cease to maintain the high ideals and standards of Relief Society. It is indispensable in our work, since it prints our lessons which have been prepared by experts in their line. As I read them over each year, I cannot help feeling they have been inspired for they teach the very. Things we need most. The Magazine is a medium of education. Thousands of women who have not had opportunities of a college education are getting training equal to that received in universities through courses published in our Magazine. Can one sister in our Church afford to be without it? We look upon it as a messenger coming into our homes each month, to bring cheer and happiness, and to help us solve the problems of life. All members are not privileged to attend these wonderful Conferences, but the Magazine brings many of the lovely things we hear to them. While we are all anxious to go over the top with our Drive and get 100%, yet we feel that obtaining this record is not the paramount issue. Our greatest desire is that the Magazine shall be read by young and old and their lives enriched through its varied program. Greater efficiency in our organization will be and has been the result of increased subscriptions. We have arranged to have socials in favor of the Magazine. Each of our members was presented with a bank. At these socials the husbands 710 were also invited, and before we partook of the lovely luncheon that was prepared (we invited our member from the Priesthood)—one of the High Council gave a talk on the Magazine, and then he asked all of the husbands present to put some pennies in the banks. Just before our season's work commenced, we planned a bank opening day, and at this time we found that not only had the sisters put in sufficient pennies for their Magazine but many of them had also enough for their Annual Dues. This year we have had what we called our "Agents Original Campaign." Our Agents decided to put this Magazine campaign over themselves, and they have done many things to get sufficient money to place our Magazine in the homes of our sisters who are worthy, but who cannot afford to subscribe. In every stake we have these sisters—the best in the world—but they are sometimes not even able to raise the dollar for the Magazine, and so these Ward Agents have done things in such a way that these women have participated, and they have felt that they have earned this money, and are not receiving charity by having the Magazine placed in their homes. They have placed the Magazine on the shelves of our public libraries. Another thing they: did to stimulate interest in the Magazine was to ask the members of the Priesthood to make use of the Magazine in the Sunday evening addresses, giving some outstanding thoughts from our Magazine, so that the people would appreciate it and know its worth. We tried this this last month before the close of our Drive. We should all choose agents who are efficient leaders, who are Magazine conscious, and who have salesmanship ability. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Our Stake Board gave a party for our Ward Journal Agents, and each one was presented with a notebook in which was to be kept a record of Magazine subscriptions. Our Stake Agent instructed each Ward Agent that she should take the entire roll from our Ward Secretary, that she have the address of every woman in her ward, that she should also have the date of the subscription and when it expired. This notebook is just of a size that she could carry it with her. It is also a part of her duty to get the names of new members in the Ward to tell of the beauties of the Magazine and try to place it with new subscribers. We know that renewals are much easier where we have a permanent record kept. This year we have five Tuesdays in this month. We have already had one of our meetings, and this meeting was taken entirely from our Relief Society Magazine. Suggestions for our refreshments were taken from it, and we felt that it would impress the practical value upon the women. Our sisters sometimes are so busy that they fail to read some of the lovely things, but if their attention is called to some of them we feel that they can go home and read more than they have ever done before. We have a special activity each month of the year, and our October activity, of course, is our Magazine, so we meet in our stake meeting with all of the Ward Agents and get a report from them. In our meeting last Sunday some agents reported that some of our Wards have already over 100%. One of our largest Wards has 106%. The rest assured us that they would all have their quota before the drive finished. Our Magazine will continue to grow, and growing under the sun of RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE high ideals and drawing water and food from minds of clean, honest, charitable and industrious women, will be a mighty factor in training and education. It is beyond the pale of imagination to estimate its value today not to mention its influence in the future with all women. Each month it circulates through the world, carrying vital messages, and as the Gospel expands so will this matchless instrument, our Relief Society Magazine. What is the foundation purpose of life? Development under spiritual guidance. Through this Magazine we receive this spirituality. My prayer is that we may have a Magazine in every home increasing spirituality which is so much needed today. (To be continued) Thanksgiving By Eva Willes Wangsgard In deep gratitude of spirit Our proud heads we bow, dear God, For the bounties of our orchards And the blessings of the sod. For the riches from the mountains And the treasures of the sea, For the simple joys of living We would offer thanks to Thee. For the beauties of the landscape Down this path our fathers trod, For: our rich inheritances We give thanks to Thee, our God. Achievement By Josephine Gardner Moench Are you waiting for ships that never come in? Why wait any longer? Try bringing them in. The skies may be cloudy, the seas may be rough, The cold weather stinging, wild waves a rebuff: But the thrill of adventure will aid in the strife And keep up your strength in the battle for life. Smooth seas for a landing may come to amend. And the power of achievement be yours in the end. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN KATE M. BARKER JULIA A. F. LUND Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Ethel Reynolds Smith Rosannah C. Nettie D. Bradford President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Irvine Lalene H. Hart Elise B. Alder Janet M. Thompson Lotta Paul Baxter Inez K. Allen Belle S. Spafford Cora L, Bennion Ida P. Beal Donna Durrant Sorensen Amy Whipple Evans Marcia K. Howells Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Jennie B. Knight RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Mary Connelly Kimball Manager Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Vol. XXII NOVEMBER, 1935 No. 11 EDITORIAL Joseph Lyman Robison ALL members of the Relief Society will sympathize deeply with President Louise Y. Robison in the death of her husband, Joseph Lyman Robison, who passed to the great beyond Thursday October 17, 1935. Brother Robison was born September 22, 1859 at Fillmore. He graduated from the Brigham Young University in 1879 after which he labored as a missionary in England. In 1883 he and Louise Yates were married. Two sons and four daughters blest their union, Dr. Lyman Harold Robison, Los Angeles physician, Rulon Y. Robison, Brookline, Massachusetts, vocal instructor at the New England Conservatory of Music, Mrs. Donald Shortz, Los Angeles, Mrs. Lawrence T. Mangum, Salt Lake City, Mrs. Stephen H. Winter, San Francisco, and Mrs. Peter Bosquet, Salt Lake City. He was a most devoted husband and father. Brother Robison's great delight was reading. He knew books and authors as few men know them, for he was an analytical reader and had an excellent memory. He was cultured and loved the beautiful things of life. May President Robison be built up and comforted. May peace abide in her home and may her joy in Relief Society work lessen the grief of parting. What Every Latter-day Saint Needs WE believe the number who are looking for supernatural or unusual happenings is getting less all the time, but there are still those who eagerly search out and hug to their bosoms that which deals with dreams, visitations of angels, etc. They should keep in mind that every EDITORIAL Latter-day Saint is entitled to the guidance of the Holy Ghost and that supernatural manifestations are not necessary for correct living. President Woodruff in speaking at the Weber Stake Conference in 1896 said, "One of the Apostles said to me years ago, 'Brother Woodruff, I have prayed for a long time for the Lord to send me the administration of an angel. I have had a great desire for this, but I have never had my prayers answered.' I said to him that if he were to pray a thousand years to the God of Israel for that gift, it would not be granted, unless the Lord had a motive in sending an angel to him. I told him that the Lord never did nor never will send an angel to anybody merely to gratify the desire of the indi713 vidual to see an angel. If the Lord sends an angel to anyone, He sends him to perform a work that cannot be performed only by the administration of an angel. * * * "Now, I have always said, and I want to say it to you, that the Holy Ghost is what every Saint of God needs. It is far more important that a man should have that gift than he should have the ministration of an angel, unless it is necessary for an angel to teach him something that he has not been taught." LATTER-DAY SAINTS should so live that they are worthy to have the Holy Ghost as their companion and guide. So prompted and led, they will need no supernatural manifestation to make their lives successful. Love Divine By Carrie Tanner Dear mother earth lies gray and bare and scarred, The browning leaves swirl in hollows drear, The biting cold creeps o'er her wounded breast, And wailing winds rush through the naked trees. Then lowering clouds of night come very near And yield their comfort in the falling snow, A mystic peace o'er spreads the painful sight, The gift of love speaks through the glistening white. So, too, the human heart is pained and scarred, Unsheltered oft from cold, from blows, from wounds Of disappointment keen and blighting woes, And numbing pain of grief when love's bereft. But like the mystic peace of falling snow, Though dark the night of fitful dream, Comes peace of God the wounded heart to heal, And covers all with soothing love divine. Lesson Department (For First Week in April) Theology and Testimony LESSON VII THE EVERLASTING COVENANT OF MARRIAGE 1. Marriage Basic to Civilization. The human race without marriage would immediately face one of two calamities; namely, extinction or debasement below the level of the savage. Marriage is the foundation stone upon which civilization rests. Without it, degradation would know no bounds; with it, the human race may ascend close to the height of the gods. 2. Quite aside therefore from the question of racial continuance, marriage is basic in the affairs of human progress. The divine pronouncement that man is not without the woman, nor the woman without the man in the Lord, possesses far more than theological significance. The man, with his superior muscular power and ruggedness of intellect, needs the leavening influence of the woman's gentleness and refinement. Likewise the woman, with her native reticence and retirement, needs the buoyancy of the man's strength and love of adventure. Neither can reach the highest possible attainment without the other. When man and woman are properly united they can travel much farther and much happier than either can travel alone. 3. The Home. Then too, it may also be said that without the home, civilization would rapidly decline and quickly disappear, for it is from this source that man obtains his most lasting as well as his most basic impressions. It is here that he spends his childhood, the truly plastic period of his lifetime; it is here that he is taught to pray and to revere the God who made him; it is here that he learns to love the two who gave him earthly life—his mother and his father—they upon whom he can depend even if the rest of the world deserts him. 4. And it is within the home that mature devotion is established between the husband and the wife— the product of love and service. It is here that the husband obtains his rest and receives encouragement to meet the problems of the day; it is here that the wife reigns supreme, administering with tireless and tender hands to those whom God has given her. This is the family unit, the place of greatest earthly happiness, the shrine of highest human attainment—the home, blessed of God and sacred to men. 5. Permanent Endurance. And yet the vast majority of human beings, even those who have faith in the continuance of life beyond the grave, entertain the belief that the family union terminates with death. Indeed this conviction is so deeply entrenched in human practices that nearly every marriage ceremony contains the provision that the compact extends only until death separates the contracting parties. The assumed reality of such a condition, however, stands as a cruel and unavoidable specter before the vision of all who are thus united in marriage. To them it means that the family relationship, with all its loveliness and beauty, will be brought to LESSON DEPARTMENT a sudden close with the advent of the grave, never to reappear in the resurrection. There are few sadder conditions in human experience than that of a husband or wife standing at the open bier of the departed companion entertaining no hope for renewal of relationship, not even in the distant eternities of future time. 6. Such a doctrine, however, is scarcely more than a repudiation of Divine justice—a denial of the parenthood of God. Not even a human being, devoid of the Eternal sense of right and wrong, would impose such a condition upon his seemingly helpless children, for where is the earthly parent who would separate those who love one another and never permit them to reunite again? And yet the family is only found in the Celestial Kingdom. And surely God is not so unmindful of his children as they are of their own. 7. If a consensus of human opinion were available, it would doubtless be to the effect that next in point of desirability to the resurrection of the dead, is the continuance of family relationship in the world to come. Indeed, the husband and the wife become so much a part of one another that the resurrection of the body would be scarcely more than a sombre reality, the one without the other. It is easily conceivable, too, that we will need one another then as much as we need one another now, both as a matter of happiness and of progress. Moreover, it is interesting to observe that it is not the part of Deity to create indispensable earthly institutions only to destroy them with the world to come. 8. Obedience Necessary. Occasionally the belief is expressed among the more understanding sectarians that the husband and the wife will belong to one another in the future world. But, plainly, it 715 is not sufficient merely to hope that such will be the case; it is not enough merely to leave the matter to the "wisdom and justice of God." To do so would not be greatly unlike the parent who hoped his children would do well in life but who made no effort to convert his hopes into reality. If blessings are to be received, the laws upon which they are predicated must be obeyed. This applies to everything within the realm of reality, spiritual as well as physical. 9. If, therefore, a man has hopes of receiving his wife in the resurrection, he should obey the law that makes such a condition possible. When the Savior was upon the earth in the meridian of time, he spoke to his disciples as follows: 'Whatsoever ye shall bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven." (Matthew 18:18) This authority however was lost and according to self admission, the sectarian world possesses no power by which to unite man and woman in the family relationship for longer than the present life. 10. Authority Restored. The Lord, however, has not left his people helpless. On the occasion of Moroni's first visit to the Prophet at Palmyra, he quoted from the book of Malachi, thus: 'Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. * * * And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming." (Pearl of Great Price, page 51) 11. This prophecy was fulfilled some twelve years later in the Kirt716 land temple, April 3, 1836. On this occasion the Prophet and Oliver Cowdery had retired to the pulpit, the veils being dropped, for prayer. The Savior, Moses, and Elias visited them. Then, as the Prophet records: "After this vision had closed, another great and glorious vision burst upon us; for Elijah the Prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us and said: Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi—testifying that he (Elijah) should 'be sent before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come— to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse — Therefore, the Keys of this dispensation are committed unto your hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors." (D. And C. 110: 13-16) 12. It is of course understood by the Latter-day Saints that the Keys of the Priesthood, as restored by Elijah, are as necessary in the marrying of the living as in the sealing of the dead. 13. Marriage for Eternity. The revelation concerning the eternity of the marriage covenant was committed to writing in the upper room of the Prophet's store, July 12, 1843,— slightly more than one year after the introduction of the temple ceremony at the same place. William Clayton, the Prophet's private clerk, wrote the revelation as it was dictated to him. Hyrum Smith, the Prophet's brother, was also present. There are many matters in the revelation pertinent to the present discussion, but space will not permit extended treatment here. It is recommended that the entire revelation RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE be read as a matter of preparation. (See D. And C., Section 132) 14. It is important for the Latter-day Saints to bear in mind that the Keys of the Priesthood necessary to unite man and wife for eternity are held only by the President of the Church. He may delegate this authority to others, and likewise, withdraw it as he may choose. Following is the word of the Lord: "There is never but one on the earth at a time on whom this power and the Keys of this Priesthood are conferred." (D. And C. 132:7) 15. The Lord has the following to say concerning marriages that are consummated according to his law: "If a man marry a wife by word, which is my law, and by the new and everlasting covenant, and it is sealed unto them by the Holy Spirit of promise, by him who is anointed, unto whom I have appointed this power and the keys of this priesthood, * * * it shall be done unto them in all things whatsoever my servant hath put upon them, in time and through all eternity; and shall be of full force when they are out of the world." (D. And C. 132:19) 16. Eternal Progress. The Lord has made it possible that by continued obedience to law those who are thus united in marriage may go on and on to ever-increasing heights; for, according to his word: "They shall pass by the angels, and the gods which are set there to their exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever. Then shall they be gods, because they have no end; therefore shall they be from everlasting to everlasting because they continue; then shall they be above all because all things are subject unto them. Then shall they be gods because they LESSON DEPARTMENT have all power, and the angels are subject unto them. Verily, verily, I say unto you, except ye abide my law, ye cannot attain to this glory." (D. And C. 132:19-21) 17. Continued Increase. The following quotations are self-explanatory. While at Ramus, Illinois, the Prophet said to William Clayton: "Except a man and his wife enter into an everlasting covenant and are married for eternity, while in this probation, by the power and authority of the Holy Priesthood, they will. Cease to increase when they die; that is, they will not have any children after the resurrection. But those who are married by the power and authority of the Priesthood in this life, and continue without committing the sin against the Holy Ghost, will continue to increase and have children in the celestial glory." (History of the Church, Vol. V, p. 391) 18. Again: "In the celestial glory there are three heavens or degrees; and in order to obtain the highest, a man must enter into this order of the priesthood (meaning the new and everlasting covenant of marriage); and if he does not, he cannot obtain it. He may enter into the others, but that is the end of his Kingdom; he cannot have an increase." (D. And C. 131:1-4) Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Enumerate a dozen or more ways in which husband and wife should be mutually helpful to one another. 2. Enumerate a dozen or more ways in which mothers can make their homes more attractive to their husbands and children. 3. Why in your judgment is continuance of the marriage covenant beyond the grave essential to future happiness? 4. Explain why obedience to law is necessary to the reception of all blessings. Be specific—Why is it necessary that this law should be of universal application? 5. After the Priesthood was restored by Peter, James and John, why was it necessary that Elijah should come? What did he bring? 6. Why is it wisdom that the Keys of the Priesthood should not be held by more than one person at a time? 7. Contrast the future possibilities of those who are married in the temple with those who are not. 8. Generally speaking, why should couples who are married in the temple be much happier and more progressive than those who are married merely for the period of their earthly existence? Work and Business ACCORDING to the newspapers and magazines knitting is very much in vogue. In fact it is quite as popular, as during: the war. What more pleasant and profitable pastime could there be for the long winter evenings while listening to the radio? See page 67 of Handicraft for Everywoman for explanations of the knitting process. Refer to page 185 for sources of more instructions in Knitting and Crochet. For thrifty Christmas Gifts suggestions see page 135. 718 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE CONSUMER'S PROBLEMS Lesson 3. BUDGETING. "Just live within your income, for There's always this about it, You'll have to live within it, or Some day you'll live without it." TO distinguish between those things that yield merely transitory pleasure and those that furnish enduring satisfaction requires careful analysis, but it is worthwhile. This is the basic principle in budget making whether applied to money, time or energy. A budget is essentially a financial plan applied to meet the needs of a family or of an individual. To apply business methods consistently and intelligently the housewife needs to know the economic condition in her own community. So long as families and individuals have different goals and ambitions, so long as their standards of living differ, their methods of spending will vary—since spending is but a means of achieving what they have decided is most worthwhile in life. Division of income gives general guides to be used as bases in planning expenditures to meet particular needs. They must be adapted. The budget is related to the whole scheme of living. Right social attitudes need to be created which will recognize the importance of economic security and a decent living wage, for no one can budget to her satisfaction on an unstable or inadequate income. For the purpose of character and personality building, every man, woman and child should have an allowance to spend according to his or her ideals. Proper guidance may be necessary. Some advantages of budget: 1. Decreases waste. 2. Increases capacity to buy wisely. 3. Removes temptation to buy spasmodically. 4. Rids one of feeling of inadequacy. 5. Eliminates competition in family and other groups. 6. Safeguards against present day super salesmanship. 7. Educates in value and use of money. 8. Gives better goods and service. 9. Overcomes lack of system of orderliness. 10. Lessens tendency to tolerate the mediocre and tawdry whether in tangible things or in social relationships. Choice between Difficulties: 1. No opportunity to budget. 2. Dividing money between different needs. 3. Living within budget. 4. Knowledge of values. 5. Choosing the most important thing. 6. Lack of knowledge of business arithmetic. Some reasons why women do not budget: 1. Too small or no regular income. 2. Over confidence in ability to manage without plan. 3. Not interested. 4. Lack of ingenuity. LESSON DEPARTMENT 5. Underestimate of education and ability to follow plan. Questions and Topics for Discussion 1. What is a budget and how does it differ from keeping accounts? 2. Why is it economically important to use one? 719 3. Discuss other vital points to consider in making a budget. 4. How do you divide your income and which item do you consider of most importance? Why? 5. Divide the dollar spent for food so it will be practical, nutritional and economical and give reasons for your division. Teachers' Topic (For April 1936) PROVERBS 3:5, 6 "Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, And lean not unto thine own understanding; In all thy ways acknowledge him, And he shall direct thy paths." PROBABLY there was never a time when individuals have felt that their own understanding had led them so far astray in the solving of economic and religious problems as at present. Certainly. In the home the parents feel that more than ever they need guidance and the help of the Lord in the rearing of their children to help them to withstand the numerous temptations confronting them. In this proverb a very definite blessing is given to those who put their trust in Him—a blessing that fills a very paramount need in the lives of all of us. It is pleasing in the eyes of the Lord for us to put our trust in Him. He is ever mindful of us and by trusting in Him we open the door for the Comforter, the spirit of Truth, to come to bring things to our remembrance and show us things to come. To pray earnestly and constantly is to show to the Lord that we have faith in his guidance and to acknowledge our willingness to be led. To trust in the Lord when changes beset our lives and disappointments fall is not the easiest thing to do but it is the surest way to obtain peace of mind. Had we the larger vision to understand the why of conditions then such great faith would not be required of us in our trusting. "Perhaps no man in the church ever felt more profoundly the truth of the words, 'God moves in a mysterious way, His wonders to perform,' than Wilford Woodruff." To Latter-day Saints his life stands as a vital example of what we mean by trusting in the Lord with all one's heart and letting God direct one's paths. His was not a blind trust but he constantly sought the Lord in earnest prayer and through dreams and visions he received wisdom and intuition to guide him. Many miraculous instances of where the Lord guided and directed Wilford Woodruff are given in his journal. In one section he "records a miraculous escape by one of those spiritual impressions that frequently came across his life. He had tied his mules to an oak-wood tree beside which he was camping. His children were sleeping in the wagon, and he felt impressed to move from his 720 camping ground, so he moved his children into a house. Only a short time elapsed when a thunder-storm swept over the place in great fury. Of the circumstance he writes: 'We had just retired when the storm reached us in great fury, and in a moment the large oak came thundering down to the ground with a terrific crash. Had I not moved my mules, it would probably have killed them. Had I not moved my carriage, it would have been crushed to atoms, and we would have been killed, as the tree fell where my carriage stood.. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I consider my impression as interposition of Providence to save our lives." ("Wilford Woodruff," by M. F. Cowley) 1. Tell how you have, had your way made plain by prayer and by manifesting a trust in the Lord to help you. 2. In what way does this particular proverb promise help in the complicated life situations of the present day? 3. Discuss the relationship between faith and trust. Could you give complete trust without faith? Literature (For Third Week in April) ADVENTURES IN READING COMPANIONABLE Books "The pleasant books that silently among Our household treasures take familiar places." —Longfellow. COMPANIONABLE BOOKS like friends are those that we keep near to us and call upon often for our comfort and delight. Fortunate is the man with such friends for his every mood, grave or gay, for his every need, pleasure or profit. From our company of book friends we call a companion for the quiet hour by the fireside, or the lonely hour near a night lamp. Great men have recorded their most precious thoughts in books. All of life with its tragedy and comedy is faithfully revealed by the silent magic of language. The reader has but to beckon, "Come, my best friends, my books, and lead me on," and a good company is at his service. "Books are the true levellers. They give to all who faithfully use them, the society, the spiritual presence, of the best and greatest of our race."—Channing. Two Companionable Books The lives of two great humanists of the eighteenth century are recorded in two companionable books, "The Life of Samuel Johnson," by James Boswell and "The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin." When modern society was evolving at a rapid rate through exploration and conquest, education and science, these men lived, one on each hemisphere, yet both speaking one language—English. Samuel Johnson, a great scholar, who wrote a dictionary, many essays and biographies, and several classical poems, was also a wise man who laid down the law on letters and in morals to eighteenth century England. Benjamin Franklin, one of the wisest and most illustrious of eighteenth century Americans was interested in literary clubs, magazines, circulating LESSON DEPARTMENT libraries, academics, reformed spelling, almanacs, proverbs, electricity, lightning-rods, stoves, the harmonica, the Latin, Italian, Spanish, and French languages, the Declaration of Independence, and the Constitution of the United States. Both men lived parallel lives, the dates of birth and death differing by but a few years, each in his own country. Each life as is recorded has become a "best-seller" for well over a century, evidence enough that these works are well-loved,-and for that reason they are companionable books. Samuel Johnson, A Sturdy Believer James Boswell made himself famous when he gave to the world the "Rich intellectual treasure," the Life of Samuel Johnson, a book to become the choice companion of many a book lover. Samuel Johnson's life is a fascinating romance. His early life was a series of struggles. Born in 1709 in the country town of Lichfield, this brilliant son of a poor bookseller found a rich environment. The boy struggled through Oxford without income and a proud spirit that made him throw away a pair of shoes given to him for charity. Several attempts at teaching proved unsuccessful. Then Johnson tried his hand at many types of writing. Many a night he walked the streets of London not having the money to pay for a bed. Then he conceived the idea of a dictionary of the English language. This stupendous undertaking brought fame to Samuel Johnson, and a pension from the English government that made him independent. He became the founder of the famous literary club and reigned as monarch over the members which included Boswell, Goldsmith, Gibbons, Benke, and Sir Joshua Reynolds. 721 Johnson wrote numerous poems, among which the best is "The Vanity of Human Wishes." '"'Rasselas," an allegorical romance, was written in one week in order to pay the expenses of his mother's funeral. The work, "Lives of the English Poets," is still of great literary value. Johnson's power lay in his personality, his immense intellectual power, and his high moral sense. His shrewd gift of observation made him the most decisive man of his time and country. Gathered from his brilliant conversation, his friend, James Boswell, recorded the wisdom which keeps Johnson today a living figure. Hour after hour Johnson's friends would listen enthralled by the utterances of the strange, uncouth man in slovenly dress. He was a big honest soul with a reverence for mankind. The kindness and generosity of Johnson was known to many who suffered as he had suffered. It was his custom to keep a book of "Prayers and Meditations" by his bed. These were printed after his death, and they reveal more than anything else could do the inner life that gave life to his wisdom. James Boswell, a little hero-worshiping Scotchman, spent much of his time in the company of Samuel Johnson. From his notes about the activities of his friend and his conversation, Boswell created one of the greatest biographies in the English language. "Read diligently in the great book of mankind" was the secret Johnson gave to his biographer. Johnson was always doing it. This is the reason Boswell was able to make a great book, mankind is in it as Johnson revealed it. Quotations from Samuel Johnson recorded by James Boswell in his biography: — "Slow rises worth, by poverty depressed." 722 "A man should keep his friendship in constant repair." "Perfect good breeding consists in having no particular mark of any profession, but a general elegance of manners." "It matters not how a man dies, but how he lives." "The decent provision for the 'poor is the true test of civilization." "Life is a progress from want to want, not from enjoyment to enjoyment." "Getting money is not all a man's business; to cultivate kindness is a valuable part of the business of life." "Be not angry that you cannot make others as you wish them to be, since you cannot make yourself as you wish to be." "A man cannot with propriety speak of himself except he relates simple facts." "Never lie in your prayers; never confess more than you really believe; never promise more than you mean to perform." "Knowledge of two kinds. We know a subject ourselves, or we know where we can find information upon it." "He left the name at which the world grew pale, To paint a moral or adorn a tale." Benjamin Franklin's Autobiography Benjamin Franklin, the man "whose majestic virtues made him idolized in France, feared in England, and obeyed in America," at the age of sixty-five, in 1771, sat down in the Bishop of St. Asaph's house at Turyford in England, where he was an honored guest, to write for his son the story of his life. He was eighty-three years old when he finished the last pages in Philadelphia. The man was greater than the book. In a few hundred pages the wisest man of his country related the details of his life in simRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ple style. There is no affectation, no vanity in the record; it is shrewd, direct, and vivid. A nation's builder told his own story simply and honestly.—'"A wit and philosopher, rich in learning, charming in manners, ripe in the wisdom of the world, resourceful in dealing with men and events, he was one of the most delightful as he was one of the greatest men produced by the English race in the eighteenth century." Benjamin Franklin was born in Boston in 1706, the youngest son and the fifteenth of seventeen children. An industrious boy, he entered an apprenticeship in his brother's printing shop, and before he was seventeen years old he wrote essays after the fashion of Addison. The variety and number of the activities of his life are best summarized. 1. In 1727 he established the ''Pennsylvania Gazette" which later became the "Saturday Evening Post." 2. In 1729 he founded the first circulating library in America. 3. In 1749 he founded the Academy which later became the University of Pennsylvania. 4. As an inventor he perfected the stove and devised methods of street-lighting. 5. As a scientist he identified lightning and electricity. 6. In 1754 was Colonial agent to London. 7. He was a framer of the Declaration of Independence. 8. He was a member of the French Court. 9. He was a framer of the Constitution of the United States. Out of the great mass of Franklin's writings, two are remembered today: "Poor Richard's Almanac" and the "Autobiography." Franklin made a religion of action, putting it into a simple creed naming virtues and precepts: These names of virtues and their precepts were: 1. Temperance—Eat not to dullness; drink not to elevation. LESSON DEPARTMENT 2. Silence—Speak not but what may benefit others or yourself; avoid trifling conversation. 3. Order—Let all your things have their places; let each part of your business have its time. 4, Resolution—Resolve to perform what you ought; perform without fail what you resolve. 5. Frugality—Make no expense but to do good to others or yourself; i. E., waste nothing. 6. Industry—Lose no time; be always employed in something useful; cut off all unnecessary actions. 7. Sincerity—Use no hurtful deceit; think innocently and justly; and, if you speak, speak accordingly. 8. Justice—Wrong none by doing injuries, or omitting the benefits that are your duty. 9. Moderation—Avoid extremes; forbear resenting injuries so much as you think they deserve. 10. Cleanliness—Tolerate no uncleanliness in body, clothes, or habitation. 11. Tranquility—Be not disturbed at trifles, or at accidents common or unavoidable. 12. Chastity. 13. Humility—Imitate Jesus and Socrates. The "Autobiography" brings the story of Franklin only up to 1757. There is no record of Revolutionary struggles. Later Franklin was the first American to represent his country among the nations of Europe. Today, Benjamin Franklin, to his own people, is one of the best known and best loved personalities in American history. Termed the greatest influence of his age, he was a living example of Aesop's fable of the sun and the north wind. A New Age, A New Philosopher In the golden age of Greek culture, Socrates and his illustrious pupils discussed "Man as the measure of all things" and accepted the truth that "knowledge is virtue." Out of the serenity of life in the shadow of the temple of Dionysus it was a satisfying philosophy. The hurry and hustle of modern life calls for new values and a new expression. Today is a day of work, energy, and action. Elbert Hubbard, American philosopher, was a businessman and a philosopher. His law of life was action. From the thoughts of Moses, Socrates, Pythagoras, Jesus, and Buddha he brought a wisdom that applies to the art of living today. "A Message to Garcia" contains such a message for everyday living. It happened during the war with Spain. Garcia was in the mountain fastnesses of Cuba and it was necessary to reach him immediately. Someone said, "There is a fellow named Rowan will find Garcia if anybody can." The letter from the president to Garcia was given to Rowan. He asked no questions, but he carried the message. "Civilization is one long, anxious search for just such individuals. Anything such a man asks shall be granted; his kind is so rare that no employer can afford to let him go. He is wanted in every office, ship, store, and factory. The world cries out for such; he is needed and needed badly—the man who can carry a message to Garcia." The wisdom of Elbert Hubbard with that of Franklin, Jefferson, Lincoln, and Whitman is an expression of the American ideal of self-reliance as the guide to health, wealth, and happiness. His creed: "To love one's friends, to bathe in life's sunshine, to preserve a right mental attitude—the perceptive attitude, the attitude of gratitude—and to do one's work—these make up an ideal life." "Little Journeys," a delightful series of essays about great men and women of all ages, is today a new companion among the best loved books of the ages to many readers. "Books are keys to wisdom's treasure, Books are gates to lands of pleasure, Books are paths that upward lead; Books are friends. Come, let us read." —Emilie Poulsson. Guide to Preparation A. Suggested topics for Lesson Assignments. 1. The Life of Benjamin Franklin, American Statesman — Philosopher. 2. Extracts from the wisdom of Franklin. 3. Reading: "The Whistle" — Franklin. 4. Samuel Johnson—Humanist. 5. Elbert Hubbard — A New Philosopher. Guide to Reading A. "An American Bible." Excerpts from the wisdom of the great American thinkers: Emerson, Franklin, Lincoln, Jefferson, Whitman. Collected by the genial thinker of this age, Elbert Hubbard. B. "Self Reliance" and "Compensation Essays," by Emerson. C. "The Book Nobody Knows," Bruce Barton. This simple discussion of the Book of Books is most readable and instructive. D. "Mothers and Children," Fisher. Every mother assuming the role of guiding children to live their lives in a new and complex civilization will find much sound wisdom and advice in the miscellaneous essays. E. "Long and Short Arrows," George H. Brimhall. A series of short essays with words of wisdom and comfort to all mankind, but with a definite significance to Latter-day Saints whose understanding of earth life is as of a school to prepare man for his estate in a life of immortality. F. "Adventures in Contentment," David Grayson. A series of informal essays bringing to readers a genial view of life in a world of complexity. Social Service (For Fourth Week in April) LESSON VI The Social Responsibility of the Home Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross, Chapter 7 The purposes of this lesson are: 1. To develop an understanding of important social responsibilities of the home. 2. To make better homes through wise parenthood. In the previous lesson the importance of the family as the basis of civilization was pointed out. The tendency of present-day life to undermine the home as a social unit was also pictured. The disintegration of the family because of the growing rate of divorce, the declining birth rate, and the insincere attitude of those launching upon matrimony is emphasized by the text. Because many of the obligations toward the home, formerly performed by both parents and children, have been passed on to other agencies, the home has lost much of its vital influence in molding the lives of the oncoming generation. But the relationship between the home and society is not less than it formerly was, but greater. Since civilization has brought people very close together, the home, as the center of life, is more closely related to the larger aspects of society than it has ever been. And the responsibility of parents to train their children to fill a wholesome place in society is greater than ever before. The object of this lesson is to point out, as stated in the general purposes, the obligation of parents to build a finer and more interesting home life, and to show how more efficient parenthood can be attained. This can be done in the following ways: 1. Through an understanding of the problems and possibilities of leisure time activities. 2. By providing proper spiritual and religious ideals of life. 3. By developing in children a sense of true civic responsibility. 1. Youth is the age for adventure, for "trying one's wings" in the attempt to satisfy inner and outer conflicts. The home should provide a satisfying background for helping youth to find a solution to this attempt. If a feeling of security, affection, adventure, achievement, and power is not provided at home, at school, or at play, there will be some who will break loose from family bonds and social restraints. But, the home can be of tremendous value in helping youth to find the satisfaction he is seeking by cultivating a wise choice of leisure time activities. Years ago, when men and women worked from daylight to dark, leisure meant rest from hard labor. However, with shortened hours of industrial labor and the elimination of many household tasks, the old idea of leisure as rest still persists. And rest too frequently degenerates into mere idling. Every town has its loafers lounging about corners and public buildings at the end of the day. Front porch idlers and back door gossipers are living announcements that nothing constructive occupies the mind. Recently, radios, movies, and automobiles are absorbing more time and attention than is either constructive or desirable. American children average one movie each week throughout the year. Parents should strive to offset this tendency and the habit of idleness by encouraging wholesome, creative activities in the home. Through some constructive form of self-expression, leisure automatically ceases to be idleness, and becomes a soul-building activity. When such activity has been encouraged by the parents, home becomes a more interesting place to be. It is vibrant with life and activity. And an invaluable relationship between parents and children may be established. Parents should find some outlet for each child's energy. Only through the happiness and contentment of each member of the family can the spirit of the home be realized to its fullest extent. All children have greater aptitudes along some lines than others. Fathers and mothers should observe the interests of all of their children and make it possible for each child to cultivate his own specialty. It is in the early years of life that these aptitudes are best captured and developed. Since the foundation for youth is inevitably 726 laid in childhood, an early start is likely to insure future interest. And the adolescent will be in a fair way to resist the gilded attractions of the age. If a child has talent in music, let him cultivate it. If he likes to carve or model, provide tools and materials, such as wood, soap, or clay. If he enjoys gardening, give him a garden spot. The expense incurred will be an investment that is rich in later returns. The range of hobbies is as wide as human nature is various. Making greeting-cards, letter writing, activities in some scientific pursuit, such as building radio broadcasting 'sets, scouting, and Beehive work, are just a few leisure-time pursuits. Sports develop body control and mental alertness. Animal and nature lore are intensely interesting. And the old game of collecting is as fascinating as ever. Sometimes, hobbies are valuable in determining one's future vocation or profession. Surely, there is no child that cannot be interested in some absorbing medium for self-expression. The question will not be "what shall I do?" but, "what shall I not do in order to find time to do the thing I like?" Most hobbies can find their inspiration, and can be centered in the home. Through their direction, the opportunity is given to parents, to mold character along the lines of most wholesome development. Entertainment of guests at home should be a family affair in which children, whenever possible, should be included. The evening meal should be pleasurable for the entire family group. Its social aspects can be cultivated by encouraging each member to participate in the conversation. Family picnics and outings are delightful. The greatest happiness in life RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE seems to be found when recreation supplements and grows out of regular work. Thoughtful direction by parents of children early in life will establish right attitudes towards the use of leisure. 2. Perhaps there is no phase of home-life more far reaching in its effects or more fundamental in molding. Character and developing spiritual attitudes, than the teaching of religion. As in leisure-time activities, these attitudes and emotional patterns, to be most effective, must be established in early life. The home is the best foundry ever known for such establishment. Basic concepts are absorbed from the family long before a child enters school. The most effective spiritual training is that which is received unconsciously. The influences of which the child partakes are determined by the atmosphere and spirit in which he lives and breathes. These are the forces which shape his destiny. Through unconscious imitation he copies the actions, emotions, thoughts, and acts of those nearest to him. Though additional years may bring advancement in thought, new ideas are interpreted in the light of the psychological attitudes that were formed during the plastic years of life. Too often, spiritual and religious training is interpreted to be regular habits of attendance at Sunday School, Primary, and other auxiliary meetings, and the study of gospel doctrine. Essential as these are, they are not sufficient to establish the deeply religious and spiritual attitudes that one needs to carry him through life. The foundation of life determines its future. When that foundation is inlaid with a spiritual design, it is almost impossible for any force to divorce spirituality from life. LESSON DEPARTMENT Religious attitudes, established in childhood, are more important than scriptural knowledge or specific beliefs. These can be gradually acquired over a life-long period of study. Habits of reverence, once formed, are likely to last through life. Religious teaching in the home is vital, and it must find its roots in daily experiences. The responsibility, thus resting upon parents in the home, is one that cannot be shifted to religious organizations or the day school. The father and mother, who are successful in cultivating true Spiritual values, in which there exists love of home, love of parents, brothers, and sisters; and where the sacredness of life and human rights is recognized; are performing the greatest service of all to their community, to their nation, and to God. 3. A third responsibility resting upon parents is the teaching of correct civic attitudes. Many parents have considered such training to be the obligation of the school. And so it is; but much of the teaching in the schools has been ineffective beCause it has not been followed by a consistent development of the knowledge in the home. It is a noticeable fact that the study of civics does not necessarily result in desirable social behavior. Too often, the reverse is true, and the reason is logically traced to the home environment. In school the emphasis is placed on the acquisition of facts. To make the knowledge of such facts effective, they should be incorporated into Civic attitudes. The home can do more towards such incorporation than any other institution. Correct civic attitudes are habits of mind, and are acquired as are all other habits. Example plays its part. Solving situations under the guidance and counsel of others until one can do so independently is very 727 helpful. Civic virtues are the outgrowth of daily experiences, and are unconsciously absorbed from earliest childhood. Attitudes of respect for law and order, and for constituted authority; ideals of service; compliance to the will of the majority; and respect for the property rights of others; are all by-products of home-life. It is a decided reflection on the home that the divorce rate is increasing, the birth rate is declining, and so much insincerity towards marriage exists. Undoubtedly, parents have fallen down in preparing their children for a happy and usefy life. Since all the attitudes mentioned above, are the outgrowth of daily home-life, the obligation of parents in maintaining a home where correct Principles of living are practiced is clearly indicated. No amount of good teaching in schools can overcome poor ideals established at home. Example is the greatest teacher in life. No parent can expect his child to acquire civic virtues unless he, himself, practices them. The social responsibilities of the home and the obligations of parents to build better homes, lie at the foundations of our existence. Upon the successful performance of these obligations depends the existence of the nation, the strength of the Church, and the lasting satisfaction of parenthood. Activities Show how delinquency can be accounted for through failure to follow some of the principles suggested in this lesson. Name examples of successful living which can be specifically traced to constructive home life. Let each member of the class name the creative leisure-time activities practiced and encouraged in her home. See note "Errata" on following page. 728 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Errata Lesson III was printed by mistake in the October Magazine and headed Lesson V. It should have been in the August number. (And is to be given in the December Union Meeting.) Lesson IV will be found in the August number, Lesson V in September, Lesson VI in November, VII in December and VIII in January which will complete the course. HEALTH LESSONS 1935-36 HEALTH LESSONS 1935-1936 LESSON VII CARE OF THE TEETH way of adapting useful parts of our body to its general scheme of symmetry and beauty. As example we may note the female breast, which rounds out the thorax, and adds so much to the figure; the color of the iris in the eye; the shape and length of the eyebrow; and the color and shape and symmetry of the teeth. To have fine healthy teeth is therefore a matter of personal adornment as well as a matter of health and comfort. Nature has provided for us two distinct sets of teeth; one for our infantile and early juvenile years, known as the deciduous teeth, because they are to be cast off; and one for our later juvenile and adult years, known as the permanent set. The baby is born without any teeth, and usually erupts the first tooth at from five to seven months. From then on the teething period extends until the baby is about three years old when it will be found to have twenty teeth. Sometimes these baby teeth have difficulty in making their way through a tough mucous membrane of the gum, and considerable discomfort and fretfulness will result. Sometimes high fever develops as a result of this irritation. N 'wer of: has a remarkable The doctor or dentist can easily relieve this situation by the use of the lance. It is important that these baby teeth should have the same care that we bestow on the permanent set. They are not only useful for masticating the food, but they are the scaffolding for the permanent set that is to come later. The baby's food has an important bearing on the growth and development of its teeth. Calcium and phosphorus are the principal ingredients out of which the teeth are made. It so happens that milk is the food that supplies best these ingredients, and it should be a major item of the child's food until it is twelve or thirteen years of age. A little orange juice added to the diet gives vitamin D, which is shown to be important in the assimilation of the elements of milk. Teeth as everybody knows are prone to develop decaying cavities. When these are allowed to penetrate to the pulp, which contains very sensitive nerves, they produce toothache which causes much suffering. Infecting bacteria develop in these cavities, producing pus, and swollen cheeks. The poison absorbed from abscesses is a much more serlous matter with young: children than LESSON DEPARTMENT it is with adult people, because they are laying the foundation of their future constitution, and the tissues are very fragile. The cause of cavities in teeth is the bacteria that grow in particles of food which are allowed to remain in the mouth between feedings. Bacteria grow best at the temperature of the body, and in the presence of the moisture which the saliva supplies. It is important that the food remnants should be removed with the tooth brush, and the tooth powder or tooth paste should contain some harmless antiseptic such as borax or oil of wintergreen or tincture of myrrh. The child should be taught at an early age the use of the tooth brush. At first not much may be accomplished more than the habit, but habits are things that grow, and their usefulness will be manifest in the later years. Cavities in the baby teeth as in the adult teeth should be filled whenever they appear. To preserve those teeth until they have served their full purpose is very important. If they should need extracting too soon, the jaw bone will not develop in a perfect way. When the teeth come in crooked, and out of alignment, the dentist should straighten them. This applies more particularly to the permanent set. The six year permanent molars erupt immediately back of the baby teeth, and it is important to know this because if they are extracted they will never grow again. The last molars known as the wisdom teeth do not erupt until about the 18th or 20th year. Sometimes they fail to come through and may cause much suffering until the skilled dental surgeon extracts them. All that has been said of the baby teeth applies with equal force to the 729 permanent set. The use of the tooth brush should be as much a routine as washing the hands or face. The dentist should inspect the teeth at least twice a year, and any cavities should be promptly filled. If teeth have degenerated beyond redemption, they should be extracted and artificial bridges or plates substituted. The importance of having the proper grinders in our digestive apparatus is very great. Much of the indigestion that people suffer from is due to imperfect mastication of the food. The more perfect studies of bacteriology of late years have thrown a great deal of light on diseases like chronic rheumatism, neuritis, Brights' disease, etc. It is now known that many of these heretofore incurable chronic diseases are due to foci of infection, mostly in the teeth, tonsils or sinuses. The apex of a tooth which is deeply implanted in the jaw bone will get infected, and the poison that such a focus gives out will irritate tissues in distant parts of the body, causing arthritis, neuritis, chronic Brights' disease, etc. When such a relationship is found to exist the condition will often clear up immediately when the focus of infection is removed. The careful physician will order X-ray pictures of the teeth when he finds his patient suffering from some chronic trouble, the cause of which is unknown, and he will not infrequently bring peace and happiness to a patient who has suffered seriously and long from some painful debilitating condition, which seemed to resist all treatment. If these infections could be prevented by proper and prompt treatment of the teeth before they happen we all admit it would be a far better way of meeting distressing conditions which are altogether too common. Questions At what age does the baby get its full set of baby teeth? How many teeth in the full baby set? When do the first permanent molars appear and where are they located? What difficulties develop if these first molars are ignorantly removed? What food has the elements calRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cium and phosphorus which are the main ingredients of the teeth in greatest abundance? What is the cause of the decayed cavities in the teeth? Why is it so important to brush the teeth, and remove the waste particles of food from the mouth? What causes toothache? Explain how infected teeth can cause arthritis, neuritis, etc. One Day 'By Bertha A. Kleinman A song welled into my heart one day— One day when I was young, And I longed with a master touch to play, Or to sing with a lyric tongue, But the symphony unsung, Is pulsing yet as the years go by, And no one hears but me; Perhaps its accents vivify The truth to which I testify, And that is melody! An epic filled my brain one night—: One night in early youth, And I longed for a poet's pen to write, A psalm of might and truth, But a lexicon uncouth, Is all my efforts represent, It only thrills for me; Perhaps my day is better spent, With less of blame and discontent, And that is poetry. A vision stirred this soul of mine, One time in fervid prayer, And I longed for a prophet's voice sublime, Its fervor to declare, But the glint and vista rare, Is paled in the words I try to say, It only spans for me— I know it clears my sky without, That trial for me can hold no doubt And that is prophecy! Nearly Half a Century of Service--The L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE is proud of its long record of service to the young men and women of the Intermountain Territory. In passing another milestone in its history, November 15, the College re-dedicates itself to the high ideals of the men who founded it. Business College Salt Lake City Preserve Your Magazines by having them permanently bound HERE is a vast amount of valuable reference material in your Relief Society Magazine. You can preserve this material permanently and in attractive book form by having your volumes bound. SPECIAL RATE FOR QUANTITIES The Deseret News Press Pioneer Printers, Binders, Rulers = When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 70 North Main Street 29 Richards St. Wasatch 1812 Salt Lake City, Utah If You Can't Save to Buy Insurancé Buy Insurance to Save— A Winning Combination are relieved greatly of the worries of what may happen. The stability of a life insurance investment is unquestioned. IF IT'S A BENEFICIAL POLICY— < IT'S THE BEST INSURANCE YOU CAN BUY BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY Home OFFICE ———Salt Lake City, Utah There are many special advantages in being a Beneficial Life Policyholder—you share in the net earnings of the company—receive dividends annually. There's a definite reason why we say J. REUBEN CLARK JR., 1ST VICE-PRES. & DIRECTOR. WALDO M. ANDERSON, AGENCY SUPERVISOR DAVID O. MCKAY, 2ND VICE-PRES. & DIR. DR. W. R. CALDERWOOD, MEDICAL DIRECTOR GEO. J. CANNON, EXECUTIVE VICE-PRES. & DIR. ASHBY D. BOYLE, ATTORNEY AXEL B. C. OHLSON, SECRETARY & DIRECTOR JOS. FIELDING SMITH, DIRECTOR LEO E. PENROSE, ASST. SECRETARY E. T. RALPHS, DIRECTOR VIRGIL H. SMITH, ASST. SECRETARY ORVAL W. ADAMS, DIRECTOR EARLE W. PIERCE, ASST. TREASURER STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN, DIBEOCTOR MEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT & DIRECTOR KUGENE P. WATKINS, SUP. R. E. LOAN DEPT. HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS From Factory To You—-We Solicit Your Mail Orders New Style oo...$.65 No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and New Style 1.10 No. 85. Very Special Non-RunNo. 80, Heavy Wt. Men's Double Rayon, Men's and Ladies' y Back i: a 1.45 New Style Only 0... 1.10 ee. Nial re: No. 83. Extra Fine — Silk-Rayon Than Part Wool. This Comes Combed Yarn, Ladies' New Style StY le Only 1.25 Short Sleeves, Ankle Length We Mark Garments For 10c States. Style, and if Men's or Ladies'. THIS IS ALSO THE PLACE TO OUTFIT THE MISSIONARY WITH ONE OF THOSE FAMOUS RAMBOULLETTE SUITS This is one of our Specials WE HAVE A LARGE ASSORTED Our Famous MENT OF HEAVY WORSTEDS AT Ramboullette Souae: e $2 1 7 5 Extra Single or: Double Breast. Extra Pants, $4.00 e eases WE ALWAYS GIVE SPECIAL DISCOUNTS TO THE MISSIONARY 14 SOUTH MAIN, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH WE ADMIT WE ARE CRANKS ABOUT CLEANLINESS This is one of the reasons so many of our customers recommend Arden Milk to their friends. Ask your coal dealer about this new dustless stoker slack. BLUE BLAZE COAL For Home Delivery COMPANY Phone Wasatch 896 Salt Lake City ARDEN DAIRY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No. &8&. Lt. Weight Men's and Ladies' No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' No. 8&1. Ad Wt. Old Style, Double a No. 86. Extra Fine Rayon and Double We Charge 10% Extra For Extra Sizes. We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United No. &7. Lt. Wt. Old and New Styles $.85 Ladies' New Style 00.0.0... -85 Nonnlo Cavnbadl Wawan, eKier in Winter Weight Men's New Please Specify When Ordering Your Bust, Trunk and Length, Whether New or Old RYSTAL PAL ACEP' Market tenor: Itis OUR AMBITION To Make Our Three Big Food Markets a Real Credit to Service Above All SALT LAKE — PROVO — OGDEN a PRICE PAYSON MANTI | DESERET MORTUARY CO. NO SUBSTITUTE There is no substitute for quality. The lowest priced merchandise isn't always the cheapest. O. P. Skaggs System Stores have low prices but only Qual food STORES "A Surety of Purity." When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Salt Lake City and Utah "Quality" foods. We Invite You To. Visit Us Often 0. Le SKAGGS THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints VoL. XXII DECEMBER, 1935 No. 12 CONTENTS The Holy Family yearly eeeFrontispiece Fiail) Christmas -.... 200.022. 0soe. E see eens seBryce W. Anderson 731 Gupplication.......... 66. Eee eee tee eee eect newnessMabel Spande Harmer 733 ROHMTBUMAS 2 Joseph F. Smith 734 Where Love Is)... 38...Ruth Musser 739 Christmas Gift............. Clarence Edwin Flynn 745 Mental Hygiene of the Adult.........Mark K. Allen 746 Miracles......... Harrison R. Merrill 749 Yule Music... 20.Carlton Culmsee 751 BLOSSOMS......Sadie Maurer 752 Franz Johann's Holy Night.................Fae Decker Dix 753 (OPN 5 Annie Wells Cannon 754 Christmas Dinner in the Seventies.........Agnes Just Reid 757 Not Bread Alone........Elsie C. Carroll 757 We Too, Follow the Star.........Claire Stewart Boyer 762 Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life................. Lella Marker Hoggan 764 "Beyond the Grey Corridors"....lillie M. Dale 768 Happenings....... Annie Wells Cannon 772 Editorial: *Christmastide........Omit: 773 "Go Thou and Do Likewise".............774 Lesson Department......775 Magazine Drive........791 (GSTS 9 E. J. Gardiner 797 Your Nazareth.......Eleanor W. Schow 798 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Our BIG Christmas SALE STARTS MONDAY Manufacturers' Prices Are Advancing BUY NOW AND SAVE! GRANITE FURNITURE Co. 1050 EAST 21ST SOUTH Silver Leaf Poplar Dairy PURE JERSEY MILK T. R. Taylor Phone: Hyland 1309-W TEMPLE GARMENTS Of Superior quality and workmanship manufactured for the SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE And sold at prices defying competition. When ordering from us remember we Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. No. FOR LADIES No. FOR MEN 703 Flat Weave Spring Needle 662 Men's Non-Run Rayon 719 Ribbed Light Weight coe Al 610 Ribbed Light Wt. Spring Needle 1.10 792 Fine Quality Cotton Lisle. Recall 602 Extra Fine Quality Lisle 750 Non-Run Rayon. 614 Med. Wt. Ex. Quality 734 Glove Silk Finish Non-Run 663 All Wool Heavy Wt. New Style Rayon 1.35 Only 762 Non-Run Rayon Super Quality.... 1.25 6111 50% Wool Heavy Weight 735 Light Weight Cotton Ribbed 0 664 Med. Hvy. Wt. Cot. Double Back 1.50 714 Medium Weight Cotton 3 660 Silk and Wool Medium Weight.... 1.95 Garments Marked Upon Request. 10c for Cotton—Silk 15c Prices Subject to Change Without Notice. 20% Extra Charge for Sizes Over 46. Do not fail to specify New or Old Style and if for Man or Woman. Also state if long or short sleeve, short or long legs are wanted. Give accurate Bust Measurements, Height and Weight. Samples Sent Upon Request. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 42 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah—OLDEST KNITTING STORE IN UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine BETTER BREAD for Better HEALTH Bread furnishes energy for vitality. And energy is the fuel that keeps active little bodies strong and warm in winter. Serve these better breads at every meal. Fisher's Vitamin ''D'' white and whole wheat breads, American Lady Cracked Wheat, Rye, French and Vienna Breads and American Lady Rolls. Baked for you by the bakers of Fisher's Vitamin "'D"' American Lady Breads A NEW UREKA MOTOR-DRIVEN BRUSH LIGHT—EASY TO HANDLE AGREEABLY QUIET This sensational new Eureka with motordriven brush is designed to meet the requirements of those who desire a motordriven brush but recognize the necessity of "High Vacuum" (powerful suction) for the thorough removal of embedded dirt. Unnecessary weight and awkward size have been carefully avoided. It is quiet—agreeably quiet. The demonstration! It is spectacular — sensational — thrilling. Embedded soda fairly 'boils' from the rug. Sand dances— how it dances! Surface litter — lint, hair and threads — are instantly removed by its motordriven brush. This new Eureka cleans faster—cleans better. $5.00 Down—Balance on Easy Terms Phone for Demonstration Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. Salt Lake City, Utah 177 East Broadway Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Salt Lake City, Utah THE FAMOUS MURAL F you visited the Century of Progress Exposition in Chicago, you will remember the beautiful mural which was the most striking feature of the exhibit. It portrays dramatic episodes of the progress of women in the last 100 years. The National Council of Women has secured a limited number of pictures of this mural in color mounted ready for hanging. There are 3 plaques each measuring 91/2"x4"". The price is $2.50 sent post-paid, ten sets $20.00. Order from National Council of Women, 4 Park Avenue, New York, N. Y. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Phone Wasatch 4764 Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building The Relief Society Magazine Vou. XXII DECEMBER, 1935 No. 12 Supplication By Mabel Spande Harmer The tranquil night was robed. In darkest hue Before the coming of that radiant star Whose lambent glory pierced its somber folds And sent the message of His birth afar. The poor and humble of the land beheld And cried, "Rejoice, the promised star has come!" Then wept with joy as angels told of peace And of good will on earth toward all men. The lowly shepherd with his quiet flock Looked up in awe and marveled at its light. He bowed his head in reverence and prayer As heavenly song was borne upon the night. The wise men waited in expectant hush Until with joyful heart they saw its gleam, Then gathered up rich treasures and rode forth From out the East to the celestial beam. Oh Lord, once more on earth the night is dark. We cry for peace and fear our cry is vain. We grow faint-hearted as the signs of stress And turmoil threaten all the world again. As in that olden day we look to Thee— Grant us a star of hope, a light divine. Dispel the gloom that threatens to enclose, Send from empyreal heights Thy peace sublime. Christmas A Means Toward Greater Spirituality in the Home By Joseph F. Smith (A restume of an address given in the October Primary Conference) a month away?" "Don't talk about it. I just dread its coming." That has a familiar sound, hasn't it? Christmas is almost upon us, calling as usual for expenditures which family incomes will not warrant. Holiday happiness in thousands of homes will be abruptly terminated on January second when the mailman presents a formidable sheaf of bills demanding that "the fiddler be paid." In thousands of homes Christmas spending, begun in December, will continue long into the summer— casting a winter blight over the entire year and bringing an ever increasing dread of succeeding Christmases. Now spending may be very pleasant when and if there is plenty to spend. But spending requires income. Emergency spending requires surplus. Surplus means spending strength. Men and institutions are financially strong in the degree that they have large supplies of money (or lands or goods which may easily be converted into money) on hand. That is what strength means—having something on hand. The financier's strength is measured in terms of money on hand or immediately available. The athlete's strength is measured in terms of nervous and muscular power on hand. The teacher's strength is measured in terms of knowledge on hand. Even the locomotive's strength is measured in D: you realize Christmas is but terms of pounds of steam pressure on hand. Without a store of something, strength is an impossibility. VERY man seeks to become strong in the direction of his particular interests. He sets forth to build a store of whatever is requisite for the strength he desires—physical prowess, money, learning, and so on. What is true of men is true of nations. Great Britain, seeking to maintain maritime strength has built up a navy second to none. The larger countries of continental Europe (each suspicious of its neighbors) have given themselves military strength by building great armies. The United States has made itself a great financial power by developing resources and amassing wealth. Ancient Greece made itself the light of its world by developing artists and philosophers. Each nation's strength, therefore, lies in whatever stock or store it has deliberately built up. Since strength lies in wealth of some kind, if it hopes to endure, each nation must ask itself, in what sort of wealth does the greatest strength lie —wealth of money, wealth of things, wealth of knowledge. Of course there is but one answer—wealth of men: "tall men, sun-crowned." <A nation's ultimate strength and glory must be measured by its manhood. Wealth of manhood means national strength; poverty of manhood means national weakness. The wise nation therefore sets about developing a great store of manhood. CHRISTMAS Now, the nation as such is too great a unit to superintend the nurture of each of its individual creatures. It can lay down principles, it can pass laws, but it must depend on much smaller units to take care of the detailed upbringing of its individual men. The most ideal unit for this individual nurture is the family; the most effective institution, the home. The nation says to the home, "Give me strong men." Hence national strength is a family responsibility. S the nation asked what national wealth makes for the greatest national strength, the family must ask what personal wealth makes for the strongest man. A wise method for arriving at an answer to that question is to review the world's strong men and then learn, if possible, where their strength lay. I say lay, because it is difficult to measure the strength of living persons. You see, strength, after all is power, influence. The strongest man is he who exerts an influence on the greatest number over the longest period. Alexander the Great, Julius Caesar, Napoleon Bonaparte were strong men—all of them great military leaders and highly influential. Each of these men controlled the destinies of thousands of his contemporaries and each altered the political face of the world, but of the three, Caesar was strongest. Why? Because his influence has been felt for a longer period by a greater number of persons. Caesar plays a greater part today in your life and mine, than does either Alexander or Napoleon. Have you ever stopped to think that the calendar we use daily is largely Julius Caesar's? And that Caesar's pen is still wielding influence in thousands of lives while his sword 735 is as impotent as the rust which destroyed it? You see Caesar had a greater store of interesting and compelling ideas than the others. Therein lay his real strength. HEN ideas are generative, when they inspire beneficial activity they become ideals. Hence ideals are the motive force behind all progress. Find, therefore, the man with the greatest stock of ideals and you will at once find the strongest of men. Such inquiry inevitably leads us not to the great military chieftains, the Alexanders and the Napoleons; not to the great possessors of goods, the Croesuses and Rockefellers, but to the great idealists— the Aristotles, Confuciuses, Buddhas, and greatest of all—Jesus of Nazareth. Stable-born, without money, without lands, without political or military following, He yet became the world's strongest man. He is most alive today because He was richest in ideals. His store of "things of the spirit" was fullest. The family then, if it is fully to meet its responsibility, must build men who in turn can and will build for themselves rich stores in spiritual achievement. Here is where Mormonism enters—or at least should enter—in Latter-day Saint homes. Why Mormonism? Because it is the Gospel of Christ. To the question, "What is the Gospel?" The average Latter-day Saint will readily and glibly answer, "The Gospel is the way of life unto salvation." That definition is true—so profoundly true that the average Latter-day Saint fails to appreciate its entire import. You see, we talk a great deal about salvation and salvation to most of us means something that happens after we are dead 736 Death seems remote to most of us. We tend to worry about concerns more immediate than death. Furthermore, since our definition: "The Gospel is the way of life unto salvation" begins with the Gospel and ends with salvation we are inclined to confuse the two—to make the serious blunder of thinking of the gospel as salvation. The gospel ts not salvation! And our definition does not say it is. It says the Gospel is the way of life unto salvation. To put it otherwise, the gospel is the means of getting to salvation. The gospel is not a goal, or an achievement; it is a technique for achieving. Salvation is the achievement. Salvation is the having on hand an adequate stock of spiritual wealth; it is the possession of that which gives to its owner the greatest strength, and the gospel, or, if you like, Mormonism, is the way to get it. Moreover, it is the only way to get it. WORTHWHILE achievement of any sort is predicated upon pretty exact procedures. So true is that, that examples illustrative of it are trite, even banal. For instance, no one questions that in the scientific laboratory desired results can be obtained only by following rigidly prescribed technique. The slightest slip in method may mean the complete missing of the hoped for goal. Even so mundane a thing as a loaf of good bread is the result of particular procedure. Graduation from college is dependent upon fulfilling requirements. Everybody admits all this. It is the more surprising, therefore, that when it comes to "salvation" or the acquisition of the greatest and most worthwhile strength there are hundreds of thousands of otherwise reasonable folk who disregard or discredit—totally or in part—the requisite RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE technique for that particular acquisition. AVE we wandered far from Christmas? Let us see. Our text was announced Christmas: A Means Toward Greater Spirituality in the Home. We have said that in spiritual attainment lies the greatest strength; that the gospel provides the means for that attamment; that the greatest number of the strongest men make the greatest nation; that the home has the responsibility of developing such men. Now how can Christmas be made to contribute? First let us consider one or two of the fundamental requirements for spirituality in the home. As I see it, "there are two, namely, order and love. Confusion and strife are utterly incompatible with the spirit of tlte Lord. ORDER may be brought about in the matter of time. Family habits should be well and exactly regulated. Meals should be served at stipulated hours. You never in your lives saw a short order eating house which was completely restful. The family insofar as it is humanly possible should meet together for breakfast. Every member should rise sufficiently early to perform his particular chores, to make a careful toilet, to meet with the family in family devotion, and to eat with the family an unhurried breakfast. (Remember the words of the Lord: "Retire to your beds early and cease to sleep longer than is necessary.'') Meeting in family devotion not only makes for order—a great spiritual asset— (who was it said "order is the first law of heaven?") it is a strong fortification against the labor and vicissitudes of the day. Again in the CHRISTMAS evening all should gather at the ordained hour for dinner and for evening devotion. The family will gain in spiritual strength if every meal is preceded by the voicing of gratitude for food to eat. The "blessing of the food" is an important matter in developing spirituality in the home. The word blessing here may be a trifle unhappy. Some people are inclined to ask the Lord to bless the food and make it nourishing and even to cleanse it of its impurities. That is not the Lord's business. The preparation of our food is our responsibility. The real purpose of the "blessing" is to offer thanks that we have food to eat. If we remember the Lord in the days of our prosperity He will remember us in the days of adversity. Order may be brought about in the matter of physical appointments. "A place for everything and everything in its place" is a well-worn but golden maxim. A beautifully appointed home is a great spiritual asset and does not require lavish trappings. ORDER may be brought about in the matter of division of responsibility. Each home should be a successful social unit. That requires organization. In well organized societies, everybody has a responsibility. I remember very vividly a lesson my father taught me in responsibility. Milking and caring for the cows was part of my chores. One night after feeding the cows, I neglected to close the big window to the hay loft—a thing I had been warned against. My father, perceiving my neglect after I had gone to bed, roused me from my slumber and insisted (firmly but quite without scolding) that I finish my job. He 737 could have gone to the barn and closed the window with far less expenditure of time and energy than was necessary in prevailing upon me to do it, but it was my responsibility and it was his responsibility as head of our family society to see to it that each of us fulfilled his responsibility. I thought it was hard lines at the time, but I have been very grateful since. Every member of a household should have a contributory responsibility. It makes him a stock-holder in the home corporation. It gives him a preparatory self-reliance for meeting the world. Love must pervade the home if it is to help build strong men. Love can always be measured in terms of service and sacrifice. Courtesy and politeness in the home are essential manifestations of love. No small part of love should be respect for others' rights. Every member of the family should have one spot in the home which is exclusively and inviolably his. It need be no more than one bureau drawer, but it should be his. And should be sacred to him. He should have such a spot and know it is his from the time he starts to walk, Such advice may seem homely and commonplace, but remember spirituality is not achieved by dealing in glittering generality and abstract philosophy. It is achieved by doing concrete things and no act is so trivial that it lacks spiritual import. Most of us have ample room for improvement, and what better time than Christmas to inaugurate hearthside reform? The Church has its General Conference and every organization —Church, Stake, and Ward has its conference for revivifying its members and "kindling anew their zeal." 738 Why not make fuller use of Christmas for the family! LET'S outline a Christmas technique which will make for greater spirituality and from which the family may profit throughout the year. First: Call at once a family meeting to discuss Christmas. It is the day set aside as the anniversary of Jesus the Christ the only Begotten of God the Father. In memory of the gifts brought to the Christ child by the magi we will give and receive gifts. Commercial enterprises, avid for monetary gain, are doing their best to take Christ out of Christmas. Gifts valued for their intrinsic worth are a mockery of Christmas. Decide that your gifts shall be simple but richly symbolic. Agree that there will be 'no instalment buying for Christmas; that nothing will be purchased which cannot be paid for in full by January first. Agree to making Christmas a home day. Second: On Christmas morning let everybody wash and dress before going to the Christmas tree for ex-. Change of gifts, and let everybody go together—the youngest leading. If one celebrates Christmas because it is the natal day of the Redeemer of the World, it is hardly fitting to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE dash out of bed and spend half the morning in night attire and with disheveled hair. The very preparation of getting well groomed will not only add dignity to the occasion but it will make it more impressive and the suspense will add greatly to the fun. Anticipation is a rare sauce. Third: Have a noon day dinner. Breakfast may well be dispensed with. Eating during, or immediately after great excitement is unhealthful. The short fast will be beneficial and will reduce confusion. Have a "very special" family prayer at dinner time. Make it an opportunity for a genuine thanksgiving. Fourth: The afternoon may very profitably be spent in visiting and receiving visits: wishing friends and loved ones Merry Christmas. Fifth: Spend the evening at home. Have some games in which all the family may join. Have a well planned family party and when the day is quite gone and bed time comes, gather round in candlelight or firelight and decide wherein and how family conduct can be improved for the strengthening of all. Agree to. Put the improvements into force on the morrow. Sing "Silent Night" or "Now The Day Is Ended" and close the day with prayer. See if Christmas will not be a means toward greater spirituality in your home! Where Love Is By Ruth Musser T was a perfect Hawaiian after] noon. The long white-capped waves, rolling softly and steadily up the beach, chased the scurrying sand crabs into their holes, and breaking with a gentle swish, retreated, leaving thé sand white and glistening. The customary morning shower had left the air cool and balmy. The dazzling blue sky was flecked with tiny, fluffy clouds, whose edges seemed tinged with gold from the mere radiance of the sky itself. A fresh salt breeze blew continually from over the water, bringing with it half-veiled hints of undiscovered treasure islands, rare and costly spices, and mysterious perfumes from the Orient. But in spite of her surroundings Lucile Thornton was not happy. Reclining in the shade of an immense Chinese parasol, she watched fouryear-old Ted paddle in and out of the water, and Jean, two and a half years his junior, toddle unsteadily over the dry sand, picking up bits of coral, shell, and colored rock. And all the while, as she cautioned Teddy about getting too close to the water and extracted bits of shell from the baby's mouth, she wished herself miles away. For it was the day before Christmas; and she would give all this color and warmth and peace about her for one sight of a bleak, snow-covered valley and for the sting of an icy wind. The sewing she had brought with her had fallen from her lap forgotten, as she gazed abstractedly away over the restless ocean and thought of the changes that had taken place during the past twelve months. A year ago, after a very discouraging session with the account book, she and Ed had been obliged to acknowledge they were losing ground daily; if things went on much longer in the same way, they would be so far in debt that nothing short of a special dispensation of Providence could save them—and this in spite of the fact that they had pinched and scraped to make ends meet ever since their marriage. Ig had been the old story. Ed, working his way through high school, had gone on armission before he had completed his course. That mission turned out to be an exceptionally long one. He returned five years later anxious to marry the girl who had waited for him so long. But although filled with great hopes and ambitions, he was _ penniless. Moreover, he was untrained at a time when the country was overrun with unemployed. But he was sincere in his desire for work and before long found an opening. He entered a down-town department store as a shoe clerk—at a very modest salary. Lucile would not consider postponing their marriage until he had a higher salary, and assured him it would be great fun to start housekeeping in pioneer style. Lucile had been raised in the midst of plenty. She was nearly through college, belonged to an exclusive sorority as well as to various clubs, and was a great favorite among her friends. Ed, remembering these things, was amazed at his good fortune in winning her and felt it unfair to ask such a wonderful girl to embark with him upon the sea of matrimony in such a frail craft as he could provide. But as she was as deeply in love as he, their 740 engagement was announced, in spite of dire warnings from her friends and relatives. When school was out and Ed had saved enough to make a down payment on a tiny bungalow, they were married. BUt making both ends meet was a harder job than either had anticipated. | When it came right down to facing the monthly installments on house and furniture, and meeting the light, gas, and telephone bills in addition to coal and groceries, what had in theory promised to be so easy proved to be almost impossible in practice. At first they joked freely about keeping the wolf from the door, and considered it great fun to sit down together of an evening with pencil and paper and go over the little budget again and again, trying to squeeze out a penny here and there for extras. But there was never any margin at the end of the month, and sometimes there was a deficit. Gradually these conferences became more serious; but, always hopeful, they would invariably end with glorious plans for the future when he got a raise and promotion. The first substantial raise came just in time to meet taxes. For a while they were able to squeeze ends together; but then Edward Junior arrived on the scene, and after that the books wouldn't balance at all. So, goaded on by the new stimulus, Ed studied at nights and soon obtained a job in the bookkeeping department, which, though only slightly better in salary, was more promising. He borrowed money for the taxes that fall. OR the next two years they skimped along, barely keeping up with ordinary expenses. But soon unexpected calls arose, culminating in the arrival of Jean. Ed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE laughingly called her his second little "liability" and unfeignedly worshiped her. But the wrinkles in his forehead were not so easily smoothed out now and he always looked tired. The night work he had been doing for some months past was beginning to tell on his eyes, and he was considering the efficacy and also the expense of glasses. Lucile, worrying over him and the babies and the grocery bill, admitted to herself that she was losing her pep and couldn't stand the strain much longer. Things were approaching a climax. Then came the final budget conference in which Ed, worried and serious, showed her the results of their efforts: he had had to borrow more money to meet taxes and pressing bills, they were far behind in payments on the house, doctor's bills were pending, and no raise was in sight. Lucile smiled down at the baby she was nursing, but her smile was a little weary as she said, "It isn't just the expenses, Ed. It's this everlasting struggle to keep up with everybody—with the neighbors, and my sisters and friends. If we stop for a minute to relax, we're hopelessly behind. But I've come to a point where I've got to stop long enough to get my breath no matter what happens, and J know you feel the same." Her husband patted her shoulder understandingly but said nothing. Later that evening when the babies were both asleep and the dishes finally cleared up, he told her of an unquenchable desire, which grew in intensity as their condition became more desperate—to return to Hawali, the land of exquisite beauty and of perpetual sunshine; the land of material well-being and of spiritual content. Although the subject had been a favorite of his since he WHERE returned from his mission, never before had he spoken with such depth of feeling. He confessed that through a friend of his, now on the islands, he had heard of a position as assistant overseer on one of the large sugar plantations in Oahu, that he had made inquiries and, in a moment of recklessness, had applied. Lucile's immediate reaction was one of delight and she plied him with questions about his chances of getting the appointment and all about living conditions there. She listened eagerly as he told of the little white cottage, already furnished, half-hidden among oleander trees and roses, which bloomed the year round; of the super-abundance of fruit and of the fresh milk, cream and butter supplied at very little cost from the plantation; of the unbelievable salary of two hundred dollars a month. N the days that followed doubts and misgivings assailed her. The thought of being separated from home and family and friends by nearly three thousand miles of land and water was terrifying. She couldn't get along without her mother and sisters and Ed's folks. She could scarcely believe her senses when Ed came home one evening early in January, waving a long envelope and telling her to begin packing immediately. From then on events carried her along in their wake, acquiescent but bewildered. As in a trance she mended, sewed, packed, and attended innumerable farewell entertainments. She was too busy for vain regrets or forebodings. Before anyone could realize it, they were off. On the boat her mind was filled to the exclusion of all else with the novelty of ocean travel, the care of the children, and a great delight in seeing Ed so wonderfully recovered in LOVE IS 741 spirits. After a brief stay in vivid, laughing, colorful Honolulu, an unforgettable drive along the magnificent Nuuanu boulevard, over the Pali, and along the coast to Hauula —they were in their new home. The business of getting settled took up all her thoughts for a time, and when she did again consider the future, the prospects were very bright, for she saw how the debts could easily be paid in a year; and then, after saving for a few years, they could go home financially independent. But whenever she talked it over with Ed, he would laugh and Say teasingly, "Why ever go home? Now that I've got you here, wild horses couldn't drag me back." This would disquiet her for a while; but when she saw how perfectly happy he was and how well and energetic the outdoor work was making him, how sturdy and brown Teddy grew by living always in the open air, how Jean's pale little face was filling out and becoming actually rosy, and when she herself felt a returning strength she had not experienced since Teddy was born, then she agreed with Ed and declared it a perfect place to live—"for a few years." A? Time went on life became a: little monotonous. It was so quiet it began to be oppressive. The only amusements offered were a weekly picture show and an occasional concert by local talent, both in Laie five miles away. Otherwise their diversions consisted of driving in the evenings, infrequent trips to Honolulu, and sea bathing when a party could be gathered together. They had little company, as there were no other white people within walking distance. At Laie were the missionaries, also the plantation manager and his family, with whom 742 frequent calls were interchanged. And there were a few friends in Honolulu, whose occasional visits were rare treats. But there was no one with whom she could chum and exchange confidences; and, what worried her more, no playmates of their own kind for her children. The ocean was her salvation. When things grew too discouraging, the greatest solace she knew was to take the babies down to the beach, and while they played in the sand to sit and listen to the deep, rhythmic roar of the breakers until her melancholy was forgotten. But today it did not soothe her. Instead it added to her discontent. She admitted to herself that the novelty of a land of perpetual sunshine and flowers liad worn off. The obvious perfection of her surroundings was cloying to the senses. She was tired of the soft, clear atmosphere in which things never got sooty or smoky; tired of the daily shower; tired of the riot of bloom on all sides; and she would give all the palm trees on the island for a glimpse of one tall, straight poplar against a pale gray sky. As she looked at her children she rebelled that there was no one near to help her enjoy them, to share with her Teddy's bright sayings, the gleam of his mischievous brown eyes, or Jean's bewitching, dimpled smiles. Of course there was Ed, but she wanted her mother and sisters to see and exclaim over the perfection of her children. Ed had of late seemed less anxious to set a definite date for their return. "Isn't this home, honey?" he would ask laughingly, and change the subject. She remembered that the debts were not clearing up as fast as they had expected and shivered at the implication. She felt she could stick it out cheerfully if there were only the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE assurance that it would not be forever. The lengthening shadows warned her that it was time to return. Ed had gone to town earlier in the day to get the trimmings for the tree. She realized she had wasted the entire afternoon. There were many things to be done, but for some reason she wanted to stay away as long as possible. So it was with a sigh that she bundled Jean into the carriage, and, with Teddy trotting along at her side, took a roundabout way home. S they reached the little white cottage among the oleanders, and entered its thin frame walls she thought a house should be built of brick on a solid stone foundation, with wide, substantial chimneys, and, inside, an open fireplace by which to hang the babies' stockings on Christmas Eve. Teddy took this opportunity to ask a question he had asked innumerable times during the past week, "But, Mummy, if Sandy Claus did want to come down the chimbley, would he go away 'cause we haven't one?" "Of course not, Teddy," she answered sharply, "haven't I told you so a great many times already?" But as the eager eyes clouded, she was filled with remorse. Drawing him to her she reassured him as she had done before, "Why, Sonnyboy, you know Santa only comes down chimneys when there's no other way to get in, but he doesn't really like to because they're so dirty. We'll leave the front door open and he'll be glad to come in that way." SHE set about getting the children's supper. Afterwards, with uncontrollable excitement on the part of the youngsters, the ceremony of hanging the stockings was concluded WHERE LOVE IS Then there was a story of Christmas when she was a little girl and some Santa Claus songs—which all sounded hollow to her. Then the evening splash in the bathtub, and finally the two priceless little ones were safely in bed. Lucile tried to busy herself with the many tasks still waiting to be done. But she could not settle her mind to the work, so finally gave it up and went out on the porch to wait for Ed. A full moon had just arisen, throwing a soft mellow glow over the tranquil village. The windbreak of shimmering Australian pines swayed wraithlike against the horizon, and through a break in their ranks she saw the sea. It was a flawless evening; and to add the final touch, from somewhere over the way came the faint strumming of a steel guitar and a soft crooning voice was raised in her favorite Hawaiian melody, "Jini Iau Ia Oc." She leaned back and closed her eyes. In fancy she could see that same moon shining on icy whiteness, and hear the jingle of sleigh bells and the crunching of feet over frozen snow. A tear glistened on her cheek, but before she could give way entirely, an auto horn broke the stillness and two blinding lights in the roadway announced Ed's return. They said little as they worked together over the tree and stockings. Lucile did not trust herself to speak and Ed seemed preoccupied. "I say, Lu," he said suddenly, "it doesn't seem to be really Christmas. You can't get the spirit in a place like this, can you? I swore I'd never be homesick but something sure has got me today. Why, in town, you would have thought it was closer the Fourth of July than Christmas." He stepped back to survey the tree, so engrossed in his thoughts that he did not hear the tell-tale sniff 743 from his wife. " Do you remember last year when we were all at Mother's?" he continued rather dreamily as he readjusted the big star. "Remember the big living room lit just by the fire in the grate and the lights on the tree, an' the kids all dancing around on the rug, an'— "Don't," pleaded Lucile brokenly. "IT c-can't stand it another m-minute," and she burst into a torrent of uncontrollable weeping. "Oh, my dearest!" cried Ed as he gathered her into his arms and sat down with her in their one little straight-backed rocker. Pressing her head to his shoulder, he rocked gently. She made a desperate effort to get herself in hand but could only sob convulsively while he stroked her hair and murmured, "There, there, honey—cry it out—I know." Gradually the sobs grew less violent and Lucile attempted to smile as she dabbed at her swollen eyes. But her husband rose, carried her into the bedroom and, depositing her on the bed, said in an authoritative but husky whisper, "Go to sleep, dear—everything will be all right. I'll finish up out there. Remember, everything will be all right." Soothed by the assurance and spent with her emotions of that day, she dropped off to sleep—to dream of home and Christmases long past. And after a while with her dreams was blended the crackling of a log fire, the unmistakable sound of sleigh bells, and a familiar voice singing joyously, "Jingle bells, jingle bells, Jingle all the way—'"' She sat up with a start, feeling that she had overslept. Through the open window she saw the long, slanting rays of the sun already gilding the eternal greenness on all sides, and heard the shrill chatter of minah 744 birds in the mango trees close by. She closed her eyes and sank back with a sigh of disappointment. She had only been dreaming after all. But she heard again the sleigh bells and the jolly voice finishing the chorus: "Can't you hear the merry chimes Ring out from Santa's sleigh?" Then the patter of bare feet over the matting and a joyful whoop announced Ted's discovery that Santa Claus had really come. From her crib Jean was clamoring to be let down. There was no time for gloomy reflections now. Hastily she drew on a gay silk kimona, patted down her hair, and, catching her daughter in her arms, opened the door to the next room— stopped and caught her breath. She wondered for an instant if she were not still dreaming. The shades had been tightly drawn. A soft, cheery glow pervaded the room from the chandelier whose lights had been carefully covered with red crepe paper, and the candles on the tree. Over the front door were draped branches from one of the native trees in the yard whose red berries and waxy green leaves so closely resembled holly, and on the curtains hung home-made wreaths of the same—a most lavish display. On the table stood a vase containing three gorgeous poinsettas, an undreamed-of luxury—from their own bush. Ed was gaily whistling as he helped Teddy into a harness bedecked with sleigh bells, and beneath his feet was a great pile of stiff paper which he crackled purposely to make the illusion complete. "You darling," breathed Lucile with a catch in her throat and a sudden desire to cry again, although Jean, who had wriggled to the floor, was exerting every effort to bring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her into the center of the excitement. "Like it?" grinned Ed above the hubbub, and then suddenly broke out into "Jingle Bells" in a very loud voice which was so obviously meant to hide a tremor that they both laughed. Then, remembering to whom the day belonged, they wholeheartedly settled to the joy of helping the children explore their stockings and strip the tree. After that there were the boxes and packages from home, which had lain in the house for a week untouched, in accordance with an unwritten law long ago agreed upon. With trembling, eager fingers and an excitement equal to that of the children, they undid the wrappings and brought to light present after present attesting to the unchanging love of those so far away. But in the midst of the wanton, joyous upheaval it became evident that unless some rational steps were imemdiately taken, two little empty stomachs would be stuffed beyond redemption with a mixture of hardtack, nuts, and Lucile's best chocolates. So the children were hurried into the kitchen where they submitted to the traditional milk toast only on condition that afterwards they could openly eat all the candy they could find. Whereupon their mother hastily retreated to the dining room to see that most of it disappeared before the milk toast did; in the momentary lull she came upon Ed awkwardly trying to set the room to rights. He was about to let up the shades but she stopped him. "Don't dear. Let's leave the place in this glorious Christmasy mess a little while longer," she begged, coming close to him and putting her hands on his shoulders. It was their first quiet moment that morning and she did so want to show him that she had repented of last night's outburst, WHERE LOVE IS and that she appreciated his thoughtful attempt to ease the homesick pang for her; how much she appreciated him, and how she would go to the ends of the world with him if he should ask her. But she didn't know how to say it so she just pulled down his head and kissed him. He must have seen it in her eyes, or else their brightness dazzled him, for he looked quickly away and cleared his throat. He also had something to say but didn't know how. He hesitated an instant, then began, "You know, Lu dearest, you've been an awfully good sport. I know it's been pretty hard at times—lonely and awfully quiet and not having the family or anyone around to chum with. And I know how you feel about the kids, too." He pulled an envelope from his. Pocket and went on, "I didn't say anything about this check before as I wanted to surprise you. It's my bonus for the year." Lucile gazed at the check in 745 amazement. They had not been told that an annual bonus might be expected. And such a big one—it was unbelievable. "Do you know what that check says?" continued Ed. 'No? Well it says we're free of creditors. It says that our last debt back home will be paid by New Year's and every dollar we save after that takes us nearer home and a good, fresh start there." For a moment she could not speak. A flood of relief and joy held her. Then came remorse. She had misjudged him, her Ed. While he had been planning for her happiness, she had been thinking him unfair. And he did so love this place. She looked up with a glorified smile and said simply, 'Ed, dear, I can't tell you how happy I am and what a wonderful Christmas this has been. But I'm sure now, if you should ask me, I'd be willing to stay forever, here or anywhere, just to be with you." He drew her to him and held her close. CHRISTMAS GIFTS By Clarence Edwin Flynn Children we are. We want bright gifts from Life At Christmas time—a treasure or a toy —Forgetful how the world, so worn with strife, Needs gifts that time and change cannot destroy —The gift of love deep-planted in our hearts, Of kindliness to motivate all hands, Of skill in friendly and fraternal arts, Of warm good will abroad in all the lands. The gift of peace, of knowledge, and of grace, The gift of willingness to serve and bless, The gift of friendliness in every place, In every place the gift of happiness —We ask Thee, Ruler of our destiny, Hang all of these upon our Christmas tree. Mental Hygiene of the Adult By Mark K. Allen Psychologist at Utah State Training School (Digest of a talk given at the Relief Society Conference, Oct. 3, 1935) THE principles of mental hygiene are not necessarily mysterious. They are in the main comprehensible to the average person and within his reach for his own utilization. Mental hygiene is based upon science, but it differs from the everyday common-sense of living only in being more refined and critical. One of the principal pillars in the structure of "Mormon" philosophy is the doctrine of eternal striving. When translated into the language of mental hygiene, this doctrine means constant adjustment to changing circumstances confronting the individual. Mental ill-health means failure in some phases of this adjustment process. But the individual who becomes perfectly adjusted and remains so is a fiction. The zestful, vigorous person thrives on meeting and solving new problems. The well adjusted individual is he who meets joyfully each new challenge, not he who shies around his difficulties when something more effective might be done. That any person can avoid getting into mental "jams" of various degrees of seriousness is inconceivable. Mental and spiritual growth come through a struggling with dilemmas. This is the meaning of eternal progress and of mental hygiene. When an individual finds himself on the horns of a dilemma, or when he is faced with a crisis, he may either retreat or charge into the teeth of it. He may solve his problem by ignoring it. Christian Science denies the existence of all evil and "works" so long as a person is ablé to ignore reality. Mesmerism was based on people's faith in the healing power of "animal magnetism" and was truly effective in curing purely mental or functional illness, as opposed to organic or bodily ailments. The secret lay in the power of suggestion rather than in peculiar powers possessed by Mesmer himself. Coue preached, "Day by day in every way I am getting better and better," and his dis-. Ciples did feel better up to a certain point. The shortcoming of these systems based on suggestion is, of course, that they detach the individual from the real world of problems rather than leading him to face the complete facts and waging a courageous battle to change them if possible. However, the value of intelligent encouragement directed toward genuine adjustment cannot be denied. Lucky is the man who can put his best effort into changing intolerable situations, but who can make the best of those he cannot change and move on to something else. A second general device for achieving relief from mental stress is cartharsis—the purging of one's mind of its troubles. The value of this method is readily recognized in personal experience. "Talking it out" with a friend, making religious confessions, and bearing testimony usually bring some relief. One of MENTAL HYGIENE OF ADULT HEAD the great psychological values of prayer is the purging out of grievances and fears before the Lord. He who prays earnestly rises from his knees a better man. This aeration of conflict material which is achieved by catharsis is of great yalue in giving the person an object've view of his problem, a detachment from the emotional loading of his attitudes thereby permitting a fresh, vigorous, and more intelligent attack. When catharsis is employed, the greatest danger is, as in the case of suggestion, that the individual is liable to be so satisfied by the relief gained through the "talking out" that he becomes a "bore" who does little but weary others with his troubles and who fails to take the next and most important step, namely, changing the original aggravating situation in such a manner that he is able to more or less permanently dispose of the strain it causes. Likewise, praying and confessing one's sins may become an easy way of absolving oneself of the responsibility of truly improving one's way of living. WwHat are some of the typical conflicts confronting adults and how may they be resolved most effectively? Mental hygiene is concerned with how well an individual meets all of the demands made upon his capacity to adapt himself to circumstances. It is, therefore, as broad as life itself. But more particularly, average adults undergo certain fairly typical changes which may contribute heavily to the difficulty of maintaining mental health. The following list of conflicting situations commonly met by adults will suggest many others to the reader: (1) need for reconciling youthful hopes to adult reality, (2) slowing down of the 747 tempo of living, requiring changing many established habits, (3) assuming of responsibilities and finding one's role in the home and the community, (4) changes of recreational and social interests, (5) divergence of interests between husband and wife as the family matures, (6) later on, the weaning of the family and filling the void, involving the difficulty of permitting the children to grow up intellectually and socially, (7) the departure of the grandparents, (8) and, finally, the looking back on past failures and facing the reality that one's zenith has been passed. The mental hygienist is not so much concerned with what an individual is confronted with as he is with how he "takes it." For example, when loved ones are lost, the important point for mental hygiene is not the fact of death but how those who must go on react to death. The gravity of any conflict must always be evaluated, not by its appearance to others, but in terms of how a person lS affected by it. WHEN we are not responding efficiently to our problems, certain more or less characteristic danger signs may appear. They should not be alarming to us, but should simply indicate that a better method of meeting problems should be sought. Of many possible indicators of inadequate adjustment, the following few are suggested: (1) violent hatreds, especially when they appear to the impersonal observer to be out of proportion to the cause, (2) accumulation of real and imaginary enemies, (3) presistent fears and dreads, (4) a sense of sin, (5) enjoying poor health and a desire for excessive coddling from others, (6) inordinate preoccupation with the past, (7) loss of interests in 748 other people and objective things. These danger signs are easily recast into positive rules for acquiring and maintaining mental health. There is no panacea for achieving mental health. Each individual's problems are peculiar to himself and must be met in terms of all that makes up his individuality. However, a few principles will be stated with the hope that they may prove of somewhat general value. 1. A sound mind depends upon a sound body as a rule. 2. Keep the friend-enemy balance well in the black. Intend to make and keep friends. 3. Think through your fears. Remember that "a dreadful certainty is not so bad as an uncertain dread." Learn all you can about the object of your fear. "Courage is having been there before." 4. Dispel the blues by objective activity. | Overcome brooding by cleaning the cupboard shelves or taking something to a needy neighbor. 5. Utilize the cathartic value of prayer and friends, but always take care that opening your soul leads to active reconstruction. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 6. Avoid a sense of sin or guilt. Think of your "sins" as mistakes and consider yourself wiser because of them. A just God will forgive all mistakes so long as we profit by them. 7. Cultivate progressively unfolding interests, preferably those your husband can share with you. 8. Take care that your thinking has a forward reference. Don't sell the real joys of today for the reminiscences of the past if you can avoid it. 9. Remember science has demonstrated that learning ability declines but little throughout most of the adult years. New interests can be acquired and our way of looking at life can be changed if the proper motives can be built up. 10. Think of the setting of the sun during your declining years as the dawning of another day, the opening of the way to new opportunities for joyous striving. Have faith that each day's effort has significance for the hereafter and that death does not bring all to a futile close. Hyskeverett s Miracles By Harrison R. Merrill VERYWHERE I look I behold a miracle. By miracles I mean those things which I cannot explain or understand. Of course, I am told that many of the phenomena before me—if not all— are entirely controlled by law. Neyertheless, they remain beyond my poor brain—they hover on the edge of that vast unknown sea out of which for a while they float into my vision, my hearing, my smelling, my feeling, my tasting, my sensing. I disappear from this earth. I am led to believe, after a few years, but they remain—ever floating out of the darkness into the sunlight. Some people think of miracles as those phenomena which occur infrequently—that surprise us—that upset law and order. They may, but to me the regular, the controlled, the ever-recurring are the most astounding miracles of life. For instance, for a few decades I have been observing the sun rise. That huge yellow ball has appeared every morning of my life, I know. Sometimes it has been invisible, but I have been sure of its place—its existence—its exact location. Ever since man first began sailing the seas he has been dependent upon that ball's being in exactly the right spot at the given moment. The ancient Aztecs or Toltecs or whoever built the mounds near Mexico City learned of the sun's regularity and so constructed their pyramids that the shadows fell on a definite spot each day, even after two or three thousand years. Now that is a miracle. We paused during a party, to go out to view an eclipse of the moon. The newspapers had told us exactly when it would begin, when it would be complete, when it would end. They could have told us the exact time a hundred—a thousand years ago had some one cared to figure the thing out. What a miracle of precision and regularity! Beside me is a pot of golden-glow that a lover of the yellow flowers brought in to my desk. I can see back of those round heads of gold, long stems of green, and artisticallycut leaves a tiny seed. That seed was a wonderful thing. It had wrapped away in its heart somewhere, a tiny, invisible element of life and in that element was the very pattern of this huge and beautiful plant. I have seen a wizard bring a rabbit from a hat, but that was child's play to this. Think of planting a seed and knowing beforehand what the leaves, the stem, the blossoms, the odor would be like. And yet, it never fails. The miracle of the ordered! The miracle of law! I often get to thinking what a fearful world we live in—what a wonderful world! Here on this huge ball we spin around at a thousand miles an hour in an atmosphere which is a veritable dark continent. Think how long the old thing whirled, even after man was riding it, before he caught the significance of the streak of lightning. He never dreamed that invisible in the air there was a power that would light his house, furnish sparks for his car, and turn his mills. He thought the lightning was erratic. He never 750 dreamed that it was governed and controlled; that it could be harnessed like an ox, aye, with much more safety than an ox, because it was far better controlled by law. Now he knows much about this force and, consequently, he can use it. For centuries man lived and laughed and left this old world with_ out knowing that the air he breathed was full of microbes ready to work for him or against him. Frequently he was pounced upon by some of these "ravening wolves" and killed in a month, in a day, or instantly. Poor chap, he often thought his gods were angry and that he was visited with sickness, the curse of God, on account of his sins. He did not sense that sickness is governed by law. He did not know of the great unknown ocean out of which his enemies swarmed. He was helpless and without weapons. Then he made himself some glass eyes with which he could see these ferocious little germs and fashioned some weapons with which he could slay them. He learned, to his great delight, that sickness is governed by law and can be fought by law. The miracle of the regular—the law-abiding—banishes a certain kind of fear. Man became a crusader because he had found his weapons and knew how to wage his wars. When the germs of diphtheria attacked him, he called a crusader with his needle-gun; when he learned that the typhoid germs were lurking in a stream, he boiled his water and killed them, and made himself immune from their attack. He knew those microbes were governed by law; therefore, he could fight them. MAN wanted badly to fly, but he had no feathers and no wings. He had learned of laws, however, long ago. He knew that a bird could RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hold its place in the sky. That lad, Green, who was not so dumb after all, said: "A bird can fly, so why can't I?" Man knew that laws held the bird to its course. He studied birds. He studied air currents. He studied power. He studied everything he could and assembled everything he could. Many thought they had found the laws, but failed. And then one day the Wright brothers took their old "crate" out in the field and it flew. The rest was easy. The laws were dimly sensed and all men knew of the miracle of the regular. That which would hold a "crate" up one day would hold it up on another. THINK of a universe that has been running a million years— a billion years, and has never lost a tick—that's a miracle. Man and his friends, the animals, would have had a hard life of it had it not been so. How surprised a horse would be some morning to find that he was lighter than air and could not keep his feet on the ground. Think of the owl who would flop out of a high tree and find that somebody had changed the laws to such an extent that his fluffy wings would not hold him up. Think of a man who would go out and plant a kernel of wheat and find it growing up in his field as an oak. (Some of us have planted kernels and found them growing up as heads of smut. Once that would have been a surprising thing; now we know that even smut is governed by law.) AN and his friends, the animals, are original forces. Man, especially, is original and, to an extent, free. He can manipulate the laws of the universe around him. Should you tap a little piece of unannealed glass, you know that it will fly to MIRACLES pieces. Tap a man and you can never predict what he'll do. He may kiss you or kill you; frown upon you or envelop you with his smile. He can manipulate the laws he discovers and make them work for him, but he must move cautiously or he may build a Frankenstein. Man cannot perform a miracle that is beyond law, any more than he can make something out of nothing. When he learns of the miraculous regularity of the universe, he can work wonders. He can make water run up hill; kill typhoid germs before he sees them; save a city from the ravages of diphtheria; fly in the air and ride a boat many fathoms under the sea. He can do these things because of law, not in spite of it. He can make celluloid talk, a glass-eye count for him, and catch auto speeders, and can swallow without his tonsils, but he knows he is not putting anything over on the universe. He knows he is a creature in a great net of universal, inexorable laws which he may use to catch other creatures with even though he knows there is no escape for himself in the 75) end—he must die. But, happy thought, One who knows the laws of life, says he will live again. E who finally bows before the universe and recognizes her regularity of performance is on the high road to happiness and stands a good chance of overcoming some of his childish fears. He will recognize in his fellow men great creatures who, like himself, are attempting to learn of the miracles around them in order that all may work together for the common good. How happy it makes me feel to know that the sun will rise tomorrow and every day throughout my life; that water will always run down hill and float when it freezes; that soil always will produce if it is given food, moisture, and sunlight; that seeds will produce their kind; that sickness is governed by law and may be conquered by law; that to the end of time and throughout all eternity there "is a law upon which every blessing is predicated." I bow in humility before miracle of regularity—of law. The Yule eMusic By Carlton Culmsee Far over the white hill In the frosty dusk, The voice of an old bell sang to temper the chill And mellow the wind that had been quick and brusque. Dark fell. Came deep and slow. Again the song We knew the folk in the valley, the quiet and strong, Were gathering there in the little church in the snow, To hear old Christmas sung, And quaintly told In cadences of a half-forgotten tongue Heard only as a music sweet and old. Blossoms By Sadie Maurer STANDING in the door way of a little tarpaper covered shack, just at the twilight hour, was a young woman perhaps twenty years old with dark, wavy hair, blue eyes, eyes that looked frankly at you, and soft, beautiful hands. It was plain to be seen, she had come from a home of culture and refinement. As she gazed out over the endless grey of the sage brush desert, a sigh escaped her lips, "Oh, if there were just one blossom." She had come to this desert home, just two months before, with her young husband, happy in his love, and with a vision of the future, anda courage strong to stand behind that vision. They were determined to make their desert home a place of beauty. HE days lengthened into summer with its withering heat, and the few tiny seeds that had managed to struggle through until now, were beginning to die. How tenderly each had been cared for, and as they withered one by one, again that murmur escaped her, "Oh for just one blossom." EARS rolled swiftly by. Tiny hands plucked the buds, just before the blossoms came. Hail and storms destroyed the plants. The husband taking her in his arms wiped away the tears that threatened to fall. "You will yet make many happy with your blossoms," he assured her. "The raising of rare flowers will be one of your greatest joys." THREADS of silver began to appear in the dark hair. The hands were no longer soft and white. Time had added wrinkles to the once smooth brow. Spring was here with all its fragrance. The desert home was now a place of beauty. Thousands of flowers were growing around the door. It was just three days until Decoration Day and orders were pouring in for cut flowers. Again at twilight the woman stood at the door, the song of the meadow lark and the mingled scent of blossoms and sage made her happy. Through the gate came a messenger, asking if she would furnish flowers to decorate the church, for an exhibit that was to be held. For a moment her heart seemed to stop beating, then raced madly on. She thought of the many orders, of all the flowers it would take to comply with the request, of all the things she had planned to do with what she realized from the sale of those flowers. Could she do it? Could she possibly make the sacrifice? Then again her husband's arms were around her with the comforting assurance that sacrifice and service are best. The next day the church was fragrant with the perfume of thousands of blossoms. Franz Johann's Holy Night (A Christmas Reading) By Fae Decker Dix RANZ JOHANN sat alone in his cottage. It was Christmas eve. He was recalling with bitterness a Christmas Eve of forty years ago when his Mary had been taken from him. A baby son had gone with her. And, a year after that their little daughter followed them. That was so long ago that it seemed to Franz he had always been alone. Now he was an old man, broken and tired, with only coldness left in his heart after life had seared him with the trials besetting those whose backs must bear many burdens. Life couldn't do any more to him, Franz had thought. And, life didn't do any more to him. Just passed him coolly by with an indifference as stinging as the pains of any loss had ever been. Forty years of living —yet not living! Forty years of being beaten to earth's dust with each attempt to rise! These things had not taught patience to Franz Johann. They had worn down the once bright fiber of his courage, killed the peace of his soul, and broken the heart that once won friends so easily. His only fear of death was in meeting Mary who would know he had not kept the faith of their young promises, that he had grown weak when he meant to be strong, that he had hated when he longed to love. The dark thoughts of Franz hung wearily about him tonight. He drooped in his faded arm-chair. His head bowed into the gnarled hands that had toiled so unavailingly all these years. Pitifully he murmured over and over, "Oh, Mary—Mary! Teach me humility—that I—may join you there." To Franz' memory came the words he had heard his lost wife say so often years agone—''We must be grateful for all little things, Franz. For love, for honest friendships, for this tiny cottage, even for the hurts life brings to us. They make us grow." TONIGHT she seemed so near to him. His every move seemed guided by an invisible hand. Was it his hand, or Mary's, reaching out to open the window that he might better view the brightness of the stars, and the soft whiteness of the falling snow? Across the way a church stood all lighted for the Christmas singing festival. Every window blazed forth almost rivaling the stars in their gleaming. It was nearly forty years since Franz Johann had sought its holy shelter. As he pushed back the shutters a flood of gentle music came undulating from the lighted windows of the little church. Franz recognized the words of the old carol: "Silent night! Holy night! All is calm, all is bright! Round yon virgin mother, and Child! Holy infant so tender and mild, Sleep in heavenly peace, Sleep in heavenly peace!" So long since he had heard the hymn, or felt the spirit of its holi*A more effective climax will result if a violin plays "Holy Night" very softly from this point to the end of the reading. 754 ness, the sweet tenderness of its melody. Again and again the glorious tones rose and fell in beautiful, thrilling song. Franz stood transfixed. Suddenly he was his old self once more! The Franz of earlier days, filled with the beauty of truth, and love, of 'peace on earth good will toward all men.' Tears rolled down his cheeks. Quietly he quoted to the frosty night, "Except ye become as little children ye cannot enter into the kingdom of heaven." In utter humility, Franz fell to his knees before the open shutters to pour out the gratitude of his heart in prayer. Louder the carollers' voices came! They were leaving the old church now. Gloriously their song rang out to the night: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Silent night! Holy night! Shepherds quake at the sight! Glories stream from Heaven afar, Heavenly host sing Alleluia! Christ the Saviour is born! Christ the Saviour is born! "Silent night! Holy night! Son of God, Love's pure light, Radiant beams from thy holy face, With the dawn of redeeming grace, Jesus, Lord at thy birth! Jesus, Lord at thy birth!" The first dawn light of Christmas morning touched tenderly the gray old head of Franz Johann as he still knelt by his open windows. Neighbors found him. One said he had frozen to death in the cold eve of the Yuletide. Another said he was stricken while closing his windows against the merriment of carollers. But, a third looked at the calm, still face and said, 'Franz Johann died in peace!" GALILEE By Annie Wells Cannon If I could stand upon the shore of Galilee Where Jesus walked in majesty My soul would trace in imagery The glorious light upon his face; His sweet humility and grace; And I would hear his words sublime Pierce through the vaporous mists of time Then would I kneel upon the shore of Galilee And kiss the sands in ecstasy Where Jesus walked in majesty. Christmas Dinner in the Seventies By Agnes Just Reid MARY, the wife of the homesteader, bent over a bit of sewing and contemplated the coming of Christmas with much dissatisfaction. As she had thrown out the dish water, after washing the supper dishes, she had paused for a moment to notice the great white world in all of its glistening splendor and something within her cried out that Christmas should be different from other days. All day she had racked her brain for some suggestion, now it was growing late on Christmas eve and no idea had come to her. This was their tenth year on the homestead and, while they had never known actual want, as the children grew older she longed for things for them, things that would make their little lives happier. Now, more than anything, she would like to give them a real Christmas dinner with turkey and plum pudding. She could just picture a turkey coming out of the oven all brown and juicy and she could almost hear the boys shouting their appreciation for they had never even seen a turkey, much less tasted one. Some mothers might be longing for a tree on this night of nights, a tree on which would be hung fragile toys and gaily dressed dolls, but with Mary it was the material things that counted most. She had five boys, but no girls, and even if their resources had been ample, the boys would have asked for guns and spurs and saddles, things that do not go well on a Christmas tree. Besides, Mary herself had never seen a Christmas tree. She had left England when she was four years old and, since that time, civilization had been just behind her. All her life had been spent on the frontier and most of her company had been men, but she had always found that no matter how long they had been away from home and mother, at Christmas time their thoughts would drift back to both and they would unfailingly speak of the dinner. That was what she wanted to leave with her boys, something pleasant to remember about this Christmas, something they would still recall when they had children of their own. SHE had gone over her supplies. They were ample enough, but oh, so limited as to variety. In one corner of this room in which Mary sewed, a room that was living room, kitchen, bath room and bed room for the boys, there was a pile of flour, sack upon sack clear to the ceiling. It was piled in a most systematic manner, leaving little tunnels all through it where the cats could pass along in search of mice and it was elevated from the floor for the same reason. In that mountain of flour was a year's supply of bread for her ever growing family. In the large lumber box where she kept her groceries there was rice, sugar (that must be used sparingly), dried apples, dried peaches, beans, salt, pepper, cinnamon and nutmeg. These last two luxuries that the homesteader thought they could ill afford. Then in the cellar were a few potatoes, the only thing they raised in their garden for winter use and there was nearly always beef, from their growing herd of cattle, and always butter and milk and cream. The children were not underfed. They had ruddy complexion, 756 bright eyes and untiring spirits. They were in bed now but they had not carried with them any illusions about Santa Claus. HE homesteader was visiting at the cowboy's cabin. It had been an especially lonesome winter for Mary for he spent much of his time there. Six cowboys had found themselves out of work and winter coming on so they had begged permission to occupy the tiny cabin that was on the place. They were nice enough boys, some of them forty or more, but always "boys" in the West, and Mary was glad for the homesteader to have company, but they did a good deal of smoking and swearing, so it was agreed that the children were not to go there. Sometimes she read to the children, sometimes she played games with them, but more often, she stitched away alone. She snuffed the candle for the hundredth time and got up to put more willow wood in the stove. It was turning colder. She wondered if "Slim," the cowboy with the fair curly hair, was home from town yet. He had ridden in to the terminus of the railroad that morning, fifteen miles, and had expected to be back early. Seated again at her sewing, she went over the possibilities of a different Christmas dinner, but try as she would she could not make it sound different. “Roast beef, potatoes, gravy, dried apples." Again and again she repeated the same dismal menu. She sighed heavily. Well, she would put a little cinnamon in the apples and perhaps she could make doughnuts. There were still a few eggs that she had hoarded from the warm days of fall. Lard she never had but there was a plentiful supply of tallow and she used that for frying everything. Of the tallow that was left from cooking, she made every bit of soap that was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE used for toilet and laundry purposes and every candle that lighted their dark little cabin. HE mending done, Mary began to make a few preparations for morning. It was ten o'clock but she would like to know that "Slim" was home. He was such a boy and there were so many pitfalls in town. Every other building in the mushroom town was a saloon. Almost in answer to her wish, she heard the snow squeaking under somebody's feet and soon the door was thrown open by "Slim" himself. "Hello, mother!" he called cheerily, "Lonesome?" "Why, hello, Slim; no, not lonesome, just a little uneasy about you. I was afraid you might be— —cold." "Slim was carrying a gunny sack that showed by the folds of wet and dry that it had been tied to the back of his saddle. He took out his pocket knife in true, deliberate, cowboy fashion and carefully cut the string from the sack and dumped the contents on the floor. There was a very large package and three smaller ones, quite a load for a horse to break trail with. "Mother," he said, "we thought if we'd get a turkey maybe you'd cook Christmas dinner for a lonely bunch of punchers and I got a little candy and nuts for the kids, too." Poor Mary was almost in tears but before she could stammer out her thanks, "Slim" was gone. She opened the packages unbelievingly. What a beautiful turkey, and all dressed, and there was a sack of raisins. My, they must have cost a lot, brought all the way from California. Dear me, she could not go to bed yet, she must run down cellar and get some suet for the plum pudding. It must be chopped tonight for they were going to have the best dinner in Idaho, the kind of dinner she had dreamed of but never expected to have. Not Bread Alone By Elsie C. Carroll Vil T was a morning in early June. Linda hummed softly as she dusted the shelves of her small store and put the books and chairs in order in the tiny reading alcove. The world seemed good today. She had noted when she was sprinkling her flowers how large the silver maple and the Russian olive trees she and Henry had planted that first year they came to live in Ike Lacy's house had grown. The climbing roses at the south windows and over the trellises were masses of pink and red and white, and her other perennials seemed to be vieing with each other in thrift and bloom. The robins had returned to the apple tree out by the well and the sun was gloriously warm and full of promise. Strains from a violin came to her ears from the back bedroom. Linda's lips parted as she listened and she beat time softly with her dustcloth as the strain was repeated over and over for greater perfection. Richard never gave up until he had mastered what he was working with, whether it was a little composition of his own or a selection from his practice book. Linda wished that Mark had some of Richard's persistence. Mark was slow and easy going like his Uncle Thad. She checked a sigh, and reprimanded her own thoughts. She mustn't expect too much from the children. As Henry often reminded her, they couldn't be perfect. Neither could they all be artists as she was now quite sure Richard would someday be. Oh, they would have to manage someway to give him his chance! That creative spark which enabled him, even as a child, to build beauty out of the unheard melodies in his soul was too precious to be left groping for fulfillment. In her tenderness for Richard's gift she reminded herself that Mark was just as dear in his own sweet way. Not another one of her five was so tender and thoughtful of her. He was always bringing her some little offering of love—a flower, a choice piece of fruit, or a quick, shy kiss on her cheek. They were all wonderful, Linda thought as she went on humming, thrilled with the richness and satisfaction motherhood had brought her. She had ceased to worry about the limitations of Cedar Basin. No place in the world could be so dear to her now as this drab little town; for here she had experienced the joys of a bride, and here her babies had been born, and here she and Henry had made for themselves a good life. KATHIE came in the. Door and Linda put her dust cloth away. "Good morning, Kathie. How are you all? I haven't seen the children for days." "Oh, we're all right, I guess, but I came to talk to you about something important, Linda." She sat orf a stool near the narrow counter. Linda got her darning basket from a shelf and sat opposite her. "Has Mel been to see you and Henry about what he's going to do?" "No." Linda couldn't explain to her sister-in-law that she had asked Mel not to come to her home, nor that she never went to their motherin-law's unless she was accompanied by Henry or was quite sure Mel would not be home. She hated that 758 secret of Mel's passion lying between her and Henry, but she had decided after painful and long deliberation, that it would be better not to tell Henry unless she had to. Occasions had arisen when he had misunderstood and censured her. One had been last summer when Effie was ill. He had thought she should stay at nights to take care of Effie. But she had made excuses, and had nursed her sister-in-law during the days, but had hired Mary Foster to stay nights. She never saw Mel without remembering that dreadful experience three years ago. When she had heard Mark's voice that night as she feared she was going to faint, she had suddenly became strong and unafraid. She had stood before Mel and looked him straight in the eyes and had said, "How can you do this to me! I would rather die than to have Henry know what kind of brother you are, for he has always idolized you. Don't ever come here again unless you know Henry is home. If I should have to tell him—I'm afraid he would kill you." Mark had come into the room and Mel had hurried away. From that time he had never come near the place except on occasions when the family was all together, or unless he came with Henry. "What is Mel going to do?" Linda asked. "He's going to sell his share of the farm and go away—to California or someplace. He's going to leave his terrible old mother for the rest of us to take care of." Linda's only sensation was one of relief —that he was going away. "She's Henry's and Thad's mother, too, Kathie." "But Mel is so selfish. He's always taken the best of everything and can't see it. He doesn't expect RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to share at all what he'll get for his land, and Thad says it will be thousands and thousands. Enough to put us all on easy street if he'd only be fair. He'll leave the house for his mother and Effie, he says, but he thinks the rest of us should take care of them now. That means someone will have to go there and live—you know how frightened Effie is to be alone." "Don't you think he'll provide for them if he goes?" "No. He says it was the rest of us who wanted to divide the property, and he thinks he has a perfect right to all that oil land, when it isn't his by rights, any more than it is Thad's and Henry's."' "I know, Kathie. But let's not worry too much about it. I imagine the boys can make him see that such a thing wouldn't be fair." "Thad tried to do that this morning, and they had an awful quarrel. That's why I came to see you. When will Henry be back?" "Not until Saturday—maybe not until Sunday. He's going around to Mendon to bring the children home from school, you know." "Well, I guess you can hardly wait. Eddie's about through college, isn't he?" "Just one more year. It doesn't seem possible. And Jenny will be a freshman next year." "But about Mel. Thad thinks he's planning to go right away. There's a man coming today to buy his land. I wish you'd talk to him, Linda. You have a way of getting along with everybody, and Thad thinks you could do more with him even than Hen." "Oh, no, no," Linda cried. "J couldn't talk to him." "Why? It's as much to your advantage as ours. He'll probably be gone before Henry gets back." NOT BREAD ALONE "I wish I could, Kathie, but I—I —don't see—I don't think it would do any good." Kathie was looking at her searchingly. 'Linda, is it true what Thad once said to me, that Mel is in love with you?" "What nonsense!" Linda tried to laugh. "We just don't get along— that's all." Then as Kathie continued to stare at her, she said, "Of course I'd just as soon try, if you think it would do any good." At that moment Sam Patter, whose mother kept the one telephone in town, poked his head in at the door. "You're wanted on the phone, Mrs. Henry." "What can it be?" Linda was filled with a sudden premonition. Calls to the telephone usually meant sickness or death—or some other disaster." "I wish I could stay and see what it is," Kathie said, "but mother is over to Aunt Lucy's and I left the children alone. You won't forget to see Mel, will you?" "No, Kathie. I'll try to do it right away." Linda called the children to watch the store, and hurried away. S soon as she heard Jenny's sobbing voice over the wire, she was sure something had happened to her son. "What is it, Jenny? Quick!" "It's Eddie, Mommy." "Is he hurt, or sick? Tell me, Jenny 'a "He's—he's in trouble, Mommy, and you must come. I can't tell you over the telephone." "T'll be there tonight," Linda said, clinging to the instrument as she fought off her impulse to faint. Tell me 759 "Is anything the matter, Linda?" Nancy Potter asked curiously. Linda brushed back her hair and leaned against the wall. "Eddie—has had—an accident. Maybe it isn't serious, but Jenny wants me to come. Has the mail gone?" "Yes. Left about three quarters of an hour ago. If you could find someone to take you in a car, I think you could overtake it. I'm sorry, Linda. If there is anything I can do, let me know." "Thanks, Nancy." Linda with fear clutching at her heart, hurried home. She felt almost certain it was — money — Eddie had taken money that didn't belong to him. He still seemed to have that passion to feel money in his hands, to hear it jingling in his pockets. She recalled the experience of the pennies on his eighth birthday. She recalled, too, other crises — the letter that had come his first year away, asking about a note for his second semester's tuition. They had sent the money to him weeks before. When Henry went to see about it, Eddie had the money—changed to small bills and silver, most of it in his pockets. He declared he was going to pay it before school was out, but that he hadn't remembered just when the note was due. She hoped it was nothing more serious, although that, of course, had been serious enough, and they had thought he had learned a lasting lesson. She wondered whom she could get to take her to catch the mail. Melville had a car and he was the logical one to ask. But she couldn't bring herself to do it. She explained briefly to the children that something had happened to Eddie; Jenny hadn't made it clear just what—but she must go at once. She sent Mark to see if Lars Har760 rison would take her, and Richard to see if Lem Tucker 'would if Lars couldn't. Richard returned first with word that Lem had his car in the field. Mark came back a few moments later. Bonny was tending the store while Linda packed her bag. "Lars says something's wrong with his engine,' Mark said. "But I saw Uncle Mel standing up there by his car, so I went and asked him. He'll be right down." For a moment Linda stopped in her packing. Then she realized there was no other way. Besides she no longer felt afraid. IN a few moments Mel was at the gate, and Linda, giving final instructions to the children was getting into the car. "It's good of you, Mel. I believe if we drive fast we can catch the mail." "What's happened? Mark didn't seem to know." "T don't know either, Mel. Jenny was crying and said she couldn't tell me over the phone. I'm afraid though — that Eddie — has taken money." She put her handkerchief to her eyes and wept. Then feeling that she owed Mel some explanation for such a statement, and feeling that she must unburden herself in someway, she poured out to him the story of her struggle all through Eddie's life with his weakness. Melville was silent when she finished. Finally he asked if Henry wasn't in Mendon. "Not yet,' she told him. "He went first to see about getting a new caretaker for the little country place where my uncle used to live. He won't be in Mendon until Thursday or Friday." "I wish I could go on with you," Mel said, and Linda was struck with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the genuine concern in his voice. But she did not look at him. She kept her eyes straight ahead, hoping to catch sight of the mail truck. "I can't go, because a man is coming to see about buying my land," he continued after a little pause. "Kathie told me this morning you were going to sell." Linda remembered her promise to Kathie, but she couldn't bring herself to mention the unpleasant subject now, with this trouble on her mind and Mel being so kind. "She says you're going away." "Yes—I'm—thinking of it." Then suddenly he turned from her and said, " guess you understand ity Linda." She shrank back a little and he felt her movement. "Oh, you don't need to be afraid of me—now. I'm not quite the beast you think I am—or that I was once." She looked at him for the first time and all at once she felt sorry for him. He seemed so tragically alone in the world. "Mel, I wish you could find a woman to love, and would get married and be happy like the rest of us." "But when I've found the woman —and she's already married—what then?" She didn't dare to look into his face. "Oh, no, Mel. You don't love me. You mustn't think such a thing." "Don't I! God!" He turned his face away, and speeded up the car. Linda could see that his hands were gripping the steering wheel so hard his knuckles showed white under his brown skin. They were turning a bend in the road and to her relief she caught a glimpse of the mail truck. NOT BREAD ALONE Mel slowed down. He drew the back of his hand quickly across his eyes and reached into his pocket. "Linda, if what you think is true about Ed—you'll need this." He placed a roll of bills in her lap and again stepped on the gas. "Mel—I couldn't—" He cut her short as he turned out of the road beside the mail truck. "Isn't Ed something to me, too?" he demanded gruffly. I was almost dark when Linda reached Mendon. As long as she lived she was never to forget that next half hour. Years afterwards she used to wake suddenly in a cold sweat. In her sleep she had been entering again those heavy barred doors of a jail—of a jail—to see her son! She had been walking as in a hideous nightmare down dark, foul-smelling halls behind a man with a huge bunch of keys. She had been standing as in a trance while he fitted a key into a door which swung open revealing the white-faced figure slumped in the corner of a cell. Over and over, first in her waking hours, later in those horrible dreams she had lived that scene. Eddie's stifled cry at sight of her; his cringing back from her first touch: his long, hard sobs as she had gathered him into her arms. He had little to say. 761 He couldn’t explain how he had come to do it. He had been going around with other boys who had money and there was a girl he was beginning to care for. They had planned a farewell party for the last night of school. He had seen the other boy take the wallet from his pocket just before they had gone into the gym, and he knew that he left it in an open locker. It was only a matter of running out a moment into the locker room for a drink and slipping the money from one pair of trousers to another. There was no excuse, he knew. She shouldn't have come. He wasn't worth her tears. All he wanted was to die. He could never rise above the disgrace. She must try to forget he was ever born and let him die of his shame. Linda never remembered what she said to him. But she knew that she sat holding his head in her lap, swaying back and forth as if he were a baby, pouring her love over him, when the key again sounded in the heavy door. She remembered clinging to him, afraid the jailor had come to take her away, and then she had looked up and seen a kindly-faced man with a grey beard and understanding eyes. "I just heard what had happened to our boy," he said, "and came to help." (To be continued) We Too, Follow the Star (A Christmas Sermon) By Claire Stewart Boyer AT this spiritual high tide of the earth it is meet that we who shepherd our flocks leave them for an hour, that we who may be called wise leave our observatories of wisdom to listen to divine voices singing "Peace on Earth, Good Will to Men." For no matter where or what our station there is for us a star of Faith that burns brighter than all other stars and we too are impelled to follow it. FOR those of us who are shepherds, who have led but simple lives, who have lived with the earth and the sky, unperplexed by what lay beyond, whose bodies have toiled willingly, whose imaginations have been cozily confined to the flames in our hearth fires, for us the journey across the desert has not been long nor arduous. Awe and wonder have held us, have kept us meek and believing. And when other bright stars have appeared on the horizon, near our brightest one, we have looked away and would not see, saying, "There should be no other star to outshine our star, therefore there is none." And when our eyes returned to our brightest star it seemed more glorious and we were safe! Thus to our hearts our faith has become a consolation and a peace. And "'blessed are they whose faith is absolute for they are at one with God." But the journey of the wise men is not so simple. For during the bright days they beguile the time with thought upon the universe and its meaning. And lo, in the midst of their dissertations, with the brightness of the sky upon them, the star of Faith is lost! With eager searching and keen discernment the star that men call Beauty becomes visible. And the wise men go happily on their way, worshiping Beauty which is so like the star of Faith. For the star of Beauty has the same youth and gladness and is the fairest substitute that heaven can claim for faith. But other wise men are more skeptical. They must plot the heavens with compass, rod and tape. And their disputations turn to argument and the skies become dark and stormy until no star can be seen. So looms a discontent and a weariness in the lives of the wise men who must have an answer to their doubts. And there are still other wise men who neither worship art nor science but who follow the star of Faith when the night is dark because there are no distractions of sight and sound. But in the day time their journey spins so merrily before them that they forget to look for the star and traveling their own free path, they lose the way. Some of these are brought back to the star by a brother with clearer vision, by a thought winging its glad course about the world, by a sudden circumstance. Have you seen a mother give her entire Christmas savings to buy the Good Book for her children? Have you opened the door on Christmas morning to a Madonna and child whose Christmas gift was WE, TOO, FOLLOW THE STAR the holy sight of the three, and in the arms of the might-be Joseph a yule log to brighten your fire? Such glimmerings of faith are life's divine manifestations of man's heritage of light. Still some wise men must be compelled to look deep into the wells of need or sorrow or suffering in order to catch the reflection of the star of Faith. Yet that star is present in the daytime when life is joyous and at night time when life is deep. And the Journey goes on until we humbly approach the stable and kneel in reverence to the Christ, knowing that shepherd and wise man symbolize body and mind and both must bow before the spirit
Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of Life By Lella Marler Hoggan KEEP RADIANT "God meant my life to be Radiant, with heavenly beauty bright, By simply looking towards the light." —Selected. Through the past year we have been searching out choice patterns of life, ideals, for our guidance and our strength. Faith, purity, health, serenity, youth, love, mirth, truth, and industry are the keepsakes we have selected for our treasure chest of life. As the years come and go we shall each of us continue to add to our precious store. Let us not be satisfied until we have secured the best. For out of the chest of our soul's treasure we hope to draw the inspiration and the strength, the courage, the wisdom, and the joy that we shall need each day as we journey through life.In our quest for happiness we are forever choosing, trying to discriminate between good and evil, harmony and discord, joy and sorrow. "Each in his own tongue" spells life differently. To the child it is play, to the lover it is romance, to the sage it is wisdom. What will spell heaven for us? Professor N. L. Nelson once said, "Only that can truly be called mine for which my soul has affinity. Real wealth is that which becomes part of the soul-texture. Wealth that is woven into the mind and heart tends ever, like angel's wings, to lift against the downward pull of sin, the galling burden of selfishness." "For what is a man profited," the Master asked his disciples, "if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? What shall a man give in exchange for his soul?" Are we reaching out for higher revelations of righteousness? Is our enrichment of life, our soul growth, a matter of deeper consideration to us than our social standing and our bank account? What of beauty and philosophy have we built into our lives during the last year? What of strife have we put out? How are we going to shape our lives during the coming year? Out of our cluttered mistakes and triumphs of the past may we not find the fundamental truths that will guide us on our way? Can we not make our high moments more permanent? Orison Swett Marden tells us that, "Our heart's desire is our perpetual prayer which nature answers." And Ella Wheeler Wilcox offers the following uplifting thought for the new year; "Build on resolve and not upon regret, The structure of thy future. Do not grope Among the shadows of old sins, but let ~ Thine own soul's light shine on the path of hope And dissipate the darkness, Waste no tears Upon the, blotted record of lost years, But turn the leaf and smile, oh, smile to see The fair white pages that remain to thee." Happiness is not something we attain or hold in our grasp. It is growth, development, life made larger and richer, and withal, sweeter and more beautiful. "Life is in the quest." It is for us to learn to catch the music in the bird's song, to see the KEEPSAKES FOR TREASURE CHEST beauty in the sunrise, to feel the joy of the undercurrent of life. Says Insley Heebner Berlin, "Be happy today Don't wait for the morrow To clear all the skies of gray— Or waste precious hours On yesterday's sorrow But live, and be happy today." With salt water all about them, the sailors on a stranded lifeboat. Were at one time dying of thirst. Seeing a ship in the distance they signalled wildly for water. The reply came back across the white spray, "Dip down where you're at." They followed directions and learned to their joy, that they were drifting above an undercurrent of fresh water. They baled up pails of the water and were at once refreshed and strengthened, and were soon picked up by the larger vessel. What miracles might come out of these magic words for each of us, "Dip down where you're at." Dr. George H. Brimhall, that wise and well loved teacher, many years ago advised his students; '"Idealize the real and you will realize your ideal." Are you living in a bread and butter world, where all of life is just plain, bare facts? Or is your world colored with romance and beauty, and glorified by the presence of unseen angels? Let us not miss the sheen of ideality. Those who have learned to recognize "the glory of the commonplace" are walling ever in the presence of the divine. "Be true to the vision that comes to thy heart, Be true to the radiant gleam; For the things of tomorrow are only a part Of what is today but a dream. "It was following visions that carried the race From out of the jungle and den, And the onward struggle would slacken its pace If visions should cease among men." —Author Unknown. There is an old German myth of the Key-Flower that runs something like this. One day while a shepherd boy was herding his flock on a sunny hill side, he came across a beautiful sky-blue flower. He stooped and plucked the flower; and as he pulled it from the soft earth, a door opened before him in the side of the hill, and he saw inviting steps leading downward. Following the steps, he came into a cavern filled with precious treasure. At a table in a low chair, sat a gray-bearded Kobold, a wise old goblin who guarded the treasure. At first the boy felt afraid of the little old elf, but his fears were dispelled when the Kobold said in a kind voice, "Take all you want, but don't forget the best." Upon receiving this invitation, the lad laid the flower on the table and began filling his pockets with silver coins. But he soon espied a second room leading out of the first, and finding that it was filled with golden coins, he stood hesitating, when the little old elf again said, 'Take all you want, but don't forget the best." Realizing that the gold coins were more valuable than the silver, he emptied some of his pockets and filled them with the gold. Going on to a third cavern, he was delighted to find it stored with precious stones; rubies, emeralds, and diamonds glistened in radiance about him. Again the voice called to him to help himself, and so another exchange was made, this time for a rich supply of the precious stones. At last the boy's pockets were so heavily loaded that he could carry no more, so he started back. As he was ascending the steps out of the cavern the Kobold's kind voice fell on his ears, faint and far, "Don't forget the best." But knowing that he already had all he could carry he paid no heed to the warning voice. As he stepped out into the sunshine and looked about him he saw his flock of sheep quietly feeding just as he had left them. But when he turned back to the hill side, the door had disappeared. And then he felt his pockets grow strangely light. Putting his hands into them, he drew out only pebbles and dry leaves. What could it mean? He remembered the voice calling after him, "Don't forget the best." Ah, now he knew. He had left the key-flower lying on the Kobold's table. He had forgotten the best. Had he only remembered to have brought the flower back with him, then, it is supposed, the coins would have remained trusty gold, the jewels would not have lost their luster. How many times do our valued possessions turn to pebbles and dead leaves in our fingers. And yet we reach again for the luring, empty baubles, counterfeit coins of happiness, that can never bring us more than transient pleasure. Day after day we are forgetting the best. Always and always, we are searching for the bluebird of happiness, longing for the other person's golden windows, forever in quest of the land-'o-dreams. I wish—, I wish—, is the discontented longing that whisks us from one disappointment to another. Why should we forever be reaching for the wishing-bone? Why should we run the world around in search of joy? Do we not usually come back to our own hearth-stones RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to find the satisfaction we sought afar. And did not the Master tell us long ago, that the Kingdom of God is within us? But even though we know that heaven is all around us here and now, we somehow fail to claim our possession. We loiter along in the very presence of the thing we are searching for, and do not realize until it is too late, that this is the answer to our heart's yearning, the one thing that could have brought us happiness. Like the shepherd boy, we wait until the door is closed against us and then we remember that we have left our most precious gift behind us. What is the key that will unlock the door to our soul's desire? Shall we ever reach the harbor of our dreams? Have we found the touchstone that is the answer to our quest? The key-flower that will hold our treasures to their true worth? You remember Miss Muloch's beautiful story of The Little Lame Prince, who was unjustly held a prisoner in Hopeless Tower. He was not able to leave the tower until he had a burning desire to rise to better things. When he asked in the name that the Good Fairy had taught him, his desire became a reality. The magic cloak which she had given him, lifted him up out of the lonely as he desired and asked for other blessings, he was given eyes to see, and ears to hear, and his heart was made to understand. The Fairy, who was the power for good, provided crystal water for his thirst and warmth for his little freezing body. And in the end, carried him out of Hopeless Tower, to the reclamation of his own kingdom and the salvation of his people. Do we not all of us at times, find ourselves in the Hopeless Tower of KEEPSAKES FOR Despondency? Let us not forget that there is a sacred name by which we may rise and claim the blessings in store for us. We, too, may have our eyes opened to see, our ears opened to hear, and our hearts touched to understand the truth, if we but desire it and ask for it. Will not Christ's Gospel message be living water to quench our thirst in the burning desert? Will not his great love be warmth and joy to comfort our weary souls in the hour of our need? If we accept his Gospel message and incorporate it into our lives, if we keep in communion with him through earnest prayer; then, the same light of truth that made his life so gloriously radiant, may illuminate our own. The Gospel message is the reply to all our questioning, the answer to our heart's desire. It is the gift that shall glorify all of our other treasures. Like a diamond, it never grows dim; it never becomes old; it TREASURE CHEST can never be outgrown by science or philosophy, for it is eternal. It is a light in the darkness, a song in the silence, a sweet flower in the wilderness. It is a staff to the feeble and a triumph to the strong. It is the one priceless gift. "Not to be purchased, not to be sold, Not to be bartered for silver or gold; But a gift to man from the courts above, To be held in his keeping by deeds of love." No other blessing is so rich in soul values. No other message is so far-reaching; for it is the message of universal love and of peace and of life everlasting. It is the star of hope that has shed its rays of scintillating gladness to the ends of the earth. "The Star of Bethlehem shines out To guide us with its light, Just as it led the Wise Men That first sweet Christmas night. Oh, may it give us strength and peace And make our path so clear That only happiness may fill Each day of the New Year. —Selected. "Beyond the Grey Corridors" By Lillie M. Dale When the weather was cold and stormy, Jim Gibbs paced the grey corridors of the County Infirmary. Corridors whose cement floors were no harder than many of the hearts of the men inmates. Human hearts, rock bound by adversity; overcome by evil; crushed by neglect or utterly friendless,—waiting within those grey walls to die. Clean shaven and neat in appearance, this old man never very talkative, passed the strange assembly day after day in the grey corridors without ever speaking. There was something the matter with all of these individuals, either mentally or physically or else they would not be there and Jim Gibbs did not care for their companionship. Often when wearied by his tramping, he would enter a long, narrow, bare looking room where there were eight or ten beds. Throwing himself down on his own bed, he would attempt to read the sport page of a local paper and it would end by his going to sleep. When summer came he was outdoors wandering about the grounds. The lawns were green and velvety, with rose bushes bordering the walks. The Infirmary was a credit to the city. It was situated on a busy street. Standing on the corner Jim Gibbs would listlessly watch the traffic. Everyone seemed in such a mad rush. Automobiles of all makes and descriptions went hurrying by. He saw the street cars plying to and fro from the city, wherein sat well dressed women and men beside the working class. He felt he was as much apart from that activity as if he did not exist. He had ceased to count the years since he had entered that cream brick institution. What did it matter? Bitter and benumbed with the deal life had given him, he was just waiting like the others to die. He didn't have a cent to his name. Trifles that would satisfy him now were beyond his reach. His resentment was intense and had he possessed the strength, his fury would have known no bounds. And with all this thinking that went on, Jim Gibbs did not once condemn himself for the situation. One afternoon a group of women came to the Infirmary. They were well gowned, sweet faced, kindly spoken women who had come to read to their less fortunate brothers and sisters. The last person to make her way slowly up the cement incline which is used these latter days instead of stairs, was a beautiful dark-eyed woman with a radiant smile. Noticing Jim Gibbs, who happened to be standing near the main entrance, she spoke to him in a silvery voice and asked him if he wouldn't join them in the chapel and listen to the reading. The man just shook his head. Out on a rose bordered walk another day Jim Gibbs encountered the lady with the radiant smile. "We are taking our friends for a long automobile ride this afternoon," she explained. "Wouldn't you like to go?" "With pleasure, lady, thank you." Seated in a handsome car with other inmates he leaned back against the soft cushions and on the long swift ride, he forgot all about the grey corridors, his penniless and friendless condition and the utter hopelessness of his life. BEYOND THE GREY CORRIDOR His old eyes could not take in all that was to be seen, nor could he remember where they were taken, but that gliding, even, swift motion filled him with delight. For days afterward he dwelt on the pleasure of that ride. He did not talk to anyone about it, it was not his way, but the monotony was broken, he had at least escaped the grey corridors. Before the summer was over, other rides were enjoyed and after that Jim Gibbs met with the old folks to listen to the reading. The Superintendent of the Infirmary was a just and upright man who had held that position for many years as there had been no political changes. He knew each inmate personally and knew their past history, all but that of silent Jim Gibbs, who gave out nothing. Many years ago, the day before Christmas, a desperate criminal, later apprehended, had been sought by the police of the city. They had searched every nook and corner within the business section, they had combed the haunts of vice and crime, but failed to find their man. Toward evening Christmas eve, two motorcycle policemen had ridden to the outskirts of the city. Riding up to an unpainted, dilapidated shack with broken windows and having the appearance of having been deserted for many years they cautiously pushed open the front door. It sagged on its hinges. With their flash lights and guns ready for use, they crept silently into the dark room. There was no furniture, no fire, and the two windows with broken panes were stuffed with gunny sacks. It was bitterly cold in there. From a corner came moans and a wheezing coughing. Springing forward the officers turned their lights full on the miserable, pinched face of a man lying on a pile of old rubbish, blue with cold and shivering pitifully, his fever parched lips were unable to tell them anything. "Fooled again," exclaimed the tall policeman. The police patrol was called and Jim Gibbs was taken to the County hospital. Here he lingered for weeks with double pneumonia and when he had sufficiently recovered, yet weak and shaky, he was placed in the adjoining Infirmary, a county charge. This was all the Superintendent or anyone else thereabouts knew of him. It was approaching Christmas again. Jim Gibbs looked upon Christmas as a day foolishly observed and belonging solely to children. There was no deep significance in the story of the Christ child to him. At the Infirmary, church organizations and club members made it a day long to be remembered by the inmates. The dinner was all that had ever appealed to Jim. Gibbs. Never having any home ties or little ones to cherish made this sour old man regard the Yule tide as he did. But, somehow this coming Christmas he seemed different. He began by saluting the men whom he passed on his daily walks in the grey corridors, and the old men wondered what had come over their silent companion. He surprised himself by helping crippled Joe Lyon with some work assigned to him. Why hadn't he done this before, he thought? He even endeavored to comfort a recent arrival, a really fine old fellow who had been well off at one time and who had been placed in the Infirmary by an indifferent relative. He had a kindly feeling toward everyone and in return his associates assumed a different attitude toward him. How he wished he had fifty cents, with which he would buy the fine old gentleman a Christmas present. To be sure, fifty cents wasn't much, but it would buy some thing. Fifty cents! Thousands of dollars had passed through his hands. He seldom visited the city without car-fare; how could he? However, one day Joe Lyon invited him to help him reach the business district. Joe had been given some change, so he paid Jim Gibbs'transportation and the two old men visited the five and ten cent stores and spent several hours looking around. This had given him an idea of what could be purchased with fifty cents. He wondered how he could go about to earn fifty cents. He hadn't done a stroke of work for years, in fact he had made his livelihood in quite another way. He could ask one of the kind ladies who read to them, to give him the money. The lady with the radiant smile wouldn't refuse, he was sure she had plenty, but Jim Gibbs, being a curious mixture of independence and pride wouldn't beg. Ever since he had first listened to the reading, he had suffered from a keen sense of remorse. His misspent life, evil and fruitless passed before his mental vision like a review. Curious too, how some of the "movies" which were shown at the Infirmary every Monday evening, presented some phase like that of his past life. Humble and repentant Jim Gibbs was striving to "enter in." The lady of the radiant smile frequently visited the Infirmary between readings to bring some dainty to an old grandmother she was interested in and upon one occasion, she ran across Jim Gibbs. "Good afternoon, Mr. Gibbs,' she said pleasantly, "we are to have a wonderful program Christmas eve; of course you will be with us?" "Thank you, I am looking forward to it," he replied. Then just for an instant he gazed wistfully at the radiant lady. Did she understand? I think she did, because she paused, put her gloved hand into her elegant, leather purse and drew out two silver dollars. "Please accept this for Christmas shopping," she exclaimed impulsively. Jim Gibbs felt an unusual lump in his throat, his eyes filled with tears. What was the matter with him anyway? He brushed the tears away and thanked her hurriedly. "I am so glad you are coming so regularly to our meetings," declared the radiant lady, "I am sure to learn about God and His goodness, and man's relation to Him, will be a great help to you." "I never knew much about Him," replied Jim Gibbs. "I didn't seem to care to become acquainted. Everything isn't quite clear yet, so I want to ask you, how a man as wicked and useless as I have been, can ever be forgiven or find favor in His sight?" The radiant lady smiled one of her quick, beautiful smiles. "I am pleased that you have asked these questions, if that is what is troubling you," she responded earnestly, "you see all through the Bible, it tells us that there is a God, 'who forgiveth all our iniquities,' when we sincerely repent and turn unto Him in faith. And the Prophet Habakkuk said of God, "Thou art of purer eyes than to behold evil.' " When Jim started on his shopping expedition his two dollars seemed a fortune. Standing waiting for a street car, a farmer driving to town with a truck load of turkeys and other fowl, noticed the old man and BEYOND THE GREY CORRIDOR judging he was from the Infirmary, invited him to ride with him. When he left him at his destination, he slipped more than his return car fare into his hand. When he entered the Store, there was a jam of people. The bewildering display of Christmas goods kept him peering eagerly first at one counter then at another. The crowd pushed him here and there but he didn't mind. Once a silly school girl nudged her companion as the shabby old man stood looking at a pair of gloves. Of course they knew he was even too poor to buy anything like that. At last after being jostled the entire length of the store, he found the men's handkerchiefs, They were ten cents each and a very good quality, the clerk told him, the colored borders being all the rage for gentlemen. Here the girl winked at another girl clerk, but the by-play was not noticed by the interested shopper. He bought six handkerchiefs and thrust them into his over-coat pocket. That was such a small Present for his fine friend, he must buy something else. It took him sometime to find the ties. To be sure he had never seen white hair, a pocketcomb in a case would be just the thing, so a green leather case, was added to his purchase. It was getting late in the afternoon and he was about ready to leave the Store when he thought of Poor old crippled What could he buy for him? Retracing his steps, he found Joe was great for being out of doors, even on a frosty morning, and this would So a happened his CHRISTMAS EVE! An enchanted city, a Fairy glistening, feathery snow flakes. Icicles hanging from the roofs like jeweled daggers. Inside the Infirmary all was warmth and cheer. "Peace on Earth, Good will to men," sang the ladies' chorus. The program was highly entertaining and the old folks, children Once again, waited with hearts aflutter for the great event—the Christmas tree. Tall and Stately it appeared before them, ablaze with many colored electric bulbs, glittering with silver and gold tinsel and laden with many beautiful and useful gifts. Fine, old friend and the delight of Joe Lyon fully repaid him and in his heart he knew that this was the very best Christmas he had ever had. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon December—Now love, the priceless gift, abounds in words and deeds of kindliness. Dorothy Thompson, famous newspaper correspondent, presided at the Annual Friendship Dinner of the American Woman's Association and also made a brilliant and forceful talk. Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt and Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt were guests of honor, while Fannie Hurst, novelist, Judith Waller, of radio fame, Mollie Warren Wilcox, editor and publisher, were among the speakers. Maud Palmer Terrell is the only woman electric light fixture specialist, in New York. She naively remarked, she wanted a brilliant career so she decided to sell lamps. Nellie Taylor Ross, first woman to direct the United States mint now has her image on a medal of the mint. Lisbeth Qualtrough, forty years an educator in the Salt Lake City schools, died last month. She was distinguished for her fine qualities as a conscientious teacher. Nellie Young, an Idaho girl of sixteen summers, died a heroine when she rushed into a burning house and saved the lives of three children. Sophie Davis, of California, 101 years old, declares "I'm still pretty chipper," while Ellen Carrol of Newfoundland, 108 years old, enjoys walking to church. Lady Alice Montague Scott, the new Duchess of Gloucester, now takes precedence before Marina, Duchess of Kent, in Royal circles, but surely not in Royal hearts. Ruth Nichols, society aviatrix, who beat Amelia Earhart's transcontinental record, was severely injured recently in a plane crash near Troy, N. Y. Evelyn B. Hoag, of Pennsylvania, is the first person to swim the width of Boulder lake. Helen Jacobs, four times winner of the American tennis championship is spending the winter in Europe engaged in literary work. Katharine Cornell's latest venture is the production of Shakespeare's, Romeo and Juliet. Maurice Evans, the London actor who trained with the famous Wessex players for stage versions of Thomas Hardy's novels will be Romeo to Miss Cornell's Juliet. Sister Mary Ignatius Ring, of Notre Dame college, Ohio, has written a scholarly biography of the philosopher and social economist, Villeneuve-Bargemont. Martha Dickinson Blanchi has recently made a great literary find, having discovered 130 unpublished poems by her aunt, Emily Dickinson. "The Romantic Rebels," by Frances Winwar is the story of the poets Byron, Shelley, and Keats told by a fascinating author. Eleanor Ames' book, "Modern Etiquette" and "The Romance of the Patchwork Quilt," by Carrie A. Hall, are useful and interesting new books. The Relief Society Of The Church Of Jesus Christ Of Latter-Day Saints Louise Yates Robison Amy Brown Lyman Kate M. Ty Julia A. F. Lund Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Jennie B. Knight Rosannah Motto—Charity Never Faileth The General Board Ethel Reynolds Smith Nettie D. Bradford President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Lalene H. Hart Elise B. Alder Janet M. Thompson Lotta Paul Baxter Inez K. Allen Belle S. Spafford Cora L. Bennion Ida P. Beal Donna Durrant Sorensen Amy Whipple Evans Marcia K. Howells Editor Manager Assistant Manager Relief Society Magazine Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vol. XXII December, 1935 No. 12 Editorial Christmastide The joyous Christmas-tide is here with its outpouring of good will, with its beauty in store and street, in home and church. It gives a benediction to the fast passing year. In the music of carols and bells, in the beauty of the holly and mistletoe, of Christmas trees and lighted candles, all hearts are lifted up in joyous thanksgiving, for Christmas is a time for putting aside envy, for uprooting anger, for setting aside feelings of vengeance. It is a time for self-forgetfulness, for unstinting service, for the unfolding and perfecting of one's highest powers; a time that calls forth expressions of loving good will to all mankind. It is natural for people to desire to give visible expression to the feelings in their hearts at this festive time. Just as the wise men out of their love for the Bethlehem Babe gave him gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh, so do people everywhere desire to give gifts to their families and friends, but all too often this is made a time of undue stress and strain, of worry and unhappiness. Gift-giving instead of being a lovely thing, often degenerates into a sordid exchange or becomes a source of debts that may not be paid for months to come. No matter how great is the inclination to give lavishly, if one cannot pay, the desire should be curbed. People should be honest before they are generous. It is a mockery to make the celebration of the Christ's natal day the beginning of days of worry over debt. A telephone message, a call, a card, or a letter may convey one's loving thought and need not entail worry and long indebtedness. After all the best Christmas present to one's family and friends is to live a Christ-like life. On His natal day it is fitting that thoughts of Him, of His precepts, His examples and His matchless love should fill all hearts. So celebrated Christmas Day should be a prelude for such thoughts during every day of the year. Relief Society Magazine Red Cross Stresses Home Safety The Red Cross has inaugurated a nation-wide campaign to eliminate accident-causing hazards in the home and on the farm. The organization proposes to make the homes of the community safe, for they point out home accidents are due largely to carelessness, negligence, lack of knowledge and that most of them are preventable. "The four horsemen—Death, Permanent Disability, Injury and Economic Loss—ride rough shod into many homes over the nation every day in the year, exacting their toll as a result of accidents that occur due to unsafe habits or unsafe conditions. Deaths resulting from these accidents are not counted in hundreds but in tens of thousands; permanent disabilities in hundreds of thousands; injuries in millions. The tragic part of it all is that these home accidents could, in most cases, be prevented by the use of corrective measures at little cost or effort." The American Red Cross feeling sure that this loss of life is unnecessary, that suffering can be reduced by calling the American people's attention to the hazards that exist and the dangers of unsafe habits, is showing methods by which dangers can be eliminated and unsafe practices be corrected. The home accident problem is nation-wide and hence there must be nation-wide concerted effort if satisfactory results are to be obtained. While accidents cannot be eliminated entirely, they can be reduced. During 1934 there were 101,000 persons in the United States who met accidental deaths. In the same period of time 370,000 were permanently crippled and nearly ten million were temporarily disabled. The cost to the country during 1934 was 3½ billion dollars. Of this casualty list accidents in the home caused 34,500 deaths, permanently disabled 150,000 and injured nearly 5,000,000. We hope Relief Society women will cooperate with the Red Cross organizations in their communities and will do all in their power to make this campaign eminently successful. "Go Thou and Do Likewise" The following incident contains a valuable lesson for our Class Leaders: More than ten years ago, before I was called to work in the stake, I decided that my motto, as a ward literary leader, should be "a part for everyone." After the first year a little lady with silvery hair, very elderly she was, came to me and said, "All my life I have been a hearer in Relief Society but this year because of you I have been a doer. I never expected to be—I didn't dream I could. May God bless you." During that summer she passed away and as I stood before her bier I heard her friends remark about her loveliness, her newly discovered talent, and the sweet smile she still wore upon her face. Gone was my remembrance of the snowy trips and the extra labor that it takes to supply opportunity to others and I said in my heart, "It is pay enough." —Linnie Fisher Robinson, Lesson Department (For First Week in May) Theology and Testimony Lesson VIII The Testimony of Martyrdom 1. A Life of Persecution. From the time of the first vision to the martyrdom, the Prophet's life was characterized by almost continuous persecution and personal hardship. Concerning the slander and oppression to which he was early subjected, he has this to say: "How very strange it was that an obscure boy of a little over fourteen years of age, and one, too, who was doomed to the necessity of obtaining a scanty maintenance by his daily labor, should be thought a character of sufficient importance to attract. The attention of the great ones of the most popular sects of the day, and in a manner to create in them a spirit of the most bitter persecution and reviling. But strange or not, so it was and it was often the cause of great sorrow to myself." 2. The Prophet then goes on to say that he himself felt much like Paul of old when he made his defence before King Agrippa and related the account of his vision. Concluding, the Prophet said: "So it was with me. I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two personages, and they did in reality speak to me; and though I was hated and persecuted for saying that I had seen a vision, yet it was true; and while they were persecuting me, reviling me, and speaking all manner of evil against me falsely for so saying, I was led to say in my heart: Why persecute me for telling the truth? I have actually seen a vision; and who am I that I can withstand God, or why does the world think to make me deny what I have actually seen? For I had seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it, neither dared I do it; at least I knew that by so doing I would offend God, and come under condemnation." (Pearl of Great Price, pp. 49, 50) 3. Immediately after he received the plates, he was forced by his persecutors to move from Palmyra to Harmony. Less than two years later he found it advisable to leave Harmony and take up his residence with the Whitmers at Fayette. Shortly after the organization of the Church was effected, he was arrested and tried at Colesville. Soon thereafter he moved from Fayette to Kirtland, then to the Johnson home at Hiram. At the latter place he was dragged from the house by ruffians, beaten into unconsciousness, and covered with tar and feathers. Shortly thereafter the saints were expelled from Jackson county. The next year, under great physical hardship, he led Zion's Camp from Kirtland to Missouri. Later he was forced to leave Kirtland and take up his abode among the stricken saints in Missouri. Within the same year he was arrested and placed in Liberty jail. Here, under most trying conditions, he was incarcerated for nearly six months. Meantime he received word that the saints, including his own wife and children, had been forced to leave Missouri under the exterminating order of Governor Boggs. The next spring he obtained his liberty and fled to Illinois. Persecution soon followed. And shortly thereafter he was forced into hiding. He was exonerated by the courts, but repeatedly rearrested. Then came the tragedy at Carthage. Truly a life of hardship, persecution, sacrifice—martyrdom. 4. Consideration for Others. Even in his youth, the Prophet uttered no despairing word. His sole purpose was the accomplishment of the work which Deity had committed to his care. He was supremely happy in the performance of his duty. Whenever he was forced to leave one place and flee to another, he did it with grace and seeming willingness of purpose. At the time of his excruciating physical agony at the Johnson home in Hiram, he thought only of the welfare of his stricken child, his wife, and others. He was forced to leave Kirtland under threats of violence, but he gave no sign of disappointment or selfish regret. The long days and cruel nights at Liberty jail witnessed no sign of remorse or complaint. From his hiding places at Nauvoo came only messages of encouragement to those who had their liberty and were free to do as they chose. Whenever the saints suffered, the Prophet suffered. He loved them more than he loved his life. Thus when the fateful day came, he went knowingly to Carthage, that the cause of truth might go on. 5. Evidence Supreme. The early part of June, 1844, brought a series of most trying events to the Latter-day Saints. On the 7th of the month the "Nauvoo Expositor" made its appearance with a scurrilous attack upon the leading citizens of Nauvoo and the Prophet in particular. At a meeting of the city council held on the 10th of June, the "Expositor" was declared a public nuisance and the marshal was ordered to abate it. Accordingly, the press was Relief Society Magazine thrown into the street and all printed papers were destroyed. 6. This action was seized upon by the enemies of the church and used to inflame the mobs to further violence. The Prophet was arrested, but promptly acquitted by the courts in Nauvoo. His enemies, however, demanded that he appear for trial in Carthage. This he refused to do, knowing that his case would be decided by those who were altogether unfriendly. Moreover, he had already been tried and acquitted by the courts that had normal jurisdiction of his case. At this point, however, Governor Ford joined with the Prophet's enemies in demanding that he appear at Carthage. In fact, he wrote the Prophet to this effect, and promised him full military protection when he appeared. The Prophet, however, was doubtful of the Governor's sincerity, knowing from previous experience of his unfriendliness and duplicity. 7. In the early evening of June 22, 1844, the Prophet called a number of brethren into his room for council, consisting of the following: Hyrum Smith, Willard Richards, John Taylor, William W. Phelps, A. C. Hodge, John L. Butler, Alpheus Cutler, William Marks, and some others. He read the Governor's letter, and then remarked, "There is no mercy — no mercy here." After various opinions had been expressed, the Prophet's countenance lightened and he said: "The way is open. It is clear to my mind what to do. All they want is Hyrum and myself; then tell everybody to go about their business, and not to collect in groups, but to scatter about. There is no doubt they will come here and search for us. Let them search; they will not harm you in person or property, and not even a hair of your head. We will cross Lesson Department the river tonight, and go away to the West." (History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 545, 546) The Prophet's last recorded statement in his history reads as follows: "I told Stephen Markham that if I and Hyrum were ever taken again we should be massacred, or I was not a prophet of God. I want Hyrum to live to avenge my blood, but he is determined not to leave me." Acting upon this decision, about midnight, Joseph, Hyrum, and Willard Richards called at the lodging of Orrin P. Rockwell. All went up the river bank to a point where a boat was in waiting. They started across the river about two o'clock in the morning; Orrin P. Rockwell rowed, while the others were kept busy bailing water from the badly leaking boat. They reached the Iowa side about daybreak, and shortly thereafter went to the home of Brother William Jordan. In the meantime Rockwell had started back to Nauvoo with instructions to return secretly the next night with horses to be used by the Prophet and Hyrum on their proposed trip to the Rocky Mountains. Shortly after noontime of the same day, Rockwell and others returned with written communications and verbal requests from some of the saints urging the Prophet to return and surrender himself for trial. When the case was pressed by Reynolds Cahoon and others, the Prophet replied: "If my life is of no value to my friends, it is of none to myself." After a brief consultation with Hyrum and Rockwell, the Prophet, against his own judgment, decided to return. While the party was walking toward the river, the Prophet and Rockwell fell behind. Someone shouted for them to come on, to which the Prophet replied, "It is of no use to hurry, for we are going back to be slaughtered.' The party reached Nauvoo at half past five in the afternoon, and the Prophet went directly to his family at the Mansion where he remained secluded for the night. 8. At six-thirty the next morning, resolute and resigned to his fate, the Prophet accompanied by a number of his brethren started for Carthage. When the party reached the temple, the Prophet paused, looked with admiration upon it, then upon the city, and said, "This is the loveliest place and the best people under the heavens; little do they know the trials that await them." 9. At ten o'clock in the morning the party reached the farm of Albert G. Fellows, four miles west of Carthage, where they were met by Captain Dunn with a company of about sixty mounted militia. The Prophet quieted the fears of his brethren by saying, "Do not be alarmed, brethren, for they cannot do more to you than the enemies of truth did to the ancient saints—they can only kill the body." The company halted; whereupon Joseph, Hyrum, and several others went into the Fellows home with Captain Dunn. The Captain then presented an order from Governor Ford for all the state arms in possession of the Nauvoo Legion which the Prophet promptly countersigned. 10. The Prophet then dispatched Henry G. Sherwood back to Nauvoo to gather the arms and make them ready for delivery. To those about him, the Prophet then said, "I am going like a lamb to the slaughter, but I am calm as a summer's morning. I have a conscience void of offense toward God and toward all men. If they take my life, I shall die an innocent man, and my blood shall cry from the ground for vengeance, and it shall be said of me He Was Murdered In Cold Blood!" (History of the Church, Vol. VI, p. 555) 11. Doubtless fearing that the disarmament order of Governor Ford might be met with resistance at Nauvoo, Captain Dunn requested the Prophet to return with him. He gave his pledge as a military man to protect the Prophet and his friends even, if necessary, at the expense of his own life. To this Joseph consented. The party reached Nauvoo about two-thirty in the afternoon, and by six in the evening the arms had been collected and the company was ready to start for Carthage. 12. Before the return trip was begun, the Prophet rode down to his home twice to bid his family farewell, knowing of course that he would never see them again. His demeanor was serene and thoughtful. He expressed the conviction to several of his friends that he expected to be murdered. But he saw no alternative; he must give himself up or his people would be massacred by a lawless mob under the sanction of the Governor. 13. At the brow of the hill he again looked longingly back upon the temple and Nauvoo. When the party passed his farm, he turned around and gazed upon it again and again. In reply to a remark made by someone he said, "If some of you had such a farm and knew you would not see it any more, you would want to take a good look at it for the last time." Thus, with a full knowledge that his life was about to be taken, he calmly and resolutely went forward to his fate, loving God and fearing no man. A martyr to the cause of truth. 14. The tragedy at Carthage, brought on by the duplicity of Governor Ford, is too well known to need attention. 15. Grief-stricken but not Disheartened. Of secondary importance only to the Prophet's testimony is the attitude of the saints following the martyrdom. When the news of the tragedy reached Nauvoo, the saints were temporarily grief-stricken and depressed. They stood with bared heads and aching hearts by the thousands, as the bodies of the Prophet and Patriarch were returned to them. The sound of the hammer and the saw was no longer heard from the temple. Industry ceased; work on the farms was discontinued. The people were dispirited and full of sorrow. But as soon as the immediate shock of the tragedy had passed, they quickly returned to their tasks, even more determined than before to keep the commandments of God. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Joseph Smith was a kindly and inoffensive man. He was always considerate of the rights of others. How, then, do you account for the fact that he was so widely persecuted? 2. What part if any did "lukewarm" saints take in persecuting the Prophet? Be specific. May we, through our indiscretions, bring criticism upon our present leaders? How? 3. Give illustrations from the Prophet's life to show his love and consideration of others. Be specific. 4. Under conditions similar to those faced by the Prophet, what would you do if some of your own people accused you of deserting them? Be absolutely frank in your answer. 5. Give proof that when the LESSON DEPARTMENT Prophet returned to Carthage he knew that he would be killed. Repeat by heart his statement made at the home of Albert G. Fellows. 6. Repeat the Prophet's last recorded statement in his history. Where was it given and to whom? Give details. 7. What significance is attached 779 to the fact that the Prophet returned twice to bid his family farewell? 8. If a man is willing to die for his belief, he must be regarded as sincere. Why? 9. In what respect is the attitude of the saints following the martyrdom a testimony of the divinity of the mission of the Prophet? Work and Business O make your Christmas table more festive and gay decorate it with small glittering Christmas trees. Wreaths and colorful cellophane stockings will add much to the attractiveness of the home. On page 127 of Handicraft for Every Woman you will find instructions in detail for making these articles. Children love to help prepare decorations for the Christmas tree. Page 157 of the same book will tell you how to have them make lovely ornaments out of articles found in every household. If your funds for gifts are limited how about a hand decorated cake cover, or a set of canisters. On page 150 you will see how these can be made at very little expense and time. Look through the book and you will find many fine suggestions for inexpensive gifts. Consumer's Problems INTEREST in standards for textiles and clothing is steadily growing. To convince manufacturers of the need and desire for such standards is the responsibility of the consumer. "To be in style' may be the public's first requisite in buying textiles, but besides style, the homemaker wants to know how to get it in an article which will not cost too much, will not require too much care, will be suited for its purpose, and will look well for a reasonable period of time. New styles are attained through changes in weave, finish, color, etc., but fancy weaves are apt to contribute beauty rather than strength. The latter depends on the length of the fibre used, the longer the fibre the stronger the fabric. If buyers remember that cotton, flax, rayon, etc., are of vegetable origin and that wool, silk, camels' hair come from the animal, choosing articles made from these will be easier. Woolen fabrics are too frequently woven with cotton and a poor quality of reworked wool. There are two kinds of wool fibres, woolen and worsted. The woolen are soft, elastic, and loosely twisted, the worsted material is harsh, shiny, and the yarns are tightly woven. Various articles are made of wool; the most common are clothing, rugs and blankets. The wool content cannot be judged by the shopper. In the case of blankets the rules for labeling formulated by producers are not always followed. No finished blanket containing less than 5% should use the word "wool" in any form. Only those made of 98% wool may be sold as "all wool." If sold as ''wool" blankets they must contain 25%-98% wool and label should so state. Squeeze a portion of the blanket tightly in the hand, if made of live new wool it will be soft and springy. Deep long-fibred nap is strong enough to support 780 whole blanket, test by holding with one thread. Pull the blanket in opposite directions at same time, push finger against stretched surface; it should be strong, firm and resist pressure. Other qualities are warmth, resistance to wear, washing durability and size. Questions for Discussion 1. State consumer's responsibility for standards in buying, and for textile and clothing legislation. 2. Give simple home tests that may be used to judge kinds and quality of fabrics. 3. Discuss characteristics of wool and tell difference between "shoddy" and "virgin" wool. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 4. State some of the things to look for in buying blankets and compare ones on market today with those of our grandmothers'. 5. Define terms fully-shrunk, preshrunk, fast color, washable, 100% wool. 6. What size blankets are most economical to buy? References Same as in previous lessons. Articles on textile buying in Relief Society Magazines. Better Buymanship Series, Household Finance Corp., Research dept., 919 North Michigan Ave., Chicago, Tl. Teachers' Topic PROVERBS 3:9-10 (For May, 1936): "Honor the Lord with thy substance, and with the first fruits of all thine increase. "So shall thy barns be filled with plenty." —Proverbs 3:9-10.. "THE Scriptures are replete with the doctrine of tithing, and it is only natural that it should be emphasized in Proverbs—Solomon's chief contribution to the literature of the world. Tithing is older than Israel. It was practiced by Abraham, who paid tithes to Melchizedek. The payment of tithes was a prominent feature of the Mosaic law. Jacob's first contract after leaving his father's house was with God, with whom he covenanted at Bethel, saying, "And of all that Thou shalt give I will surely give a tenth unto Thee." Christ recognized and proved the law of tithing. (Matthew 23:23) This law was also known to the Nephites. The law of tithing has been re-established in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. (See Doctrine and Covenants, Section 119) Tithing is thus the law of God to man, and should be so regarded. To observe the law is to be obedient to our Heavenly Father, which always brings joy and satisfaction. The law contains promises of rewards and punishments. To those who make sacrifices in a righteous cause there are always personal blessings. To those who carefully plan their budgets and incomes there is naturally a development which is helpful financially, but the greatest blessing from the law of tithing is no doubt the satisfaction which comes from obedience to a law of the Lord. The following quotation from LESSON DEPARTMENT President Heber J. Grant sums up the blessings which come to 'those who observe this law: "The law of financial prosperity to the Latter-day Saints, under covenant with God, is to be an honest tithe-payer, and not to rob the Lord in tithes and offerings. Prosperity comes to those who observe the law of tithing; and when I say prosperity I am not thinking of it in terms of dollars and cents alone, although as a rule the Latter-day Saints who are the best tithe-payers are the most prosperous men financially; but what I count as real prosperity, as the one thing of all others that is of great value to every man and woman living, is the growth in the knowledge of God, and in a testimony, and in the power to live the Gospel and to inspire our families to do the same. 781 That is prosperity of the truest kind. I would rather die in poverty knowing that my family could testify that, to the best of the ability with which God has endowed me, I observed His laws and kept His commandments, and by my example, had proclaimed the Gospel, than to have all the wealth of the world." The mothers and the women of the Church generally can wield a great and powerful influence in supporting the law of tithing. The wife can help to make it easier for the family to meet this law, or she can, by indifference, make it harder. Topics and Questions for Discussion 1. Point out the blessings that follow honest tithe paying. 2. For what is tithing used? 3. How can the mother instil the law of tithing into her children? Literature (For Third Week in May) ADVENTURES IN READING A Woman's ADVENTURE "She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness."—Proverbs. MAN has always been a singer of songs, songs of his daring and conquests, songs of his loves and his joys, songs of the earth and its beauties, songs of life and its mysteries. His songs are strong and courageous and noble. Woman, too, is a singer. The beauty, the harmony, the glory of. Things have been the burden of her songs. With simplicity and delicacy she has expressed her aspirations, her emotions, and her desires; with tenderness, her mother-love; and with sincerity, her prayers. A Woman's Adventure Out of the glory that was Greece came Sappho, the first woman poetess, singing of love and the beauties of the earth, No woman's voice rose aloft to find recording out of Hebrew life with its intensity and divinity. During the Middle Ages in many lands woman helped to sing the ballads of her people. Anne Bradstreet, the Puritan Poetess, lifted her voice in prophecy of woman's place in the world. The society of the eighteenth century made the drawing-room a woman's kingdom. Barred from formal education she was cloistered in the home. Governesses and tutors and later boarding schools provided a means of 782 education. Culture or gentility implied the ability to speak French, a little musical ability, and some skill in needlework. Individuality had little chance for growth. Early in the nineteenth century the art of fiction was growing rapidly. The gothic romances of the past century were being replaced by Sir Walter Scott's tales of adventure. Thackeray was writing satirical novels about the inconsistencies of society, while Dickens was writing humanitarian novels of its cruelties. Into this masculine world of fiction came the Bronte sisters, and Jane Austin with a charm and dignity that pointed the way for a bounteous and worthy literary expression by their followers. Today novels, essays, and poems by women rank in excellence with the best expression of the age. Jane Austin, Novelist A quiet uneventful life in the rectory drawing-room of her father at Steventon and Bath was Jane Austin's. The youngest of seven children, she received her education at home, she learned French and some Italian, sang a little, and became an expert needlewoman. Her reading extended little beyond that of Richardson, Cowper, and Dr. Johnson. Apart from a few visits to London her life was most uneventful. Yet Jane Austin wrote half-a-dozen novels deemed by some to be as perfect as any in the language. The novels were written in the family sitting-room and were read aloud to the family circle. Describing the life she knew best, her portrayals are marked by delicate delineation, lively dialogue, and quiet humor. Jane herself speaks of "the little bit of Ivory" on which she worked. Her stories are marked with the exquisiteness of a fine miniature. The tribute paid by Sir Walter RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Scott to Jane Austin is well known. Also read again, and for the third time at least, Miss Austin's very finely written novel of 'Pride and Prejudice.' That young lady had a talent for describing the involvements and feelings and characters of ordinary life which is to me the most wonderful I ever met with. The Big Bow-wow strain I can do myself like any now going; but the exquisite. Touch which renders ordinary, commonplace things and characters interesting, from the truth of the description and the sentiment, is denied to me." A simple story pays tribute as it offers an explanation of Jane Austin: An old verger of Winchester cathedral stopped a pilgrim to her grave and asked, "What was there particular, Sir, about Miss Austin, that so many people should visit her grave?" The answer given was, "She wrote honestly." The reader, however, must capture the charm of Jane Austin. It is to be obtained by a leisurely approach to the quiet culminations and her subtle wisdom. George Eliot, Macauley, Thackeray, Dickens, Tennyson, Longfellow, Sainte-Beuve, her contemporaries, paid tribute to the artistry and wisdom of Jane Austin. Pride and Prejudice "It is a truth universally acknowledged that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife." To the Victorian household of Mr. Bennett, father of five grown-up daughters, whose proper " disposition in marriage was the chief concern of their mother, the advent in the community of a single man of fortune was of great importance. Jane, the eldest daughter, was a sweet-tempered, lovable girl. Elizabeth, the next in age, was attractive and lively, while Mary was plain and loved books. The two youngest girls were empty-headed and frivolous. The newcomer to Netherfield LESSON DEPARTMENT Park, Mr. Bingly, was the man of fortune. Visits were exchanged and friendship established between the two households. The two sisters of Mr. Bingly and their friend, Mr. Darcy, made life at Netherfield Park a round of pleasure. The interest of Bingly for Jane and Darcy for Elizabeth was soon very evident. At first Elizabeth experienced a strong aver" sion to Mr. Darcy. During a short visit to Mr. Bingly, Jane was taken seriously ill. As she could not be removed from the Hall, Elizabeth was sent for to take care of her sister. The interest of Darcy in Elizabeth provoked the jealousy of Miss Bingly, whose interest in that young man was very evident. Into the lives of the Bennetts came the Rev. Mr. Collins, whose patroness was Lady Catherine de Burgh. Upon receiving a living, he had come to Mr. Bennett, his cousin, proposing to marry one of his daughters. Upon Jane's refusal to accept this offer, Elizabeth was approached. "Make her marry him," was Mrs. Bennett's plea to Mr. Bennett's chagrin, an interesting example of parental concern and showing the fashion of the time. Another newcomer to the social life of the community was young Wickham, an unprincipled army officer, who because of his affability, became a great favorite. When the Bingly household left for London, life became very dull for Jane and Elizabeth. Later when Jane went to London she was keenly hurt by Miss Bingly's frigid manner. Elizabeth went on a visit to the Rev. Collins and his bride in Kent, and to her surprise found Lady Catherine to be the maternal aunt of Mr. Darcy. When that young man arrived on a visit to his aunt, the pleasant friendship of Netherfield Park days was renewed. Jane, how783 ever, could not accept freely the friendship of Darcy because she felt his responsibility in the separation of Mr. Bingly and Jane. To the disgrace of the Bennett family, Lydia, the youngest daughter, eloped with Captain Wickham. At first Lady Catherine was highly 'ncensed. Affairs generally untangled themselves later, to Mrs. Bennett's delight. Mr. Bingly and Jane settled at Netherfield, first and later moved to Derby-shire. Darcy and Elizabeth were soon able to appease Lady Catherine and gain her goodwill, Mr. Bennett missed his two daughters exceedingly but Jane and Elizabeth received his visits frequently. Life went on pleasantly for all. Jane Austin today is adored by many, while others are piqued because they have not understood her charm. The Bronte Sisters—The Three Virgins of Haworth This story of the three gifted women, "The Three Virgins of Haworth," is of immortal interest. It is a drama as stark as the lonely Yorkshire moors of their home. The Reverend Bronte came to the parish of Haworth with a delicate wife and six children. The parsonage, now a shrine, overlooked the bare cemetery surrounding the little church. Every horizon the children gazed upon was grey and forbidding. The philosophic father spent his time in his room in majestic solitude while his children huddled together alone. Upon the death of the mother, eight-year-old Maria carried the burden of the family. Elizabeth, a year younger, helped to take care of the younger children, Charlotte, Emily and Anne. The only son of the family, Bramwell, was already a fiery lad at four years. 784 The lonely clergyman made several attempts to remarry, but in vain, so his aged spinster sister-in-law consented to become his housekeeper. Miss Bramwell began to convert the young savages by having them memorize Bible texts, do housework and endless polishing and cooking lessons. Bramwell alone escaped the severe discipline. There were no dolls or jackstones for brightness for the sisters. To do his duty by his children when they were old enough, the minister sent the girls to a cheap boarding school. The experiment at Cowan's Bridge School cost the lives of Maria and Elizabeth, by neglect and malnutrition. Next Charlotte and Emily were sent to another such school and later Anne also, this time without tragedy. Already the genius of Bramwell was demanding expression as an artist. Upon their return the girls spent many of their hours reading and writing. Later Charlotte obtained a position as a governess, but her interest was not in teaching. After several unsuccessful attempts, a new outlet was found, Aunt Bramwell advanced the money for Charlotte to go to Brussels to attend the seminary school of Madame Heger. Strange experiences awaited Charlotte and Emily Bronte abroad. Emily refused to return a second year. Charlotte returned to a life of persecution from Madame Heger who suspected that her husband's favorite pupil detracted from her own glory. Charlotte Bronte's return to Haworth was the occasion of much sorrow. Bramwell was openly a profligate by now, the village inn his headquarters. The aged clergyman was nearing blindness. The three sisters together again, began to confide to each other their literary hopes. They sampled their wares, chose the best, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and presented them to be published, under the title "Poems" by Currier, Ellis, and Acton Bell. Then they waited, but in vain. Instead of succumbing to discouragement, they tried again. Three novels were finished and copied. 'The Professor," "Wuthering Heights," and “Agnes Grey." The novels of Emily and Anne were accepted. Charlotte rejoicing in the success of her sisters. The same night she began "Jane Eyre," a story which carried much of her own experiences, her childhood, her loneliness at Cowan's Bridge, her suffering as a governess, and the tragedy of Brussels. In a few days, the first edition of the novel was exhausted and "Mr. Curren Bell" was famous. The Reverend Bronte knew not that the fame given to Mr. Bell belonged to his daughter. Bramwell Bronte's death now came as a relief to his family after his life of mistakes. Again came separation, Emily also was to leave her sisters. After her death a collection of poems was discovered. Swinburne and Maeterlinck in turn accepted them as the work of a genius. Charlotte now began to write "Shirley" while Anne completed "The Tenant of Wildfell Hall." Exhausted by their efforts, the two sisters went to the seashore for a rest, Anne was particularly tired. Without warning, Anne joined her mother and sisters. Alone at Haworth rectory after these trying episodes, Charlotte began to write once more, and "Villete' was the result. Charlotte was now thirty-eight. A new life began when she accepted the offer of her father's curate, Arthur Nicholls, and married. But Charlotte was very tired and just a few months of happiness were permitted her. The crypt of the little church of Haworth received her LESSON DEPARTMENT body and the tiny morsel of life that perished with her, March 31, 1855. Today there are still pilgrimages to Haworth for the reputation of the Virgins of Haworth has brightened, not dimmed with the years. A New Testament if After nearly one hundred years another woman writes, Vera Brittan "A Testament of Youth." She is another woman adventurer as a singer of songs, a recorder of life. In an amazing autobiographical work, rich in color and swift in movement, we have the intimate record of an English girl's life as she emerged from school at the breaking of the World War. It was to a society not much changed from that of the Victorian Era that she came. To a round of drawing-room ftmnctions Vera Brittan came to be satiated quickly. Finding her own way to Oxford University was the escape. Then came the World War with nursing service in France and Malta crowded with experiences disillusioning as well as romantic. Her return to her native land after the War was to a new order of things. Marriage, authorship, and recognition followed quickly. Few women have had so much richness of living, and rare indeed is the experience accompanied by the superb ability to record it in prose and in verse. Women Singers of Today In a world marked by the conquests of science, industry, and wealth there is much of which to sing. New singers and new patterns are recording the newness of the world. Never before has there been such a galaxy of women singers; Sara Teasdale, Margaret Wilkinson, Edna St. Vincent Millay, Margaret Widdemar, Katharine Lee Bates, Josephine Peabody, Aline Kilmer, 785 Anna Hempstead Branch and others. Never have the themes been so varied; Shoes That Danced, A fternoons in April, Crack o' Dawn, Clouds and Cobblestones, Factories, Vigils. Guide to Preparation 5 A. Suggested topics for lesson assigtiments. 1. Woman's Contribution to Literature. 2. The Victorian Age. 3. Jane Austin, Novelist. 4. "Jane Eyre' and Charlotte Bronte. 5. Selections from the poems of Emily Bronte. B. Suggestions for lesson enrichment. 1. Selections from the poems of women writers of today. 2. Review of "The Testament of Youth." Guide to Reading 1. "The Piper,"' Josephine Peabody. A beautiful drama using the legend of the Pied piper of Hamlin. For the family circle. 2. "Margaret Ogilvy." The lifestory of the beloved author of "Peter Pan," Sir James Barrie. 3. "The Life of Charlotte Bronte," Mrs. E. C. Gaskell. This biography by a friend of the Bronte sisters has long been recognized as a great work. 4. "Her Son's Wife," Dorothy Canfield Fisher. A very human account of a woman's experience in trying to understand her son's wife, by a noted American novelist. 5. "Poems for a Little Girl," Hilda Conklin. A delightful series of poems for little girls and their mothers to read together. Social Service (Fourth Week in May) LESSON vir Civic OBLIGATIONS FOR CHILp WELFARE Text: omes remained unbroken, and; f these duties of Properly executed, an ideal citizenry training within the home, it js the duty of the Nation to care for and This is to be accomplished by developing the following basic concepts, namely: 1. To understand that Promoting Civic Sociology, Ed ward A. Ross, Chapter 8 To Participate jn activities which foster child welfare. Seneration ago, an educational leader of his time, Horace Mann, wrote: "Tf any given percentage of all children can be rescued from vice citizens, declines though reliable Statistics showing the delinquency throughout the country are not availRAW, LESSON DEPARTMENT able, approximate estimates furnish a good index to our social difficulties. "Tf juvenile delinquency is the same for the country as a whole as it is for the area reporting, then approximately 200,000 delinquents were dealt with in 1928." (Crime Prevention Through Education, N. E. A. Bulletin, Sept., 1932.) These delinquencies include such offenses as theft, school truancy, auto theft, malicious mischief, liquor violation, traffic violation, sex offenses, holdup, assault and battery, etc. Each case, if not properly adjusted to social conditions, is apt to lead to adult criminality, and criminality has reached in all countries, such proportions as to be a problem of major importance. Childish waywardness, youthful shortcomings, thwarted ambitions and lack of satisfying wholesome activities, if allowed to continue unchecked, lead to unsocial acts in mature life. Wholesome adult life is an outgrowth of sane youthful foundations. A study of delinquency shows that it is largely the result of undesirable home conditions. Since broken homes and poor homes exist to such a great extent, it is the duty of the State to provide for, on scientific lines, the lack of desirable home conditions. Wholesome life should be available to all children. It is the duty of the more fortunate citizens to provide for the less fortunate. A comparison of the cost of criminality and education reveals the need of greater effort towards the prevention of crime, and the advantage to be gained through greater juvenile care. "It is interesting to note that it costs on the average, about $400.00 a year to maintain a delinquent in a public institution (such as an Industrial School where an attempt is made to rehabilitate the individual), 787 $300.00 for an adult prisoner, and somewhat less than $100.00 spent annually on each public school pupil. In a sense, then, if the $100.00 spent annually on each public school pupil does not produce a good citizen, the State must pay later three to four times that amount for penal or correctional treatment. For every $2.00 spent on elementary and secondary school pupils, we spend $1.50 to control the criminal." The per capita outlay of society on its criminals far exceeds the per capita expenditure for the education of its children. (Research Bulletin of the N. E. A., Sept.,. 1932, p. 152.) Taking into consideration the total cost of criminality with its damage, we pay more for criminal care and protection than for education. As tax payers, buying our own social salvation, we 'cannot afford to 'pay more for crime and the criminal than for the education and social well being of children in order to prevent crime. Schools and institutions are only as good as the citizens demand. If, then, we are content to stand by and criticise existing conditions throughout the world, and complain of the unsocial conduct of many people, and of the high cost of our own social protections, without doing something constructive to alleviate these conditions, we are ourselves guilty of social delinquency. The feeling on the part of the parents is all to prevalent that if the home is maintained wherein ideals of righteousness are taught for the good of one's immediate family, social and religious obligations are complete. But the idea must be enlarged to include the well being of the tommunity and the nation. Everyone should bear in mind the welfare of the orphan, those who seek sensual amusement and gam788 bling halls, the back alley gang, and those who derive unwholesome satisfaction from distorted appetites. They are all of immediate individual concern. Special attention should be given to the way, pointed out in the text, pages 105 to 109, in which boys and girls are exploited by unscrupulous merchants seeking profit. The city street or the village corner have bred evil faster than home or school could 'build righteousness. The life of the community as a whole is reflected in its juvenile life; the community must accept the responsibility for the organization of agencies to further its own upbuilding. If then the welfare of the community's children is the responsibility of each adult, into what avenues should these responsibilities be directed? First, they should strengthen those agencies now working for child welfare, and second, they should establish where necessary, new social agencies. In the first classification attention may be called to all the auxiliary organizations of the L. D. S. Church. As a rule, it is not the boy or girl who is a regular atendant of Primary, Scout meetings, Sunday School, or Mutual Improvement meetings that becomes a delinquent, but the one who loses interest in such gatherings. If officers of such organizations could count on the active support of all church members, ward houses would most probably be filled regularly to overflowing. Many a scout organization languishes in semi-existence because of needed support from adults who are both financially and intellectually capable of giving that support. Indifference is the cause of many of our difficulties. Secondly, our social responsibility requires that we build where necessary, additional social agencies fo: the common good. This would inRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE clude such activities as providing more and better playgrounds, providing wholesome amusement, enforcing juvenile labor laws, elimination of undesirable working and housing conditions, promoting hobbies, and improving educational opportunities. Each community could multiply the list in its own interest. The full social responsibility of an individual is never complete until consistent effort has been put forth to realize the standard set up by the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection; namely, "For every child a community which recognizes and plans for his needs, protects him against physical dangers, moral hazards, and diseases; provides him with safe and wholesome places for play and recreation, and makes provision for his cultural and social needs." Activities Make a list of the agencies in your community working for the welfare of the community's children. Which of the agencies listed are handicapped because of lack of sufficient public interest and lack of financial help to execute welfare programs, and how many of the organizations mentioned are being encouraged and helped by some members of the Relief Society Class? What is actually being done to keep the children of the community from becoming delinquent? In order to achieve the ideals for child welfare set forth by the White House Conference, what still remains to be accomplished? On a map of your community mark the location of welfare agencies for children, such as libraries, playgrounds, athletic grounds, etc. Does it show any area that is inadequately served? Is there any relationship between such areas and sections of most frequent delinquency? Health Lessons 1935-1936 LESSON VIII STERILIZATION OF Home UTENSILS IT is within the life of many people the discoveries ful. The great bulk of them serve certain smal] Proportion of bacteria are harmfy] to the human body, and produce disease when they gain entrance to our body. These may be conveyed from Person to person by means of common drinking utensils, bath tubs, or any other utensil used by more than one person, ese bacteria can be killed in a number of different Ways. Ing things which wil] be related later. F remnants of baby's feeding are allowed to remain in the nursing bottle, they are soon swarming with bacteria, and will cause a stomach and bowel upset for the child if the next feeding js put in the bottle without Sterilization. In the days of our grandparents and even of our older parents hundreds of babies were infected by allowing the feeding bottle to retain remnants of the previous feeding, and after abundant bacteria have §TOwn in it, to add the milk mixture of the next feeding to it and feed it to the baby. After each feeding, the nursing bottle should be thoroughly cleansed, then it should be placed in cold water minutes. It should then be placed in a cold place If there is a refrigerator in the house it will be a splendid place to keep baby's milk in, and the empty bottle after it has been cleansed and sterilized 1 To simply dip a bottle or Spoon or other utensil in boiling water is not enough to sterilAt least five minutes at the boiling temperature will be necessary. The one who handles feeding bottles, rubber nipples, spoons, etc., used in feeding the baby should of course have the hands thoroughly cleansed with soap and water before touching them, Things properly sterilized could easily be contaminated again by dirty hands. The first great rule for the preventing of germ disease, is to keep germs from Spreading from the sick 790 person. Few people develop infectious diseases, unless directly or indirectly they Set the infection from somebody else with that same ailment. If there is one in the family with any infectious disease, such as diphis well to keep the same utensils in The infected Person is giving off the germs in all excretions, and these should be disinfected by mixing with them some antiseptic like lysol, or carbolic acid, or sulphate of copsick person and sheets etc., should be put out in the sunshine. The 4 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE with a broom moistened in the lysol solution. The Board of Health may before being occupied by other members of the family. The attendant should wash the hands frequently with soap In the household routine at any and other receptacles for food should be sterilized The metal tops of fruit bottles should especially € taken out of boiling water, and kept clean until they are applied by clean hands. The fruit itself should be gradually brought to the boil before the top is applied, A thorough conception of the role of bacteria in the spread of disease, and intelligent application of the methods of sterilization would prevent much disease and suffering and expense. Questions What are bacteria? Here do they abound? Hat do you mean by sterilization? What is the simplest and easiest and least expensive method of sterilization? What drugs are good antiseptics? What would you do with the room after the patient is convalescent? Why should we handle sterile things only with clean sterile hands? How would you proceed to sterilize fruit bottles and other food receptacles? Magazine Drive WU JE appreciate the enthusiastic and efficient work done in our Magazine Drive and thank all who have participated in it. Our subscriptions this year have gone far beyond any previous record. We hope that the agents will now make it a point to keep the subscription list up from month to month, being careful to check when each woman's subscription expires and visit 'her to get a renewal at once if possible. We publish herewith the Stake percentages (the reports from many Stakes have not reached us) and the Wards that have gone over 100% in the Drive, also those that have reached from 75% to 100%. We hope our subscribers will enjoy the Magazine and will feel that they are getting a good return for their money. STAKE PERCENTAGES STAKE No. Enroll. No. Sub. % Magazine Agent Alpine 366 204 56 Ivy Steele Bannock 249 241 97 Hattie Hogan Bear Lake 410 309 75 Annie S, Rich Box Elder 932 862 92 Eliza Thompsen Cassia 160 127 79 Mae Smith East Jordan 703 493 70 Leda Despain Ensign 743 698 94 Rose H. Neeley Franklin 577 507 8&8 Jeanette S. Barton Garfield 444 204 46 Hattie M. Ipson Granite 573 458 80 Myrtle B. Latimer Grant 625 505 81 Martha Fagg Highland 624 354 57 Lillian S, Blake Liberty 1075 765 71 Lydia W. McKendrick Logan 850 457 54 Ella C. Richards Los Angeles 755 649 86 Laura Stephens Malad 468 348 74 Margaret J. Richards Maricopa 641 675 105 Laura McRae Minidoka 325 209 64 Illa S. May Morgan 241 142 59 Elizabeth Geary Mt. Ogden 561 466 85 Allie Y. Pond North Idaho Falls 447 354 79 Emily H. Smith Oakland 340 343 101 Adrian Gee Oquirrh 478 268 56 May S. Arnold Pocatello 734 464 63 Florence Bowns Portneuf 388 211 54 Wilhelmina Price Rexburg 863 659 76 Mary E. Hunt Salt Lake 903 487 54 Clara B. Wright San Bernardino 186 123 66 Ethel Blomquist San Francisco ae. 94 Grace Tuggle Sharon 318 138 43 Daisy Nelson Shelley 454 223 49 Vera Elva Tew Snowflake 516 305 59 Lulu J. Smith South Davis 573 395 69 Fuchsia Stringham Taylor 457 352 77 Ireta R. Matkin Timpanogos 342 233 68 Helen S. Walker Union 177 244 137 Josephine Hanks Wasatch 577 390 68 Lacy Swain Weber 565 369 65 Bertha Call Woodruff 368 222 60 Clara Griggs 792 WARD Acequia Adams Alameda Baker Balboa Baldwin Park Bear River Beaver Creek Belle Fourche, S. D. Belfrey Bench Box Elder 2nd Box Elder 5th Burley Ist Burlingame Cache Centerville lst Central Park Chandler Cleveland Compton Corinne Cowley Croydon Davis Diamond City Dimond Draper Ist Eden 8th Elko, Nevada Elmhurst Emerson Ensign Evans Branch First First First 14th 4th 4th Galesburg, III. Gilbert Glendale Glines Grace Ist Grace 2nd Groveland Hagerman Harper Hayward Hazelton Heber Heber 3rd Holbrook Honeyville RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE WARDS 100% AND OVER STAKE Enroll. Los Angeles 80 San Francisco. E San Bernardino 31 Box Elder 74 No. Idaho Falls 38 Western States Mission 8 Big Horn 12 Bannock 17 Box Elder 80 Box Elder 74 Burley 52 San Francisco rT Teton 14 So. Davis 52 Grant 60 Maricopa 43 Bannock 24 Los Angeles 37 Box Elder 35 Big Horn 132 Morgan 16 Uintah 35 Lethbridge 12 Oakland 63 East Jordan 44 Ogden 34 Liberty 45 California Mission 24 Oakland 40 Highland 132 Ensign 84 Box Elder 16 Boise 56 Liberty 90 Union 35 Mt. Ogden 76 Cache 142 Ogden 101 Northern States Mission 9 Maricopa 26 Maricopa 15 Uintah 30 Bannock 50 Bannock 32 Blackfoot 52 Blaine 33 Box Elder 22 Oakland 2l Minidoka 28 Snowflake 15 Wasatch 98 Curlew 21 Box Elder 60 No. Sub. 34 86 31 63 33 99 38 % Magazine Agent 100 Ella Harrison 108 Carrie Ainge 107 Augusta Strong 191 Nettie Shurtliff 100 Frederikka Duffner 106 Pearl Vincent 134 Abby G. Jensen 100 Wanda Willes 100 Sadie Meredith 117 Eva J. Moore Mary Yates 112 Elsie Hubbard 150 Sarah H. Horsley 126 Christa Woodland 104 Sylvia H. Barlow 107 Ruth Bentley 121 Grace E. Higley 106 Ella Williams 115 Agnes Adamson 100 Faye McGaughey 104 Janice Andreasen 103 Henney S. Thomas 123 Annie Gilbert 100 Sarah Simmons 100 Althea Branch 100 Alice Garr 125 Elsie R. Perry 103 Rilla Calvert 111 Bertha Andrus 118 Eva Hogge 118 Abbie Jorgensen 170 Blanche S. Jones 100 Cora Perkins 101 Annabel Wallace 102 Elsie S. Bailey 125 Gertrude Iverson 107 Addie B. Dawson 126 Janet Kirton 186 Emma Stringham 103 Eliza J. Watts 100 Alvena Carlson 115 Mildred Loughran 111 Sophie Grady 100 Betty Follett 104 Julia S. Kremer 103 Estella Gregory 100 Anna King 106 Ruth Smart 110 Zina E. Barrus 121 Emma Penfold 105 Zilla Harper 110 Ruth W. Raddon 100 Mae Boden 127 Elva Shelley 116 Annie K. Moulton 115 Fern A. Willie 133 Paullie T. Boothe Minidoka Oakland Union 34 29 33 Logandale Lomita Long Beach Lovell Malta Manchester Mapleton Marion Martinez Maywood Mesa Ist Mesa 2nd Mesa 3rd Mesa 4th Midvale 2nd Milford Miller Milo Milwaukee Mission Mound Valley Mt. Glenn Naples Nibley Park Oakland Omaha, Neb. Pacheco Pella Perry Spencer Phoenix lst Phoenix 2nd Pine Pleasant Grove 2nd Pleasant View Pocatello 2nd Portage Preston 2nd Preston 5th Provo 4th Redlands Rexburg Ist Rexburg 2nd Rexburg 3rd Richards Richmond Richville Riverside LESSON DEPARTMENT WARDS 100% AND OVER (Continued) STAKE Union Uintah Bannock Uintah Liberty Maricopa Bear Lake Liberty Moapa Los Angeles Los Angeles Big Horn Raft River Los Angeles Franklin Cassia Oakland Los Angeles Maricopa Maricopa Maricopa Maricopa East Jordan Beaver Grant No. Idaho Falls Northern States Mission San I'rancisco Bannock Union Uintah Granite Oakland Western States Mission Juarez Burley Box Elder Oquirrh Maricopa Maricopa Maricopa Timpanogos Ogden Pocatello Malad Franklin Franklin Utah San Bernardino Rexburg Rexburg Rexburg Granite Oakland Morgan Blackfoot Enroll. 15 39 22 36 118 34 33 74 28 17 136 No. Sub. 30 43 24 67 118 35 38 77 28 17 140 95 67 40 22 29 25 34 92 91 61 69 80 53 114 52 % 200 793 Magazine Agent Mattie Westenscow Rebecca Stewart Amanda Bassett Grace Lambert Christina V. Wilson Lillie C. Rollins Sarah Hymas Irene Brain Lillian Adams Minnie Haynes Effie Jenson LaPrele Lynn Daphne Despain Alice O. Neddo Ada Neville Cora Knapp Hattie N. Tolman Frieda Brey M. H. Brampton Sarah Shumway Hazel Larson Pearl Knight Ella Stewart Florence Sjoblom Mary McColly Maud Anderson Lila Gildea Marie Meyer Lena Klein Ruth McGregor Helen Zaugg Lucy Gardiner Nellie P. Elzinga Mary Kay Irene Willey Margaret Cluff Lourinda R. Duke Selma Thorne Rebecca Herzog Kate Campbell Thressa Price Ina Hunt Helen S. Walker Diana Johns Laney Windsor Abbie K. Robinson Rachael K. Gibbs Stella Paton Azuba G. Alder Elsie S. Miller Ellen Bowen Nellie Roylance Mary E. Hunt Emily Ricks Jennie Hardy Blanche Harmon Nona Dickson Martha La Rocque 794 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE WARDS 100% AND OVER (Continued) WARD STAKE Enroll. No. Sub. %G Magazine Agent Salem Rexburg 56 58 104 B. Rindleshbacher Samaria Malad 52 52 100 Jennie Peterson Sandy 2nd East Jordan 58 70 120 Mable Fritz San Jose San Francisco +.. 100 Anna Christen 2nd Boise 95 95 100 Della P. Means 2nd Union 43 44 102 Emily Rendel 17th Mt. Ogden 83 128 154 Mattie Vogel North Central Sioux Falls, S. D. States Mission 7 7 100 Agnes Anderson 16th Salt Lake 70 71 101 Lula Gillespie 6th Ogden 62 115 185 Maud Faris Sublett Raft River 12 12 100 Sylvia Olsen Sunset San Francisco ™ ra 100 Millie Johnson Tempe Maricopa 34 34 100 Lauvon Cone Timpanogos Sharon 43 46 107 Grace Hansen Torrence Los Angeles 21 21 100 Helen Jordan 12-13th Ensign 96 98 102 Alma Erickson 20th Ensign 99 104 105 Edna C. Langton 20th Ogden 75 90 102 Mattie Manning 31st Liberty 81 81 100 Dorothy Bushnell 2lst Ensign 90 95 106 Mary H. Jordon 27th Ensign 88 91 103 Nora Sparks Twin Groves Yellowstone 37 39 106 Selina Richards Uintah Mt. Ogden 15 21 140 Mae Griz Bybee Unity Burley 40 47 118 Jane R. Robinson University Ensign 47 54 115 Emma F. Teudt Northern States University Mission 30 50 167 Anna Anderson Vallejo Oakland 18 18 100 Ida Fullen Vernal Ist Uintah 75 106 133 Lena Collier Vernal 2nd Uintah 75 75 100 Clara L. Bartlett Washakee* Malad 28 8 100 Margaret Parry Northern States West Allis, Wis. Mission 15 15 100 Mary Laack West Bountiful So. Davis 52 53 104 Etta B. Telford Whitney Franklin 48 55 115 Olive Weaver Williams Bannock 20 21 105 Martha Kingsford Winnemucca, Nev. Calif. Mission 22 16 138 Melba Parry WARDS 75% AND UP TO 100% WARD STAKE Enroll. No. Sub. % Magazine Agent American Fork 4th Alpine 60 45 75 Annie Hansen Antimony Garfield 47 36 77 Mary K. Riddle Ashley Uintah 30 25 83 Huldah Westover Banida Oneida 21 19 90 Myra Miles Belvedere Los Angeles 64 51 80 Perciila Lundeen Bountiful lst So. Davis 109 85 78 Elizabeth M. Wood Bountiful 2nd So. Davis 104 & 80 Annie C. Carr Box Elder 3rd Box Elder 100 87 87 Agnes Stander Burton Rexburg 42 34 80 Florence Siepert Calgary Lethbridge 37 31 81 Helen Faulkner Cedarville Franklin 10 9 90 May Neuenswander Center Wasatch 22 20 91 Cherry Creek Malad 24 19 79 Merle Moon Chester Yellowstone 38 32 83 Mattie Winters North Central Although Washakie Ward, Malad Stake, has 25 enrolled, this is a Lamanite Ward, and there are only 8 who read English, all of whom subscribe for the magazint, so we feel they deserve a rating of 100%. WARD Chinook, Mont. Chuichupa Coltman Detroit Draper 2nd Dublan 18th 18th El Paso Emigration Evanston 5th Fish Haven Ist Ist Flowell 4th 11th Glenco Glendale Garden City Hanksville Herriman Hillcrest Holbrook Hooper Huntington Park Huntsville Jameston Joseph City Juarez Laketown Lark Linden Lindon Littlefield Logan Square Lyman Magrath lst Magrath 2nd Malad lst Manavu Merrill! Milton Muncie Branch 19th 9th 9th Osgood Ovid Paris lst Paris 2nd Paul Plano Pleasant View Pittsburg Pocatello lst LESSON DEPARTMENT STAKE States Mission Juarez No. Idaho Falls Northern States Mission East Jordan Juarez Ensign Mt. Ogden St. Joseph Liberty Woodruff Cache Bear Lake Cassia Weber Millard Cassia Weber Oneida Oneida Bear Lake Wayne West Jordan Grant Snowflake Weber Los Angeles Ogden Shelley Snowflake Juarez Bear Lake West Jordan Snowflake Timpanogos Moapa; Northern States Mission Rexburg Taylor Taylor Malad Utah Portneuf Morgan Northern States Mission Salt Lake Cache Liberty No. Idaho Falls Bear Lake Bear Lake Bear Lake Minidoka Rexburg Malad Oakland Pocatello Enroll. No. Sub. % 28 21 75 34 26 76 50 38 76 41 37 90 62 53 85 41 38 92 132 103 78 98 75 77 53 40 75 90 68 76 166 157 95 143 136 95 36 28 78 40 31 78 77 61 79 24 18 75 28 23 82 71 63 89 22 19 86 12 9 75 31 24 77 23 18 78 47 37 79 90 71 79 35 27 77 66 52 79 89 75 84 69 60 87 36 29 81 52 46 89 54 45 83 36 27 75 19 17 89 10 9 90 56 42 75 16 13 81 55 45 82 42 33 79 85 76 89 85 64 75 57 46 81 100 80 80 8 6 75 16 12 75 9 10 90 44 33 75 89 75 84 55 44 80 58 56 97 27 21 78 55 42 76 48 46 96 40 33 83 47 40 83 24 19 79 20 18 90 114 97 85 795 Magazine Agent WARDS 75% AND UP TO 100% (Continued) Della Lott Cristin Davis Lola Hudman Ruth Dorth Helga Ennis Bernice Coon Iverne Wallace Netta Burton Winifred R. Turley Ida Von Nordeck Edith Davis Nora Knight Winnie Smith Netta Martindale Ida Baker Rozilpha Allen Josephine Gorringe Pearl Dransfield Clara Kellar Mrs. Ray Webster Ella Satterthwaite Vona Wells E. F. Butterfield Viola Cahoon Ann G. Thomas Florence Naisbitt Irene Andrus Marie Madsen Afton Harker Alta Westover Allie Spilsbury Emma W. Cheney Virginia Seal Eta C. Rogers Nettie Mecham Marie Leavitt Caroline Granshaw Mary M. Robison Mary Nelson Rosly Henderson Mary Mills Marie Bennett Anna Morris Amy Randall Theresa Coffman Elizabeth Crowford Claris Felix Louise Young Blanch Hill Viola Johnson Cathrine Innes Susan Law Emily Rich S. A. Perrenound Mary Bailey Catherine O'Brien Marie Forrest 796 WARD Pocatello 6th Preston Ist Provo lst Provo 2nd Provo 6th Racine Raymond lst Raymond 2nd Reynolds River Heights Riverton Ist Roy St. Charles San Francisco Scipio 2nd South Gate Sugar Ist Sugar 2nd 10th Thatcher Tyrells Lake Union Vermont 'Wandamere Wapello West Thomas Wilford Willard Windsor RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE WARDS 75% AND UP TO 100% (Continued) STAKE Enroll. Pocatello 68 Franklin 107 Utah 104 Utah 147 Utah 90 Northern States Mission 11 Taylor 81 Taylor 75 Malad 12 Logan 36 West Jordan 46 Weber 51 Bear Lake 50 San Francisco a Millard 117 Sevier 76 Los Angeles 42 Rexburg 59 Rexburg 35 Liberty 95 Bannock 43 Taylor 17 Union 38 Los Angeles 40 Grant 75 Blackfoot 47 Blackfoot 32 Yellowstone 44 Box Elder 9] Timpanogos 72 No. Sub. Sf 90 79 118 73 10 65 71 69 54 Yo 78 84 76 80 81 Magazine Agent Freida Myers Isabelle Jensen Bertha Weight Cleo Thatcher Zina Seamount Florence Boy Fannie C. Litchfield Ruth Salmon Mabel J. Smith Edla Anderson Judith Morgan Lucinda Patterson Alice Rich Gerda Anderson Maxine Robins Lizzie Magleby Naomi Whale Irene Pinnock Florence Bean Maud Hoyt Ethel L. Smith Bertha M. Shields Rose Kofford Coral Iversen Jane S. Davidson Margaret Hancock Mable Scott Myrtle Romrell Lizzie Dial Mary B. Hales To the following Sisters will be awarded next June bound volumes of The Relief Society Magazine for having secured the highest percentage on magazine subscriptions: WARD Baker Elko, Nevada First -Imbler LaPoint Malta Milwaukee N. S. B Preston 5th Provo 4th 17th 6th STAKE Enroll. Union 33 Calif. Mission 24 Union 35 Union 15 Uintah 36 Raft River 40 Northern States Mission 29 Franklin 25 Utah 97 Mt. Ogden 83 No. Sub. 63 41 65 30 67 67 54 44 128 115 Yo 191 170 186 200 186 168 186 176 154 154 185 Magazine Agent Nettie Shurtliff Blanche S. Jones Emma Stringham Mattie Westenscow Grace Lambert Alice O. Neddo Marie Meyer Azuba G. Alder Elsie S. Miller Mattie Vogel Maud Faris Ogden 62 LESSON DEPARTMENT 797 GIFTS By E. J. Gardiner HE holiday season is approaching and with it, the suggestion of gifts. On that first Christmas, the wise men traveled far to lay at the feet of their King gifts of gold, of farnkincense and myrrh. This, as a token of great homage and tribute to One they loved and revered. Since that time, this has been added upon and in fulfillment of the angels' song of "Peace—Good-will to men" has come to include many we hold most dear. As Relief Society members, wishing to extend the joys of the Christmas season, what could bring more lasting joy and peace into the life of a friend than a subscription to our Relief Society Magazine? Coming into the home each month with its wealth of spiritual uplift and literary value, it will perpetuate through the year the real spirit of Christmas. To the shut-in, to a neighbor, to an absent daughter or missionary son, let us, as Relief Society mothers extend in this tangible way our wish for joy and peace for Christmas and through the New Year. L Mul ' | Weal A e Your Nazareth By Eleanor W. Schow Beautiful Mother Mary, Of virginal purity, Were you well content That your life was spent In Nazareth of Galilee? When the wise men bowed in worship O'er the form of your Child divine, Did a wistful thought roam To your Nazareth home Unblessed by the great star's shine? As you cuddled unto your bosom This holy and priceless gem, In your gentleness mild Did you think of the Child As a gift from your heart to them? When you found Him there in the. Temple So perfect of mind and limb, Did you dream of a day When for them He would pray And they would rejoice in Him? When He spoke to them of His mission And of victories to be won, Did you feel cast down When your loved home town Rejected your peerless Son? When He turned to depart from Nazareth, Was your heart filled with grief that morn? Could you love them true Though they cast at you Side-glances of half veiled scorn? When you knew they would never heed Him, Nor come at His loving call, Did you weep that day, Or did you pray For the souls of your neighbors all? Did you take up your life without Him Nor give them a word of blame? Did you do them good In all that you could And live happily in His name? Oh Mary, dear Mother Mary, This do I learn from you: Keep your soul at peace; Let your love increase, Whatever your Nazareth be. Nearly Half a Century of Service--The L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE is proud of its long record of service to the young men and women of the Intermountain Territory. In passing another milestone in its history, November 15, the College re-dedicates itself to the high ideals of the men who founded it. I. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City Preserve Your Magazines by having them permanently bound a "THERE is a vast amount of valuable reference material in your Relief Society Magazine. You can preserve this material permanently and in attractive book form by having your volumes bound. SPECIAL RATE FOR QUANTITIES The Deseret News Press Pioneer Printers, Binders, Rulers When Buying Mention Relief Society Magasine 70 North Main Street 29 Richards St. Wasatch 1812 Salt Lake City, Utah 'Tes, §, tree, my Life Insurance is BENEFICIAL — THE VERY BEST INVESTMENT | HAVE, EVER MADE Participating Insurance at Low Non-Participating Rates! You Save Safely! Throughout the storm of the depression of the Beneficial Life has continued its forward arch with a healthy increase each year! TODAY—8=98.50% of its total assets are set aside for the benefit and protection of policyholders. Beneficial Life gives you Financial STABILITY linked with PROPER MANAGEMENT administered by MEN OF INTEGRITY which restuls in constant leadership! These fats make Beneficial Life insurance outstanding. HEBER G. GRANT, PRESIDENT & DIRECTOR REUBEN CLARK JR.,  VICE -PRES, & Dir, DAVID O. Mc KAY, 2np VICE-PRES. & DIR, GEO J CANNON EXECUTIVE Vice PRES. & Dir AXEL B. C. OHLSON SECKETARY & DIRECTOR LEO EL: ENROSE ASST SECRETARY EUGENE WATKINS, WALDO M. ANDERSEN, AGENCY SUPERVISOR DR. CALDERWOOD MEDICAL DIRECTOR ASHBY BOYLE ATTORNEY Jos. FIELDING SMITH DIRECTOR E. T, RALPHS DIRECTOR STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN, DIRECTOR
