The Volume XX RELIEF SOCIETY Magazine JANUARY, 1933 No. 1
The year is going, Ring out the false, Ring out the old, ring in the new, Ring, happy bells across the snow; let him go; ring in the true. Ring in the valiant man and free, The larger heart, the kindlier hand; Ring out the darkness of the land, Ring in the Christ that is to be. —Tennyson.
Mitchell Special on Luxurious reductions on all our Waves, 2 shampoos and 2 finger waves with each Permanent.
BEAUTY Sugarhouse
L. D. S. GARMENTS, CUTLER VALUES
No. 64 Light Med. Wt. Bleached Double Back........................................1.19 No. 62 Med. Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back.......................................1.29 No. 27 50% Med. Wt. Wool.......................................................2.85
In ordering garments please state if for men or women, and if old or new styles are wanted, also state bust, height and weight of person. Marking 15c. Postage prepaid. Special—When you order three pairs of garments at one time we allow you a 15% discount on third pair only.
SALT LAKE CITY 36 So Main UTAH
IN the spirit of appreciation for past business, we extend to our many friends best wishes for the New Year, and pledge ourselves anew to maintain the high standard of cooperation with our clients that has enabled us to serve an ever widening circle of buyers of high grade printing and binding. No matter how small or how large your printing or binding order may be, it will receive prompt and courteous attention, and our charges will be as low as only the most up-to-date methods and equipment can make them.
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 RICHARDS STREET
Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
No. 68 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Cotton.................................................$ .75 No. 74 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Fine Lisle.............................................1.00 No. 56 Hvy. Wt. Unbleached Double Back......................................1.49 Super Non-Run Rayon Short Sleeve and Knee Length..........................1.19
Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. 20 JANUARY, 1933 No. 1
CONTENTS
Eventide Among the Aspen Groves.............................................Frontispiece Pageantry of the New Year...........................................Isabelle Ruby Owen 1 Elizabeth Fry, Quaker Prison Reformer..........................Arthur L. Beeley 3 Happiness..........................................................Ella J. Coulam 8 Your Home Beautiful.........................................Mabel Margaret Luke 9 Chicago's 1933 World's Fair........................................................ 13 Sonnet of Loneliness..........................................Rosannah Cannon 14 Portrait of Rosannah Cannon.................................................... 15 Utah State Training School.....................................Dr. H. H. Ramsey 16 True Beaver................................................Magdalene C. Stephens 20 The Salt of the Earth......................................Lella Marler Hoggan 21 The Children's Bureau, its Purpose and Workings........Anna Laura Stohl Cannon 25 Range from Stewart Ranger Station.................................................. 28 A Message to the Relief Society................................Ezra C. Dalby 29 Have You Done All You Could?...................................Julina B. Green 32 A Community Plan for the Prevention of Delinquency..............Amy W. Evans 33 Happenings...................................................Annie Wells Cannon 35 Preparing the Meal of Today.................................Lucy Rose Middleton 36 Soul Needs..................................................Helen M. Livingston 38 Notes to the Field............................................................. 39 Notes from the Field........................................................... 42 Conference-Conventions......................................................... 47 Editorial—Greeting............................................................. 48 B. Y. U. At Provo............................................................. 49 Child Labor Day............................................................... 49 Greater Security in Automobile Driving......................................... 50 Amanda McEwan Knight Called Home.............................................. 51 The Passing of Professor George Careless....................................... 51 "Thunder Cave"................................................................ 51 Lesson Department............................................................. 52 Singing Mothers...........................................Charlotte Owen Sackett 67 A Woman Who Has Learned How to Live............................Sadie Adamson 68
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3123
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.
L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear:
No. 1 New style, ribbed light wet. Mercerized. An excellent number.....................$1.00 No. 2 Old style, ribbed light wet. Cotton, our standard garment.....................1.10 No. 3 Ribbed med. wet. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number. Men's new or old style....1.25 No. 4 Ribbed heavy wet. Unbleached cotton double back number. Men's new or old style....1.50 No. 65 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number. Men's new or old style..2.50 No. 6 Light weight garment. Ladies' new style. Silk Stripe.........................95 No. 7 Light weight Spring and Autumn garment. Men only...........................1.00 No. 8 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only..........................1.00 No. 9 Medium wet. Silk for men and women, new style only. Non-Run................1.50
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, short legs and sleeves or ankle length legs, are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid on orders accompanied by money order. Special discount to missionaries.
Our Jack Frost Blankets are made of Utah Wool and Utah Labor Write for Prices
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL
Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid.
472 Lt. Wt. Cotton $ .75 464 Fine Ribbed Cotton .95 144 Spring Needle, Combed Cotton 1.00 208 Med. Wt. Cotton. Ecru or White 1.85 228 Med. Wt. Rayon Striped 1.35 252 Med. Wt. Firm Knit Cotton 1.45 708 Med. Wt. Rayon Striped. Ecru 2.00 527 Ray. Plated Comb. Cotton. Med. Wt. 2.00
98 Special Rayon, Ladies' $1.25 306 Run Resisting Rayon 1.75 752 Hvy. Cotton. Db. Bk., Ecru or White 1.75 994 Unbleached Cotton. Extra Hvy. 2.00 1118 Med. Hvy. Wool & Cotton., Mixed 3.00
BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
BLUE BLAZE COAL CO. SALT LAKE CITY
Order From Your Local Dealer
Attention--- RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS!
Relief Society has made an excellent record in securing signatures for the National Council of Women. The quota is not complete, however. If any ward or stake can get more signatures kindly communicate with Relief Society General Office, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Plan Now FOR January 3
Prepare for a Job with a Future
Our Winter Term begins January 3, offering Stenographic, Secretarial, Bookkeeping, Accounting, Business Administration and Civil Service courses. Prepare now for preference when business resumes normal activity. Resolve to start the New Year with a definite program. Call or write our office for complete information on short time required, low cost and assistance provided in securing positions.
L. D. S. Business College Was. 1812
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Pageantry of the New Year By Isabelle Ruby Owen
Oh—pageant of beauty! Oh wonderful world! The New Year is arisen With banners unfurled.
With procession of splendor, On swift-moving wings, She beckons us onward To high-purposed things.
She crieth surcease Of man's wrong against man; To the world crieth "Peace— Good will! 'Tis God's plan."
Her feet are not laggard, They move like swift tide. Choice gifts are her cargo— She scatters them wide.
Her light shines as beacons Guiding ships safe to shore; Life's goal will she anchor In earth's sheltered moor.
Life seemeth the sweeter For her cherubic charms, Oh hasten to meet her With welcoming arms.
Glen E. Perrins EVENTIDE AMONG THE ASPEN GROVES
The Relief Society Magazine VOL. XX JANUARY, 1933 No. 1
Elizabeth Fry, Quaker Prison Reformer By Arthur L. Beeley
"I was sick and ye visited me: I was in prison and ye came unto me."—Matt. 25:36.
AS this sketch is being written, two Southern prison officials are being tried for the murder of a youth who died recently in a "sweat-box" in a prison camp in Florida. The case, by no means an isolated one, has focussed our attention again on the cruel practices still existing in many American prisons. So that a brief discussion of the life and work of Elizabeth Fry, one of the most influential of all prison reformers and the most notable one of her sex, is therefore timely. Furthermore, our interest in the Quakers and their influence is keener than usual just now because of the fact that exactly two hundred and fifty years ago William Penn, a leading Quaker, sailed for America in quest of religious freedom; to establish and govern a colony without armies; to administer justice without oaths, and to subdue the Indians by kindness and square dealing.
IN order to understand and appreciate the work of Elizabeth Fry let us first consider the Quaker pattern of life which produced her. There is a popular view, held by most people, that the Quakers are distinguished chiefly by their puritanical dress, their biblical manner of speech ("thee," "thou," "thy," etc.), and their practice of worshiping in silence. These traits, however, are only surface differences. Much more fundamental are their religious beliefs and their moral scruples. From the outset the Quakers have insisted that the religious life can be achieved without the aid of sacrament or ceremonial, and that Christian fellowship demands no formal creed. They hold, too, that a spiritual experience is an individual affair, a matter of "direct access to God." It is therefore best promoted without priestly interference or the aid of a paid ministry. This personal nature of religious experience logically gave women an equal place with men in Quaker worship and later in their church organization. Due to their vigorous insistence that Christian doctrine should bear tangible fruit in Christian character and that salvation can be achieved in this life, not alone in the hereafter, the Quakers have always been keenly interested in the problems arising out of human association. They have opposed war and slavery, for example, and have promoted education and the more important philanthropic interests of their times.
While Quakerism began with George Fox, the son of a weaver, born at Fenny Drayton in Leicestershire in 1624, the movement itself, however, is largely one of the many by-products of the Reformation, that period of intense religious feeling in Europe which resulted in the establishment of various churches "protestant" to the Church at Rome. It was also about this time that the Authorized Version of the Bible was completed and everywhere became the subject of thought and discussion. In this atmosphere, surcharged with religious and political controversy, young Fox observed that in spite of much talk about religion there was little, if any, improvement in the lives of people. At the age of twenty-four he began to preach repentance, calling men away from forms and ceremonies and empty profession to "the spirit of truth in the inward parts." Fox soon attracted followers and his movement grew rapidly. With this growth the Quaker system of peculiar beliefs and practices began to take definite shape. Many of these beliefs were not wholly original with them, yet they were nowhere subscribed to in toto by any other sect. It was their indulgence in these practices and beliefs that brought them into conflict with the other churches and particularly with the crown, and was responsible for their later persecution. By this time they became definitely known as "Quakers," because of the marked physical expression of their religious emotions. The persecution of the Quakers during this period was bitter and malicious. They were accused of being Jesuits because they refused to take the oath abjuring the Pope. They were even prosecuted under the Blasphemy Acts. Their refusal to take the oath of allegiance to the Crown, their unwillingness to go to "church," their refusal to join the militia and to pay tithes, etc., resulted in their wholesale imprisonment and punishment. Hundreds of them were dispossessed of their property and many of them were transported to penal colonies. During the reign of Charles II, for instance, over four thousand Quakers were imprisoned. Four hundred of them, it is said, died in prison and hundreds of others died from violence at the hands of their persecutors. These facts undoubtedly explain why The Society of Friends, as the Quakers are correctly called, have in later years taken an active part in prison reform all over the world.
IT is a sociological truth that the survival of any social group depends upon the nature and combination of its distinctive folkways. These unique customs, however, are not always rational or important, at least judged by the standards of another group. The history of Quakerism furnishes ample proof of this fact. In the Quaker pattern, for instance, the aversion to the oath is very prominent. Like many another sect they find a scriptural basis for their peculiar belief. In this case they cite Matthew 5:34 which enjoins us to "swear not at all." Perhaps, too, the great amount of perjury in the law courts at the time justified their scruples in this regard. However we may disagree as to the importance of the matter, we are forced to admit the logic of their position, that to enforce truth-telling by means of an oath tends to create a double standard of truth-telling. The Quaker aversion to war, while sometimes fanatical, is much more justifiable. Hundreds of Quaker pacifists, it will be remembered, were imprisoned during the World War for refusing to bear arms. Again, their logic is flawless. They hold war is both "the outcome and the cause of ambition, pride, greed, hate and everything that is opposed to the mind of Christ; and that no end to be attained can justify the use of such means." The universal acceptance of this doctrine by the great nations of the western world would undoubtedly put an end to all war. With the decline of persecution the Quakers turned their attention to education, philanthropy and social reform. They abandoned their hostility to art and music and gave up their peculiar speech and dress. In addition to prison reform they have been active in promoting the improved care of the insane. The famous Retreat at York, for instance, was established in 1795 by William Tuke, a Quaker tea-merchant. The Quakers were also actively opposed to slavery. The Friends of Germantown, Pennsylvania in 1688, for instance, were the first religious group of any kind to protest against slavery. Elbert Hubbard once characterized Quakerism as "a protest against an idle, vain, voluptuous and selfish life. It is the natural recoil from insincerity, vanity and gourmandism which, growing glaringly offensive, causes these certain men and women to 'come-out' and stand for plain living and high thinking." While the Society of Friends is still a comparatively small sect, it nevertheless includes in its ranks some of the best-educated and many of the most socially-minded persons of our time. As a body of religious worshipers, Quakerism is undoubtedly on the decline, but as "an atmosphere, a method of approaching questions, a habit and attitude of mind," as Brayshaw puts it, it is by no means decadent.
SUCH was the culture pattern which, a century after Fox, produced the Gurneys, a typical Quaker family. Elizabeth, born in 1780, was the third daughter of John Gurney, a banker of Norwich. In her youth she joined in the social life of her time and, somewhat contrary to Quaker tradition, enjoyed music, dancing and pretty clothes. At the age of eighteen she experienced a sort of right-about-face, religiously. As a result of the preaching of an American Friend, Savery, and her own observations of public recreation in London, she definitely renounced "the pleasures of the world" and became quite puritanical. At nineteen years of age she established a Sunday school for village children at Earlham, where she read the scriptures and gave moral instruction. At twenty she married Joseph Fry, a merchant of some means, and settled in London. While the first ten years of her married life were given over largely to the rearing of her many children, she nevertheless spent much time and energy in religious work. Upon the death of her father, when she was twenty-nine, she became deeply moved to engage in the ministry, having experienced, as she put it, "the incomings of joy, love and peace."
IT was customary with the Quakers, as with other religious sects at this time, to make friendly visits to prisons. In 1813, two Friends, Stephen Grellet and William Forster, while visiting that famous bastille, Newgate, had observed the desperate condition of the women imprisoned there. It was their appeal to Elizabeth Fry, on behalf of these unfortunate creatures, that started her on her career of prison reform in the interest of the woman offender. Newgate at this time was the most celebrated of all English prisons. It was the catch-all for debtors, felons, and unconvicted alike. Its moral influence was particularly bad because all types were thrown together in large rooms, there being no system of separate cells, such as most prisons use today. It was in such a prison that Mrs. Fry began her work. Upon her first visit she found about three hundred women, many of them with their children, huddled together in two wards and two cells. There was no form of occupation, except begging. There were no bed clothes or night clothes, and all the women slept on the floor. They lived, cooked and washed in the same rooms. With the proceeds of begging, solicited through the gratings, many of the women bought liquor which, strangely enough, could be purchased from the prison "tap." Lawlessness inside the prison was so rife that the governor himself never went in alone. Visitors were always advised to leave their watches and money behind.
Elizabeth Fry set herself the immediate task of finding suitable clothing for the women, many of whom were half-naked. She paid regular visits to the prison and proposed the establishment of a school, a project which was accepted with avidity by the prisoners but only reluctantly by the management. While reading of the scriptures formed the basis of her educational work, the personal and impressive influence of Mrs. Fry was, no doubt, the real cause of her quick success. At this point her latent genius for organization and cooperation showed itself. She was able to interest many other women in her prison work, with the result that in 1816 an Association for the Improvement of Female Offenders in Newgate was founded. Under the aegis of this Association the improvement of conditions at Newgate went forward rapidly and a paid matron was soon appointed. Fresh from her success at Newgate, Mrs. Fry visited many of the other prisons in England, proffering advice on the management of women offenders and organizing local associations to carry on the work. An especially acute problem which she solved with characteristic success, about this time, was the improvement in the care of female felons en route to the penal colonies in Australia. It was customary in those days for convicted persons of both sexes to be "transported" by a licensed ship-owner who reimbursed himself for the cost of such transportation by virtually selling the convicts to anyone in these penal colonies who wanted their services. The conditions under which these journeys were made can best be imagined when it is remembered that the trip took from three to six months in sailing vessels. The reports of these successes traveled rapidly, with the result that Mrs. Fry was favorably—sometimes fearfully—received wherever she went. Just as John Howard, pioneer prison reformer, had done before, and as our own Dorothea Dix did later for the insane, Elizabeth Fry traveled widely on the Continent of Europe, often upon the invitation of a king or a queen, in pursuit of her one dramatic objective, namely, the welfare of the female offender. In the course of these journeys, interrupted as they were by domestic difficulties and her husband's bankruptcy, she visited Scotland, Germany, France, Holland and Denmark. Within eight years after her work began at Newgate, seventeen associations for the improvement of female offenders had been established in Great Britain and four in Europe.
DURING these years of intensive effort, Mrs. Fry was evolving what now may be regarded as certain fundamental principles of penology. Before a Committee of the House of Commons in 1818, she stated them briefly: 1, the classification of offenders according to age, sex and offense; 2, the provision of self-respecting work for all prisoners; 3, the supervision of female offenders by female officers; 4, systematic religious instruction. Whatever may be our doubts about the last-named of these principles, no one will doubt the validity of the first three, even today. The soundness of her views on these subjects and the clarity of their expression before the parliamentary committee, a hundred years ago, are historically significant. Her ideas regarding the "congregate" plan, for instance, are summed up tersely in her own words, as follows: "I believe the moral discipline of a prison can never be complete while they (the prisoners) are allowed to sleep together in one room. If I may be allowed to state it, I should prefer a prison where women were allowed to work together in companies, under proper superintendence, to have their meals together under proper superintendence, and their recreation also; but I would always have them separated in the night; I believe it would conduce to the health of body and mind. Their being in companies during the day, tends, under proper regulations, to the advancement of principle and industry, for it affords a stimulus. I should think solitary confinement proper only in very atrocious cases. I would divide my women for a few weeks till I knew what they were." Perhaps the most far-sighted of all her penological proposals has to do with the difficult problem of prison labor. She said: "My idea with regard to the employment of women is that it should be a regular thing, considering that there are so many to provide for. There is the army and the navy, and so many things required for them: why should not government make use of the prisoners? But I consider it of the utmost importance, and quite indispensable for the good conduct of such institutions, that the prisoners should have part of the earnings of their work for their own use; a part they might be allowed to take for tea, sugar, etc., but a part should be laid by, that there may be some provision for them when they leave the prison, without their returning to their immoral practices. * * *" No sounder policies of prison administration have ever been advanced by anyone in the last five hundred years. Even today, in the United States, we have not yet generally adopted the practice of paying prisoners a wage. We do lip-service to the principle, to be sure, but that is all.
TO attempt an appraisal of the life and labors of Elizabeth Fry is difficult and perhaps unnecessary. Suffice it to say that she was one of the soundest and most practical prison reformers of our time. She demonstrated also that it is possible for a woman to play her part in the great humanitarian work of the world without neglecting her home and children. She proved, too, that in promoting the interests of women it is not necessary to develop a hatred for and bitterness towards the male of the species. She was a credit to her sex.
Happiness By Ella J. Coulam
I go in search of happiness, I hunt and cannot find; It always seems to slip away Before or just behind.
I think to-morrow it will come, Oh! Surely it is near, But each day seems to have its share Of trouble, toil and fear.
So now I'm going to settle down And cease the world to roam, For here within my very walls Is happiness at home.
Your Home Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke
HOME is one of the most loved words in the English language. Originally it meant merely an abode, but down through the ages it has gained a new meaning—"an endeared dwelling," "a congenial abiding place." And home should be more than a place to live in—where we eat and sleep. It should be a haven for the weary, a retreat for those vexed by life's problems. From the home must come the incentive for better living, for higher ideals. Home should be a place where one can live comfortably, satisfyingly and happily.
Your home is an index of your character, a reflection of your personality. It is the background, the setting, for the play called "Family Life." Is it the right setting for your family? Home is what you make it—it expresses you. I have always thought it was too bad when a story ended, "And they lived happily ever after." What an opportunity the author misses. He might go into detail of the romantic adventure of making the home in which they spent their lives "ever after." No matter if you live in a magnificent suburban home or in a humble farm cottage, your home may be lovely. It is your duty and privilege to make your home pleasant and attractive, to your family and your friends. You should greet your home with pride. Throughout the history of the world man has striven to translate his thoughts in terms of beauty. In primitive times this was evidenced in the crude decorations on the cave walls, in pottery and in weaving. The course of civilization is mirrored in the development of the home, and the beautiful things that are counted among the chief glories of civilization have come down to us through the centuries. In recent years home beautification has become a part of the life of most intelligent people. There has been such an astonishing revival of the national taste that an appreciation of the beautiful has come to be an accepted index to our culture. However, many people have the idea that to decorate their homes correctly involves vast sums of money. This is far from true, for example, it is no more expensive to paint a room in lovely, harmonizing colors than to have a dull, lifeless interior. Beauty and character can be expressed at a minimum of cost. A knowledge of the rules of interior decoration, rather than being expensive, will often prove of genuine economy. Expensive materials and furnishings may be overshadowed by simple and less expensive items more tastefully arranged. Let me illustrate. One may admire a piece of silk damask and buy it for some room in the home, although it may not fit there at all. Chintz or rep might have been very much more suitable and decorative, and certainly less expensive. We are not judged by the quantity, or value of our possessions, but by what these possessions show us to be.
AN attractive room never comes by accident. It is the happy result of thought and plan. There are certain fundamental principles that underly all good decoration which can easily be followed to obtain the effect desired. Always, remember, though, that to be truly your home there must be something of you in it. It is ever so much more satisfactory to plan one's own home than to follow someone else's ideas. Express your individuality; be original, not that to be different has any justification in itself, but originality in achieving a fresh and harmonious effect is welcome; and to do that you will not upset the fundamental laws of balance, scale, and proportion, movement, texture and unity. It is the purpose of these articles to help you secure a clearer understanding of these principles and the proper application of them in your efforts to realize your "dream home."
BALANCE is perhaps more important than any other one thing in securing an artistic result. Balance gives repose and restfulness. We might briefly define it as an agreeable distribution of emphasis. Most of us can recognize balance instinctively. For example, if we entered a room where all the tall and heavy pieces were at one end, we should feel as if it were tipping that way, that we would have to steady it. If there is an attraction of architectural or other features pulling in one direction there must be a compensating attraction somewhere else. If there isn't unrest will result. This equalizing of effect may be accomplished by color, value, and bulk. There are two kinds of balance—formal and occult. Strictly formal balance is where there are identical objects at equal distances on either side of a center line. Two windows, alike in size, and form, and exactly the same distance from a center fireplace would result in formal balance. Or two like chairs on either side of a bookcase or table; two candlesticks, and perhaps two other like objects on either side of a clock on a mantel, are other types of formal balance. This sort of balance is easiest to obtain, is satisfying to the eye and produces a sense of restfulness as well as dignity. However, when used too much it will result in stiffness and monotony. The other, or occult balance seems to be felt, to appeal to our sensitiveness. It is more subtle and provides variation and interest. For instance, if on one side of a fireplace we had a window and on the other only a plain wall, we should have an unbalanced condition. But if against the plain wall we put a table with a mirror above it we would have occult balance. This can be further illustrated in the case of two chairs of unequal size. Imagine that these chairs were put on a balancing board placed over a center article. If we put the larger nearer the center and the smaller at a greater distance from the center we would have balance. This works on the same principle as a see-saw. Balance can apply to color as well as bulk. Imagine that we placed two small walnut cabinets on either side of a center article. It would balance, of course. But suppose we painted one of the cabinets an ivory color. It would now be unbalanced. There is a difference in color value. We would have to add something to the lighter cabinet to equalize the attraction. If there is no center object, and you have two articles to place against a wall, put them at equal distances from an imaginary line, leaving a greater distance at the outside than between the articles to avoid stiffness. A good example of such an arrangement would be with twin beds.
WE have been considering only one wall, or one group. The matter becomes more involved when we have the entire room to consider. If we have a fireplace in the center of one wall and there is no architectural balance on the opposite wall, we would secure a balance if we put there such an article as a secretary-bookcase. To assure yourself that you have balanced your room, stand in the center, look at each wall, then turn and face the corner and look at it in connection with the adjoining wall. Then get the effect of the room as a whole. There are many interesting possibilities in balancing. Work some out for yourself by arranging and rearranging your furniture, the bric-a-brac on mantels and dressers, etc. Train yourself to recognize balance. Because scale and proportion are so closely associated in meaning, for our purpose we can consider them together. Proportion is the logical relationship of size between the several parts composing the whole, for instance, a chair might have a back that is too heavy in proportion to the size of the legs. Scale might be defined as a consistency of dimensions between the whole and its parts or between two or more objects. It includes the room and all objects placed within it. To illustrate: Into a small room we might introduce a number of pieces of furniture of massive size, which although in perfect scale with each other are out of scale with the room and therefore give it a crowded, choked appearance. Other concrete examples of the violation of scale are: hanging delicate curtains from heavy rods; or combining in the same room pieces of vigorous character with those of delicate line and feeling. The writer recently saw an example of this sort. Over a dainty mahogany table hung a huge picture, having a wide, gilded frame. It was very much out of scale with the table as well as appearing ridiculous. One feared the fate of the table should the picture fall. A word should be said here about the application of scale in pattern. Do not use large, sprawling patterns in the wallpaper, drapery, or floor coverings of a small room. An upholstery material with a large, prominent design could not be used on a chair of delicate proportions without upsetting the principle of scale. HE problems of proportion and scale will confront us in every phase of furnishing the house. Especially must we consider it when buying furniture or other articles for the home, for choosing the right thing and making it a part of the whole is the secret of success in good decoration.. Have you ever noticed how your eye follows any line in the direction in which it is going? For example, in an arched opening your eye goes up, around the curve and down. In a room where there is vertical striped wallpaper your eye does not stop until it reaches the end of the line. In some patterned wallpaper or linoleum your vision jumps from one part of the design to another, unconsciously creating lines which it follows in some direction. This reaction is called movement and a knowledge of its application is very important. Movement has the opposite effect from balance—balance satisfies the eye and there is repose —movement is constantly leading your eye in one direction or another and causes unrest. If small rugs are laid diagonally on the floor they are in opposition to the movement created by the lines 12 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the room which is rectangular, therefore, there is 'conflict. Your eye is involuntarily pulled up, down and across all at one time. This is also true in the case of putting furniture at various angles and cata-corner in the room. There can be no rest in such a place. If your room is too high or too low a knowledge of movement is valuable as you will be able to produce apparent remedies. In a low room which you wish to appear higher, use vertical strips and lines. In a high room, horizontal lines should be emphasized. HOWEVER, if the movement in our rooms was all horizontal and vertical it would prove monotonous. A proper use of rhythm or movement in curved lines, arches, draping and designs will add interest. Let us take as an illustration the popular tie-back curtain—if draped gracefully and subtly back there is an interesting line created, but if it is compressed as though it were in too tight a corset, the line of the window is broken and the result is distracting. Another quality which you should learn to recognize is texture. This will be treated more fully in the articles on textiles. But because we will meet it from time to time when dealing with all finishes, etc., it will be well to give it a little attention now. Texture is the surface finish, the roughness or smoothness, the feel of a material, be it cloth, masonry, pottery, or anything else. To show the value of textural harmony a common violation of it will be pointed out—the use of coarse, rough bricks around the fireplace opening when the mantel is of fine enamel finish. In a room of fine proportions with beautifully paneled and painted walls it would be a mistake to use drapes of tapestry or heavy linen, while if these were used in a room of, say Renaissance influence, with rough plaster walls, they would be in perfect harmony. Texture is somewhat influenced by the demands of use. We would not, for example, put a fine silk material on the floor, nor would we put light fragile upholstery on a chair or couch which was in constant use. There should be variety and contrast in texture which will lend charm to the room, keeping in mind the principle of necessary harmony that must exist between articles used together. A fine wool rug may be used in the same room with silk damask drapes. While not of the same texture, there is similarity enough for them to agree perfectly. O have harmony, there must be a measure of similarity, things must be more alike than they are unlike. You can then gain the de- | sired result. To illustrate: If in a room of oblong rectangular shape is put a round table there is conflict as there is no similarity between the round and oblong dimensions. But if the table is elliptical (oval) harmony will be restored as the likeness is more apparent than the difference. You can see the workings of this principle for yourself by using a piece of paper of oblong rectangular shape as a vertical panel. On this place a smaller piece of paper the same shape. There is harmony here, a unity of form. If you turn the paper so the length lies horizontally on the panel, here will be conflict. But use an oval and harmony is restored, as the shapes are consistent. Another illustration of this principle is in using furniture of the same general boundary lines as the wall—that is, in a high room tall YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL 13 furniture will look better, and in low ceilinged rooms all tall furniture would be incongruous. But this does not mean that there can be no contrast in the form of things—there should be for the sake of emphasis, but the dominant idea should be one of structural unity. Our aim in interior decoration is to find a harmony that is. Not monotonous, and to be able to introduce contrast without conflict, for just as a false note can ruin the harmony of a musical chord, so can a wrong design, or an unhappy color combination destroy the effect of an otherwise perfect room. Next Month: Schemes. Color and Color Chicago's 1933 World's Fair THE story of mankind's amazing progress in the past hundred years will be dramatized in Chicago's 1933 World's Fair— A Century of Progress Exposition, which will formally open its gates to the world on June 1, 1933, and run for 150 days thereafter. The Exposition will celebrate Chicago's 100th birthday, but what is even more important, it will celebrate the progress of civilization which has made the growth of cities like Chicago possible. A century ago man moved on the surface of the earth only as fast as his own feet or the feet of animals could carry him; communication was possible only by messengers and depended on the speed of their legs; people lighted their homes with candles; open fire places provided warmth; privations and diseases claimed millions of victims yearly. Today travel has been revolutionized on the earth by the railroad and automobile and man now invades the realms of the air and the depths of the sea; communication is instantaneous throughout the world by radio, telephone or telegraph; electricity lights the nation's homes and runs its factories; radiators and furnaces heat our homes; medical science has developed new weapons for fighting diseases; commodities and conveniences undreamed of |100 years ago by even the most wealthy are now available. As one of the outstanding features of the Exposition, a Hall of Religion, forming part of the Social Science Group, is being planned. In this building exhibits of various denominations and religious organizations will be located. It is planned also, in connection with the work of the Religious 'Committee to/ hold during the Exposition a series of world conferences and congresses on world peace, the labor problem and other phases of religious and civic activities. The site of this Exposition is a beautiful stretch along the shores of Lake 'Michigan, within walking distance of Chicago's downtown business section. A ae p ee ee ee DD OD OO OS Owe ae eel; sonnet of — Loneliness; By Rosannah Cannon Awarded First Prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest: ERENE and still, she walks her way of pain.  Only her eyes show anguish now and then,, At such quite unexpected moments when She breathes the scent of lilacs in the rain, Or hears the thin, sweet call of mating birds, 1] Or watches slender aspens bud and leaf. Hers is no loud, no stormy kind of grief,; For all her suffering she has no words. I) But when I see her take a child's soft hand, 5 And touch his sunny hair, his cheek wind-tanned, (And strain him close, and sob deep in her throat; I turn away from this familiar note. 4) know this sharp, unceasing sorrow, too. Missing the small, brave son I never knew! ROSANNAH CANNON Utah State Training School By Dr. H, H. Ramsey, Superintendent Utah State Training School HE survey made by Dr. George L. Wallace under the direction of the National Committee of Mental Hygiene, established the same facts in the State of Utah that similar surveys have brought out in other states, that is: that the feeble-minded un- 'recognized, unsupervised and untrained and through haphazard methods of caring for them in prisons, poor farms, infirmaries, orphanages, allowing the females to become sexually promiscuous and with no: restraint of reproduction, costs the tax paying public more as the years go by than would be the entire cost of a well organized mental hygiene program, including the school for the types who can profit by instruction, traveling clinics for their recognition, child guidance in connection with the work and a complete educational program to bring the public to their full responsibility for the defectives in our midst. Recognizing the great social and economic loss resulting because of the lack of any organized effort to recognize, care for and train the feeble-minded children of the State, the Utah State Legislature of 1929 established the Utah State Training School at American Fork. The location of the institution is ideal. It is situated on a 400 acre tract of tillable land, two miles northeast of American Fork, overlooking beautiful Utah valley and Utah Lake. The plant of the Utah State Training School is incomplete, as only a partial building program was allowed by the Legislature establishing the Institution. The present plant consists of two dormitories, service building, laundry, comprising the main school department and where 195 children are now being cared for and given such training as their mental capacity will permit. A fifth building, one mile from the Institution for farm colony cases, is UTAH STATE TRAINING SCHOOL UTAH -STATE TRAINING utilized for the care of older males who are beyond school age and who are not capable of doing school work. These, however, are given training in farm activities, and with the farm manager and attendants have this year cultivated a large acreage of wheat, corn, potatoes, and a great variety of vegetables with a splendid yield of produce which has added materially to the support of the Institution. The anticipated building program was planned for 500 children but the funds available did not make this SCHOOL 17 children who have failed in the public school take new courage and make satisfactory progress. In addition to the academic school work given, the children whose mental capacity indicates their ability to do such are taught handiwork of various kinds which, not only provides the means of occupation, but develops them into useful individuals. The intellectual level is the guide to what a child can do. Comparing intelligence to a ladder, we can say that some children are quipped with long ladders, while others have possible. The present capacity of the Institution is approximately 200 and there are more than a hundred children on the waiting list, whose admission will depend upon the erection of additional buildings. THE school department of the institution is headed by a director and psychologist and six teachers who are especially trained for their work. By thorough psychological examination the mental level is determined and the child is given work on this level. At first the best the child can do. Is good enough and it is our experience that the majority of these _ ladders. Shorter, and still others very short The child with normal or superior intelligence has a long ladder and can look into high windows, and a great many windows. The child of low intelligence, or having a short ladder, can reach many low windows with his short ladder. Therefore, in order to make the training of the feeble-minded effectual we must first know something of the length of their intellectual ladder, and then adjust these short ladders to windows which are not too high for them to reach. Then it is first necessary to ascertain the child's mental age, or length of his intellectual RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ladder. With proper institution equipment and patient teachers, the majority of the feebleminded can make use of their limited intellect, and even though their work may be of a menial type it is useful and serves to make their existence not only bearable, but happy. The girls, whose mental ages range from six to nine years, can learn to sew, mend, cook, wash dishes, scrub, knit, sweep, dust, iron, serve meals, make beds, polish floors, clean windows, prepare vegetables, and many other useful tasks, menial but still useful and which are necessary for the existence of themselves, as well as others of higher intelligence. BOYS ranging in mental age from six to nine years can learn to plow, hoe, gather vegetables, handle stock, saw wood, split wood, dig ditches and post holes, drive teams, inix concrete, use a wheel-barrow, do rough carpentry, make brooms, repair shoes and all hand work necessary for existence and progress. Boys and girls of lower intelligence, or ranging in mental age from 2 to 5 years can learn to dress, and undress, become tidy, eat, respond to a command, learn own name, repress emotional disturbances, behave properly, and other achievements which considerably lighten the burden of their care, either in the home or institution. This phase of work has been passed unnoticed and unprovided for, and such children allowed to grow to adult life only to fail and become charges in various forms, because their situation was not recognized. To one accustomed to daily viewing the unfolding of the abilities and achievements of these blunted and subnormal brains, it becomes the greatest work in the world, not only for the sake of the defective child, but as the greatest factor imaginable in the relief of society from human failure and the vast expense which must be paid by the tax paying public, as the result of their unguided and abnormal activity, as paupers, criminals, prostitutes, dependents and objects of both private and public charity. It is too often the fault of people that they look upon the feebleminded as entirely helpless and worthless and for this reason many UTAH STATE TRAINING SCHOOL 19 look upon the Institution somewhat as an asylum for the care of helpless cripples and practically mindless idiots for whom, of course, there is nothing to be done except to care for them. The school type of child, intelligence quotient ranging from forty to seventy-five, should be given preference here because of the fact that it is the feeble-minded within this range who finally become the State's greatest social problem and economic burden, not only on account of there anti-social activity, but for the greater reason that they reproduce their kind rapidly and cause a continual mounting of this gigantic problem. HE first purpose then of the school would be for the training of the child who is too dull to profit by instruction in the public school, but yet who has intelligence enough that with special training and supervision through the developmental period of life can be made self-supporting and an acceptable citizen even though the intelligence may be limited. Of first importance in the management of the school is giving the young defective a chance and it is certainly a wise procedure for any state for obvious reasons to provide the necessary machinery for the proper recognition, supervision and final adjustment of its defective children while they are in the formative period. The establishment of this school comes about as the result of the interest in mental hygiene problems and carries with it much more than merely the local activities of the school. It would contemplate a traveling clinic, composed of a trained personnel for the purpose of examining retarded and maladjusted children in the public schools; child guidance clinics for the purpose of examining problem children in the various towns of the state and giving advice to parents and teachers concerning their adjustment. It would foster a complete mental hygiene program as outlined by the National Committee and State Mental Hygiene Societies. The school has established an outpatient department for the purpose of giving physical and mental examinations to retarded and maladjusted children on each Saturday from 10 a. M. To 1 p.m. At the Institution. This will PUPILS IN UTAH STATE TRAINING SCHOOL RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE reenable this department of the school to give possible assistance to families or organizations while the school is awaiting. Additional accommodations and this service is rendered without charge to the public. OUR experience would indicate that we are emphasizing the in-- tellectual capacity and training, and neglecting opportunity for emotional study and guidance. Therefore it is the purpose of the Institution to not only carefully establish the child's intellectual level, but also to carefully consider emotional trends and give proper guidance to the same as far as possible. Too much emphasis cannot be placed upon this phase of the work. The results of emotional training must be seriously questioned. It is undoubtedly true that in all of the educational activities, even the normal, we have placed too much stress on the intellectual and neglected or promoted the wrong kind of emotional education and this failure has resulted in a vast increase in child delinquency and mental instability in our young. To him who becomes concerned enough about this phase of education to the extent that our children will posses greater emotional balance. The world will finally give a crown, for this is the balance wheel of civilization. True Love By Magdalene C. Stephens True love is a spark of fire eternal, Coming from far-off lands supernal; God himself the torch supplied, Our erring human hearts to guide. So come we from hovel or mansion hall Both king and peasant obey love's call: And though its voice be soft and tender, Lo! To its power we all surrender; Through all our journey here below Love is the sweetest gift we know. The Salt of the Earth By Lella Marler Hoggan N expression little short of dismay clouded pretty Lelia McAllister's face, as she inspected the newly discovered run in her silk hose. "Just my luck," she soliloquized. "Of course it would be my best ones. And my only party dress is practically ruined." She smoothed out the silken folds of the long skirt, almost tenderly. Her cousin, Maud Stone, opened her eyes, and yawning' sleepily, reached for the alarm clock. "Three o'clock? I thought it was morning. What you doing up here at this time of night?" "Had a wreck." "A wreck!" ejaculated Maud, sitting up in bed in alarm. "Any. Body hurt?" "Not seriously. It sprained George's ankle, and cut up Hallie's face a little." "And you?" "Not even a bruise. But it wrecked my lovely orchid. Just look." And she held up the grease stained gown. "The cleaner can fix it without a blemish, I'm sure." "Yes, but where's the dollar and a half coming from?" "I’ll lend it to you." "Thank you, Maud, if you will. It took weeks of careful saving to pay for this outfit. And now, with the New Year's party only two days away, and a date with one of the richest boys in town, of course something would have to happen. Look at my beautiful hose." She slipped her hand into the stocking and revealed the long run. "Isn't that just tragic?" "It could have been worse, my dear. You might have broken your leg, you know, or even your neck." "I guess you're right,' admitted Lelia. "The car turned clear over, you see. But fortunately we lit in a snowbank." "Driver drunk?" "No, Max wasn't very drunk. It was the other fellow's fault." "Rather a late hour, don't you think, for respectable people to be getting home." "Possibly. But it's the regular time all high class parties break up." LELIA put the dress on a hanger and viewed it dismally. "I know I should be feeling thankful that no one was killed," she ruminated, "instead of thinking about the clothes. But that's what comes of being so blamed poor." "Don't take it so to heart, dear, I think you're a hundred times lucky." "I know I am. But oh, Maud, I could cry every time I look at these hose. What's the use?" she exclaimed desperately. "I’ll tell you I'm not going through life in one long drawn out wail of poverty. I'm going to marry a rich man. Then I'll not have to weep over a run in a little, old, measly pair of hose. I'm going to marry Max De Lane if I get the chance, regardless of all the pious warnings I'm receiving." "Well, Lelia," drawled Maud, yawning, "in a book of ancient history I sometimes read, there is a story of a bright young man who sold his birth-right for a mess of pottage. Maybe—" "Yes, I've heard of that gentleman before," interrupted Lelia. "I'm not at all interested in his foolish bartering. Besides, I expect to get more than a pair of silk hose out of the transaction." 22 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "What, Lelia?" "Oh, money, and happiness, mayem "What about Dick?" "You're just like Mother, Maud, you always think of Dick Brandon." "Well, my dear, it's hard to think of your marriage without thinking of Dick. Besides, Dick is a wonderful fellow. My sister Eva says all the High School girls were wild about him last year." "Sure they were. He was the best all round athlete in school. Girls always fall for an athlete." "Oh, but Lelia, Dick is so fine— clean, honest, ambitious—" "Not very ambitious or he wouldn't accept a flunky job in the Paris Cafe." "Why, Lelia, I call that a good job. But flunky or not, if my lovely little sister Eva, were to marry Dick Brandon tomorrow, I would go down on my knees in gratitude." "That's just the way Mother would feel if I should marry him. I think she has a positive grudge against Max, just because he isn't like Dick." "No, Lelia, it isn't that. But she feels that Dick can be trusted. He is a man who will go on to bigger, finer things each year. She wants to secure for you, the same peace and contentment that her marriage has brought her." "Well, Mother's sure had a hard enough time raising us eight children. Her life has been one round of work and worry." "And love, and joy, and satisfaction," put in Maud. "Few women have been happier than your mother, Lelia." "Just the same, Maud, I'd sooner risk my happiness, curled up in the lap of luxury, than trudging down the hard beaten path of romance." "That's all right, Lelia, just so you aren't sorry too late." "You're getting preachy, Maud, and it's nearly four o'clock. I'm going to get a few winks before it's time to go to work again." "I hope you dream of Dick. I’d like to see the dear boy get an even break." LELIA did dream of Dick. But she hurriedly put the memory of it out of her mind: just as she had for many weeks, been crowding out of her remembrance, the many happy incidents surrounding' her school days with Dick. The fast social set of the town had taken Lelia into their circle. Her charming personality, her beauty, and her tact, were bringing her into the activities of a group whose ideals and mode of life were as foreign to her conservative Christian pattern, as night is today. The big event of the holiday season for this group, was a progressive breakfast planned for the New Year. It was to commence at midnight and continue until daybreak. Thanks to Cousin Maud, Lelia was in readiness for the party. Her orchid. Dress was restored to its original beauty and the long run in her silk stocking had disappeared. Max De Lane, the beau ideal of the group, was openly acclaimed as Lelia's suitor. And yet Max had no serious intentions for Lelia or any other girl. He lived fast, spent his money freely, and thought only of his own comfort and entertainment. The night of the party, his elegant coupe rolled up to the Little Old Inn just as the bells and whistles announced the coming of the New Year. He and Lelia were enthusiastically welcomed. And the first course of the New Year's breakfast was promptly served on tables gaily THE SALT OF THE EARTH 23 decked for the occasion. There was music, and laughter, and happy sociability. From the Little Old Inn the party proceeded to the Half-Way House for the second course of their breakfast. The gaiety grew more pronounced as the breakfast proceeded. Some of the women and all of the men were beginning to sip a little wine, and already, the cigarettes had been passed. Lelia refrained from taking either. From the Half-Way House they came to the Paris Cafe. The fourth, and last course of the breakfast, was to be served in a Japanese Restaurant, in an unfrequented quarter of the town. The merry makers were becoming somewhat hilarious, now. But as the merriment: rose Lelia became more serious. Repeatedly she was urged to be one with the rest, but she continued to refuse both the wine and cigarettes. As they thronged into the Paris Cafe her gaze at once centered on a. Stalwart white clad waiter, arranging the last details of the floral decorations. Her heart leaped at sight of him. He was outstanding in comparison with her group. She shifted her gaze when he turned toward her. Just as he drew her chair out from the table, the napkin at her plate fell to the floor. "I beg your pardon," he said quietly, but his laughing eyes were looking straight into hers with a fearless expression, almost a challenge it seemed to Lelia. HE met his gaze, however, with a counter challenge. In a moment he returned with a fresh napkin which he placed very carefully beside her plate. As Lelia spread the bit of linen across her lap, her eye caught a penciled marking on the hem. She looked down again cautiously. "Matt. 5:13," she read, in the writing she knew so well. She tried to give her attention to the meal. She pretended to be gay. But she scarcely saw the food before her. "Matthew, five, thirteen. Matthew, five, thirteen," came the words, beating like a tattoo on her heart. She knew it was a message from Dick, the need of which seemed to be most imminent. But try as she would, she could not recall the scripture passage it designated. Now she was eating some dainty dessert. Now she was trying to reply to some witticism of Max's. But above the laughter of the group, above the College songs of the radio, the little rhythmic words chanted in her heart, "Matthew, five, thirteen." Now she was finishing her dessert. In a few minutes the course would be through, and they would be starting for the Japanese Restaurant. "Hurry, hurry," whispered her heart. "Matthew, five—" oh, now she remembered. It was Christ's Sermon on the Mount. But what— what could it mean?" "The girl of my dreams is the sweetest girl in all the world I know," came the melody over the radio. "She drinks, she smokes, and she tells shady jokes," rang out Max's discordant parody. "Now, Baby," he bantered, holding his silver cigarette case across the table to her, "this breakfast is nearly over and you've missed all the fun. Come on, have a little smoke with me." Lelia's smile was pathetic but she did not reach for the case. "Drinks before smokes," announced Jerry Bates. "Here, pass me Lelia's glass. We're all going to have one on the New Year. What's your resolutions for the New Year, girls?" "Start with Bud," chorused the girls. "All right, Bud, you're at the head of the table. What's your New Year's resolution?" "Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die," groaned Bud. In a few minutes it would be Lelia's turn. Her fingers trembled as she toyed with her glass. And then, a little silent prayer stilled her throbbing pulses. "Matthew, five, thirteen." Now she knew.
THE laughing, drinking, hilarious group faded out like a shadow. For one moment she was sitting beside Dick in College Hall, listening to the baccalaureate sermon. The speaker's words rang out with such power that her soul thrilled to his forceful appeal. "Matthew, five, thirteen. "Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost his savor, wherewith shall it be salted?" Then followed his appeal to them to be true to their spiritual, their lineal inheritance. "Are you prepared," he asked, "to accept the blessings and promises that have come down to you through the ages? Those going before you have paid in pain, and blood, and tears for the spotless mantle they have placed on your shoulders. Are you willing to make a similar sacrifice in order to pass it on to the next generation without blemish?" "What's your New Year's resolution, Lelia?" She came back with a start. She was not trembling, now. Her white lips were set in a straight line. Raising her wine glass, she poured the red liquid into her dessert dish. Filling the glass with clear water, she touched it to her lips, and then raised it high. From a near table Dick was looking straight into her white face. "My New Year's wish and resolution in one," she announced. "During the coming year, may each of us live up to the fulness of the high privileges of law-abiding citizens, in this illustrious nation of ours, the United States of America." "Hey, you've missed your mark, little girl," shouted Jerry Bates. "This ain't the fourth of July. This is New Years." "Fine resolution, Baby," commended Max, glibly. "And now, you're going to have a little smoke with me." Again he reached the silver case across to her. "Thank you, I do not smoke," she announced, clearly. Motioning to Dick, she turned to the crowd. "I want you folks to meet my friend, Dick Brandon, the best athlete at our school last year. If you'll excuse me, please, I want Dick to take me home." "Ah, Lelia, be a sport," pleaded Bud. "Don't break up the party right in the middle of the fun." But Lelia had already turned to Dick. "Are you awfully busy?" "Never too busy to take orders from you, Lelia." With a bright smile she waved to the now serious group. "Happy New Year to you all!" Outside, she turned to Dick. "Thanks, Dick, for the rescue." "For awhile," he said, "I was afraid you hadn't seen it." "I saw it all right, but at first I just couldn't remember." "I never thought of that," said he. "Here comes your cab, Lelia. Say, if you'll wait for me, I'll be up about five tonight, and we'll go places. Will you wait that long?" "That long? Why, Dick, I'd wait years for you."
The Children's Bureau, Its Purpose and Workings By Anna Laura Stohl Cannon
THE act which was signed by President Taft on April 9, 1912, creating the Children's Bureau directed that this Bureau should "investigate and report * * upon all matters pertaining to the welfare of children and child life among all classes of our people." Miss Julia C. Lathrop, the first chief of the Children's Bureau, set forth its purpose in these words, "The Bureau is to be a center of information useful to all the children of America, to ascertain and to popularize just standards for their life and development." The first aim of the Children's Bureau is, logically, the preservation of life for all children. Physical care such as to permit them to grow and develop properly is a further aim. The Bureau works to the end that every child be given the opportunity to attend school. It is striving to see that no child is the victim of harmful industrial activity. It maintains that children who have conduct problems should be cured and not punished. The Bureau emphasizes the importance of the home, and supports the view that no child shall be taken from his own home or from the custody of his own parents because of poverty or illegitimacy. Children who, of necessity, must be cared for outside their own homes are held to be entitled to a type of care approximating normal home life. Children who are the victims of mental and physical defects should be given every possible opportunity for correction and care. Summarized, the ultimate aim is that every child in the country be given opportunity for maximum physical, mental and social development. This is the practical purpose which the staff of the Bureau is working to accomplish.
MISS GRACE ABBOTT, the present chief of the Children's Bureau recently said, "The task which was assigned to the Children's Bureau by Congress twenty years ago is not completed. It meets the proverbial description of women's work—it is never done." The goal of child welfare work is not only to assemble, organize and apply all available information for child development but at the same time, through research and study, to extend the boundaries of knowledge. There still is a long way to go to bring practices up to the standards established on the basis of present information. Much progress has been made, however, in realization of aims during the twenty years of the Bureau's existence. In 1912 only eight states had complete systems of birth registration and only half the states had records showing death statistics. The expansion of the birth registration area by 1929 to 46 states and the District of Columbia brought the percentage of the population of the United States included in the area up to 95. It is impossible to accurately say how many babies were born in the country during 1912, or how many, at that time, died during the first year of infancy. The best estimate indicated that over 300,000 babies less than a year old were dying annually, and authorities were of the opinion that half this number were dying needlessly. In spite of the large increase in population only half that number died during 1930. According to the 1912 estimate, out of every 1,000 babies born alive 124 died during the first year of life; the death rate in 1920 for this group was eighty-six and in 1930 sixty-four in the United States birth registration area. Children born today have the benefit of a more enlightened medical profession. Doctors know more about the value of sunlight and cod liver oil as well as the need for milk, vegetables and fruit for well rounded nourishment. Twenty years ago child specialists were called only to administer to sick children but today many of them are spending as much as a third of their time supervising well children. The child of today is in much less danger of contracting small pox and is less likely to die from diphtheria and scarlet fever than the child born twenty years ago. In 1912 only one state had a bureau of child health while today forty-seven states have such bureaus working to improve the health of every child within the state.
PARENTS of today have the advantages of more practical and cheaper books regarding the scientific care of children. Contrary to the popular idea that government bulletins are in little demand the Children's Bureau has never been able, out of its appropriation, to meet the requests for bulletins. During the twenty years of the bureau's existence more than thirteen million copies of its bulletins on prenatal care, infant care, child care and child management have gone to mothers. An important beginning has been made in establishing child health centers to disseminate parental education. Between 1921 and 1929 many centers were set up, both in city and rural communities by the state and federal governments in connection with the administration of the maternity and infancy act. Many of these centers have become permanent organizations. A great deal has been accomplished in providing proper facilities and training directors for the recreational hours. At the present time there is much interest in extending these benefits to the rural communities. Through the influencing of public opinion and sponsoring of laws much has been accomplished during the last twenty years in the reduction of child labor evils. Forty-three states now have laws requiring school attendance until the age of sixteen, although many of the laws provide for exemptions. Reports indicate, however, that during 1930 nearly two million children and young persons under eighteen were employed. Article XVI of the Children's Charter, given by the last White House Conference, charges us with the obligation to provide "for every child protection against labor that stunts growth, either physical or mental, that limits education, that deprives children of the right of comradeship, of play and of joy."
ALTHOUGH the juvenile court movement had made considerable progress prior to 1912 the changes in methods of dealing with conduct problems have been very marked since that time. The old idea held to punishment as a preventative. The objective now is to cure, not to punish. The child, not the offence, must be dealt with. Much skill is required to bring about cures and prevent delinquency under this modern procedure. In 1912 the first psychiatric clinic for the study of child delinquency was still viewed as an experiment. In 1932 there are more than six hundred psychiatric and child guidance clinics in operation. Physicians, psychiatrists, social workers and probation officers attached to courts, visiting teachers, special schools for truants, and classes for child training for parents are all part of the new procedure of prevention and cure in place of punishment.
PRESERVATION of the home is a controlling thought in the efforts of the best social agencies of this day. In spite of criticisms which have been brought against the homes of the present generation their value in the normal development of the child is recognized more today than twenty years ago. Public money used in 1912 for the care of children went almost entirely toward the support of institutions. The intelligent and affectionate care of parents is now recognized as the best insurance for the future of the child. Legislation has been enacted in forty-five states and the District of Columbia providing for "mothers' pensions" or "allowances" or "assistance to parents funds." In some states only children whose fathers are dead are eligible for this assistance while in others illness, desertion and imprisonment of fathers permits application of this type of aid. At the time of the first White House Conference in 1909 the first mother's aid pension law had not been passed. By 1921 approximately 120,000 children were being cared for in their own homes from tax funds under mother's aid laws and by 1930 the number had increased to 220,000. Children who must be cared for outside their own homes are now, insofar as possible, placed in foster homes, rather than institutions, which homes as nearly as possible provide the natural environment in which the particular child will best develop. The standards of care of dependent, delinquent, and neglected children have been further raised through the establishment of state bureaus in more than half the states to promote the welfare of children.
THE following four types of service represent the working methods of the organization. The first of these is the collection and analysis of facts about children gathered by first-hand investigations. Since the Bureau was established more than 200 such investigations based upon study of thousands of children have been made. Investigators, as well as other members of the Bureau's staff, are selected and assigned on the basis of their education and experience. The results of all investigations are verified and tabulated, interpreted by experts in the various divisions, edited and finally approved by the chief of the Bureau. The second type of service consists of interpretation and dissemination of information for practical use. In addition to the distribution of bulletins, previously referred to. The Bureau has answered hundreds of thousands of letters from mothers, and fathers also, giving information about the care of children. Radio talks on subjects pertaining to children have been prepared and broadcast by the Bureau and child hygiene films have been produced and shown throughout the country. The third method is cooperation with the states. It was in this way that the Sheppard-Towner act, for the promotion of the welfare and hygiene of maternity and infancy, in which Utah participated with such splendid results, was administered. The fourth method is the cooperation with public and private organizations and includes projects undertaken with other government departments, State and county medical and health agencies, universities, conferences of social work, and other organizations engaged in studies of child welfare and maternity.
AT the present time, with the entire country afflicted by economic depression, the Bureau has made adjustments so that everything possible can be done to stem the irreparable damage which children suffer under such conditions. Miss Lathrop once said, "Children are not safe and happy if their parents are miserable, and parents must be miserable if they cannot protect a home against poverty. Let us not deceive ourselves: the power to maintain a decent living standard is the primary essential of child welfare." Miss Abbott has suggested that we must be prepared to make new and greater sacrifices for our children in order that we may compensate them for some of the losses they have had to bear. The women of America have just cause for their pride in the Children's Bureau. Miss Lillian D. Wald, founder of the Henry Street Settlement in New York City, was the first person to suggest such a bureau. The two chiefs of the Bureau have been women, the success of the Bureau attests to their wisdom and efforts. Miss Lathrop and Miss Abbott both have adhered to a standard of quality which has earned respect for the Bureau's work and a standard of practicability which has made its products usable.
Glen Perrins RANGE FROM STEWART RANGER STATION
A Message to the Relief Society An Address Given at the Conference-Convention of Salt Lake Stake, Oct. 2, 1932, by Ezra C. Dalby, High Councilman-Advisor
THE responsibility and the duties of the high councilman who has been called to act in an advisory capacity to the Stake Relief Society Board, will depend, to a degree at least, upon his ability and his knowledge of the problems with which the organization has to deal. Responsibility is measured by the talents and qualifications possessed, as well as by the position held. Where much has been given, much will be required. It will depend also upon the attitude of the officers toward the suggestions that the high councilman may make, and the advice that he may give. He cannot give what he hasn't got, neither can he be held responsible for what people are unwilling to receive. Naturally an advisor is loath to force himself into a discussion if he is looked upon as an intruder. As I consider this subject I am coming more and more to feel that the Stake advisor can be of great service to your organization by offering suggestions and taking part in the discussions of the Board. He should be made welcome at all your gatherings that he has time to attend, and invited to the special meetings that you may hold. Whatever contribution he can make that will add to the success of your organization, you should thankfully receive. This does not mean, however, that he should be officious, or try in any way to dictate your policy. He is simply an advisor, not an officer in your society. But he is more than a mere observer, called to report only what he hears and sees. If he is to render the greatest service of which he is capable, he should be taken into the confidence of the officers and advise with them on all important matters. As you know, he represents the Presidency of the Stake and the authority of the priesthood. If you sustain him with your faith and prayers, the Lord will magnify him in his calling. Ask of him and you will receive an inspired answer; knock at this door and it shall be opened to you; seek from this source and you shall find treasures of spiritual knowledge. And now, since I am your advisor for the time being, may I give you by way of suggestion a few of the thoughts that have come to me during the sessions of this splendid conference. As I listened this morning to the explanation of Commissioner Quinn of the elaborate program of relief which has been provided to take care of the poor in our County, and heard the fine compliment that he paid you for the efficient assistance that your great organization is rendering in this splendid work; I felt very proud to think that in a small way I was associated with you. I know that our Stake Relief Society deserves the high commendation which it received.
I DESIRE to stress another side of your work also which was not mentioned this morning. Your organization is more than one of the agencies for the distribution of food and clothing to the unemployed in our County. Jesus said: "And whosoever shall give a drink unto one of these little ones a cup of cold water only in the name of a disciple, verily I say unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward." That phrase, "in the name of a disciple," makes all the difference in the world. It means that you are concerned with spiritual as well as temporal relief. Your work is "in the name of a disciple" and that is in harmony with the statement of the Prophet Joseph when he said, "This society should be not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." Bodily hunger needs to be relieved, and bodily nakedness covered, but starving souls and aching hearts must also be cared for. We should never forget that man does not live by bread alone, nor is fuel and clothing the only agencies that keep him warm. Neither the county nor the community chest, can minister to minds that are sick and discouraged no matter how efficiently they are operated. Only disciples of the Master, with loving hearts and tender hands can effectively minister to souls that grope in darkness. Only consecrated service can revive a faith that has been lost. This is the work of each and every member of the Relief Society. You are God's messengers of hope; you are his angels of mercy to homes that are starving for the word of God. And that reminds me of another significant statement which the Prophet made to members of your organization the day you were organized: "If you live up to your privileges"—notice he said privileges not duties—"the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates." I suggest that every officer, teacher and member of the Relief Society in this Stake remember that statement, and seek for that holy companionship. Certainly nothing is impossible for you to accomplish if an angel walks by your side. Every home you enter will feel a holy presence; every word you say will be a healing balm, an elixir of the life everlasting; and when you have finished your visit to that home, you will leave with it the halo of a benediction. Surely, never since the world began, has any organization ever been given a greater opportunity for holy service than has come to you. But you must be worthy of it. Angels walk only with the pure in heart. There must be no selfish motives in your ministry. You are giving your lives to a sacred cause, with no thought or expectation of earthly reward.
YOUR magazine contains elaborate outlines in theology, literature, and other subjects. I trust that your principal objective in studying these topics is a preparation for greater service in your organization. Not long ago a prospective missionary made the remark that he was going on a mission, not for the good that he expected to do others, but for the benefits he expected to get out of it himself. Such a motive can only result in failure. Our elders are called on missions, not for what they can get out of them for themselves, but for the welfare of others. They have a message for mankind, and to deliver that message effectively should be their sole objective. They are sent to save the souls of men, and any other purpose will be fatal to their success. The same is true in your case. It is impossible for you to be successful Relief Society workers, or expect angels to be your associates, unless the welfare of others is the central thought of all your activities.
I DESIRE especially to give a few words of encouragement to the visiting teachers. Perhaps many of you feel that your work is unimportant, and your calling of little consequence. Some of you may think that a position so insignificant requires no thought or preparation. This may be true if all you do is to visit the families in the wards each month and make a small collection of funds. But this is merely incidental. Really, there is no more important calling in the entire organization than yours, or one that furnishes greater opportunities for efficient service. Upon you rests the responsibility of seeking out, not only the poor and the needy, but the sick and discouraged. And you are to do more than find them, you are expected to cheer and comfort them, to say to them that: "The way at times may dark and dreary seem, No ray of sunshine on your path may beam The dark clouds hover o'er you like a pall, And gloom and sadness seem to compass all, But if with honest purpose you still toil on, And your steps be upright, straight and true, Far in the east a golden light shall dawn, And the bright smile of God shall burst through." Such words bring healing and comfort, when spoken by those who have faith in God and whose hearts are filled with love for his children. There is no higher ministry than yours if you carry the spirit of it with you into the homes you visit. You above all others are entitled to the companionship of the angels mentioned by the prophet, if you live up to the fulness of your calling. In conclusion, let me tell you about the ministry of a woman who appreciated her calling as a Relief Society teacher. She was modest and unassuming, and lacked many of the talents displayed by other sisters in the organization to which she belonged. It was impossible for her to express her thoughts before an audience. She couldn't sing or read well, and her memory always failed her when she was called to recite or take a part in any of the lessons. Often she became discouraged because of her failures and felt that she wasn't good for anything. But she never failed to make her monthly visits, and left every home where she called, happier because she had been there. People liked to have her come because she looked upon her calling as a privilege to be enjoyed, rather than a duty she had to perform. A young mother died in the Ward leaving three small children, one less than a week old. There was no nurse to be had, and during her sickness this Relief Society teacher left her own home and work to wait on the patient. When the woman died, under the direction of her president, she directed the sewing of the burial clothes and other things that needed to be done. Not only that, but after the funeral, she remained at the bereaved home, washed, dressed and fed the children, until the stricken husband could find other help. She did this, not for pay or expectation of any reward, but because she felt that her calling required it. When her bishop praised her for what she had done, she was surprised. "Why that was nothing," she said, "I was honored by being called as a Relief Society worker." She didn't know that she had done anything unusual. She only "honored her calling." What a wonderful statement! Surely when the Son of Man shall come in his glory to judge each of us, he will say to her, "Come ye blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world; for I was hungry and ye gave me meat; I was thirsty and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger and ye took me in; naked and ye clothed me; I was sick and ye visited me; I was in prison and ye came unto me." And no doubt she will again be surprised and protest that she had never rendered such service to her Lord. And then will come the great revelation. "Inasmuch as ye did it unto the least of these my brethren, ye did it unto me." God grant that each of us because of our faithfulness by "honoring our calling" in rendering service to God's children, may also hear on the great judgment day the welcome words of our Lord: "Come ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world."
Have You Done All You Could? By Julina B. Green
Have you done all you could for the girl that is down? Did you stand by her side in her need? Perchance the foul tempter was stronger than she At the time she committed the deed.
You'd stand by a neighbor whose weakness was plain Who was physically weak, sorely spent. You'd not see him go down while you remained strong, Before help in his need you had lent.
Let's cover her name with sweet charity's cloak; Try to think that her heart's just like ours; Try to show her the path back to happiness' way; Try to shorten the pain-laden hours.
Did Christ shun the sinner—teach only the saint And the strong and the wise? No indeed! He searched out the lost one, no matter the cost, He succored the weak in their need.
What matter the weakness whether spirit or flesh If you could assist either one? Remember the leper! The woman who sinned! Did it matter to God's holy Son?
Who are you, who am I, to pass judgment on her! Perhaps we'll be as stubble to burn When we pass by the downcast, the needy and sore— Be her keeper—she's our own concern.
Perhaps she was wronged—perhaps she's to blame, But shall sin fed on sin build the fire? Mercy for mercy the Savior has taught. Lead the way; lift her up from the mire.
A Community Plan for the Prevention of Delinquency By Amy W. Evans
SAMUEL R. BLAKE, of Los Angeles, speaking before a community welfare group, organized for the prevention of juvenile delinquency, made this remarkable statement recently: "You are bringing together many community agencies and are working so effectively that you are just going to put the judge of the juvenile court out of business." This organization is called "the coordinating council." The idea originated in Berkeley, California, about twelve years ago, under the leadership of Captain August Vollmer. It was there so effective in solving the community's problems so far as the child is concerned, that it has been adopted in other parts of that State. The underlying idea in this plan as worked out in Berkeley is to bring together representatives of all the social agencies in the community, and then to coordinate them for the purpose of helping to answer the question, What can be done to prevent delinquency? Represented in this Berkeley council were the following social agencies: First, the school, as, next to the home, the greatest influence in the child's life, so far as his relations to society are concerned and in its ability to help him make the necessary adjustments; second, the recreation department of the community, which has it in its power to prevent delinquency and therefore to become an important agency in the council; third, such character-building organizations as the scouts, girls' clubs, and boys' clubs, which can contribute much to a community program; fourth, the police department, which is coming more and more to take on preventive work; fifth, the welfare organizations in the community, especially those dealing with family life, with a view to conserving the family; and, sixth, the church, which, of all the groups outside the home, is the most important in the life of the child. These agencies form the co-ordinating council in the Berkeley organization. A word more needs to be said of one of the units in the council—the police department. The police department as a preventive force is coming more and more into prominence in places where public sentiment is aroused to the importance of preventive measures. One progressive chief of police says, "There is a new type of police officer today. The new type is keenly interested in the prevention of delinquency. It is becoming a profession." The report of the White House Conference on delinquency says: "The police officer on his beat sees the origin of the corner gang, good or bad. Here lies his real field, the task of influencing early those individual and community forces before critical delinquent situations arise."
REPRESENTATIVES of these various agencies in Berkeley formed a case committee, before which came the cases of those children who were community problems in any way. After careful study the committee referred the child to the agency, or agencies, best prepared to solve the particular problem and to meet the needs of the child. All the resources of the community were to be used in the endeavor to make the necessary adjustment. This was done without any publicity whatever. The child did not even know about the existence of the Council. A sort of community case work was done also; the influences for good were known and capitalized, as well as those making for evil. The one was encouraged, the other either minimized or eliminated altogether. In 1931 representatives of the various agencies in Los Angeles, both the city and the county, under the leadership of Kenyon J. Scudder, chief probation officer of juvenile court, met to organize coordinating councils, following the Berkeley plan in the main. Since that time fourteen councils have come into existence there. Each month a council bulletin is issued. This contains reports of the work done by the various councils. In October, 1932, the bulletin of the Glendale council reported: "Our coordinating council has studied 56 cases. There has been satisfactory adjustment in 38 cases, some improvement in 14 cases, and no improvement in 4 cases." Another council reports that, in spite of no appropriation, it put on a community recreation program during the summer vacation period. The community cooperated to such an extent that the council was able to pay for bleachers, screens, lighting equipment, etc., and at the end of the vacation had a surplus of one hundred seventy dollars on hand, which was given to the family welfare agency. During that period only one case of delinquency came before the council, and that was found to be the case of a child who had not been in attendance at the playground. One of the coordinating councils under the direction of a trained leader, turned the energies of a mischievous gang of boys into a play group. These boys had been in the habit of congregating at night in a back alley, where they laid plans for mischief which they carried out. This spot was cleared out and lighted at night, and equipment for games placed in it.
THESE reports of the councils merely indicate the trend of these community programs for the prevention of delinquency among children. There appears to be considerable enthusiasm in each council district; a pride is taken in keeping down delinquency to a minimum. Also there appears to be an increasing awareness of community responsibility for the welfare of children. Perhaps this is due in part to the fact that the child is so early and powerfully influenced by his community in these days—through the radio, the motion picture, newspapers, commercialized recreation. In these ways he is brought into daily contact with ideas and amusements over which his parents, as individuals, have no control. Therefore, it would seem that group action is necessary to control these influences and to create others that are wholesome. A juvenile court judge of a large city says that, in his opinion, "delinquency and crime have their origin in childhood and youth," and that the "flow of delinquency into the court can be prevented in a very great measure by community effort and organization." In all this community effort the responsibility of the home is not lessened, for it is a very important part of any really effective plan. The late Judge Frederick P. Cabot, of Boston, says: "The greatest hope for the prevention of delinquency lies in the example set to the child by the adults with whom he associates, through habits of regularity, honesty, sincerity, and courage."
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
ENTER the New Year with a bold front. Forget the tragedies of yesterday. Be of good cheer and remember there is always a tomorrow.
THE Centenary of Louisa May Alcott, Nov. 29, 1932, was marked by many delightful testimonials. The most impressive perhaps, at the old Alcott home in Concord, where Meg, Joe, Beth and Amy came to life in a revival of the drama from "Little Women." Miss Alcott's stories for children with their wholesome lessons of loyalty and devotion are surely priceless treasures among home libraries.
QUEEN MARIE of Rumania has gone to a quiet retreat in the Carpathian Mountains to write her "Memoirs." We predict some interesting reading in a book containing incidents from so colorful a life.
KATHARINE BRUSH, Dorothy Canfield and Kay Boyle are the only women whose short stories are included in the O'Henry 1932 Memorial Award Prize Stories.
RUTH Chatterton, charming actress, is famed as a wearer of smart clothes, who refuses to pose for fashion pictures though she spends thousands on her personal wardrobe every year.
MARY PICKFORD as grand marshal of the Pasadena Tournament of Roses will surely be a lovely picture. She is the first of the theatrical world to be chosen for this honor.
HELEN HAYES was awarded the prize—a gold statuette—for giving the best individual screen performance of the year by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
RUTH NICHOLLS had the honor to unveil the base of the shaft at Kitty Hawk, N. C., where the Wright Brothers made their first flight.
AMY JOHNSON made the latest sensation among women fliers when she out distanced her husband by several hours in her flight across the Sahara desert.
EVANGELINE ADAMS—famed astrologist—is dead. Her followers proudly say she predicted her death to the hour by the stars.
FREDA EHRMAN, who recently died, age 93, was the founder of California's ripe olive industry. She passed from poverty to wealth in 36 years through her own efforts.
MIRIAM FERGUSON has again been elected Governor of Texas and Mrs. Hattie Carraway won the election in Arkansas for Senator. The first woman ever elected to the United States Senate.
ELEANOR HOLMES HINDLEY'S new play, "Dear Jane," will please the lovers of Jane Austen's novels. The play opens with a prologue in London's Cheshire Cheese Tavern with Dr. Johnson, James Boswell, Joshua Reynolds and David Garrick. And then appears Jane Austen, age 23, who according to her historians had already written "Pride and Prejudice," "Sense and Sensibility," and was engaged on another novel. Rather daring for a young woman in 1775.
Preparing the Meal of Today By Lucy Rose Middleton
"The turnpike road to people's hearts I find, Lies through their mouth, or I mistake mankind," Sings the poet, Peter Pindar. We will all agree that his words carry much truth. Many important matters have been settled over appetizing and attractively prepared dinners: business deals of great magnitude, romances terminating in marriage arrangements, the celebration of anniversaries. Good cooking is an accomplishment well calculated to make a man boast about his wife. Pepys so relished Mrs. Pepys' cooking that he made a record of it in his Diary, writing, "My wife has got ready a very fine dinner—viz: a dish of marrow bones, a leg of mutton, a loin of veal, a dish of fowl, three pullets and a dozen of larks all in a dish, a great tart, a neat's tongue, a dish of anchovy, a dish of prawn and cheese." How glaringly the lack of balance and grace in such a meal contrasts with a skillfully prepared meal of today! It would seem that man was once a carnivorous animal. Cookery today is both a science and an art. As for the scientific side, we should all know that potatoes, bread, rice, and macaroni are carbohydrate or starchy foods and that meat, cheese, eggs, dried peas and beans come under the list of protein foods. Fat foods include cream, fat meats, butter and oils. Among the foods supplying mineral salts to the diet are vegetables, cereals, milk, and fruits. Vitamins, the subject of considerable recent study, are present in milk, cereals, cod liver oil, fruits and vegetables. Another of the food elements which is necessary to the body is, of course, water. This is obtained both from the foods we eat and the beverages we drink. A proper diet must include all these food principles in adequate quantities. The art of cookery includes the careful selection of foods that are suitable in flavor and texture and attractive in color. Someone once discovered that turkey and cranberries, pork and apple sauce, and the flavor of mint with mutton have a natural affinity for one another. Since that time the housewife instinctively adds the harmonizing condiment to her grocery list when she plans to serve one of these meats. The woman who selects her foods scientifically and then adds the artistic touch to the preparation and service will find herself presiding over a most attractive and appetizing meal.
RECIPES FOR JANUARY
Stuffed Baked Potatoes With Cheese 3 large flat potatoes. 1 tablespoon butter 1/2 cup grated cheese. Salt and pepper. Hot milk.
Bake potatoes 40 minutes in a hot oven or until soft (450-500 degrees). Remove from oven, cut in halves lengthwise, scoop out the inside. Mash, add butter, salt and pepper, enough hot milk to make the mixture creamy, and grated cheese. Refill the shells. Sprinkle the top with grated cheese and bake for five or ten minutes.
Baked Halibut With Tomato Sauce 2 pounds halibut. 2 cups tomato sauce.
Clean fish, put in baking pan, pour around half the tomato sauce, and bake 35 minutes in moderately hot oven (375 degrees). Baste often. Remove to a hot platter, pour around it the remaining sauce heated to boiling point, and garnish with parsley.
Tomato Sauce 2 cups tomatoes, cooked or canned. 1 slice onion. 3 tablespoons butter. 3 tablespoons flour. Salt and pepper.
Cook the tomatoes and onion together for 15 minutes, and strain. Brown the butter and add flour. When well blended add tomato juice. Bring to boiling point.
Fricassee of Veal 2 pounds sliced veal. 1 small onion. 2 stalks celery. 6 slices carrot. Salt and pepper. 4 tablespoons butter. 4 tablespoons flour. Pork fat.
Wipe meat, cover with boiling water, and add vegetables. Cook slowly until meat is tender. Remove meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and fry (saute) in pork fat. Strain liquid (there should be 2 cups). Melt butter, add flour and blend well. Add strained liquor. Bring to a boil, season with salt and pepper and pour around meat. Garnish with watercress or parsley.
Harvard Beets 12 small beets, cooked and cut in slices, cubes or fancy shapes. 1/2 cup sugar. 1/2 tablespoon cornstarch. 1/4 cup water. 1/4 cup vinegar. 2 tablespoons butter.
Mix sugar and cornstarch. Add vinegar and water and boil 5 minutes. Add beets and let stand over low heat 30 minutes. Just before serving bring to boiling point and add butter.
Corn Bread 3/4 cup corn meal. 1 cup white flour. 1/3 cup sugar. 5 teaspoons baking powder. 3/4 teaspoon salt. 1 cup milk. 1 egg, well beaten. 2 tablespoons shortening.
Mix the dry ingredients and sift; add milk, egg, and shortening; bake in shallow buttered pan 20 minutes in hot oven (425 degrees). For shortening, butter, chicken fat, or beef drippings may be used.
Date Squares 2 cups of rolled oats. 1 1/2 cup of flour. 1 teaspoon soda. 1 1/2 cup brown sugar. 1/2 cup of melted butter.
Add sifted flour and soda to rolled oats and brown sugar, and last, the melted butter. Mix well. This mixture will be crumbly.
Filling 1 pound dates stoned and cut in pieces. 1 cup brown sugar. 1 cup water. 1 teaspoon flour.
Mix all together and cook until quite thick. Stir to prevent burning. Cool. Put one-half of the dry mixture in buttered large square pan, add filling and spread evenly, then add the remaining crumbs. Bake 15-20 minutes or until golden brown. Cool and cut.
Brown Betty 2 cups bread crumbs. 1/4 cup butter, melted. 1 quart apples. 1/4 cup sugar, brown or white. 1/4 teaspoon grated nutmeg. Grated rind and juice of 1/2 lemon. 1/4 cup hot water.
Mix crumbs and butter lightly with a fork. Cover bottom of buttered pudding dish with crumbs and spread half of the apples, sprinkle with half of sugar, and half of nutmeg, lemon juice and rind together; repeat, cover with remaining crumbs and water, and bake 40 minutes in a moderately hot oven (350 degrees). Cover at first to prevent crumbs from browning too rapidly. Serve with cream and sugar.
Fig Newton Delight 12-15 fig newtons. 1/2 pint whipping cream. Maraschino cherries.
Cut fig newtons in small pieces. Whip cream stiff and add to fig newtons. Let stand in refrigerator for about 8 hours before serving. Top each serving with a maraschino cherry.
Soul Needs By Helen M. Livingston
Dear little thought with me all the night Don't go away with the morning light, I'll want you and need you all the day long To gladden realities with your sweet song.
Dear little joys of the springtime too All the long winter I'll have need of you; Thoughts of your sunshine to keep me warm Meadow-rue memories to brave the storm.
Dear little dreams of my maiden days Please do not run from my grown-up ways, Your gossamer castles, I'll need every one To keep my eyes lifted to turrets of sun.
Notes to the Field
Activity Department
SALT LAKE STAKE has an activity department that is functioning splendidly under the able leadership of Evelyn Updegraff. It relieves Presidents of responsibility, it is increasing attendance and it is making the work go more smoothly. Under its aegis kindergartens are functioning in each Ward. One organization reports that 9 mothers who never attended Relief Society meetings before, because they could not leave their children, are now enjoying the work. The department has educational and recreational programs for the children so that they are delighted when Relief Society Day comes. Health stories and picture charts make the work very attractive to the little ones. Children's games and finger plays are given. The children are taught colors by coloring empty spools and paper sweet peas, etc., and having the children name the colors. The people of the Wards have been asked to give toys that they are not using for the Kindergarten cause. The following outline was given at the beginning of the year and each Union Meeting parts of it pertaining to this department are carefully developed. Aim: Each day I will find a few minutes for Spiritual Growth. Ward Relief Society Conferences, November and December, 1932, January, February and March, 1933. Stake Temple Excursion, November 7, 1932. Stake Union Meeting last Friday in each month, 17th Ward Chapel, 2 p. M. March, 1933—Anniversary Program commemorating the organization of the Relief Society in Nauvoo on March 17, 1842. March 17, 1933—Stake Relief Society—Temple Excursion. May, 1933—Stake Relief Society Flower Show: Date and place to be announced later. June, 1933—Stake Annual Entertainment to County Infirmary Patients. June, 1933—Stake Board Reception to Ward Officers. June, 1933—Mother and Daughters' Outing—Date and place to be announced later. Games and programs of various kinds are provided by this department where they are desired for Social events, Annual Days, etc. Each month recipes are given out at the Union Meeting. One of the recipes given is made before and is served to the class. The recipes are written on paper 8 1/2 x 11 inches, as are also the games and other instructions. The Ward leaders are asked to secure a large loose leaf book and then each month they can punch the sheets they receive, use little reinforcements and place them in the loose leaf book. Since it is difficult to find plays suited to their needs, they are endeavoring to bring out the hidden talent in their members and are, therefore, sponsoring a play writing contest. Last year the Department conducted a story writing contest. In September at their Union Meeting they gave a number of finger plays and games to the Wards and their picture story for the kindergarten. Games for Relief Society parties. Recipes for sandwich fillings for the school lunch boxes. Salads to be taken in small jars. Raw carrots and fruit. The recipes given this month were in the Relief Society Magazine. Information regarding the play writing contest. In preparation for the flower show to be held in May, 1933, they had Mrs. Maud Chegwidden, an expert in raising flowers, speak on "Fall Planting for Spring Bloom." Preparing the soil, names of bulbs, how to plant, etc. To encourage reading on the part of members of their department they suggested the book, "Adventures in Understanding," by David Grayson. In the October Union Meeting a short talk on Poetry was given to stimulate reading and writing poetry and stories. The idea for this was gained from the August Magazine, "A Poem a Day Keeps Stagnation Away." Two original poems were read by the Stake Leader. The question of the two minute talks given by the Ward members on timely subjects for the purpose of bringing forward women and to develop them along the line of public speaking, especially to bring out the timid and foreign people who do not know our language was dwelt upon. Since busy mothers are likely to neglect the setting of the table properly, reasons why they should be careful were given and a discussion on the book read was engaged in.
Relief Society Books
IN answer to the often repeated question, "What shall we do with Relief Society books that have been purchased by the Society?" we first call attention to the very fine account in the "Notes from the Field" (page 43 of this issue) given by the Cache stake. The General Board heartily endorses this plan, and has the following to suggest: A number of Relief Society organizations have been most successful in establishing small libraries, with a librarian in charge of the books. The books are distributed and exchanged weekly after the regular meeting. These societies are to be congratulated on this method and the amount of reading that has been accomplished by the members. We recommend this as being the very best method of caring for the books belonging to the Relief Society. First provide a place to keep the books, a shelf or shelves, according to the number of books; a shelf where they can be seen is better than a box. A good way to place them is alphabetically by author. It is necessary, when circulating them, to keep some kind of record, and a card is the handiest and easiest method. A card 5 x 3 inches with the author's name and title of the book written at the top may be placed in each book. The borrower writes her name on the card, and the date of taking it. The card is then filed, and when the book is returned the name is checked off and the card replaced in the book. If the officers feel it is best, where there is a public library in the town, the librarian might be glad to provide a place for Relief Society books where they may be kept during the time they are actively used. After that time the organizations may desire to turn them over to the librarian for permanent use. The seminary library is also a good depository if it is central enough. A list of all books placed in any library by the Relief Society should be posted in a prominent place in said library as a suggestion to the women who are in doubt as to what to read. The only justification in having a book is that it may be used, so don't store them away in boxes, or closets, to collect dust.
Magazine Subscriptions
IT is certainly a matter of congratulation when a ward or a stake can, under present conditions, report 100% subscriptions to the Magazine. It indicates a sincere appreciation of the value of the Magazine, and of the courage and energy of those responsible for its circulation in the stakes. The General Board offers sincere congratulations to all who have achieved this enviable record. A most remarkable record has been made in the San Francisco stake, with ten out of its thirteen wards securing 100% subscriptions.
[THIS IS TABLE: Ward membership and magazine subscription data for San Francisco Stake, showing Ward names, No. Membership, and No. Magazines Taken for various wards including Alameda, Balboa, Burlingame, etc.]
Blaine Stake Hagerman......33 33
Liberty Stake Eighth........101 101
Annie Smith, Agent for the 8th Ward, formulated the following 12 reasons for selling the Magazine:
1. It advertises our Organization.
2. It helps the lonely over sad hours.
3. It creates an interest in our lessons.
4. It is the one and only Magazine for L. D. S. Women.
5. It is worth twice the price we pay for it.
6. It takes us to Universities and all over the World.
7. It stimulates us to develop our talents.
8. It makes us proud of our membership In the Organization.
9. It gives us courage to go forward.
10. It brings joy in our hearts in reading the fine poetry.
11. It gives good wholesome reading for every member of the family.
12. We will know our Magazine.
Motto: "We will know our Magazine."
Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest
GREAT interest was again manifest in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poem Contest. There were 105 poems entered, and many of them were unusually good. The judges were Miss Dorothy Snow, of the English Department of the University of Utah; Mrs. Elsie Talmage Brandley, Associate Editor of the Era; and Mrs. Cora L. Bennion, of the General Board of Relief Society. The winner of the first prize is Rosannah Cannon of Salt Lake City for "Sonnet of Loneliness." The second prize is awarded to Alberta Huish Christensen, of Long Island, New York, for "Full Measure." Honorable mention is given to Alveretta S. Engar, of Salt Lake City, for "I Didn't Dream;" to Miriam Jeanne Warnick, of Pleasant Grove, Utah, for "Life Perfect;" and to Claire Stewart Boyer, of Salt Lake City, for "Rebirth." We congratulate the winners and the sisters who submitted so many fine poems.
Notes from the Field
Bear River Stake.
BEAR River stake pays the following tribute to some of its Pioneer Relief Society women: "Sister Sophia Larson came as a convert to L. D. 'S. Church from her native country, Sweden, in the year 1892, with her husband and four small children. At that time she could neither read, write, nor speak a word of English. She says that through faith, prayer and determined effort she soon mastered the language. The family came to the Bear River Valley when it was a barren sage brush country. Sister Larson, a typical pioneer mother, through her_thrift, undaunted courage and very industrious nature, helped make a good comfortable home and living. Soon after she arrived she accepted the call of Relief Society teacher. This necessitated walking or driving a horse and buggy a distance of five or six miles over deep muddy or dry dusty roads, trailing through sections of sage brush land. She was sustained as president of the East Garland Ward Relief Society, December 18, 1904, when the ward was a part of Box Elder stake. Faithfulness to duty has been her outstanding characteristic. She does not ask of her co-workers what she would not do herself. Her seventy-five years do not prevent her from keeping abreast of the times. She is an ardent lover of Relief Society work in all lines, equally interested in the social, literary and theological lessons and the work and business of the Society. When sickness or death comes to any home, Sister Larson is among the first to offer solace and comfort. [She is an authority on scripture. The children, the young people and the older members of the ward alike claim her care. She brooks no delay in doing whatever is required of the sisters by the ward, stake or general authorities. "Tt is rather unusual that a president should Iabor so faithfully for twenty-eight consecutive years, and still maintain her efficiency. That she is loved and respected by her co-workers is attested by the fact that a splendid average attendance at the meetings has been maintained throughout the years. There have only been two changes in the Relief Society ward presidency during all this time. These were necessitated by the removal from the ward of Sister Eva M. Walker in October, 1909, and of Sister Jane Oyler in the fall of 1917. "Sister Anna W. Larson (not related) has served as first counselor to President Sophia Larson since the first organization, being a faithful, efficient worker. She has raised to maturity a family of seven children and yet never slackened in her Relief Society duties. "Sister Meda H. Sorensen has ably supported the two Sisters Larson since being sustained as second counselor November 6, 1917. Sister NOTES FROM THE FIELD 43 Birdie Hansen has been secretary since December 5, 1912, though the books were temporarily in charge of others during her illness of some duration. "One might well concede that Relief Society work makes better wives and mothers for all these noble unassuming women have raised, during their time of service, large families of splendid young men and women. "In March of this year, Sister, Larson's companion passed from this sphere of action. This left her alone in their home as all of their children have families of their own. Again her independent nature is shown by her decision to provide for herself. She says she prefers to maintain her own home and not be a burden to anyone as long as she has health and strength to carry on. "Such as these are God's choice mothers in Israel." Cache Stake. LIBRARY work in Cache stake, under the direction of President Lula Y. Smith, has been stressed the past year with the result that the stake and ward libraries are in much better shape. It was found that only a small percentage of the books purchased the past few years could be located. In many cases when they were received they were passed out to class leaders without any ownership stamped or written in, or any record made of whom they were loaned to. At the close of the year's work they were forgotten in the eagerness to present the new books. When new presidents were interviewed as to what books were turned over to them, most of them reported not any, or very few. When asked where the books were kept, they generally replied, "at the president's or class leader's home." After this investigation, stake and ward librarians were appointed. They first made a systematic search for books, labeled all of them in two places, and listed them in a book. Then each ward provided a suitable book case with a lock and was kept in the Relief Society room. Now each meeting day the librarian has a table where she displays the books before and after meeting, and the sisters are urged to borrow them, even the ones that are in use this year by class leaders, are found a part of each month, available to the sisters. Some of the aggressive librarians have had the women donate a book and have taken over the Mutual books, and have borrowed as many as twenty-five or thirty from the public library for three months at a time.: One librarian in a small ward reports that she is beset by the whole ward to loan them books, and possibly she can open a small library in her home. The sisters appreciate this very much, for in many wards there is no public library, and too often the women are busy and live far from the city library and their visits are not very frequent. However, they love to read, and good books should be as available to them as food at the corner grocery. Occasionally the librarian has five minutes to briefly introduce a book or name over those available. The hope is to have the women wait after meeting long enough to sign for a book to carry home with them. St. George Stake. HE St. George Stake Relief Society held its annual conference convention November 20, 1932, in St. George. In connection with the convention the stake sponsored an exhibit featuring the Work and Business Meeting. This was held 44 RELIEF SOCIETY in the Dixie College Science Building. The wards of the stake sent in marvelous contributions. Each ward had an outstanding display quilt, and other beautiful practical ones, showing woman's desire to ever express the beautiful. There were five exquisite two-toned silk quilted spreads, twelve appliqued and eighty-two pieced quilts. The made over corner was one of the most interesting and pleasing. By the large number of articles displayed, it showed the mothers were adequately meeting the clothes problem for this year. There were many picturesque and useful rugs, conserving what would otherwise be waste. Elaborate bed-spreads that must have taken courage to commence, and all kinds of art needlework, from the colorful cosy corner of sofa pillows, to the hand-embroidered curtains, pillow _ slips, covers and novelties, added to the charm of the collection. In the antique room, as it was called, were many articles of great historic interest. Among these was a spread made for Elizabeth Scearce Seany in Indiana, by David J. Graves in the year 1839. She had it with her when she was driven from her home in Nauvoo. There was also a well preserved quilt with exquisite workmanship and design that had been in her hope chest in 1845. Lucy Keates' spread was made 65 years ago, and Mary S. Rencher's quilt 58 years, and Grandma Crosby's patchwork quilt 55 years ago. There was a quilt bought by George Jarvis 60 years ago from the tithing office for $10.00. It was made and donated by the Pinto Relief Society to the St. George Temple then in course of construction. The cleverly designed spread of Mary McArthur's was made by her 50 years ago out of cotton grown locally, the thread was made in Washington MAGAZINE factory. There was a piece of silk woven by Mary Jarvis 35 years ago. She had grown the silk worms, reeled the thread from the cocoons, and woven the silk. Some handmade pillow slips were on display. These were made by Eleanor E. Bigler in 1858, from cotton raised by her father, from which she spun the thread to make the five inch lace on the hem. A unique bed spread was made from friendship blocks given to Anna L. Ivins, mother of - President Anthony W. Ivins. These were sewed together by her granddaughter, Mrs. Lutie Lytle, after Sister Ivins' death. Each block was made by a relative or friend in Toms River, Ocean Park, New Jersey, in 1842, and their names are still plainly stamped, making it a real source of genealogy. This was brought to St. George in 1860 by Sister Ivins, who was the second stake president of the St. George Relief Society. A black silk embroidered shawl, owned by Mrs. Sarah Redfield in Lodi, Cataraugus County, New York, over a hundred years ago, came to New York in a sailing vessel from Japan, and found its way across the plains. A group of dear old-fashioned baby clothes presented a glimpse of the past. A feeling of tenderness was expressed in the old paisley shawls, as in fancy one could see the faces of the dear ones who had worn them. There was a parasol of Mrs. Elizabeth Wallis', the frame of which was made by her father, and covered by her mother in London eighty years ago. Of great interest was a sampler made by Rachel Brownet in 1835, in the Gloucester Infirmary, when she was 8 years old, also another by Anna L. Ivins in 1827, and one by her daughter, Caroline Augusta Pace, in 1859, showed what the girls of long ago used to do. There was Cora S. Hagan's coverlet NOTES FROM THE FIELD 45 Most a hundred years old," a genuine handmade article, made in Ohio. Besides these treasures mentioned there were many other things of interest, pictures of the past and evidences of the present skill and energy of Relief Society women. Liberty Stake. D URING the summer Liberty stake Relief Society completed a fine project in leadership. An ambitious group of stake and ward officers and teachers met every Mon- (lay morning for twelve weeks to study the qualities and problems of leaders. They used a text-book and followed a careful plan aimed to develop the best attitudes, aims and activities for women conducting the affairs of Church organizations. The instructor was Claire Stewart Boyer. The enthusiasm with which the project progressed led to a repetition of the course, with an additional course in public speaking. North Weber Stake. NE of the most delightful anniversary celebrations was held in the North Weber stake during the year 1932. The pageant, "Ninety Years of Relief Society," was staged by the sisters of the Relief Society. The lines were written by Mrs. Laura M. Jenkins. This was a very comprehensive panorama of events in the history of Relief Society. It was presented first on June 8, 1932, and repeated by request on June 15, at the Weber County High School Building in Ogden, Both performances were given to crowded houses. President Julia E. Parry and her very able board were responsible for this excellent entertainment. The above picture represents the cast of characters. The presidency and Link Tiffany Studios. 46 RELIEF SOCIETY stake board of Relief Society impersonated the women of the past and the allegorical figures. Granite Stake. Mest gratifying results have followed the very successful kindergarten organized by the Wasatch Ward Relief Society. This worthwhile arrangement enables many mothers to participate in class MAGAZINE work while their children receive supervised instruction in work and play. The group, under the able direction of Sister Dorothy Morgan Hollberg, has an average attendance of 20 children, and is conducted in an attractive room decorated and furnished by the Relief Society for this special purpose. The accompanying pictures are two snap shots of the little ones and their instructor. KINDERGARTEN, WASATCH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY Conference-Conventions General Board members visited Relief Society stake conference-conventions, which were held in the stakes during 1932, as follows: Alberta—Mrs. Lalene H. Hart. Alpine—Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. Bannock—Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood. Bear Lake—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Bear River—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Beaver—Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker. Benson—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Big Horn—Mrs. Lalene H. Hart. Blackfoot—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. Blaine—Mrs. Mary C. Kimball. Boise—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Box Elder—Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Burley—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Cache—Mrs. Kate M. Barker. Carbon—Mrs. Julia A. Child. Cassia—Mrs. Marcia K. Howells. Cottonwood—Mrs. Amy W.. Evans. Curlew—Mrs. Nettie. D. Bradford. Deseret—Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Duchesne—Mrs. Marcia K. Howells. East Jordan—Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. Emery—Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Ensign—Mrs,. Lalene H. Hart and Miss Sarah 'M. McLelland. Franklin—Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter. Fremont—Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood. Garfield—Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker. Granite—Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker. Grant—Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine. Gunnison—Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Hollywood—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Hyrum—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Idaho—Mrs. Mary C. Kimball. Idaho Falls—Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. Juab—Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood. Juarez—Mrs. Mary C. Kimball. Kanab—Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Kolob—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Lehi—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Lethbridge—Mrs Lalene H Hart. Liberty—Mrs. Kate M. Barker. Logan—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Los Angeles—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Lost River—Mrs, Jennie B. Knight. Lyman—Mrs. Inez K. Allen, Malad—Mrs. Marcia K. Howells. Maricopa—Mrs. Mary C. Kimball. Millard—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Minidoka—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. Moapa—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Montpelier—Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker. Morgan—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Moroni—Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker. Mount Ogden—Mrs. Marcia K. Howells. Nebo—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. Nevada—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. North Davis—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. North Sanpete—Mrs. Jennie B. Knight. North Sevier—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. North Weber—Mrs. Kate M. Barker. Ogden—Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. Oneida—Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood. Oquirrh—Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal. Palmyra—Mrs. Inez K. Allen. Panguitch—Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. Parowan—Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. Pioneer—Mrs. Lalene H. Hart and Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Pocatello—Mrs. Julia A. Child. Portneuf—Mrs. Marcia K. Howells. Raft River—Mrs. Mary C. Kimball. Rigby—Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. Roosevelt—Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. St. George—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. St. Johns—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. St. Joseph—Mrs. Mary C. Kimball. Salt Lake—Mrs. Mary C. Kimball. San Francisco—Mrs, Julia A. F. Lund. San Juan—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. San Luis—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison Sevier—Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker. Sharon—Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood. Shelley—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Snowflake—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. South Davis—Mrs. Cora L. Bennion. South Sanpete—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. South Sevier—Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal. Star Valley—Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine. Summit—Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood. Taylor—Mrs. Lalene H. Hart. Teton—Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford. Timpanogos—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Tintic—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Tooele—Mrs. Kate M. Barker. Twin Falls—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Uintah—Mrs. Kate M. Barker. Union—Mrs. Mary C. Kimball. Utah—Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Wasatch—Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. Wayne—Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. Weber—Mrs. Kate M. Barker. West Jordan—Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. Woodruff—Mrs. Mary C. Kimball. Yellowstone—Mrs. Elise B. Alder. Young—Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. Zion Park—Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - THE GENERAL BOARD THE GENERAL BOARD: President First Counselor: Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrg. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen _ Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs, Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Editor - - - Mary Connelly Kimball. Manager ). Louise Y. Rosison VOL, XX JANUARY, 1933 No. 1 EDITORIAL Greeting THE Relief Society has passed its ninetieth milestone. The age has been a period of gigantic struggle and mighty achievement. Our organization was urgently needed in 1842, but its incalculable service is in far greater demand at the close of 1932. As the Church has increased in numbers and scope, social problems have multiplied and the demand for educational training has kept pace and in harmony with the march of progress. As we reflect upon the blessings of the past and present, the Presidency and General Board of Relief Society turn with gratitude to our Father in Heaven that we have been privileged to live at this time in the fulness of the gospel light. Thanksgiving fills our hearts that we have been granted the rare opportunity of associating with the women whose ideals of life and service are shaped by the spirit of Christ, and who express their love for Him in their untiring labors for the betterment of humanity. We realize that this year of all others, we need to cherish His precepts. We have all experienced the inspiration which comes from our visits to your stakes in conference conventions, and we are most appreciative of the beautiful hospitality offered ts in your homes. We are aware of your great loyalty to our Magazine, and the tireless efforts made to successfully pursue the lesson courses, and to cooperate in developing any project suggested by the General Board. We have noted your attitude of helpfulness and your anxiety to give the very best that is in you that the ideals of Relief Society might be materialized into tangible results. Often, we know that you have patiently labored with sad hearts and tired' hands to render the service required in these times of distress, and no cry for help has gone unheeded. From our hearts Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman we thank you; we honor you and we love you. At this New Year we pause for a moment to express our gratitude to all you dear Relief Society women for the glorious past of our organization, and we face the future with confidence and hope born of our faith in you and in the Gospel of our Savior, Jesus Christ. LOUISE Y. ROBISON, AMY BROWN LYMAN, JULIA A. CHILD, General Presidency of the Relief Society. B. Y. U. At Provo NE beneficial result of the depression is 'the increased attendance at colleges and universities. Students are learning how to live at a minimum cost and are preparing themselves for greater efficiency when opportunities for employment offer themselves. The Brigham Young University, in whose success we are all so deeply interested, reports that their attendance exceeds all previous records, that their students show increased devotion to their books and are more serious than in years past. The large reading room of the Heber J. Grant Library is filled almost to capacity at all hours of the day and until 10 o'clock at night. The University is serving a greater area than before. They have in attendance in their schools students from six countries including Japan, Tonga, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico and Canada and from twenty states. Two hundred twelve cities have students attending this splendid institution. Ninety-nine of these cities are from out of the state and one hundred thirteen are from Utah. The institution is making unusual efforts this year to assist students. J. W. Sauls, Custodian, reports that 150 bushels of apples have been distributed to upwards of two hundred students and fresh vegetables from the University farm have also been donated. In this way those who are attempting to "batch" their way through school are very materially helped. In order to cut down expenses the majority of the students are "batching it" while heretofore the greater percentage were found to be boarding.
Child Labor Day
THE annual observance of National Child Labor Day occurs January 28-30, 1933. The depression has lessened the total number of children employed. The United States Census shows that children between the ages of 10 to 15 years includes in 1930, 667,118, while in 1920 there were 1,060,858, a reduction of 37%. Many of those now at work have been driven into industry because of the long continued unemployment of their adult relatives. It is a deplorable fact that some employers have taken advantage of the times and have worked young children at "starvation wages." The National Child Labor Committee emphasizes that there is great need at the present time to enforce child labor laws, improve lax laws, and maintain established standards of minimum age, physical fitness, and working hours. The Federal Children's Bureau states that there are upwards of one-half million boys and young men under 21 years of age drifting about the country on foot or jumping freight trains in a fruitless search for work. The already overburdened communities move these boys on after giving them a night's lodging and a meager meal or two and no real attempt is made to solve the problems of really absorbing them into the social fabric. The golden opportunity of gathering in the young people who are unemployed is mitigated against because of reduced appropriations, shortened school terms, reduced number of teachers, suspension of financial and guidance programs and the cancelling of building plans. The committee investigating, states: "A numerical reduction, therefore, in the number of child laborers is not sufficient, without alternative provision for constructive training. Never has the need for the strengthening of our educational structure been more urgent than now. Including those of 16 and 17 years, more than 2,000,000 boys and girls are reported by the 1930 Census as gainfully employed; but more than 3,000,000 are not attending school. The opportunity exists for keeping thousands of young people in school and preparing them to find greater satisfaction, usefulness, security and development in what their hands and minds find to do. The amount and kind of education given to adolescent youth in the next few years will largely determine the contribution of the coming generation to the solution of the problems of unemployment, economic instability, and international relationships which are troubling the world today."
Greater Security in Automobile Driving
PEOPLE may well be appalled at the number of serious automobile accidents, for the annual death toll is excessive and the injured are legion. Casualties resulting from automobile accidents in 1931 reached, according to insurance statistics, the appalling total of 1,032,000, of which 34,400 cases were fatalities. "The consequences measured in terms of grief and human suffering are, of course, incalculable. One of the largest insurance companies estimates that the country's motor accidents cause an economic loss of $2,500,000,000 annually." "Traffic regulations are scientifically devised and police control, both state and municipal, is widely and skillfully exercised, but despite all this the accident toll grows greater each year. With the public authorities doing everything in their power to mitigate this condition, it is all too apparent that it persists because of lack of proper public cooperation on the part of a considerable section of the public, in safety measures." The Consolidated Oil Corporation by H. S. Sinclair, Chairman of the Executive Committee, has offered a national award of $10,000 to promote greater safety in automobile driving. The sum will be appropriated as follows: $5,000 to the municipality of over 50,000 population adjudged the safest city in the United States on the basis of automobile accident statistics for the year beginning October 1, 1932, and ending September 30, 1933. $2,500 to the city of over 50,000 population having the second best record; and $2,500 to the State having the best safety record among the states. The money will go to the police pension or relief funds of these municipalities, and to the corresponding welfare fund of the safest state. The Sinclair Refining Company, operating subsidiary of Consolidated Oil Corporation will make the awards.
Amanda McEwan Knight Called Home
AMANDA KNIGHT widow of Jesse Knight and mother of our Board Member Inez Knight Allen and mother in law of Jennie Brimhall Knight answered the summons of the angel of death December 15, 1932. She was a beautiful character kindly, generous, hospitable. She had an outstanding love for humanity and a gift for looking out after those in distress. She was eager to assist aspiring young people to gain an education. The entire Knight family have for years given unstintedly of their means to assist the Brigham Young University and have been a source of inspiration and encouragement in times of need to this worthy institution. Sister Knight was a fine home maker; friends and relatives were eager to go to her home and were loathe to leave its hospitable shelter. Her deep interest in the affairs of the day and her keen sense of humor were a delight to those who tarried with her. She has raised a worthy family of sons and daughters who bless her memory and will carry on the work of helpfulness and encouragement which so delighted their mother.
The Passing of Professor George Careless
PROFESSOR GEORGE CARELESS has played an important role in the musical life of the Mormon people. He was called upon in his young manhood by President Brigham Young to lay the foundation for good music in Utah. He was an early director of the Tabernacle Choir and a pioneer director of the old Salt Lake Theatre orchestra. He was an outstanding writer of music—some of the finest hymns in the L. D. S. Psalmody are from his gifted pen. Now at the ripe age of ninety-three he has closed his earth life, having been faithful to every trust. He will long be held in loving memory by his people and generations yet unborn will know him through his music.
"Thunder Cave"
"THUNDER CAVE," a series of twenty-one delightful adventures written by Jeremiah Stokes, beautifully and lavishly illustrated by Jack Sears will find a warm place in the hearts of the children. Giant Wigwah and Jasper and Zebbie will be eagerly followed for the stories sparkle with humor and the mystery element is clean and wholesome. The book has the endorsement of The Parent's Magazine, Office of the Publication is 142 E. First South.
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony: (First Week in March)
COMING FORTH OF THE BOOK OF MORMON
LESSON VI
1. Obtaining the Plates. For some time prior to September 22, 1827—the date upon which the Prophet received the Nephite plates from the Angel Moroni—it was necessary for the male members of the Smith family to obtain occasional work away from their farm, that they might sustain themselves and meet the annual payments on their land. For this purpose, in October of 1825, Joseph had employed himself to a Mr. Josiah Stoal, of Bainbridge, New York, who at the time was engaged in opening a supposedly Spanish mine, long since abandoned. While engaged in this work Joseph boarded at the home of Mr. Isaac Hale, who lived at Harmony, Pennsylvania, a short distance from the scene of Mr. Stoal's operations.
2. It was here that Joseph first met Miss Emma Hale, whom he subsequently married, January 18, 1827. Shortly after their marriage, Joseph and his wife went to the Smith home at Manchester, where Joseph assisted his father on the farm during the following summer.
3. In the early morning of September 22, 1827, Joseph received the plates from the Angel Moroni, and a few days later brought them to the home of his father, where he and Emma were still living. (For a full account of the manner in which the Prophet received the plates, the reader is referred to Joseph Smith the Prophet, by his mother, Lucy Mack Smith, pp. 99-106.) Joseph records that no sooner had he received the plates than the most strenuous efforts were made to wrest them from him. With the passing of time persecution rapidly became more bitter, and eventually, at the invitation of Mr. Hale, Joseph and his wife decided to move to Harmony, Pennsylvania.
4. Move to Harmony. It should be said that Joseph was in humble financial circumstances and was not well prepared to make the journey. Shortly before the date set for leaving, however, a friendly neighbor came to his support with a gift of fifty dollars—this was Martin Harris, a respectable and prosperous farmer of Palmyra. Alvah Hale, a brother of Joseph's wife, came from Harmony with team and wagon and conveyed them to that place. They arrived at Harmony in the month of December, 1827, and established themselves in a house located on Mr. Hale's farm.
5. The Anthon Incident. Immediately after establishing himself at this place, Joseph began to transcribe characters from the plates. His own account of this very important matter is tersely recorded as follows: "I commenced copying the characters off the plates. I copied a considerable number of them, and by means of the Urim and Thummim I translated some of them." (History of the Church, Vol. 1, p. 19.) Some time in February of the following year, 1828, Martin Harris came to Harmony, and therewith conveyed the characters to New York City, where they were submitted to Professor Charles Anthon—a gentleman of outstanding literary attainment—for his study and opinion. (For an account of the outcome of this visit the reader is referred to the History of the Church, Vol. 1, p. 20; and the Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. 1, pp. 99-109.)
6. Loss of the Manuscript. After returning from New York, Martin Harris went to his home in Palmyra and a little later came back to Harmony (April 12, 1828) where for some two months thereafter he acted as scribe while Joseph translated the plates. By the early part of the following June, sufficient of the record had been translated to cover one hundred sixteen pages of foolscap paper.
7. Prompted by a desire to convince his wife and friends that Joseph's claims were genuine, Martin Harris repeatedly requested the Prophet to allow him the privilege of taking the manuscript home. Finally Joseph reluctantly granted Martin's request, with the distinct understanding and agreement that the manuscript was to be shown only to Martin's wife and a few others. Martin however disregarded this bounden promise, and the manuscript was lost. Because of Joseph's lack of wisdom in this connection, the Lord temporarily deprived him of the gift of translation and otherwise gave evidence of his displeasure. The revelation contained in Section three shows forth the will of the Lord in this matter.
8. The Lord's Provision. Now, it so happened in the wisdom of the Lord that when the Nephite historian Mormon was about to deliver his abridgment of the Nephite record to his son Moroni, in the fourth century of the Christian era, he discovered a set of plates, known as the plates of Nephi, which so pleased him that he decided to preserve them with his abridgment. His reason for doing so he did not know, except, as he says, he was so prompted by the Spirit of the Lord. (See Words of Mormon, verses 3-10.) In consequence of the preservation of these plates, the record delivered to Joseph Smith by the angel Moroni contained a double account from the beginning of Nephite history down to the reign of King Benjamin. But now let us return to the narrative.
9. A short time after the loss of the manuscript, the Lord made it known unto the Prophet that his adversaries, into whose hands the manuscript had fallen, had already changed it for the purpose of showing, if he attempted a second translation, that he could not translate twice alike and therefore that he had no gift from God. To avoid such a snare, the Lord instructed the Prophet to make his second translation from the plates of Nephi. (Read Doc. And Cov. 10:38-46.) It is interesting to observe that provision for just such a necessity was made by the Nephite historian more than fourteen hundred years earlier.
10. Even though Martin Harris had broken his covenant and promise, which resulted in the loss of the manuscript, yet the Lord promised him, by revelation through the Prophet Joseph, that if proved worthy, he would later be permitted to see the plates and act as a witness of their truth to the world. (Ibid. 5:1-15.)
11. Translation of the Plates. Throughout the winter and early spring of 1828-29, Oliver Cowdery, a young man of about Joseph's age, was teaching school in the vicinity of the Smith home at Manchester. In harmony with the custom of those days, the teachers usually "boarded round" with the patrons of the school. Accordingly, while at the Smith home, Oliver Cowdery became greatly interested in the story of Joseph's heavenly manifestations, and decided that as soon as his school closed in the springtime he would visit Joseph at Harmony and obtain first-hand information for himself. In the meantime Oliver had declared his purpose to one of his acquaintances, David Whitmer, and promised that after visiting with Joseph he would write him his impressions. Oliver Cowdery reached Harmony, Pennsylvania, April 5, 1829, and two days later (April 7th) Joseph began the work of translation, with Oliver acting as his scribe. A revelation soon followed, in which the Lord commended Oliver for his willingness to serve, and promised him inheritance in the kingdom of heaven, provided he continue faithful. (Ibid. 6:14-37.)
12. Movement to Fayette. The work of translation continued without serious interruption until early in the month of June (same year), when Joseph found it inadvisable to remain longer at Harmony. It appears that not only many of the people of the neighborhood were unsympathetic with him but also his wife's father, Mr. Hale. In the meantime Oliver Cowdery had been in communication with David Whitmer at Fayette. He now wrote him again at the Prophet's suggestion, requesting that he come down to Harmony and convey them to the Whitmer home. This request found David in the midst of his spring work, in the completion of which he claims to have received superhuman aid. A short time later, therefore, David Whitmer went to Harmony and conveyed the Prophet and Oliver back to the home of his father, Peter Whitmer, in the township of Fayette, New York, some twenty-five miles southerly from the Smith home in Manchester. Here the work of translation was soon completed.
13. The Three Witnesses. In course of the work of translation it was learned from the statement of Moroni (Ether 5:1-4) that the Lord intended to show the plates to three witnesses, by whose testimony the truth of the Book of Mormon would be established. Almost immediately after this statement had been discovered, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris requested the Prophet to inquire of the Lord if they might act as these especial witnesses. Joseph complied with their request and received as an answer the revelation designated as Section seventeen in the Doctrine and Covenants. Shortly thereafter, these three men, with Joseph, repaired to a section of the woods "convenient to" the Whitmer home, where they saw the plates and heard a voice from heaven declaring: "These plates have been revealed by the power of God, and they have been translated by the power of God. The translation of them which you have seen is correct, and I command you to bear record of what you now see and hear." (For a further account see History of the Church, Vol. 1, pp. 54, 55.) The fidelity of the witnesses to this trust is a matter of history.
14. Publication of the Book of Mormon. After the Book of Mormon was translated, difficulty was encountered in obtaining a publisher. Finally, however, an agreement was made with Mr. Egbert B. Grandin of Palmyra, whereby he was to print an edition of five thousand copies for the sum of three thousand dollars, Martin Harris acting as surety for the payment of this amount. In this connection it is well to remember that Martin Harris had already shown his willingness in various ways to assist the Prophet. Indeed, it was he who first came to the Prophet's aid and furnished him with fifty dollars with which to move from Manchester to Harmony. Shortly later than this the Lord gave a revelation to Joseph Smith in which he counseled Martin to be free in the use of his money when the time should come for publishing the Book of Mormon. (Doc. And Cov. 19:36.) His readiness to comply with the commandment is thus fully attested. It is interesting to note that his farm was subsequently sold to satisfy this agreement with the printer. Little wonder that Deity is willing to bless an individual of such outstanding integrity!
15. As a precaution against any possible loss or alteration of the manuscript, Oliver Cowdery transcribed it in its entirety and kept a guard constantly on watch, day and night, about the house. The completed book came from the press in the early part of 1830.
Questions for Discussion and Review
1. Relate the circumstances under which Joseph became acquainted with Miss Emma Hale—later his wife.
2. What reasons prompted Joseph to leave Manchester and go to the home of his wife's father at Harmony, Pennsylvania?
3. In what way was Martin Harris responsible for the loss of the one hundred sixteen pages of manuscript?
4. How had the Lord made provision for this loss?
5. Discuss Oliver Cowdery's connection with the translation.
6. Relate incidents connected with the publishing of the Book of Mormon.
Teachers' Topic
THE BEATITUDES
Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes, and apply their beautiful truths to our daily lives.
"Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God." (Matt. 5: 8.)
A man's heart is pure when it loves only the good, when all its motives are right, and when all its aspirations are after the noble and true. Purity and excellence of character are of greater worth than any amount of grace, wealth, genius or power. Without a solid, sterling basis of individual goodness, all the grace, elegance and art in the world fail to save or elevate a people. The New Testament insists on personal purity as the beginning of all training and all knowledge. Such men as Paul and Peter and the others who changed the world, insisted on personal purity. They meant that a man's body should be so pure as to be a fit temple for the Spirit of God. The 15th Psalm has sung the purification of life and humility of heart which might fit him who should sojourn in God's tabernacle. Since the 24th and 25th Psalms also describe purity as preparation for God's house, the conclusion here is natural, they shall see God. Those who cleanse their hearts understand God in proportion to their purity, and, when they are cleansed from all sin, will see Him face to face. (Heb. 12:14; John 3:2-3; Rev. 22:4.) "Verily, thus saith the Lord, it shall come to pass that every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments shall see my face and know that I am." (Doc. And Cov. 93:1.) Jesus tells us that purity of heart leads to a knowledge of God. The perfect knowledge of God is to be attained only by the perfectly consecrated life. The human soul is a mirror on which the light of God shines and only the pure mirror reflects a perfect image. You cannot see God as directing you in your perplexing experiences except through a perfectly purified heart. Just as the slightest speck or flaw on the lens of a huge telescope blurs the image of far distant stars, so the films on the object-glass of character obscure the heavenly vision. Just as new stars may be discovered by the eye through the perfect lens, so the truth, undiscernible to others, is revealed to the pure in heart. President Brigham Young tells us that the prayer of the pure in heart will have more effect than the eloquence of Cicero. The simple honest heart is of more avail with the Lord than all the pomp, pride, splendor and eloquence produced by men. "In addressing a congregation, though the speaker be unable to say more than half a dozen sentences, and those awkwardly constructed, if his heart is pure before God, those few broken sentences are of more value than the greatest eloquence without the Spirit of the Lord and of more real worth in the sight of God, angels, and all good men." (Discourses of Brigham Young.) This does not mean that we cannot have the Spirit of the Lord unless we speak in "awkwardly constructed sentences." What a happy combination to have a certain amount of eloquence along with purity of heart and the Spirit of the Lord! Our abilities or gifts were given us by our Heavenly Father. (James 1: 17.) Therefore let us develop our gifts in His work! (Heb. 13:21.)
Literature
THE DELIGHT OF GREAT BOOKS
(Third Week in March)
ROMEO AND JULIET. SHAKESPEARE
"Let me not to the marriage of true minds Admit impediments. Love is not love Which alters when it alternation finds, Or bends with the remover to remove:—
"O no! It is an ever-fixed mark That looks on tempests, and is never shaken; It is the star to every wandering bark, Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken.
"Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks Within his bending sickle's compass come; Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks, But bears it out even to the edge of doom:—
"If this be error, and upon me proved, I never writ, nor no man ever loved." —Shakespeare.
When the great Love Story of the World is written the love of Romeo and Juliet will have a place, because Shakespeare in immortalizing the medieval love-legend made it the universal expression of young love.
William Shakespeare (1564-1616.) Probably no other English author has been so much written about as Shakespeare, and yet little is actually known of his life. A large mass of tradition, however, has come down to us. Of Shakespeare's ancestry we know that he came of good yeoman stock. His father was a merchant of Stratford-on-Avon, in Warwickshire, England. His mother's family were prosperous farmers. Stratford-on-Avon is the chief memorial spot for the "Bard of Avon." Here may be seen the house where he was born. Here is the grammar school he attended until thirteen years of age, learning little "Latin and less Greek" but revelling in the Mystery and Miracle plays held on holiday occasions in the great beamed room over the guild hall. Here, too, is the church where he was baptized and where he was buried in the chancel under the stone bearing the famous verse: "Good friend for Jesus' sake forbeare, To dig the dust enclosed heare; Blest be the man that spares these stones; And curst be he that moves my bones." Just outside of Stratford is the cottage of Anne Hathaway, whom Shakespeare married when he was nineteen. At Stratford, also, is the site of New Place, the beautiful home Shakespeare built when he returned from London a wealthy man. Of the London life of England's greatest poet we know little. Legend has supplied much of what we know of the best years of Shakespeare's life. The theatres where he acted in minor roles and the ones in which he held part ownership left very meager records of his activities. It would seem valid to assume that at first Shakespeare became an actor under the leadership of Richard Burbage, who presented plays at the Globe and other London theatres. After a while, Shakespeare began his first experiments in dramatic writing, the remodeling of early Elizabethan plays. Then came twenty years of authorship with an average of two plays a year in addition to many poems. The earlier dramas are simple comedies and tragedies, the best known being "A Midsummer Night's Dream," and "Romeo and Juliet." Then came a series of historical plays dealing with English history as "Henry IV" and "Henry V," and with Roman history as "Julius Caesar." The note of tragedy dominated Shakespeare's next plays as human sentiments and passions were portrayed in "Hamlet," "King Lear," "Macbeth," "Othello," and "Antony and Cleopatra." Shakespeare's final dramatic activity reveals a peace of mind, a serene thoughtfulness, attained through a wide and deep understanding of human nature. The romantic plays of the last period "Cymbeline," "A Winter's Tale," and "The Tempest" are marked with a delicacy of touch and mastery of character portrayal such as no other English writer has attained. Shakespeare as actor, as author, as theatre owner gave no thought to future fame; for other than in his sonnets he never wrote about himself; nor even took precaution to have his plays put in permanent form. We do know, however, that his plays were popular and yielded him a fortune. At the age of fifty he returned to his native town to spend his remaining years in comfort as a country gentleman.
The Genius of Shakespeare. Mystery surrounds much of the life of Shakespeare, but the evolution of his mind and art lies plainly revealed in his works. He learned to understand Nature, material and human. The early plays are marked with the influence of external Nature. He learned to understand human nature, "the workings of the mind and the emotions of the heart." Whatever base and unlovely he found in life as the product of evil in the universe, his belief in the divinity of man gleams like a beacon light in his works: "What a piece of work is man! How noble in reason! How infinite in faculties! In form and moving, how express and admirable! In action how like an angel! In apprehension, how like a god! The beauty of the world! The paragon of animals!" From the works of the masters of wisdom and literature Shakespeare learned many of the facts of life in other ages and climes. Upon assuming the role of artist, an interpreter of Nature, Shakespeare chose drama as the chief literary vehicle for his philosophy, and created characters, men and women, ghosts and witches, monsters and fairies, as its exponents. One by one the great destructive forces of life were dealt with producing "perhaps the richest and most varied mass from the genius of one man in the total literature of the world." Matthew Arnold, English poet and critic, pays tribute to the genius of Shakespeare in the following sonnet:
SHAKESPEARE
"Others abide our question. Thou art free. We ask and ask—Thou smilest and art still, Out-topping knowledge. For the loftiest hill, Who to the stars uncrowns his majesty, Planting his steadfast footsteps in the sea, Making the heavens of heavens his dwelling-place, Spares but the cloudy border of his base To the foiled searching of mortality;
"And thou, who didst the stars and sunbeams know, Self-schooled, self-scanned, self-honoured, self-secure, Didst tread on earth unguessed at.—Better so!
"All pains the immortal spirit must endure, All weakness which impairs, all griefs which bow, Find their sole speech in that victorious brow."
Romeo and Juliet. Shakespeare took a simple medieval love-story and made it reveal his understanding of love, a universal experience. Love, as he understood it was the intelligent attraction and sympathy which exists between man and woman. It was not the outcome of physical passion, nor a state of negation, nor a delusion of the mind. The tragic story of Romeo and Juliet, as Shakespeare immortalized it, reveals the spiritual basis of the noble passion Love. The story of Romeo and Juliet came from Italy; it was recorded in the national memorials of her old family feuds. A favorite with the troubadours, the story was carried to France, Spain, and England. The English version was made by Arthur Brooke in the form of a long narrative poem. To make his drama Shakespeare combined the details of the English story, the Italian atmosphere of the original story, and the two conflicts, youth and age, love and hate. The two chief families of Verona, the Capulets and the Montagues, have a feud of long standing. No one remembered when the quarrel began, but so deadly is the enmity between them, that the kindred, followers, and servants never meet without conflict. As the drama opens the servants of the two houses are feeding the "cankered hate" of their masters on the streets of Verona. Romeo, the heir of the house of Montague, is brooding over his imagined love for Rosaline, a cold beauty forswearing love. Benvolio, Romeo's friend, urges him to attend a great feast given by the old Lord Capulet, and meet the admired beauties of Verona and peradventure find "his swan a crow." To the feast then Romeo and his two friends, Benvolio and Mercutio, repair wearing masks. At the festivities Romeo sees a lady whose beauty and grace set his heart aflame with love, real not imagined. While discussing the charms of the lady with his friends, he is overheard by Tybalt, a nephew of Lady Capulet. Tybalt is enraged at this affront by a Montague, and it is only the kindly interference of Lord Capulet that averts a duel. Later in the evening Romeo contrives to talk to the fair lady and with loving conceits sets her heart aflame. It is only after the lovers separate that they learn each other's identity. Upon returning home after the feast, Juliet repairs to the balcony of her room to tell the secret of her love to the night. Romeo, in turn, is wandering alone in the night brooding now over his very real love. As he wanders under the balcony of his loved one, he hears her beautiful and intense confession of love: "O Romeo, Romeo! Wherefore art thou Romeo? 'Tis but thy name that is my enemy; Thou art thyself though, not a Montague. What's a Montague? What's in a name? That which we call a rose, By any other name would smell as sweet; So Romeo would, were he not Romeo called, Retain that dear perfection which he owes Without that title;—Romeo, doff thy name; And for that name, which is no part of thee, Take all myself." Overjoyed, Romeo reveals his presence, and Juliet makes a further avowal of her love: "My bounty is as boundless as the sea, My love as deep; the more I give to thee The more I have, for both are infinite." The tragic reality of the night's events flashes upon Juliet. Their love is surrounded by hate and discord. With ingenious delicacy she suggests the only solution to the love-dazed Romeo: "And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay, And follow thee, my lord, throughout the world." When the lovers parted, Romeo goes to the cell of Friar Laurence. The good friar, a friend to both the quarreling families, is anxious to see the breach healed between the Capulets and the Montagues, so thinking that the marriage of Romeo and Juliet might accomplish this purpose, he consents to perform a secret ceremony. The day of the secret marriage, the friends of Romeo, Benvolio and Mercutio, meet a band of Capulets headed by Tybalt. A quarrel is in progress as Romeo arrives on the scene. Not wishing to quarrel with a Capulet now, Romeo tries to reason with Tybalt, but to no avail. Mercutio, who knows nothing of Romeo's reason for seeking peace, looks upon his friend's tolerance as cowardice. And in exasperation at Tybalt's continued insults, Mercutio fights and is killed. Romeo fights now to avenge the death of his friend, and Tybalt is killed. The broil brings the governing prince of Verona and the old lords Capulet and Montague to the scene. Lady Capulet in revenge for the death of her nephew demands the extreme penalty for the murderer. The prince after a careful investigation of the facts pronounces the sentence of banishment for Romeo. Juliet at her home after the secret marriage awaits the coming of night that will bring Romeo with plans for their future. The old nurse brings the news of Tybalt's death and Romeo's banishment. Romeo, in the meantime, takes refuge with Friar Laurence. From frantic despair Romeo is lifted by the comforting words of his friend. After all his beloved Juliet is alive and he also is alive. The friar suggests that Romeo go secretly and take leave of Juliet, and then go to Mantua and wait until an announcement of the marriage could be made. Romeo passes the night with his beloved Juliet. With strange forebodings of ill they say their farewells as: "Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops." To be found within the walls of Verona after daybreak meant death for Romeo. A few days after Romeo's departure a new problem is added to Juliet's grief. Lord Capulet arranges a marriage for Juliet with her cousin Paris, a gallant young nobleman. Lord Capulet is old, self-willed, and tyrannical, to whom his daughter is but a property of his house. Lady Capulet is a proud Italian matron, much younger than the husband she has not married for love. Juliet pleads with her cold unsympathetic parents: "Good father, I beseech you on my knees, Hear me with patience, but to speak a word." "O sweet my mother, cast me not away, Delay this marriage for a month, a week," Juliet pleads every reason against the marriage but to no avail. She is commanded to prepare for the nuptials. In desperation Juliet turns to the old nurse who knows all. A gross suggestion, to forget the secret marriage with Romeo and marry Paris, meets this plea. Juliet in magnificent strength struggles alone with her problem. Death and suffering she is ready to brave "to live an unstained wife." In her despair Juliet consults Friar Laurence. His advice is to consent to marry Paris, but before the wedding morn to drink a potion which will give her the semblance of death for forty-two hours. Romeo is to be advised of the plans so that he will be on hand to rescue Juliet from the tomb when she awakes. Love gave Juliet strength to consent to the friar's plans. Juliet's consent to marry Paris is joyful news to Lord Capulet. Preparations are made for a nuptial festival such as Verona has never seen. The time arrives for Juliet to drink the potion. Alone in her chamber in fancy she conjures up all kinds of hideous possibilities as the result of the untried potion. In imagination she sees Tybalt's ghost seeking out Romeo. All fears desert her. To stay by Romeo she drains the phial calling— "Stay, Tybalt, stay! Romeo, I come! This do I drink for thee." Confusion reigned in the house of Capulet on the wedding morn. Instead of a beautiful bride there was a lifeless corpse; instead of wedding cheer there was a burial feast. The body was borne, after the manner of the time, on an uncovered bier and placed in the family vault. Bad news travels more swiftly than good. Before Friar Laurence had a chance to notify Romeo of the plans, other messengers advise him of Juliet's death. Making his plans quickly, Romeo seeks an apothecary so as to purchase some poison: "There is thy gold; worse poison to men's souls, Doing more murders in this loathsome world Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell: I sell thee poison, thou hast sold me none. Come, cordial, and not poison, go with me To Juliet's grave." Romeo sets out for Verona to see Juliet in her tomb, then to swallow the poison and lie by her side. At the door of the tomb Romeo meets Paris, who has come to strew flowers and to sorrow alone. Thinking it to be some villain come to desecrate the tomb, Romeo kills Paris. When Romeo discovers that he has killed Paris who should have married Juliet, according to the news of the messenger, he carries him to a grave by Juliet. Romeo takes a loving farewell of his loved Juliet and swallowing the poison dies by her side. Friar Laurence has found out that his messenger has not reached Romeo, so he arrives at the tomb to be ready for the awakening of Juliet. There he finds that "a greater power than his has thwarted his plans." Juliet awakes out of the trance and calls for Romeo. The friar tries to persuade Juliet to leave the tomb but in vain. Hearing a noise of people coming the friar flees; Juliet kills herself with a dagger and dies by Romeo's side. A great multitude has assembled at the tomb by this time. To the old lords, the friar relates the story of their children's love. The prince rebuked the old rivals for their irrational enmities, and showed them the punishment for their hatred. The tragedy appeases the ancient enmity of the houses of Capulet and Montague. Montague will raise in pure gold a statue of the true and faithful Juliet; Capulet will place one as rich of Romeo by her side. The tale is one of true love and sorrow. Romeo and Juliet loved perfectly. Romeo attained to manhood; Juliet to heroic womanhood. Their lives accomplished the reconciliation of their two families. A soft melancholy is left within the heart of the listener as the story ends, and a long sigh of understanding accepts its wisdom, "Life is but an ill constructed play without Love."
Suggestions for Study.
A. Materials.
1. Romeo and Juliet —Shakespeare.
2. The Delight of Great Books —Erskine.
3. Shakespeare, His Mind and Art—Dowden.
4. Shakespeare—Masefield.
5. The Facts about Shakespeare —Nelson and Thorndike.
B. Projects.
1. Music: Selections from the opera "Romeo and Juliet."
2. Readings: a. The Balcony Scene, "The noblest paean to love ever written."—Helena Faucit, famous Shakespearean actress of the role of Juliet. b. Juliet's Soliloquy. Act III, Scene 3.
3. Discussion: a. The Elizabethan Age. b. The Genius of Shakespeare.
4. Story: The World's Great Love Stories. a. Dante and Beatrice. b. Abelard and Heloise. c. Tristram and Iseult.
C. Method.
The projects listed above present some possibilities for enrichment. Let the lesson, however simple, breathe the message of the spiritual nature of love. The problem of the drama is as modern as the present hour. Age and youth have it as their common problem, a problem of understanding. Because of the constancy of human nature, "Romeo and Juliet" is capable of reinterpretation. Shakespeare has a friendly smile and a bit of wisdom for today's parents and lovers. Enjoy the story and find the wisdom.
Social Service (Fourth Week in March)
ACQUIRING THE USE OF SPEECH
LESSON VI
There are three goals to be kept clearly in mind in working on this lesson:
1. What is the natural development of speech—when and how does it appear and grow?
2. What positive care and educational activities will recognize, stimulate and guide this development best?
3. What common speech defects are found in children? How may these be prevented? How may they be cured?
These are essentially knowledge aims. The members of the class will therefore expect to study to learn, not just be impressed by, the content of the lesson.
Suggestions for procedure: Assign the reading guide for careful study. This will give some information on all of the aims, especially 1 and 3. Emphasize to the class members that success in learning this lesson will be increased by a careful study of the problems in the pamphlet as indicated by the first statement in the reading guide. An individual member of the class may be assigned to study topic I in the supplementary material, locate babies of various ages and report to the class on the development of speech as found. A special report on what the home can do to correct speech defects would help. A teacher from the schools could report what is actually being done in treating special cases if such a lecture can be arranged. Each of these reports wants to be brief, definite and to the point. The other material is suitable for class study and discussion. Memorization of this material will be materially helped by a definite summary carefully planned by the class instructor.
Reading Guide. Growth pages 23-28.
1. The problems on page 27-28 should be analyzed and answered by each member as a part of the individual study. Questions that the individual can't answer should be taken to the class for solution. Class members should lead the discussion in this way.
Does the author imply that crying is a part of learning to talk? On what basis does a parent's interpretation of baby's cry "have its effects on the child's training?" 3. Can you see how it is that "mama" and "dada" are among the first sounds made by the child? How Growth, pages LESSON DEPARTMENT 63 do these become permanent social words? 4, The development of vocabulary seems to follow which of the following? What the child hears incidentally. The development of the child's activities.: Attempts at formal teaching. 5. Note carefully the sentences which show the relationship between the development of speech and each of the following: Physical exercise or play. Children's questions. General intellectual ability. Sex differences. Inheritance and home environments.. 6. "Delayed speech" as a defect seems to be associated with three specific causes: General mental slowness, sensory defects, lack of motive for talking. How may the effects of this last one be avoided? 7. Defective speech seems to be related to physiological limitations or lack of care on the part of adults while the child is learning to talk. Note carefully what the author says about "corrective work" and "baby talk," 8. Stuttering is essentially emotional. Write down and take to class for discussion the facts given on each of the following points: Accompanying symptoms. Importance in the happiness of childhood. Age at which correction should begin. Dangers of direct disciplinary measures. Supplementary Material: I. Curti gives the following “Stages in the Development of Speech.” (Child Psychology, pp. 191ff) Random articulation, characteristic of the first six months. 2. The babbling stage, or vocal play of babies, or the playful repetition of sounds. This is especially characteristic of the second six - months. 3. Evoking of articulate elements by the speech of others, the beginnings of imitation. This is usually limited to imitation of the sounds used in the babbling stage. 4. Conditioning of the articulation by objects and situations. This is illustrated by the happy response obtained when the babble "da-da" occurs in the presence of the father. "Practice of the two-syllable form da-da is encouraged by adults, while that of the one syllable form is regularly interfered with." ''Again a chance utterance of the child may be connected with any familiar object, and if its use is encouraged by adults, become the name of the object.'" IT. Children's vocabularies grow about as indicated by the following table: 12 months few words 18 “ “ 24 “ 300 30" 450" 36 " 800 42 “ 1,250 48 1,550 " 54 “ 1,800 60" 2,100 " 66 2,300 " 72 “ 2,600 " General intelligence, social opportunities, and general activity all affect the growth of vocabulary. III. Extent of Speech defects: Total in the United States estimated at 1,250,000. Total of these who stutter, 200,000. Ratio of number of boys to number of girls, 3 to 1. IV. Data on special problems. 64 RELIEF SOCIETY 1. Speechlessness or delayed speech. This may be due to individual differences in maturity of function but is always dangerous if it persists past four or five years of age. Causes. Inability to hear or form auditory images, inability to associate hearing with proper speech movement. Treatment of the first type is described by Peppard as follows (p. 75-6): "When teaching a sound to a child whose speech images are retarded, the teacher should take the child's face between his hands. The child should watch closely the teacher's mouth while the latter produces a simple sound, such as "p.' The teacher should continue making the same sound until the child can produce it. His eyes should then be covered by the teacher's hand, shutting out all visual stimuli that would cause distraction from the auditory impression, and the sound 'ah' should be made close to the child's ear. This is done in order to give sufficient quantity and quality to the sound to make a strong impression. It will be necessary to make the sound several times very distinctly. Then the teacher should face the child. The child's hand should be placed on the teacher's throat, so that he can feel the vibration when the teacher says "ah." (The mouth should be well open.) The child should then produce the sound. In the second type of difficulty the child hears, but the impression releases other reactions than speech. For example the child hears "dada" and looks at or runs to his father—but does not talk. The treatment is described as follows: (Peppard, p. 77.) "In teaching a word like MOTHER, begin with teaching M, then O, then MO. When he says MO correctly several times, teach TH-ER. Put TH-ER together and get THER. Then have him produce the first group MO and then the second group THER. All words should be built up in this manner for children with this particular type of speech defect. "Again, take a simple sentence like MAGAZINE "I see you." It will be necessary to break each word into its elementary sounds. In order to teach this type of child to say the above, the work must be presented in the following manner: I.... Ah ee see.... See you.... "Each word should be taught separately until it is clearly under the child's control. The simple sentence used above is not a problem of three words, or three stimuli, to the child, but one of six elementary sounds. At first the child's vocabulary will consist of words definitely taught, but as activity is aroused throughout the speech areas, the child slowly begins to interpret sounds of a more complex nature.' These quotations are illustrations only. Much more study is required to make the corrections. 2. Some children seem unable to raise the tongue to produce sounds as "l, t, d, n." If the tongue is tied it can be corrected by a surgeon. If the condition is due to sluggishness in the tongue muscles it can be prevented by clear speaking models in the home and social demands for well pronounced words. It can be corrected by exercise. 3. Baby talk. "Baby talk is the result of erroneous interpretation and production of sounds. The instances in which mental and physical defects accompany baby talk are rare. Erroneous auditory and motor (kinaesthetic) images are often early established as a result of the well-meant but foolish prattle of parents." (Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 93.) "Care should be taken to supply the child with good speech copy long before he even begins to speak, because internal speech impressions are formed months before motor or external speech begins." (Page 94.) Most children correct this defect themselves. At times it persists into high school. To correct it the sounds not well pronounced should be LESSON DEPARTMENT 65 taught as correct skills in new words not previously mispronounced. Later the child can be taught to apply the new skills to the old words. 4, Lisping. This is characterized by the inability to pronounce such sounds as "s, z, sh" and occasionally others. It is a common element in baby talk. This is a very common defect which gradually corrects itself. It is caused by the tongue rising or protruding in the attempted pronunciation of sounds requiring the lowering of the tip of the tongue behind the lower teeth. It is often begun when the first set of teeth are lost. Bad models of speech often cause it. It usually completely disappears in the intermediate grades. If it does not, correction is necessary. This consists essentially of teaching the child the proper position of the tongue, demonstration of the sounds, careful supervision of practice. 5. Stuttering or stammering. This is a halting defective utterance often accompanied by the repetition of initial sounds. Terman and Almack list five classes of causes or predisposing influences: (Hygiene of the School Child, p. 353-7.) 1. Reflex conditions including adenoids, enlarged tonsils, defective teeth, etc. 2. General weakness due to malnutrition, sickness or overwork. 3. Psychical causes including shock, morbid fear, etc. 4. Hereditary tendencies. 5. Interference with normal lefthandedness. This seems to be a very significant cause. Peppard says: "The subjective or subconscious state is most profound in stammerers. It is difficult to control the subconscious mind. The subconscious mind is not active in mental focusing on facts but it is said that its memory of the emotions is almost perfect. The conscious mind works under control of the will, Stammering is a defect in the mind and not in the vocal chords. It is a mental fault often eventuating in physical disability. It is this physical manifestation that gives rise to the mistaken belief that nervousness is the underlying cause of stammering. Parents and teachers are prone to believe that nervousness causes stammering because stammerers usually show signs of nervousness. The term "nervousness" is too generally used. It would be more accurate to say that the emotional instability underlying stammering causes the nervousness as well as the stammering. This emotional instability usually responds to the reeducative methods used in the correction of stammering. When the emotional instability is eliminated, the stammering and nervous manifestations disappear. The nervousness that accompanies stammering cannot be corrected by administering nerve tonics. It is due to a definite mental condition and cannot be eliminated until this mental condition is corrected by reeducation of some sort. Treatment for nervousness rarely removes stammering, but corrective treatment for the elimination of stammering usually causes. A rapid improvement in the patient's physical and nervous condition." (Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 142.) One characteristic to be noted especially is that when the defect begins it soon causes a language fear which disposes the individual to avoid the use of speech. The effect is therefore one of gradual general speech deterioration. That it is not a physical condition is shown by the fact that patients can sing very well. Peppard lists eleven possible causes (page 146): 1. Fright. 2. Shock. 3. Psycho-neurosis, produced by shock or injury. 4, Nervous debility. 5. Careless habits of speech in childhood, due to diffused thinking or to a child's having been allowed to form the habit of repeating words. 6. Endeavoring to produce sounds with the speech organs in incorrect position for production of such sounds; for instance, opening the 66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mouth in an effort to produce "m." We often find the stammerer with his speech organs in position for the second sound before the first sound has been produced. 7. Drawing in the breath when attempting to articulate. Forced inhalation before speaking. The person fills up with air, as it were, in order to have sufficient air to finish. This causes a rigidity of the articulatory muscles. Most stammerers can sing, which proves that it is not the insufficient amount of air that is causing the difficulty. It takes very little breath to produce speech. This can be proved by saying a short sentence as, "My name is John Brown," after a forced exhalation. 8. Imitation of stammering speech, either direct, which is mocking, or indirect. Children should be warned of the danger of this practice. 9. Use of words whose pronunciation and meaning are beyond the mental development of the child. This causes a stumbling and a lack of assurance which eventuates in a fear of pronunciation. 10. Forcing a left-handed child to write with his right hand. 11. Speech conflict—thinking in one language and endeavoring to speak in another. 12. Overinnervation. The prevention of these causes prevents stammering. Especial care to prevent any imitation or mimicking of this defect should be taken. Embarrassment always aggravates the difficulty. Worry and undue excitement with hurried talking should be avoided in children. Self confidence should be developed in children. Watch to see that formal work of the first grade doesn't start a tendency to stammer. The correction is difficult but entirely possible. Each case is individual and different. It really means a re-education of the speech centers. It may also be necessary to overcome a tendency to introversion, to despondency and fear. The first step is always to work to get the patient to know that he can talk. Sometimes singing will do this. Sometimes an entirely new word correctly mastered will be the means. Suggest power and ability always. Sympathy is not wanted. Peppard gives ten brief rules that will help. (Pages 157-8.) 1. Discover the cause, if possible. 2. Restore confidence. 3. Create a new and stronger voice. 4, Destroy the "compulsive idea." 5. Have pupil syllabicate words, stressing every syllable. This eradicates any slovenly habits of speech. 6. Have pupil break sentences into small groups of words and pause and relax after each group. This will slow down the speed which is common to most stammerers. The voice should be dropped after each phrase as one does at a period. Teaching rising inflection at all commas develops unnatural voice production. 7, When a stammerer has difficulty, make him stop talking and gain self-control. Tell him to think first what he wishes to say, place the first sound correctly, break the words into syllables, and proceed. Do not let him skip any sound in a word. Do not let him make several attempts at saying a word. Stop him instantly and have him think the correct production. "When images corresponding to any sensory experiences are recalled there is the same kind of action as when the senses are externally stimulated, although this action is less intense." Halleck. (The Education of the Central Nervous System.) 8. Cultivate direct thinking. That LESSON DEPARTMENT 67 is, train the student to concentrate on what he is saying. 9, Develop a quick connection between musculature and brain. 10. Deal constantly with the personal equation. Speech is an educational problem. Its normal development can be assured by thought and care on the part of parents and teachers. Its correction can be accomplished by teachers, and parents who will study the problem and work patiently. Occasionally some medical or surgical aid may be needed. People do not need to permit themselves to be victimized by quacks who offer quick cures or exclusive methods. References: 1. Curti: Child psychology, pp. 191 ff. 2. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, pp. 75-6. 3. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 77. 4. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 93. 5. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 94. 6. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 142. 7. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, p. 146.: 8. Peppard: The Correction of Speech Defects, pp. 157-8. Singing Mothers By Charlotte Owen Sackett I. Believe that songs, especially folk songs and folk tales, have a unique value and a suitability to child life. The child may be fostered and reared with more psychology in the home than of yester-year, but he misses the lullabies and songs at Mother's knee. The child's earliest experience in hearing English is listening to the speech of mother. Its first actual enjoyment of hearing home songs and Mother Goose Jingles is also at Mother's knee. So with this thought in mind, and knowing well the apparent difference between the development of the child whose mother has, through babyhood, sung to it lullabies, and the child who has heard little or no music, the "Every Mother a Singing Mother" motto, was advocated in Liberty Stake Relief Society. A program was formulated and taught to the Ward Choristers, who in turn, gave it to their selected group. All came together in one chorus, "The Singing Mothers." A thought was advanced to organize in like manner a unit in each of the city stakes. Eventually, under direction of the General Relief Society music chairman, this was made possible. Music was selected and in each stake a unit chosen and taught by the Stake Chorister. They, too, singing in a complete entity or one large chorus. Opportunity, through the General Relief Society again presented itself and this same big, happy, animated chorus of mothers was heard on the air. Of every Mother a Singing Mother, giving self-expression through an art, is the plea, adding thereby another medium through which to voice her message to the world. A Woman Who Has Learned How to Live By Sadie Adamson APPRECIATION where art thou hidden? In this modern age most people can spell the word but few enjoy its meaning. It was late in June when I entered the road that led to the old farmhouse wherein lived Mrs. Smith, owner of a small farm in central Utah. On arriving at the cottage I felt a sense of shyness, for I was a stranger and had heard the woman was deaf. She was quick to see however, for I had scarcely knocked when the door was immediately opened and the little woman smiling, bade me enter. I explained I had come for goose-feathers. I was surprised with the alertness of her movements as she produced two luxurious pillows. "Don't you get lonely on the farm?" I asked, by way of conversation. She smiled faintly as she pointed to her flower beds, her garden and her flock of geese. "With all this around I can hardly get lonesome," she replied. "You mean on account of my being deaf?" she questioned. "It bothered me some of course when I was young and raising a family. You see I was twenty-five when I contracted typhoid fever, and medical help was a luxury at that time, but I've been so glad it was my ears rather than my eyes. I've been able to do my bit in the world. I have cared for two children together with my ten and have never hired help. They are all splendid citizens. Keeping busy keeps one happy." "You have had education," I pointed out. 'You are one of the few women who know how to live." She smiled her appreciation. "I was born and raised across the water, and quit school at nine years of age. I acquired an education by degrees. I can quote most any scripture in the Bible," and motioning me to a little side door she bade me look at her library. Stack upon stack of magazines lay on the floor together with stacks of newspapers. At one side of the room stood a huge bookcase. Some of our best authors gleamed from its polished glass doors. She laughingly read a recent article on prohibition. I marveled at her perfect pronunciation and the rapidity with which she read. Her voice was low and well modulated, clear and rich. Although she is seventy-two years old I have never met a woman with a more cheerful outlook on life, nor one who had so thoroughly the gift of appreciation. Though her life has been hard, she carries a sweet spirit of contentment. Though she has had years of hard work and trials, her face is without a wrinkle. Rarely do we find this. The face is the index to the soul and I thought as I left the cottage, surrounded by nature's hand, I had never seen a sweeter face nor did I know of a better life, and the words of the poet came at my bidding. "God gave us life, not just to buy or sell And all that matters is to live it well." FACTS ABOUT SUGAR THE AMALGAMATED SUGAR COMPANY TWENTY MILLION DOLLARS, at least, will be distributed in Utah and Idaho this season by the beet sugar industry. It means more than $20.00 FRANKLIN COUNTY for every man, woman and child in these two SUGAR CO. Mt. Preston, Idaho This enormous amount of money represents the cost of producing and distributing 4,500,000 bags of sugar equal to 7,500 carloads of 600 bags each. GUNNISON SUGAR COMPANY 'Farmers have already received between six and eight million dollars for their beets. Further payments will depend on the final price obtained for this sugar. Other miscellaneous costs. SPRINGVILLE The beet sugar crop is literally an economic lifeSAVER in Utah and Idaho this year. The people realize this MAPLETON SUGAR CO. and knowing its quality is unsurpassed by any other sugar are demanding its universal use in this territory. This beet sugar is packed in original containers consisting of 100, 25, 10 and 5-lb. Cotton bags. When purchasing, insist on getting your sugar in original packages only. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO. There is Nothing to Compare With Electric Service You don't have to save up to enjoy the comforts and economy of Electric Servants. Install an Electric Range, Electric Refrigerator, and Electric Water Heater now and your regular household budget will take care of the small monthly payments. UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Efficient Public Service When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Centerfield, Utah LAYTON SUGAR CO. Layton, Utah Springville, Utah More than eleven million dollars will be spent for labor, coal, coke, taxes, transportation, warehousing and Watch Your Step This Year and Get Full Value for Every Dollar Spent. Don't Just Buy—Life Insurance—Be Particular—You Want The Very Best So Insist On BENEFICIAL Life Insurance And Get More Value Per Dollar. OUR SAVINGS INVESTMENT PLAN— Creates An Immediate Estate, Gives Full Protection For Your Family An Income To You In Later Years. The One Place To Obtain Share In The Net Earnings Of The Big Home Company BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE—SALT LAKE CITY HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager If it's a Beneficial Policy it's the best Insurance you can buy MITCHELL'S Beauty Shops Offer the greatest permanent wave special in their history. Duart and Artistic ringlet regular $3.50 now $2.50. Mitchell special oil Luxurious, regular $4.50 now $3.75 and similar reductions on all our waves. 2 shampoos and 2 finger waves with each permanent. MITCHELL'S BEAUTY SHOPPE Medical Arts Bldg. Wasatch 10816 SUGARHOUSE BEAUTY SALON 1053 East 21st South Sugarhouse Hyland 8553 For the convenience of our Ogden patrons we will operate The Perry Beauty Shop under the name of Mitchell's Beauty Shop No. 3. MITCHELL'S BEAUTY SHOP NO. 3 David Eccles Bldg. Ogden, Washington and 24th Phone 760 IT WILL PAY YOU TO BURN KNIGHT SPRING ROYAL CANYON COAL COAL ROYAL COAL Hot 'n Clean These Coals maintain clean, cheery warm homes at lowest cost. Ask Your Good Friend The Coal Dealer Knight Fuel Co. Royal Coal Co. General Offices 8th Floor Newhouse Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah LEONARD E. ADAMS, General Sales Agent When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Long Burning Clean and Hot Utah's Purest Coal SEE THE NEW EUREKA "Today's Milk Today" DE LUXE GRADE "A" VACUUM CLEANER NEW—MODERN—BEAUTIFUL Pasteurized Milk With Full Floating Brush, Beautiful Red Bag and 14 Other Major Improvements This super-powered Eureka Brainard's De Luxe cleans deeply, swiftly and thoroughly—removing all deeply embedded, stubborn dirt by "High Vacuum"—the Dairy identical cleaning principle of all costly installed systems built into large buildings and hotels. The new "full floating" brush automatically removes all lint, hair and other surface litter. Call Hyland 670 $5.00 Down Easy Terms Always ask for Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. Grade "A" Milk SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 177 East Broadway Phone Wasatch 4764 WEAKEST COG "What's most liable to get broke about your automobile?" "The owner," replied Mr. Chuggins.—Washington Star. He Knew Better "The idea of eternity, my friends, is something too vast for the human mind to conceive," said the lecturer. "Say, mister," cried a voice from the audience, "did you ever pay for a sevenhundred-dollar piano on the installment plan?" WHO'S TO BLAME? Margaret, aged five, had been very rude to a little guest, and after the child had gone home Margaret's mother told her very feelingly how grieved she was at her rudeness. "I've tried so hard to make you a good child, Margaret; to teach you to be polite and kind to others, and yet, in spite of all my efforts, you are so rude and so naughty." Margaret, deeply moved, looked sadly at her mother and said, "What a failure you are, mother!" HALF A LOAF A colored congregation in Louisiana, hearing that a college in Kansas was conferring the degree of D. D. For the reasonable "consideration" of fifty dollars, decided to add to their prestige by raising the required sum and having their pastor decorated with those dignified initials. Strenuous effort failed to raise more than half the amount; but, nothing daunted, they forwarded twenty-five dollars, with the request that the college would forward the first "D," so that they could begin addressing the reverend gentleman as Doctor, a favor which they were sure would assist them very much in collecting the price of his "Divinity." When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. XX FEBRUARY, 1933 No. 2 CONTENTS Beautiful Ogden Canyon in Winter...................................................Frontispiece O Mocking Bird, I Heard You Sing.................. Elzada C. Brinkerhoff 69 The Impenetrable Shield........... ................Judge Nephi Jensen 71 Full Measure.......... .............................Alberta Huish Christensen 76 Your Home Beautiful............. ........................Mabel Margaret Luke 78 The Cloud.................. ...........................................Miranda Walton 82 Annie's Awakening............................................ Linnie Fisher Robinson 83 Bouquet................ ..................................Estelle Webb Thomas 86 Should the Rural Countries of Utah Employ a Trained Social Worker...... Joseph A. Geddes 87 Reverie...... .............................................Magdalene C. Stephens 92 A Month of Anniversaries............. .......................Lucy Rose Middleton 93 Mother Heart and Scouting............... .................Weston N. Nordgren 95 Happenings........ ..........................................Annie Wells Cannon 99 Going Home to Mother................ .......................Balborg Wheelwright 100 Notes to the Field......... ......................................................................... 103 Notes From the Field ......... ...................................................................... 105 Editorial—Sincerity.............. ................................................................. 108 Council of Women Program............ ...................................................... 109 The Nation Mourns........... ..................................................................... 109 A Beautiful Prayer ..... .......................................................................... 110 Book Notices........ ................................................................................ 111 Lesson Department........... ..................................................................... 112 Asyo ...............................................................................Fen Ferling Clyde 128 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3123 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. Opportunity Comes SOMETIME to EVERYONE ARE YOU PREPARED? Without Obligation to me, send information about: (Check the one you are interested in.) [ ] Monthly Savings Stock. [ ] Paid-up Stock. Name....................................................................... Street....................................................................... City......................................State....................................... DESERET BUILDING SOCIETY 44 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear: No. 1 New style, ribbed lgt. Wt. Mercerized. An excellent Ladies' number —................$1.00 No. 2 Old style, ribbed lgt. Wt. Cotton, our standard garment 1.16 No. 3 Ribbed med. Wt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number. Men's new or old style.... 1.25 No. 4 Ribbed heavy wt. Unbleached cotton. Our double back number. Men's new or old style 1.50 No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number. Men's new or old style.... 2.50 No. 6 Light weight garment, Ladies' new style. Silk Stripe.95 No. 7 Light weight Spring and Autumn garment. Men only 1.00 No. 8 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only................ 1.00 No. 9 Medium wt. Silk for men and women, new style only. Non-Run 1.50 In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, short legs and sleeves or ankle length legs, are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid on orders accompanied by money order. Special discount to Missionaries. Our Jack Frost Blankets are made of Utah Wool and Utah Labor Write for Prices FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates LDS. GARMENTS - Good grade and well made. When ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. 472 Lt. Wt. Cotton $.75 464 Fine Ribbed Cotton.............. 95 144 Spring Needle, Combed Cot......... 1.00 208 Med. Wt. Cot. Ecru or White...... 1.35 228 Med. Wt. Rayon Striped.......... 1.35 252 Med. Wt. Firm Knit Cot.......... 1.45 708 Med. Wt. Rayon Striped. Ecru.... 2.00 98 Special Rayon, Ladies'............$1.25 306 Run Resisting Rayon............ 1.75 152 Hvy. Cot. Db. Bk., Ecru or White 1.75 904 Unbleached Cot. Extra Hvy..... 2.00 1118 Med. Hvy. Wool & Cot., Mixed 3.00 527 Ray. Plated Comb. Cot. Med. Wt. 2.00 Postage prepaid. BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Assets over $2,000,000.00 Dividend No. 107 on Paid-up Stock just paid. Attention— RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS! Relief Society has made an excellent record in securing signatures for the National Council of Women. The quota is not complete, however. If any ward or stake can get more signatures kindly communicate with Relief Society General Office, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing A Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 A. M. To 5 P. M. Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah REGULAR The tailor had called to collect his bill very frequently of late, but without success. Finally, in desperation, he said vehemently, "Mr. Swift, I must insist that you make some definite arrangement with me." "Why, surely, " replied Mr. Swift, most agreeably. "Let's see. Well, suppose you call every Thursday morning." A FIRST CONSIDERATION A teacher who was firmly convinced that a knowledge of the paintings and sculpture of the world was as essential as the "rule of three" had been explaining to her young wards some of the history connected with Rodin's famous statue, "The Thinker." She then asked the children what they thought he was thinking about. "Oh, I know," replied one little girl. "He's lost his clothes, and he's wondering where he's going to get some more." A DEAD LOSS Mrs. Hartley had for her cook a pompous young mulatto named Julius, One Monday morning Julius went about his work with a most lugubrious countenance. When Mrs. Hartley inquired as to the cause, he answered, dolefully: "I'm mighty misfortunate, ma'am; that's what it is. You see, it was like this: I went to church last night, and when they came round for the collection I give a quarter. Yes'm, that's what I thought. Then when I put my hand in my pocket again I found out I had made a mistake and put that five-dollar gold piece you gave me in the basket. Five dollars!" "Well, of course, Julius, that is a good deal," said Mrs. Hartley, sympathetically, "but don't feel too sorry about it. Just think how much good that money may do!" "Yes'm, it ain't that; but you can't fool the Lord. He knew I only wanted to give a quarter. He won't write down in his book, 'Julius give five dollars.' No'm; he will put down in black and white, 'Julius, one quarter.' That four dollars and When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine seventy-five cents sure is a dead loss." O Mocking Bird, I Heard You Sing. By Elzada C. Brinkerhoff O mocking bird, I heard you singing clear, When gleaming shadows dimmed the light of day. The moon in beauty rose, the leaves did sway In summer's evening breeze, while high and clear You sang the songs that other birds have sung, The robin's song, the lark's, the sparrow's too, And countless chirps and twitterings unknown To me; yet on and on you sang alone; Sheer ecstasies sprung from the throat of you. When first I heard you sing, contemptuous, I sneered and said, "You are a copy-cat. You're like the human race, like all of us Who filch from others, thought, Copy-cat." * * * * * I'd rather sing and think the words that fall From others, than not think or sing at all. BEAUTIFUL OGDEN CANYON IN WINTER Glen Perrins THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XX FEBRUARY, 1933 No. 2 The Impenetrable Shield By Judge Nephi Jensen ON the 10th day of December, 1919, Dr. Fred Winslow Adams, of Brooklyn, New York, preached a noteworthy sermon. He chose for his theme, "The greatest safeguard against temptation." In order to be thoroughly prepared for the discourse he interviewed by letter a number of world notables, on the subject in hand. He asked each one of these outstanding men what they regarded as the best safeguard against evil. Here are some of the responses received: "Will," Irving Bacheller. "The will to resist," Strauss. "High Aims," Andrew Carnegie. "Healthy Interest in Good Things," Rabindranath Tagore. "Knowledge," Arthur Brisbane. These answers present an interesting array of ideas on the vital question of moral restraint. The group of responses are significant because of the variety of minds that have made contributions. We have here the views of a noted man of letters, a famous philanthropist, a great captain of industry, a profound philosopher, and a brilliant journalist, on an all important matter relating to right living. It would be a very profitable study in the secret of moral control to seek for a common denominator of these answers. Is there such a common denominator? Is there some master word into which all of these fine words are reducible? Irving Bacheller insists that "will," is the best safeguard against evil. His conclusion is based upon the popular idea that "will" is the most dominant attribute of selfhood. But if we think the matter through we shall discover that there is something that controls the will. I cannot say, "I will,' unless I can say "I am." That is quite evident. I cannot say "I can" unless I can say "I believe I can." That is equally certain. Moreover, if I am rightly disposed morally, I will not say "I will" unless I can say "I ought." And, I cannot say "I ought," unless I can say "I believe I ought." So back of will is the belief that we can and ought to do the thing we will to do. That is faith. It is faith that moves the will to do, to dare, and to achieve. It is faith that controls the impulses and aspirations of the heart and guards the soul against its deadly foes. OSCAR STRAUSS' "will to resist" is reducible to this simple gospel word, "faith." Why do you resist temptation? You are tempted 72 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to tell a falsehood. Why do you resist? Because you believe intensely that truth is one of the enduring realities; and that it is base and ignoble to desecrate the truth. You are tempted to be dishonest. Why do you refrain? Because your soul is held in control by the unshaken conviction that honor is better than gold; and that integrity is worth more than all the wealth of the world. You are tempted to harbor an impure thought. Why do you shrink from the deadly intruder? Because in your heart of hearts you believe that purity of life is the only nobility; and the only passport to the abode of the Gods. Tempted to be hateful. Why do you shun the enticement to wrath? Because your soul is gripped by the holy faith that God is love; and that to become like him is the only supremely important achievement. Faith in the true, the pure and the noble is the sustaining strength and power in the will that resists sin's deadly enticement. The Indian philosopher, Tagore, concludes that "A healthy interest in good things," is the strongest shield of the soul. Undoubtedly an abiding "interest" in worthwhile things is a most: valuable moral restraint. But what is it that gives us this lively interest in high things? You are interested in preserving the sanctity of your body, because you believe a clean sound body is the basis of all worthwhile possessions. You are interested in guarding the integrity of your mind because you believe that a clean, untrammelled intellect is absolutely necessary to the highest culture. You are interested in keeping unsullied your imperishable soul, because, you believe devoutly that the human personality is the highest and sublimest thing in the world. It is faith in "good things" that gives to us that healthy "interest in good things," that arms us with strength and courage to shun evil things. EVEN "knowledge" is not as trustworthy as faith as a safeguard against sin's encroachment upon the sanctity of the soul. Knowledge will hold the temper at bay when the mind is vividly awake to the terrors of evil. A popular wrestler, who in his youth had learned the facts regarding strength-destroying nicotine, became an addict to the weed. One day a friend of high ideals saw the idol of the wrestling fans, smoking, and sharply reminded the noted athlete of the injurious effect of tobacco addiction. The wrestler instantly became serious. For the moment he recalled what he had learned about the destructiveness of nicotine. He threw away the cigarette. But within an hour he was seen smoking again. This athlete had only dead knowledge of the enslaving effect of the cigarette. This knowledge only controlled his conduct for the moment it was actively present in his mind. Quite in contrast with this incident in the life of this athlete, is the story of a young man who had been kept from smoking by a more potent restraining power. Some years ago there arrived at the mission home of one of the American missions of the Church a bright-eyed ruddy-cheeked young man who had been sent out to do missionary work. It was the custom of the Mission president to quiz the new arrivals in the field, rather searchingly about their past habits, and practices. After he had interrogated this young man at some length he asked him point blank, THE IMPENETRABLE SHIELD 73 "Did you ever smoke?" "I have never tasted tobacco," was the instant truthful response of the boy. What had been his shield against the most popular and widely practiced vice of our times? Not knowledge. He had never made a scientific study of the health-destroying, nerve-stupifying, and mind-bewildering effect of nicotine. But at his mother's knee, in the Sunday School, and from the pulpit he had been taught the simple truth that God had said, "Tobacco is not good for man." These terse divine words had been written upon the tablets of his soul by the fire of a living faith. This faith was the impenetrable shield of his soul. FAITH is more than knowledge. It is knowledge plus. It is knowledge in action. It is an awakened active attitude in respect to right and wrong that nerves the soul with strength to resist every temptation. The story of Joseph's resistance of the wicked advances of Potiphar's wife, is one of the most inspiring examples of moral integrity in the history of the race. No man was ever more sorely tempted. And yet he answered the woman's evil proposal with a most positive declaration of his fidelity to principle and loyalty to God: "How can I do this wickedness and sin against God?" There is the eternal ring of virtue in these words. They came from the depths of a soul that was as true as truth. Joseph's rebuff of the siren's wicked advance is an imperishable monument to the majesty and grandeur of a clean mind and a pure heart. Back of this courageous refusal to consent to moral degradation was a soul-controlling conviction of the enduring sanctity of personal honor; and an undying belief in the reality of divine law. This faith was the fiber and sinew of Joseph's moral strength. His thoughts and conduct were controlled by the all-controlling faith which is the soul's integrity to truth. Faith in God is the awakened sense of our divine sonship. This consciousness of the divinity within us gives to our souls a sanctity which we dare not desecrate. The fixed conviction that our spirits belong to the family of the Gods brings home to us the ennobling and controlling thought, that all our deeds mar or make our souls, that have the opportunity of returning to the presence of God. Souls gripped by this sense of the eternal consequences of thought and deed, spurn temptation's insidious smile.; Faith in the reality of immutable divine law, vests the soul with the awful sense of accountability to a Moral Governor of the universe. This abiding feeling of responsibility to one who is just, true, and holy is the real monitor of the soul. It is by the unerring guidance of this inner moral force that we are led safely past the reefs of moral danger and pitfalls of vice. He who "endures as seeing him who is invisible" is kept by that very sense of the nearness of God, in harmony with the pure purposes of the Most High. Faith's long range view of time, makes eternity part of the present and gives to our every thought and act an eternal significance. This deep sense of the all-enduring effect of our deeds sobers us and puts us on our guard against the recklessness of the eat-drink-and-be-merry spirit. Out of the consciousness that life is not a swiftly passing idle moment 74 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE but an eternity of limitless possibilities comes our deep sense of moral values. The settled conviction that there is a vital eternal difference between right and wrong is the strong enduring armor of the soul. OUR conduct is controlled by something deeper and stronger than beautiful sentiment or fine-spun ethical distinctions. The soul's integrity is kept inviolate by robust enduring convictions of the terror of evil; and the everlasting worth of rectitude.. It is faith ever living faith, in the good, the beautiful, and the true that gives the soul its strong moral bent and attitude; sets the heart immovably upon the things that are high; and puts one's life in harmonious union with the God of all righteousness. It was this noble thought that inspired the apostle to say, "Above all taking the shield of faith wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked." THE soul-fortifying strength of this vital faith finds its most splendid expression in modern times, in the lives of the Latter-day Saints. There is space for only one or two instances of the soul controlling power of this moral force. The morning paper of January 2, 1931, carried a report of a lecture by Dr. George W. Mursell, noted psychologist, before the American Society for the Advancement of Science, on the effect of religious training on delinquency. The conclusions he announced were based upon tests he had given to 600 Ohio reform school boys, and 400 boys outside the reformatory. The boys examined ranged from 12 to 18 years of age. As a result of this investigation, he affirmed "that there is no significant relation to religious training and delinquent and non-delinquent behavior—that whatever causes one class to be delinquent or non-delinquent, it is not religious training, knowledge, attitude or background, as measured by these tests." The day before this report appeared, two young men returned home early in the morning from New Year's Eve parties. The one came from a popular club. He reported that it was "wide open." Men and women smoked, drank, revelled and told obscene stories. There was nothing formal or dignified about it except the apparel of the guests. The other young man returned from a party given by the Friar's Club of the U. Of U., made up of returned L. D. S. Missionaries. There were present seventy couples. In giving his report the young Friar said: "We had a jolly, lively, good time." "Did any one smoke?" a friend asked. "I did not see a cigarette." "Did any one drink?" "I didn't see a single flask." "Did any one tell questionable stories?" "I did not hear a coarse word." This last story is warrant for a conclusion quite at variance with that of Dr. Mursell. It may be that the inculcation of vague and sentimental ideas about God, and His laws, has no deterrent effect upon the moral conduct of youth. But boys and girls who are deeply and profoundly impressed with the reality of God, and His salutary laws, by the impress of a religion of real faith stimulating power, are protected by this vital faith from the errors and follies of the world. These seventy young Friars and their partners, had been taught from infancy that the THE IMPENETRABLE SHIELD 75 All-wise and beneficent Father had said that 'strong drink" and "tobacco" is not good for man. By the faith-awakening power of a religion which has upon it the unmistakable marks of divine vitality, the idea of the wrongfulness of the use of stimulants and narcotics had become ingrained in the very mental and soul fiber of these young people. This faith in the reality of the divine injunction against the desecration of the body and mind, with deleterious things had become entwined into the very nature and being of these young people; and it kept them circumspect on the night when those not likewise shielded were carried by a spirit of conviviality and frivolity into harmful and destructive excesses. ONE of Utah's District Judges a few years ago bore eloquent testimony to the restraining and refining effect of this vital faith. In his young manhood he became a little skeptical through reading Darwin and Spencer. While his doubts were still giving him some disquietude, he attended a social function at one of the popular clubs of Salt Lake City. The room was blue with tobacco smoke. Wine glasses were clinking amid the empty laughter of excessively convivial men and women. All restraints were thrown to the winds. There was a total absence of dignity, refinement, restraint and those things which are characteristic of human life at its best. After spending a few minutes at this club, the Judge walked over to the Assembly Hall where an enthusiastic meeting of Mutual Improvement workers was in progress. The hall was filled to capacity with eager. Earnest devotees of the ennobling idea of human enlightenment and uplift. A fine spirit of dignity, serenity and self-control pervaded the whole gathering. Order and decorum reigned supreme. Those who spoke were impressed profoundly with the eternal importance of high thinking and fine and noble living. As the Judge walked away from this gathering he silently soliloquized, "There is a difference between this group of splendid earnest young people, and the crowd at the club." Surely there is a "difference." What has made this, difference? These Mutual Improvement workers had been awakened by a soul-enlivening faith in the divinity of the human personality, and its eternal significance. This deep rooted faith had guarded them through the years of youth from the pitfalls of vice; and fired them with a deathless zeal. For things that are fine and high. Only a religion of high spiritual power: can fortify young people against temptation as these young people. Were fortified. For only such a religion can awaken in the heart the intensified faith in things that are deep, pure, true, and high, that makes the soul immune to the onslaughts of vice. Mormonism. More than any other religion, of today, possesses this marvelous faith-stimulating power. It actually awakens in the hearts of those who come under its benign influence a keen, abiding sense of reality to God's law, a deep and enduring conviction of man's kinship to God. And a certain assurance of immortal life, and the eternal possibilities and glory of the human _ personality. This vitalized faith has given to the Saints a firm set moral fiber, that keeps their hearts securely anchored to the beautiful, the good, and the true. Full Measure By Alberta Huish Christensen Awarded Second Prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest If CANNOT feel, beloved, that life has failed To fill the promise of love's early dream: From that far bluff, how could we two have seen The long encumbered miles that lay between Our dawn and dusk—the weary rainless land, The forest standing ominous and still. And seeing not, perhaps we asked too much Of stubborn soil, we chafed that calloused hand Need clear away the wood-entangled hill. But oh, in tender memory I hold Spring dawns that tore asunder our despair, Piping the mountain shoulders with their gold— And I shall also take into account That greater thing than fruitage of the vine; Richer than heaped-up harvests, in amount— Our love,—which never lost its lucent gleam, But held us to the pattern of our dream! ALBERTA HUISH CHRISTENSEN Your Home Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke COLOR AND COLOR SCHEMES HERE is no more important element in the decorative scheme of a room than color. Wise color management is one of the most effective, and certainly the least expensive means of beautifying the interior of our homes. When close economy must be observed in decorating rich colors may often take the place of rich materials. Proper employment of color can often accomplish marvelous results. Everyone tis affected by color, consciously or unconsciously. It is all about us. We cannot escape from it if we would. In our homes color creates the atmosphere which has an effect on our thoughts, our moods and our actions. If used correctly it is a force that greatly enriches home life. Color appeals to our emotions. South America, Mexico, The Orient are more emotional and hence more colorful. Imagine, if you can, a colorless world, no color in flowers, trees, birds, sky and people. It would not be a pleasant place in which to live. Now, picture a room without color. How uninteresting, how insipid, how monotonous. Not long ago, so-called serviceable colors (that didn't show the dirt) were popular. Every room was of drab mustard homeliness. Fortunately, however, within the last few years the world has become color conscious.. There is decreed. A brighter note in house furnishing. Dull and depressing i colors are doomed. Even the simplest articles The used in our homes are in bright, cheerful attire. Because of the importance color has assumed it is very essential to know the important principles of color harmony. Many people not knowing these rules lack courage where color is concerned and while realizing it is an important instrument are afraid to make use of it ina decided manner. Everyone recognizes the wondrous harmonies and richly varied qualities of tone of a great pipe organ, but there are only a few who know how to manipulate the stops and keys in order to bring forth these results that thrill. Just so it is with color. We enjoy its marvelous effects, but are afraid to venture in the production of these effects ourselves. Perhaps we have made attempts and been discouraged by the outcome. This disheartening result is altogether unnecessary as the employment and combination of color is based on easily understood and mastered principles. To begin a study of color we must work from the three primaries, red, yellow and blue. These are called the foundation colors because they cannot be made from any other colors, and from them all other colors can be derived by combining with each other and black and white. In fact, the United States Bureau of Standards have secured and standardized 15,576 tones, shades and tints from these three primaries. Have certain into whatever HE primaries qualities and YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL 79 combination they enter carry these qualities with them. For example: Blue suggests coolness and _ restfulness. Yellow, light and cheerfulness. Red is an advancing color, warm, active and aggressive. If blue and yellow are combined we get green. Now green will partake of the qualities of both blue and yellow —it is light and cheerful, yet cool and restful. Blue and red combining give violet, which has a neutral effect as the qualities of red and blue are so opposed they counteract each other. Combine red and yellow we will secure orange, having the qualities of both red and yellow. These three colors resulting from the combining of the primaries are the secondary colors. If the primaries are not combined in equal amounts we would secure different tones, for example blue might be combined with just a small amount of yellow, resulting in a blue-green and would, of course, partake more of the qualities of blue than yellow. A word about the use of black, white, gold, and silver, which are theoretically not colors, and grey which is a combination of black and white, (or perhaps tinted so that it is yellow-grey, blue-grey, green-grey, etc.) The first four and pure grey do not have advancing or receding qualities. All make excellent backgrounds. Black, white, gold and silver will prove useful as accenting 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE colors. You will do well to observe this precaution in the use of black and gold: Much is quiet and distinctive, a medium quantity is noisy and vulgar, and a small amount is elegant and very valuable for emphasis. Before attempting to discuss color further it will be necessary to define a few terms. Tint is any color combined with white, a shade is any color combined with black. Examples: pink would be a tint and maroon a shade of red. Value is the degree of lightness or darkness of any color. For instance, yellow is light or high value, violet is dark or low value. This principle is of much importance. If we introduce into a scheme an article that is so light it seems to jump out of the background, or so dark it sinks in, its value is too high or too low. In connection with value we must consider scale, which when applied to color is the proper degree of correspondence in the value or intensity (strength) of the colors used. This does not mean that all colors must be light or dark, or of the same intensity. Notes of brighter, stronger colors should be introduced, but these contrasting colors should not be so different as to clash. If when one enters a room any object because of its color seems to call attention to itself it is more than likely out of scale. As a rule all colors must be subdued or greyed in using. Full intense colors must be used very carefully if at all. Of course, to what extent this can be done depends on the room and its occupants. Having great patches of colors in full strength for the person of refined sensibilities would be very much like living with a brass band and would soon prove very irritating. Colors have certain physiological effects which we will not take up in detail, only to illustrate. Blue is the color of coolness, of space and tranquility. Its influence is quieting, and restful, and it can be used in large quantities. However, if used too much it may have a depressing effect, especially on people that are inclined to be melancholy. Green is safe to use in quantity. We may follow nature in this regard. But even this if used alone would prove tedious. Red if used to any extent is not wholesome to live with. It is fatiguing and irritating. Because of the tendency of red, orange and yellow to be advancing they can have an effect on the apparent size of a room, making a room appear smaller. Blue and green being receding or retiring colors will give an effect of space. The question of value also comes in— the lighter tints seemingly enlarging a room, and the darker to draw together, or make it appear smaller. A light color on a ceiling makes it appear higher, a dark lower. Important applications of these points can be made in our own homes. Red, orange, yellow and tints and shades of these colors are on the warm side of the spectrum; blue and green and perhaps violet on the cool side. Therefore, if you were "doing" a room of northern exposure or of little light you would want to create the effect of light and warmth by using the warm colors. To give the effect of artificial sunshine the tints of yellow are best as they reflect the light. In a room flooded with sunlight cooling colors as blue and green help subdue the brightness. The law of appropriateness is as important here as in other fields and this rule might not always be applicable, but it is usually advisable. YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL 81 IN planning color schemes for rooms we can do no better than to follow nature's example. She has used the darker hues for the base, lighter for the trees and mountain or middle distance, and lightest of all in the sky, then into this as notes of interest and accent she has brilliant colors in the flowers, the birds and the butterflies. This is true in our rooms,—the floors darker, the walls lighter and ceiling lightest of all, and then use bright notes for emphasis. A good rule to follow in planning your color scheme is to chose a foundation or key color, which should be about fifty percent of the color in the room, then the relief or contrast of about forty percent and the remaining ten percent in accenting color or colors. It is essential that all the primaries be present in every color scheme or the eye is not satisfied. Do not understand this to mean that red, yellow and blue must be present in every room, but combinations or shades, tints and tones of these colors. For example we might have yellow as the dominant color, if with it we used violet, the complementary of yellow (which contains red and blue) the scheme would be complete. Or green, orange and violet is a complete harmony as every primary is represented in the composition of the secondaries. In our homes we must have a number of colors agreeably assembled for it would be just as impossible to produce pleasing effects with only one or two colors as it would be to have a harmonious musical composition of only one note. Color harmony may be of two kinds, with variations of each. The first group is Harmonies of Likeness, or when the colors have enough in common to make them congenial, and Harmonies of Contrast in which colors lacking in any common quality are so opposed that each sets off and lends emphasis to the other. THE first of the Harmonies of Likeness is a Monochromatic Scheme, in which different values and intensities of the same hue are used. Unless handled with care this harmony would prove monotonous. An example of a Monochromatic harmony would be a room in which the walls and woodwork were in buff, the ceiling ivory, the floor in natural oak and the curtains cream. To satisfy the eye they must be introduced to the other two primaries which may take the form of lavender in the upholstery, cushions or pottery. The second Harmony of Likeness is an Analogous Scheme, or one in which is used several hues with a common element running through all, that is colors that are neighbors on the color wheel, and here too we will use a small amount of the complement of the main color to complete the harmony, for instance we might start with green, a tint of which we would use on the walls and woodwork, a greyed yellowgreen in the drapes and upholstery, cream in the curtains, combined with the complementary of green, which is red, touches of which might be in the drapes, in a vase, or in a bowl of roses. The analogous scheme may often get us in trouble because of the sensitiveness of some colors such as blue. A normal blue, a blue green and a blue-violet would clash if used in proximity. Therefore it is a pretty safe rule to stay between the primaries and secondaries on the wheel. Do not include hues on both sides. This rule does 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE not apply to orange, tones of which may be used together on either side, including! Yellow, yellow orange, orange, red-orange and red, and all shades and tints of them. The first of the contrasted harmonies is the complementary scheme in which a color is combined with its complementary or the opposite color on the wheel. This completes the primary triangle necessary for harmony. Because complementary colors intensify each other this scheme must be used with great care, the colors being greyed, otherwise the effect can be harsh and crude. A great deal of neutralizing color such as grey is usually best in this scheme. A good illustration of the way to use this harmony would be to have the foundation color blue, with grey for the neutralizing tone. As an accent use the complementary of blue which is orange, or some form of it as peach or apricot. THE Triad is perhaps the most commonly used as well as having very interesting possibilities if the. Colors are modified in either quantity or intensity or both. They must not be used in equal amounts. The rule for this harmony is to choose three colors lying at equal distances from each other on the color wheel. The first harmony would be the primaries, red, yellow and blue, the second—orange, green and violet, a third—yellow-green, red-orange, and blue-violet, and so on we might go around the circle. The second of these would be illustrated in the following room: The walls are of beige, paneled and painted, the woodwork in old ivory enamel. On the floor is a rug the predominating color of which is deep plum. The curtains are of beige net, the overdrapes of chintz in tones of plum, rose and green. One chair and couch are upholstered in the same kind of material as the drapes, another chair in plain green rep. Accents in cushions, in lighting fixtures and bric-a-brac are in gold, blue and green. An interesting note is often struck by the introduction of the complementary color of either of the triad colors into the scheme. Blue in the above room is an example of this. Incidentally this room would be very suitable for a northern or eastern exposure as the predominating colors are warm. Before leaving color let me suggest that to have a lovely house a unity of treatment should prevail. It is something of a shock to pass through a succession of rooms whose color schemes are so entirely unrelated to one another that their clashing is almost audible. This does not mean that you cannot have variety. You can, but there must be a thread of continuity running from room to room so that they will seem to be a part of the whole. The Cloud By Miranda Walton I saw a cloud the other day Gloomy, dark and cold; But from the outer edge was thrown A rim of purest gold. It made me think the sun would shine Throughout eternity; I pondered what a lovely place The other side must be. Annie's Awakening By Linnie Fisher Robinson "WHO has the thread?" "Not I," chorused a half dozen voices. "Why, Annie Condor, you have it," said Sarah Hall, laughingly. "So I have," said Annie, in surprised confusion, "I didn't notice it lying there." There was a pause for a moment, then Janet Brown resumed, "As I was saying, none of us ever have what you'd call real vacations, but then none of us miss them very much." Annie Condor's hands fell lax in her lap, her eyes took on a far away expression, she forgot the quilt before her. It was Janet who said: "Why, Annie, I declare if you're not woolgathering today, and you the fastest quilter in Green Valley." "I was just thinking," said Annie, "that we do miss them—the real vacations—there's Nellie Jorgens, the doctor says her whole trouble is nerves. Do you think, with a real vacation every year, she'd be in the fix she's in?" "I don't know as anyone could give Nellie a vacation," Sarah said. "Nellie'd be afraid to go away for fear something would be wasted in her absence." Annie's pale face flushed, "It's really my fault," she said slowly, "that we're a bit personal today; but married life either makes women saving or wasteful; and if it makes you saving on a farm where there's so much waste, for lack of help and time, you soon become a slave. It's better that life should make you lax—on a farm." There was a storm of protest. To think Annie could say that, and her the neatest housekeeper in Green Valley. Annie looked calmly at the group of friends she'd sewed with close to thirty years. "I just want to say there's no use fooling ourselves any longer, we do miss real vacations, and we miss 'em badly. I always meant to have one, but I never have. Maybe—well, well — where's that thread gone now?". Janet broke the perplexed silence, "I guess if you'd wanted one bad enough you could a' had one; you have the finest stock, the finest crops, in fact, the finest farm. Now my John says if we were you we'd sport a lot, and take trips—long ones, you bet." "But," said Annie with a traitorous feeling, yet speaking in spite of herself, "we don't own them— our farm and things—they own us! For years our mortgage owned us, and we gave all that was in us to lift it; it took years because of the taxes and machinery needed. There's times good and times bad; and in the bad years taxes remain the same, and eat up the good year's profits. Why, I've lived from month to month, waiting for the egg check —waiting to see it go for mash and light bills; the milk check for interest, and any left over saved for taxes and the mortgage. I'd hope for a time when there'd be a surplus; and when there was, there'd be a cow bloated and dead that had to be replaced. Every coat I ever wore was bought for the warmth and wear of it; and now—" Annie's voice trailed off. 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The women's quilting club of Green Valley was silent; if any others had such thoughts as Annie voiced they were not going to say so; they savored too much of rebellion, and sounded downright traitorous to farm life and farm men. "Well, you've had a fine table, Annie, and good warm clothes— a good car—" "We've all had that, more or less," said Annie mildly; "but what for? To feed hired help and ourselves, so's to keep up strength for more work. It's stretch and strain, and disappointments all down the trail, and only in years comes victory, and some times not then. It may be alright for them who live only for the physical, and food's all they require; but any woman who has pride enough to scour and clean, and scrimp and save, has a longing for more than food. How'd it be to have long evenings of pleasant companionship without the talk being about the grasshoppers, water shortage or the potato failure. And then only after the men have come in at dark, starved, cross and tired, to make hours of washing milk pails, sweeping the kitchen, where odious boots and shoes speak eloquently that they must be kept out of the cold if your men are to keep well. Where bathrooms, shining in the afternoon, are covered with hay leaves and black from the different hands that have splashed and entirely destroyed their cleanliness. Even the hired girl, if you have one, gets cross, by that time." The ladies looked even more aghast. Martha Williams spoke up, "I've had those feelings, too, sometimes —round about haying time. You're tired, that's what! With my great weight and rheumatism I'm happiest now at home; a warm house and food fills me with content." The ladies laughed—even Annie; for Martha's deep drawling tones, and her more than two hundred pounds were loved by all. In a few moments all was normal again; quilting talk of every day pleasantness began, the new neighborhood twins, Safira's quince jelly that took first prize at the fair, the fire that broke out in the Johnson's basement—all these were viewed and reviewed until at last another quilting day was over, and the ladies departed for home. Annie Condor, driving the family car over the jolty roads, scarcely noticed that fall was reigning in splendor upon the mountains; she only saw the car, dusty with mash, and spattered with mud. It was no use trying to keep it shining, even if it was practically new, no one had time to clean it but she; and only that morning, right after she'd washed it, pa had made a flying trip for mash, since the pigs had, somehow, got into the chicken coop and eaten the last of it. Their one and only truck was already being loaded with third crop hay; so, as was often the case, the touring car must act as second, or emergency truck. She drove straight to her door, disdaining the yawning garage, some of the family would need it—why drive it in? Hyrum Condor, coming tired and sweaty from the field, followed Annie into the house. He sat down on the edge of a straight back chair. Annie turned, "That's the way all farmers do," she mused to herself, nodding to pa, "sitting on the edge of their chairs, like as though it 'ud help 'em get out quicker. That's what I've always hated about this farm—never a minute in a chair, but you feel you're stealing it, 'less 'tis ANNIE'S AWAKENING 85 ten or eleven at night, and then you're stealing health from your work tomorrow. Winters it's worse —-sorting apples in a cold, damp cellar, breaking ice from the buttermilk-barrel, cleaning coops, and mixing mash, pruning trees, and plowing, when the wind and cold fairly make one stiff! Why we're just nothing but machinery that keeps oiling itself for work!" Annie beginning to tie on an apron, came to with a start, what was that pa was saying? "Got a chance to sell out? When? Who?" said Annie breathlessly. "—and I been thinking," said pa, "as how—maybe we better, and move to the city, like you said you wanted to; we could take a long trip, too, if the boys got jobs; and then there wouldn't be no barn yard to carry in, Or so many weeds to bother you. Maybe I'd have time to help you in your flower garden; you wouldn't have no separators, or milk pails, or milk strainers, or churning to bother you, then; and we could clean up, come evening maybe" Pa ceased talking, and began looking out of the window at the land he'd practically given his life to; dust. And hay leaves clung to the creases of his collar. His shoes under their dust, from the field, were hardened and cracked; but pa was totally unconscious of them. He was already mentally saying goodbye. Annie did some quick thinking; what did life mean? What were they here for? The boys were strong, healthy, clean, young fellows; they were industrious, and liked school. By saving and choring winters, they could go on; would they be able to if they moved to the city? The satin slippers, she'd longed for years ago, were not wanted so much now. Suddenly it was clear to her—what she wanted was for them she loved to be happy; pa was happy here. She remembered how he'd looked the day he finished off the mortgage, and the triumph on his face when after a struggle they'd raised the taxes, too. And the boys—mixing college and cows, and fine laying pullets—Annie began to think of supper, that fresh, whole wheat bread, and the new butter—there was apple sauce— "No, pa," she said, beginning to stir around briskly, "I never did want to sell." "You never wanted to. Sell!" echoed pa, following Annie into the pantry, where she began pouring a pan of milk slowly into a shining white pitcher. "What is it you've wanted all these years, Annie?" Annie picked up a spoon and guided the cream safely in with the milk; then she said, with new discovery in her tones, "I guess I just wanted a little choice in the matter." BOUQUET By Estelle Webb Thomas Dear Mid-Victorian ladies, Sweet belles of yesteryear, Whose charms Time's gentle traces Have rendered yet more dear. Though the rose in your cheeks has faded, And your eyes less brightly shine, I shall seek 'mongst your gentle numbers To find my valentine. I've a love for the old-time graces, That fragrant old bouquet That bloomed with your lovely faces, And faded so soon away. I think of my mother's garden With its phlox and columbine Where she plucked for her boy a nose-gay— My first sweet valentine! Should the Rural Counties of Utah Employ a Trained Social Worker? A DISCUSSION OF SOME OF THE ISSUES INVOLVED By Joseph A, Geddes Professor of Sociology, Utah State Agriculture College Abstract THE welfare work the L. D. S. Relief Societies are doing constitutes an experiment of considerable magnitude in Volunteer Welfare Work. With the aid of a trained service in Salt Lake City there is in process of development a semi-trained service in the rural areas. This important effort naturally encounters many handicaps. Among them is a lack of any county service in the rural counties which provides for the nuclei of machinery on which modern social work depends for its success. If a county case worker and clearing machinery were provided particularly in the larger counties, volunteer social work could move along more rapidly towards the important goals of Social Work. The Combination Plan in which many of the counties rely on the local bishops for the distribution of county relief further complicates the problem by introducing a different set of factors. These factors are of such a nature that in most cases they must be worked out by the county unit. There is danger that the L. D. S. Experiment in building up volunteer machinery may itself be jeopardized through the taking over of county services without in turn being able to control county problems. A trained county case worker to center effort on county problems and to aid volunteer service in developing machinery for clearing, for cooperation between agencies, and for the gradual growth of types of services needed for effective social work, would make it possible to develop a satisfactory ground work for the handling of a very perplexing problem. The larger counties are undoubtedly spending too much money to warrant getting along without such help. For a limited period during bad times it would seem that the smallest counties could with profit employ a well trained experienced social worker: The Demand For Retrenchment DURING the past few years retrenchment has overshadowed everything else. The language of recession appears on almost every printed page. Balance the budget—Eliminate— Reduce costs—Cut down on overhead — Reduce wages — Decrease output—Shorten the work day— Reduce taxes—Shorten the school year — Cut Salaries — Reorganize government bureaus—-No vacations on pay—A buck a bushel or bust— on go the audible demands of unhappy economic groups who turn this way and that only to find themselves in a straight-jacket which relentlessly insists on reorganization. A day of slashing arises—here, there or anywhere. A slashing period is a time of opportunity and a time of danger. The opportunity lies in the possibility of eliminating waste; danger 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE appears in aggravated opposition to bad things and good things alike. It is conceivable that a well directed social movement might sweep away from the social structure a vast mass of useless machinery without harming any vital social value. It is likewise conceivable that a blind determination to cut down costs may destroy gains that have taken decades of sacrificial service to build up, leaving untouched great fields of wasteful expenditure. What we need most is an intelligent drive to cut down costs in the light of and in harmony with a movement to conserve and protect the real values in the social heritage. Relief costs" differ from ordinary costs in that they maintain a reciprocal relation. When the national income is large and expenditures in the social fields are high, relief expenditures tend to be low; when social income is small and social institutions are in consequence starved, relief for the unemployed and the handicapped grows rapidly. If it were not so famine and pestilence would still exact tremendous tolls. The Present Alignment AT the present time the average county in rural Utah spends more money for welfare work than all other organized agencies combined. The L. D. S. Church operating through the ward bishops and the Relief Societies comes second. There is this difference between these two organizations. The county usually confines its efforts to gathering funds through taxation. It has not developed a welfare agency through which the constructive work in distributing funds can be carried out. The county therefore although it is the largest spender is not a welfare agency in a real sense at the present time. The L. D. S. Church on the other hand both gathers its own funds and has developed a volunteer agency—The Relief Societies—to assist the bishops in distributing funds in harmony with modern acceptable standards. The L. D. S. Church has not yet attempted to develop in the stakes and wards any kind of paid service to supplement its volunteer system. Because the L. D. S. Volunteer service is outstanding in its field many of the county commissioners have tended to rely on it to help handle the distribution of county funds also. Thus a two fold burden has come to rest on many of the local church relief organizations. (1) the carrying of its own load for which it was organized and, (2) the carrying of a part of the county load, over which it does not have full control and for the handling of which its organizational mechanism was not designed. Overhead Can Be Reduced Too Much WHERE volunteer work is ineffectively done a considerable portion of the people may more or less unconsciously become pauperized. This result arises in part because volunteer efforts often fail to function when the need is greatest and because volunteer workers are not trained and cannot be trained sufficiently to do this work adequately. It is an important doctrine in the social work profession that the highest possible percentage of the relief dollar shall get to those in need, keeping in mind satisfactory service. It is distinctly to the credit of social workers that a much higher percentage does actually arise than through any other procedure. Those who have been insisting recently that nothing shall be spent on administration in order that 100 cents on the dollar shall go to the poor, have presented a high sounding program which is so deceptive that it RURAL COUNTIES OF UTAH 89 constitutes a serious social danger. Under improvised and wholly volunteer machinery a very large proportion of the relief dollar fails to go where it should. Much of it also goes where real harm is done. The attainment of a high percentage is a question of right proportion between overhead and distribution. The need for a proper balance is as great in social work as it is in business. Well organized social work machinery strengthens the individual resistance to decline and constitutes a strong barrier to the menace of pauperism. Some Opinions THREE influential people were recently asked this question: What help does your county need most? Without any hesitation one replied, "We need a paid family case worker." Another said, "I think we need most a public health nurse. A third held, "We don't need anything bad enough to pay for it during these bad times." Those who think that a volunteer system is adequate base their case on such propositions as these: 1. In a volunteer system overhead is at the zero point. 2. A volunteer system replaces in part individual giving and is a great improvement over such giving. 3. The volunteer method represents a stage of development and is well suited to rural conditions where resources do not warrant strong paid agencies. 4. Unpaid service gives opportunity for the exercise of the philanthropic motive and helps both those who receive and those who give. 5. The volunteer principle is particularly useful to religious organizations because pure altruistic service at a time of great need makes possible the teaching of religious truths more effectively. Those who feel that a competent case worker should be employed by the county in spite of unfavorable economic conditions are influenced chiefly by the following positive considerations: 1. The county commissioners constitute what may be termed a general or board type of body. They handle hundreds of different problems in widely diverse fields. In some of them they wisely call in experts. In social work a profession has arisen. During the short time a commissioner is in office he cannot come to know adequately the problems involved without expert help. A county case worker could provide this help. 2. Contrary to the claims of the friends of the volunteer system, wastes under it are large, and positive harm to the social fabric is much greater than it is thought to be (in the county). 3. The fact that the times are unusually bad constitutes a strong reason for the employment of a county case worker. When danger is greatest the ablest should be at work, Mistakes are costly when millions are involved. Society cannot afford to get along with volunteer machinery alone in times like the present. 4. The volunteer method used by the L. D. S. Church in Rural Utah serves social work need within the church on a much more satisfactory basis than it can be expected to serve county welfare work. This statement holds true also where the county commissioners distribute most of the county funds through the L. D. S. Bishops. The local L. D. S. Church organization was not designed to take care of county work and local church officers do not have sufficient control over county welfare work to really get at the chief difficulties which the 90 county commissioners encounter. 5. The use of trained help to supplement and cooperate with volunteer agencies does not necessarily mean a greater total expenditure. It means a further organization of cooperative work, and in part a redirection of effort towards social objectives making possible a use of recognized social work machinery. Some Data on These Problems DURING the past few years the Sociology Department of the Utah State Agricultural College has conducted studies of social welfare work in a number of rural counties. Alden Lillywhite, Miss Mercy Nelson and Welling Roskelley have gathered data dealing with the principal phases of welfare work. These studies show a surprising similarity of trends in all of the counties studied. Among the difficulties which the newly elected county commissioner faces and which indicate the need of training help are these:. 1. Local area pressure on the commissioners. The local area from which the commissioner comes expects him to do his full duty by his own locality. This pressure along with the fact that the commissioner is well acquainted with most of those who are in need of assistance in his home district tends to bring about a very uneven distribution on the county relief roll. In one county where conditions are relatively homogeneous eight towns do not have any of their poor on the county roll. None of these towns have provided the county with a county commissioner for many years. On the other hand one town has as high as 28.4 per 1000 of population on the county roll. This town has been well represented in the commissionership. For some time the commissioners in this county have been trying to minimize this difficulty by distributing county relief through the L. D. S. Bishops. This means that the bishops largely recommend those who are placed on the county roll. It might be expected that this would correct the inequality. On the contrary partial dependence on the bishops magnifies it. One bishop wants as many from his ward on the roll as he can get placed there, another wants as few on as possible or none at all. Furthermore since the commissioners have the final voice, many of those recommended by the bishops are not accepted. While ostensibly distribution is in the hands of the bishops it is quite clear that they do not have sufficient control to correct the difficulty. So that while the bishops have recommended the great majority of those who actually are on the county roll the fact that the commissioners retain the right to accept or reject and the fact that two rather popular recommending agencies are "another person" or "not given" makes it possible for such influences as locality representation on the commission or clerkship, politics, family relationship, etc., to maintain the glaring inequalities indicated above. It was a commendable thing for the commissioners in seeking relief from insistent people to turn to the local L. D. S. Bishops. The bishops, however, have not provided the help needed nor does it appear that they are in a position to give it. A trained county case worker with the help of the local Relief Society Presidents could soon provide the commissioners with the information needed and with a program which would rectify the evil. 2. The tendency to increase relief expenditures in good times and decrease them in bad times. It has RURAL COUNTIES OF UTAH 91 been customary in Utah to provide liberally for the poor during good times when tax receipts were large and to cut down severely during bad times when revenues were low. In one county during the depression of 1920-24 the appropriations for relief dropped from $29,876.05 in 1920 to $23,706.18 in 1921. It remained low all through the difficult times of 1922-23-24. In the later year it was $23,862.42. In 1925 it jumped to $28,606.18 and reached a peak of $35,414.97 in 1930 when another decline set in. This astonishing procedure is not explainable in terms of any real conception of the nature and necessities of this work. If the people could get along with $23,706.18 in 1921, they could probably have done with $15,000 per: year during the years 1925-29. Two things could have been done during the prosperous period which would have relieved a good deal of suffering: 1st, a fund could have been created with a deposit of $15,000 a year to take care of the coming difficult period following 1929—a surplus fund of $60,000 would have been very useful as the difficulties of 1929 hove in sight. 2nd, a competent case worker could have been employed to cooperate with volunteer agencies in undertaking constructive rehabilitation work with the objective in view of cutting the relief load down. 3. Achieving cooperation among the various welfare agencies. This is a perplexing problem. In the average county seat in Rural Utah there are probably one-half dozen agencies that do some form of relief work. Much of it is of an incidental type, but in each case the amount spent helps to swell the total. A conservative estimate in one county places the total for the year 1928 at $80,000.00. In ten years this would mean an expenditure of more: than three quarters of a million dollars. Though nearly everyone in this county believed in the principle of cooperation there was and is yet but little machinery through which cooperation can be successfully attained. Consider the problem of clearing the names of those assisted. None of the various agencies in this county had possession of adequate knowledge of the underprivileged in the county. If an agency wanted to make its contribution fit the general scheme to which agency should it go for information? No exchange existed and none of the agencies did any clearing. If real cooperation is developed clearing names is a necessary prerequisite. Now if a county welfare worker were employed it would be a relatively, inexpensive thing with a little clerical help for all of the agencies to clear through her office. Thus a standardized control source of information would gradually develop which would be very valuable to all of the agencies. Can a county which spends three-fourths of a million dollars in 10 years afford to spend that much money without doing any clearing? 4. The growing size of the relief burden. In one Stake studied the total expenditures for charity in 1915 was $1,739.06, by 1928 this had grown to $2,013.57.. In another county the 1915 total was $6,027.06, in 1925 it was $15,881.66. In this same area the county expenditure was $17,552.61 in 1915 and $30,269.22 in 1928. After making allowance for changes in the purchasing power of the dollar it is still obvious that the burden of relief has grown rapidly in normal times in these sections just as it has elsewhere in the nation. At the present time, in the fourth year of the depression 92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the national expenditures for relief have reached staggering figures and the end is not yet in sight. Cook County's recent decision to issue $40,000,000 of bonds to tide over the next six months suggests the magnitude of the problem which is still left after Federal Relief apportionments have been expended. 5. The tendency to stay on the roll, There appears to be a direct connection between the rapid increase in relief during the past two decades and the failure to employ trained help so that case methods could be employed. A typical case illustrates the problem. A new worthy person. Properly recommended applies for relief. An old client objects to being taken off the roll. In the absence of satisfactory information and in the face of insistent demanding voices the commissioners find it easier to reduce a few cases and to add another name rather than remove the old one. In many cases the amount given is too small to do much good. So the roll grows in length and the money expended increases in amount. Gradually a system develops in which it is a common thing after getting on the roll to remain on for life. Conclusion THESE studies thus strongly indicate the need of some trained paid help. It is possible that studies in other counties may show that volunteer service has been more successful in handling county relief. It is possible also that the Relief Societies would be willing to expand their efforts and their organization in order to do county work. But in the counties studied it does not appear likely that volunteer machinery can be expected to overcome the evils encountered. The importance of achieving coordination, of eliminating inequality and of attaining genuine cooperation is undoubtedly great enough to warrant not only the expenditure of considerable effort towards that end but also the spending of enough money to lay the groundwork for a satisfactory approach to this problem. The longer this is delayed, the larger will be the task and the more burdensome will it become. After all there is nothing quite so costly to the contributor, whether he be a taxpayer or a voluntary giver, as a wholesale increase in the number who feel that they need or have a right to help from others. Reverie By Magdalene C. Stephens Oh friendly muse of Memoryland, Kind guardian of past happiness, Thrice blest are we with hearts bereft Who walk thy sylvan glades, And find within thy confines fair The peace which love left hovering there. A Month of Anniversaries By Lucy Rose Middleton FEBRUARY is a month of anniversaries. It is especially significant to us Americans because of the birthdays of our most illustrious countrymen, George Washington and Abraham Lincoln. Throughout the United States homage is paid to these great men for their lives of service. As a nation we are singularly fortunate to have had men so surpassingly great to carry us through the most trying times of our history. We think of these two men not only as a soldier and a statesman, but as men of sublime character, whose lives have become enshrined in the hearts of every American. The Anniversaries may be observed in our homes by preparing southern and western dishes which belong to the period and locality of these men. We are probably more familiar with southern dishes than with those of the West. Southern cooking has long been distinctively set apart. Its methods and style are truly different. It is exemplified in the recipes below by the following: chicken a la Maryland, candied sweet potatoes, and corn cake or corn muffins. Indian Pudding is among the few dishes that are associated with frontier days of the west. Pork, cabbage, corn and onions were also extensively used. The idea may also be carried out in the way of cake decorations. The cherries tell the story, many times told and many times to be told again, of the boy who had the courage to tell the truth. Upright rails around the cake are symbolic of Lincoln, the rail-splitter. For foundation, there may be used any cake you like best, sponge, angel, pound or fruit. My suggestion would be a sunshine cake, to signify rejoicing. RECIPES FOR LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY Baked Pork Tenderloin with Fried Apple Rings Wipe meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper (allow 1 teaspoon of salt to each pound of meat.) Place fat side up, on rack in open roasting pan. Sear for 15 minutes in hot oven. Then reduce the temperature rapidly to slow or 300 degrees, and cook until tender. Thirty minutes to the pound is allowed. Gravy may be made from the fat in the pan. 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Core tart apple. Pare or not, as desired. -Cut in half-inch slices and fry (saute) in butter, bacon or sausage fat until tender but not broken. Turn once. Serve with pork tenderloin. Creamed Silverskinned Onions 3 cups small silverskinned onions. 1 cup thin cream. 3/4 teaspoon salt. Cook the onions in boiling salt water for 15 minutes. Drain, add cream, cook in double boiler until soft, adding salt the last ten minutes of cooking. Thicken slightly if desired. Combine shredded or chopped cabbage with drained, crushed pineapple. If desired, add chopped or broken nut meats or marshmallows cut in pieces. Moisten with cream dressing. Indian Pudding 5 cups scalded milk. 1/3 cup corn meal. 1/3 cup molasses. 1 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon ginger. Pour milk slowly on meal, cook in double boiler for 20 minutes, add molasses, salt and ginger; pour into buttered pudding dish, set in pan of hot water, and bake 2 hours in moderately slow oven (325F.) Serve with cream. If baked too rapidly, it will not whey. Ginger may be omitted. This pudding is the kind made by our grandmothers twice removed, who baked it for hours and hours then some more hours until it was most delectably curdled. RECIPES FOR WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY Chicken A La Maryland 2 young chickens, cut in pieces for serving. Salt and pepper. Flour. 1/3 cup melted butter. 1 cup chicken stock. 1 egg slightly beaten. Soft bread crumbs. 2 cups of white sauce made with cream. Sprinkle chicken with salt and pepper, dip in flour, then in egg diluted with 1 tablespoon water, then in bread crumbs. Place in well greased pan. Bake 35-60 minutes in hot oven, basting after 5 minutes with melted butter. Serve with white sauce. Candied Sweet Potatoes 6 boiled sweet potatoes. 1 cup brown sugar. 1/3 cup melted butter. Salt. Drain, peel, and cut potatoes in halves lengthwise. Arrange in buttered baking dish, sprinkling each layer with sugar. Pour over butter and sprinkle with salt. Bake 2 hours in slow oven (300 degrees.) Brown top in broiling oven.. Fig Corn Meal Muffins 1 egg. 1 cup cooking figs. 2 tablespoons sugar. 1/3 cup yellow corn meal. 1 teaspoon salt. 1 cup buttermilk. 1 1/2 cups of flour. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 1/3 teaspoon soda. 2 tablespoons melted shortening. Boil figs for ten minutes, drain and cut into small pieces. Beat egg, add sugar. Add alternately the sifted dry ingredient with the buttermilk. Add melted shortening. Mix well and fold in the figs. Pour into greased muffin pans, and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. Serve hot with butter, A MONTH OF ANNIVERSARIES 95 Sunshine Cake 11/2 cups sugar. 1/2 cup water. 1 cup pastry flour. 1/4 teaspoon salt. 6 eggs. 1 teaspoon cream of tartar. Boil the sugar and water together until the thread stage is reached. Or about 216 deg. Fah. Have ready the stiffly beaten egg whites, and pour over these in a fine and steady stream the hot syrup, beating all the time, as you do in making boiled frosting. Beat until cool, then add the egg yolks. Fold in carefully the dry ingredients which have been sifted together three times. Add any flavoring you like, and bake like angel cake in an ungreased tube pan almost an hour, gradually increasing the heat from 325-350 degrees. Invert the pan to cool the cake. Ice with any plain white icing. Upside-Down Cherry Cake In a frying pan, place 4 table-. Spoons of butter; let melt, and brush sides of the pan with it. Add 1/2 cup of light brown sugar, let melt, and spread evenly over the pan; then add two cups of canned cherries stoned and drained from their juice. Over this, pour cake batter. Bake at 350 degrees F. About 50 minutes. A frying pan of average depth and about 9 inches across requires the following amount of cake batter: 1/2 cup of butter. 1/4 cups of sugar. 21/2 cups of cake flour. 21/2 teaspoons of baking powder. 1/4 teaspoon salt. 1 cup of sweet skimmed milk. 4 egg whites. Cream butter and sugar well together. Add alternately the sifted dry ingredients with the milk. Lastly fold in the egg whites, beaten stiff, but not dry. When baked, turn out on a platter. Decorate with whipped cream, sweetened and pressed through a pastry tube, making ribbons diagonally across the cake. Serve warm, with maraschino cherry decoration. Mother Heart and Scouting By Weston N. Nordgren about the year 64 B. C., went forth to battle in defense of their country. "Now they never had fought," the historian tells us, "yet they did not fear death; and they did think more upon the liberty of their fathers than they did upon their lives; yea, they had been taught by their mothers, that if they did not doubt, God would deliver them." These young men, J should judge, were of Boy Scout age—in their teens; for Helaman says of them: "I had ever called them my sons, To thousand young men, for they 'were all of them very young." Their mothers had filled a Godgiven duty to their sons, and had instilled in them such faith in the Lord, such courage and determination that when the battle was over and Helaman went forth to find the dead, he was overjoyed; for "there had not one soul of them fallen to the earth; yea, and they had fought as if with the strength of God; yea, never were men known to have fought with such miraculous strength; and with such mighty power did they fall upon the Lamanites 96. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that they did frighten them; and for this cause did the Lamanites deliver themselves up as prisoners of war." Mothers of today are just as interested in the welfare of their boys in America, and in other nations of the world, as were the Nephite mothers centuries ago. They teach them the self-same principles of right—principles which make them manly, which develop their character and in time make them useful citizens of this great and peaceloving land. UT mothers cannot always take care of their sons; part of the time at least, Bobby and Jimmy are at school, rubbing elbows with other little men; and as they grow up, they join "clubs" and "gangs" which they may organize themselves, or which others may organize for them. Scouting was begun twenty-four years ago by an Englishman, Sir Robert S. S. Baden-Powell, who still wields a mighty influence upon the boys of the world. He is ripe in experience of war and peace and has tried to capitalize for good the instinct of boys to congregate and to form groups. In putting forth his opinion during the World Jamboree in England, when the rain poured and some of the Scouts were downhearted, he said in effect: "Any boy can be a Scout in fair weather." It is to conquer the hard things of life; to overcome obstacles and to build character that Scouting was originated. "A Scout finds fun in hiking into the woods! He tells North from South by the moss on the trees, or East from West by the shadows. "He can talk to a brother Scout across a river by signalling. He knows the principal trees and birds and animals that he meets; he knows which are poisonous weeds or reptiles; he can find his way by the stars as did the Indians and pioneers before him. "If matches are forgotten, he ~ laughs and proceeds to kindle fire by rubbing sticks together or by striking steel on flint. The fire once started, what good things he can cook out there in the open! "He keeps himself physically fit; he avoids poisons of alcohol or tobacco; he guards his tongue from loose speech or boasting or sacrilege. When he speaks of anyone, he tries to speak well of him. "His Scout 'good turns' to someone each day make him many friends—for the way to have friends is to first be one. His motto is "Be Prepared' and he thinks through in advance what he would -do in fire or storm. When someone is injured he is 'ready' to help him with his First Aid knowledge. "He always tries to be a useful citizen. He helps his community. "Another big thing a Scout enjoys is camping—there he finds fun in games or a swim-—finds new friends in woods and in other fellows—and there among the trees, or under God's silent stars, or by the campfire's ruddy embers, he dreams out his great TOMORROW." ONE of the finest oaths in the world, and which he subscribes to is the Scout Oath: "On my honor I will do my best— 1. To do my duty to God and my country, and to obey the Scout Law. 2. To help other people at all times. 3. To keep myself physically *Flandbook For Boys, page 8; published by The Boy Scouts of America. MOTHER HEART AND SCOUTING 97 strong, mentally awake, and morally straight." Any boy who lives up to the three points of this oath, will become a useful citizen of the Kingdom of God. The Word of Wisdom, given to the Church through Joseph Smith the Prophet, at Kirtland, Ohio, February 27, 1833, plays a large part in the lives of boys successful in Scouting. A Scout must so live that he can "run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint." He is able, through right diet, exercise, vigorous contact with the Great Out Doors, to "find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures" in the leaves of the trees, in the songs of birds, in the stars, and in his close, private communion with God. He is able to live in camp with his fellow Scouts, secure in the knowledge that he is fully prepared, physically, mentally, morally, and spiritually, to meet the problems of today and tackle the tasks of tomorrow. He is a citizen away from home, a "man among men;" and at home he is of service wherever he finds opportunity for a "good turn." RECENTLY I heard a little story that illustrates the power of the mother heart in connection with Scouting. A couple had been married for a long period of time, without being blessed with any children. At last a child came—a boy. And as the mother held him for the first time in her arms, she whispered to her husband: "Dearest, I want you to join the Boy Scouts, so that when this little lad of ours grows up, and gets twelve years old, you will be ready and qualified to lead Him into manhood." "All right, Darling," the husband responded enthusiastically, "I'll do it. And I'll advance one rank for each son you give me!" With that agreement, he started to work. He became a Boy Scout. He passed his first test. The thrill of "doing things" urged him on. He went ahead. Now he has two fine sons. He did not stop after passing his Second Class rank.. He climbed upward, passed his First 'Class test, became a Star Scout; then a Life Scout, gaining merit badges, increasing his knowledge, sharpening his interest in the Boy Scout movement and program. Stillon and up, until with twenty-one merit badges and much experience to his credit, he became a full-fledged Eagle Scout. He is going forward. He is keeping young, he is preparing himself for that day when his sons will be old enough to begin Scouting, and will look to him, as their mother looked to him, to lead them up the Eagle Scout trail to worthy manhood. W HEN the Salt Lake Council, Boy Scouts of America, held its first annual Boy Scout "Circus" at the South High School gymnasium. Parents were invited, and several hundred came; mothers taking just as much interest as fathers in this great game of Scouting which their sons put over. There again were two thousand young {men, eager, happy, strong and faithful, giving an example of what they had learned through the long winter meetings indors. Games of skill, speed and cooperation were thrown, one after the other, on the great floor of the arena—''skin the snake," first aid carry, uniform race, fire making songs, pyramid building, centipede rope race, wall scaling; and at intervals, clowning. 98 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The boys were prepared, and took to the contests like the proverbial ducks to water. Cheer after cheer came from the _ watching troops; roar after roar of applause came from parents and non-participating Scouts. A remarkable feature of the evening was the great number of officials present; men "high in the community," teachers, doctors, lawyers, journalists, farmers, some men who had lost their jobs—all rushing here and there, knowing what was needed, doing it. All were animated with the single idea of presenting to the parents a real show. And while wives and mothers and sweethearts looked on, those boys, old, middle-aged and young, played up to the mother heart. The mothers were proud of them. Who wouldn't be? WHETHER in camp, in schol, or at home, a boy takes his Scouting seriously. One of the most glorious and tnrilling stories illustrating this point, according to Channing Pollock, in a December issue of Boy's Life, is the following: "It's a story you probably know, about the twelve-year-old. Boy out West who was hurt in a street-car accident. The motorman was hurt, too, but not nearly as badly as the boy, who lost both his legs. When they were dragging the little fellow from under the car, he asked them not to bother about him until they had taken care of the motorman. "In the hospital, a nurse said to him: 'It was brave of you to think first of the motorman.' "The lad looked at her with surprise, and said: 'Why, I had to. You see, I'm a Boy Scout'." We are proud of that kind of Scouting spirit. "It isn't pleasant to die, but I think it was a lot more thrilling and romantic to die in that way than to be killed in a brawl." SCOUTING is living; it is the greatest boys' game ever invented or thought up. It is a game Dad and Mother can play with their sons. It is "a man's game cut to a boy's size," Latter-day Saint organizations sponsor the movement because it provides 'leadership, observance of the Word of Wisdom, builds clean bodies and healthy minds; gets the boy into the open—in summer camp under the direction of experts, close to nature, with the ability to cope with the elements, and to overcome obstacles in daily life, individually, or with a group; it gives him stamina, strength and endurance mentally, physically, morally and spiritually. Every boy should have the privilege of camping this summer. Mother—help your boy to have this opportunity. Send him forth as a knight to battle the evils and temptations of the world, with Scouting his armor; the Scout Oath his lance, and the Scout Law his shield. And when his week in camp is over, or when he returns at nightfall from his school work or other labor of the day, welcome him home; give him a "feast of honor" with Word of Wisdom foods. Cherish him and love him. Guard him with your mother heart, and aid him, through entrusting him to Scouting, to become the man of whom you can be proud. Like the two thousand young men led by the Nephite, Helaman, so our young men of today go forth, "taught by their mothers," and strengthened by actual experience in Boy Scout work, to face the morrow, with faith in their God and in their fellow men, Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon T seems but yesterday we heard Kris Kringle's tinkling bells Followed by the roar and din Of the. New Year entering in 'Mid Father Time's farewells, Now, Harlequin and Valentine appear With merry jest and song, 'Tis so, the world wags on. ME: FRANCES PERKINS, New York Industrial Commissioner, is being urged for a place in the cabinet of the new president. Mrs. Perkins is strongly opposed to child labor and says to continue it at this time is to sanction extending the depression into the lives of the next generation. INEZ HAYNES IRWIN, first woman president of the Authors' League of America, has been chosen by the National Council of Women to prepare and edit the book on the achievements of women for the Century of Progress Exposition at Chicago. HE state of Idaho has unveiled a monument honoring the women pioneers who first entered Boise valley, 1811, with the Wilson-PriceHunt expedition. RS. OLIVIA DEHN is the winner of the Scribner prize of $250 for the cover design for the forthcoming George Washington Memorial edition of Gould's History of Masonry. Mrs. Dehn is a student of the Chicago Art Institute. ADY AGNES M. GIBBS has turned from literature to science and recently was awarded a B. S. Degree by Kings College, London University. ELEN WILLS MOODY, tennis champion, is very happy to relate her interesting game with King Gustavus of Sweden, 75 years old. She says he plays a wonderful game and is the world's champion for his age. HE Woman's party gained a long sought victory during this congress when President Hoover signed the bill giving to women equality with men in eligibility for positions in federal service. MILDRID DIDRICKSON, famed athlete, won her finest game in life so far when the Amateur Athletic Union finally decided not to disbar her from membership because of an unauthorized advertisement, MRS. SAMUEL HALPIN, president of the Woman's Zionist organizafion is sponsoring an intensive educational campaign on Zionism among women. MRS. INA M. HARPER, of New York and San Francisco, is said to be the owner of the Island Palmito del Verde, 75,000 acres in extent, lying in the Pacific off the coast of Mexico. She is virtually the Empress of this rich and populous island. ELLEN TERRY'S MEMOIRS, by Edith Craig and a new biography of George Eliot by Emilie and Georgus Romieu both promise interesting studies for this winter. 100 PRINCESS DER LING has a new book of short stories, "Golden Phoenix," and is completing "Venerable Wisdom," a motion picture contrasting modern and old China. MARY LOUISE MAKIR in her new novel, '""The Long Knives Walked," has brought the mind back to the romantic age of Indian lore and now critics are recalling the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE beautiful story, Ramona, by Helen Hunt Jackson and placing it as an authentic romance of Indian life. MRS. MINNIE D. CRAIG has been elected president of the House of Representatives in the legislative assembly of North Dakota. This is the first time in the history of the United States this honor has been bestowed upon a woman. Going Home to Mother By Balborg Wheelwright AM the happy possessor of a grand-daughter, four years old, who is very fond of stories. She prefers to have them told to her, but failing that, she will tell them herself. One of her stories, a favorite with her, begins: "Once 'ere was a li'l boy, an him went out on a bear's tail." I suppose what the little boy really went out on was the bear's trail. Her stories invariably end with, “An him went home to him's muvver." Bears, lions, tigers, even elephants pass through the most agitating and unusual adventures. They are exciting enough to make your hair stand on end, but at last they all go home to their "muvvers" or mothers. Is not this a more satisfactory conclusion than that of the old fairy tale—''And they married and lived happy ever after?' What rest after the storm, how soul restoring! How human! "An him went home to his muvver"'—an astonishing bit of wisdom to be given out by a small person of three or four. And does it not embody a deep truth which has come down to us from the beginning of time? Preserved in the old myths one remembers the god, Antheaus, for instance, whose strength was always renewed every time he touched his mother, Terra, the earth. But my granddaughter has invented a far more wonderful story than that one. One of her oft-repeated adventures is when her dolly eats too much candy and gets very sick "an "then her went home to her muvver." Did not the prodigal son go home to his parent? Has not her little tongue expressed a deep felt need' Just what is meant by going home to one's mother in this larger sense is difficult to define, yet it is a universal experience. Have we not all felt at some time, often following a period of confusion and stress of circumstances, that deep sense of finding ourselves where we belonged? — a sense of restfulness, of homecoming, and general well being? It is a shifting of the spirit from the trivial and non-essential into deeper and simpler channels. It is a pause when, in the midst of this mad rush, one gets a sudden GOING HOME TO MOTHER enlarging glimpse of truth and of eternity. I have been home to my mother very many times and by many different paths. Sometimes it was by way of a book. The Bible, with the bookmark where she left off the reading for the last time, the finding of which opened the doors of my soul anew to memories of long ago. 'Sometimes it has been by way of familiar songs which I knew by heart in my childhood. Every spring there was a gathering of old friends at our house, when mother's birthday would come around. Flowers would be brought to her the first thing in the morning by her grandsons, while she was still in her bed. Flowers and friends came all day long. Before the day was over, much eating, music, and reminiscences would the enjoyed until her eyes would 'sparkle as they did in her youth. The tears would trickle down her furrowed cheeks in gratitude. This was a real being home with mother. But best of all, every Spring there is a going home to my mother. When May swings into her perfumed place among the months, she finds me returning to a well loved little corner of the world. There I am faced by the wide sweep of mountains. I wander up and down the long familiar paths and greet old friends of my youth. These friends are all so kind and true. All the sordid, trivial things of life melt away in this genial atmosphere of the out-of-doors, while the spirit takes up the essence of goodness of the permanent things in life and knits them into its being. All the horrid confusion of life is made tranquil and for a while the soul kneels down in obedience to the spirit which says, "Be still and know that all is well for I am thy God and 101 will still give thee aid." These are heaven sent periods, when the unimportant things of life are swept away in a great inrushing of eternity. Out of the past I recall one such glorified moment. It comes back to me in fragmentary memories and yet the essentials are all there. I was crossing the King's Square in Copenhagen, going toward the harbor, where lay the ship on which I was to leave in a few moments. I had kissed my mother goodbye at the door while I still had the courage to do so without weeping. I was leaving the old world behind, with all that it held dear to me. I was turning my face westward in obedience to a call that had come to me while still a child. That glorified moment for which I had fought and struggled had arrived. I was still with my mother. Mine was still the power to choose between the flesh and the spirit. It was a moment of immense importance. I could not falter now, only a coward ever turns to look back. I swung myself up the gang plank amidst the waving of handkerchiefs and the shouting of numerous schoolmates, who were bidding me goodbye. I remember I stood still, holding to the railing as the boat' glided out into the wide, soft darkness. A sweet, tear-stained face came into view, it was that of my mother. The heat and confusion almost overcame me. I remember whispering through the dark and the stillness, childishly enough, no doubt, "Oh God, be with us, that we may meet again in that land out West, as Thou hast promised those who are faithful." Through the whispering of the spirit came complete consolation to my soul with the assurance that I had done God's will. 102 I found my way down a deep narrow stair-way into the bottom of the boat where the emigrants' bunks were kept. The air was stifling, all was confusion and noise. Littlle children were crying while mothers were preparing their scanty meals. Now all was changed, I had fled from my mother and I was fleeing farther and farther away. As I looked into the dark, bitter reality returned sordid and uncertain. Yet, this was no time for regrets. Anyway, much of the best in life blooms out of its apparently sordid necessities, this was only a stepping stone to bigger and better things. It was a return, a spiritual revaluation, a contrast of temporal things in the light of things eternal. Two weeks of seasickness coupled with an intense longing for my mother had reduced me to a living skeleton. I found myself clinging to the railing of the ship once more as she glided past the statue of Liberty in New York harbor. For the first time I saw my new mother, who was to shelter me in the land of my new birth. Bless her, she was wonderful to behold, so big, so glorious. I must have made a rather pitiful looking picture as I stepped off the boat in New York. I had two long yellow braids down my back. I held a cage with a canary bird in one hand, in the other I held a wicker basket in which were all of my belongings. The four years that followed were years of hard work and intense adjustments to a new language, a new people, and strange customs. One day the postman brought a letter which contained the good news that I would again be given the privilege of being with my mother. She was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE coming to America within a few days. Overcome with joy, I could hardly sense what I was doing. The day finally arrived. I was there at the station to meet her. I saw her as the train pulled in. I ran toward her and almost fell. I hardly knew her, she seemed so changed. She didn't know me for I had changed into a young woman. Once more I was home with my mother, and a real homecoming it was, an evaluation of spirit. There comes a time for all of us when we are met by the need of such a rebirth. The crucial need of the world at the present moment after two years of terrible situations when the comforts of prosperity have been dashed to pieces, is a need of spiritual evaluation. Its effect upon all of us has been that which an overwhelming catastrophy only can leave. We ask ourselves as we stand appalled, "How may we meet this situation of tragedies and depression?" I answer in all seriousness and with a deep conviction, that it can be done only by going home to our mother. Only those can withstand the awful present who have the ability to enter into spiritual sanctuaries. Only the things of the spirit can save us. Health, wealth, prosperity and security, where are they now? Ask Wall Street and the bankers of our nation. Ask half of mankind. Still the spirit whispers, "Be still and know that all is well, for-I am thy God and will still give thee aid." Oh, my little grand-daughter, this is the real going home to one's mother. I can ask no more golden talisman for you to hold fast through all the years to come and on into eternity than this magic gift of the spiritual return. Notes to the Field Church-Wide Exhibition HE General Board of Relief Society extends a most hearty invitation to all stakes to participate in a great church wide exhibition; the exhibition to consist of the work done or taught at the Work and Business Meeting. This exhibition will be held during the 1933 April Conference. We hope that all stakes will respond to this invitation, and help to make this display an outstanding event. Each stake will be limited to ten articles. To 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not later than four days before the opening of the Relief Society Conference in April, 1933. Each article is to be labeled with the name of the stake and the value of the article, the label to be sewed or pasted on securely, where it can be plainly seen. The General Board will be responsible for the care of the articles after they receive them, also for their safe return. Articles typical of the community are most desirable. For example, one stake has made Indian baskets and pottery, which are typical of their locality. Articles do not necessarily need to be beautiful, but may be just useful and interesting. For example, one ward makes good soap, another cards wool, another remodels clothing. These times have developed the ingenuity of our women in many lines, and numerous useful articles have been made for almost nothing, and we should like to have these things displayed, as well as the beautiful quilts, rugs, etc., and other art work. Address all packages to: The National Woman's Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Be sure they will arrive on or before March 27, 1933, four days before the opening of the Relief Society General Conference, in April, 1933. We are very desirous that every stake shall be represented, and it will be a great disappointment to us if your stake is absent. Please notify the General Secretary by March 15, 1933, that you will participate. To the Choristers and Organists "All one's life is music if one touches the notes rightly and in time." IN New York some ten years ago a Hymn Society was formed by a number of hymn writers, editors, and organists who were interested in furthering hymn singing and improving the quality of hymns. They were anxious to know just what place a good hymn had in the education and character training of youth. Their conclusion was that a hymn expresses the worshiper's attitude toward God, and God's purposes in directing His children. In a recent issue of the Improvement Era, Prof. Edward P. Kimball makes this comment: "The Lord has declared to Latter-day Saints that the songs of the righteous are a prayer unto Him, and that He will answer them with blessings on their 104 heads. If our song is to be a prayer it must be first of all spoken with full realization of what the poem says: Song is merely glorified speech, and speaking and understanding are the first requisites in singing, and especially in singing that is done in the service of God." If our choristers and organists will come to realize the truth of Prof. Kimball's comment they will not have much difficulty in teaching new hymns and improving the quality of the old ones. Choristers and organists, as a group be determined to further better "hymn singing in our organization." In the year 1933, "Let us with voices united adore Him," by learning and singing new and appropriate hymns. It is suggested that the choristers and organists teach the hymn "Nay Speak No II!" (No. 88 in Latter-day Saint Hymns, No. 75 in "Relief Society Song Book") so that it can be sung as a congregational song at our conference in April. It is one of the favorite hymns of our president, Louise Y. Robison. Choristers and Organists, give it the proper recognition—learn the words and the melody so that the combined effort will be satisfactory to our beloved president. THE Councillor," a Bulletin of the National Council of Women of the United States, in reporting the Activities of Member-Presidents says regarding the activities of the Presidents of the Relief Society and Mutual Improvement Associations: "Between August 1 and November 1, Mrs. Ruth May Fox, President of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and 27 of her board members made 290 visits to membership units throughout the west, holding leadership conventions at which they contacted approximately 13,000 officers and leaders. "Members of the board of directors of the National Woman's Relief Society, 23 in number, made 104 speeches about the National Council projects in connection with A Century of Progress during the summer and fall, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, the president, speaking on that subject in Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona and Utah." Relief Society Song Contest THE General Board is to conduct. A contest for a Relief Society song. It is to be dignified, challenging, and inspiring. The poem shall not exceed three stanzas and a chorus. The prize offered is $50.00 for the words and the music, or $25.00 for the most appropriate words for a song. The General Board reserves the right to accept or reject any poem or song submitted. The contest closes June 15, 1933. RULES OF THE CONTEST 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saints. 2. Only one poem or song may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Where words and music are submitted, both must be done clearly and precisely. 4, The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature, or other identifying marks. 5. Only one side of the paper should be used. 6. Each poem, or song, must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the con- NOTES TO testant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used. 7. Statement should accompany the poem that it is entered in the contest. 8. The contestant guarantees the poem or song submitted to be his or her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor THE FIELD 105 submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 9. The judges shall consist of the music committee, one professional musician, and one of the executive board. 10. The poems or songs must be submitted. Not later than June 15, 1933. 11. All entries should be addressed to: The Relief Society Song Contest Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Notes from the Field Oneida Stake. "THE District Demonstration sent by the Cooperative Extension Work in Home Economics, under the direction of the University of Idaho, has been working in connection with the Oneida Relief Society during the year 1932. Such subjects as Christmas gift suggestions, nutrition and food for school children, planning school lunches, food supply, the preservation of foods and methods in the storage of vegetables were covered very thoroughly. A useful course was given in the remodeling of clothing. These meetings have been largely attended, and the women in the stake have been greatly benefited. Health work has not been neglected. The stake Relief Society cooperated with the Health Association and the doctors in holding seven clinics for children between the ages of three to nine. The doctors and dentists donated their services. Relief Society Conferences have been held in all of the wards. Snowflake Stake. SISTER LULU J. SMITH of Snowflake stake, writes: "The death angel visited the town of Woodruff, Snowflake stake, Arizona, early in the year 1932, and took with him one of our most beloved and brilliant women, Addie S. Pace. She lived but a short span as far as years are concerned, but few have lived a life so full. Her greatest accomplishment was that of motherhood. She was an invalid many years, but still believed in fulfilling God's commandment. Ten beautiful children called her mother. Mrs. Pace was a leader in both church and civic activities. At the time of her passing she was literary class leader in the Snowflake stake Relief Society. Her interest in education made her active in ParentTeachers' work. She was president of the Navajo County Council of Parents and Teachers. She was a poet and writer of rare ability. 'The Mormon Pageant' presented at the dedication of the Grand Canyon Bridge, was a product from her pen. Her beautiful poem 'Prospective Mother,' now dedicated to the use of the Snowflake stake Relief Society, will live on and on. With all of her charming characteristics she was so humanly human, so artistically humorous. Her association with us has been most enlight- 106 ening and pleasant. The ideals for which she was striving will better equip her for the great mission to which she is now called. May her soul inspiring teachings and her sweet influence still abide with us to enable us to live as she lived— the abundant life." Boise Stake. UNDER the direction of Myrtle A. Arthur, the Boise stake Relief Society held an exhibit in connection with the convention held September 11, 1932. This took the form of a joint flower show and exhibition of quilts made of Relief Society colors, blue and gold. Much enthusiasm was created. The annual convention of the Class Leaders of Boise Stake was held Saturday, October 23, 1932. Sister Myrtle A. Arthur, stake leader of the Work and Business department, gave an inspiring talk on "The Need of Encouraging the Young Married Women to Join the Relief Society," and a plan was presented for a new department to be called the Young Married Women's Department, introduced in the Work and Business meeting. A talk on "Preparation and Methods of Giving Lessons" was given by President Mary C. Martineau, in which she urged the class leaders to thoroughly study and prepare outlines that would interest all the members of their classes. The concluding lecture on "Adult Education," and the privileges our sisters have of building a well rounded personality through the courses of study followed by the Relief Society was given by Brother J. M. Isaacson, of the High Council. The meeting adjourned at 2 o'clock, and at 2:30 Sister Lilas Worthington, Stake Welfare worker, conducted a class for Ward Presidents and Welfare Workers, in which she took up the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE matter of conservation of food, and Sister Urania B. Miller, stake teacher topic leader, held a training class for teacher topic leaders. Bear Lake Stake. OUR lesson work has been exceptionally well taken care of, and our class leaders are women who have a desire to improve and to place the different lines of work before our sisters in such a manner that each one attending can feel fully repaid. We all know that in our Relief Society work we can gain knowledge and increase our understanding in a number of very interesting subjects. One of our projects is health work, and securing a school nurse. Her work is to raise the standard of our school children by personal contact with teachers, parents and children. Our Christmas Seal Sales and the support that we get from our County Commissioners, makes it possible for us to have our nurse in our county. We have received many favorable reports of the work accomplished by her last year.. Our Social Service work is being supervised by Sister Longhurst, who took the course in Salt Lake City, a year ago. She has the ability to accomplish whatever she undertakes, and is filled with a desire to be of benefit to those in need of understanding assistance. This work is new in our community, but it is a fact that every county needs these able, well trained workers. They help to solve the problems in many different phases found in the cases needing assistance or adjustment. A trained worker in these cases goes to the bottom of a case, tries to learn the why and the where and the how of a case when working it out, and helps clients to retain home-life on a higher standard. NOTES FROM THE FIELD "The woman's camp was held in July, 1932, at Fish Haven. Our former camps have taken in women from four south-eastern counties. Last year three more counties were added to the group. One of the most delightful programs ever given was put over. Miss Hepworth and the County Committee are to be congratulated on the success of the camp. Our slogan is 'A bigger and better camp each year.' Our only regret is that more of our Bear Lake women could not attend. We extend an invitation to all women and men interested in the work to attend. This camp comes to us through the University of Idaho. The extension workers bring to the women who attend, a real three days of profitable enjoyment. Last year 521 women attended. Among the speakers were Mr. Chenworth and Dr. Halverson from the University of Idaho; Brother Melvin J. Ballard and Sister Elise B. Alder, and our own President Roy A. Welker, were among the speakers. The Neilson trio from the S. B. Of U. I., and local talent assisting, was very much appreciated. "Another project that we have tried to work out during the summer months is a program. Of art needlework and decorations of different kinds to be used as outlined in our Work and Business Meetings. In the summer we had a flower show and art exhibit. In the call made by the General Board for one article of clothing to be given by each member, a very good response was made." 107 Garfield Stake. THE Garfield Stake has had a profitable and active year. The secretary writes: "Each ward in the stake held appropriate exercises in commemoration of the 17th of March. Two stake teachers' conventions were held, as follows: Escalante, June 18, 1932, and Junction, June 25, 1932. A short social was given after each meeting. A Genealogical pageant, 'The Hearts of the Children,' with 40 characters, was presented by the two Escalante wards for the stake Relief Society under the direction of Sister Ruby T. Osborne, and presented twice at Escalante and once at Junction. It is felt throughout the stake that much good was accomplished through the presentation of this pageant. "Pennants for 100% teaching have been given every three months to wards earning them. This activity has increased the amount of teaching done in the stake very materially. "Every ward has participated in the activity of collecting articles of clothing, resulting in much help to the needy. "All Union Meetings have been held as scheduled, and all class work done. Board meetings have been held on an average of once a month. Many difficulties have to be overcome in doing Relief Society work in this stake because of the long distances to travel to get to meetings, but officers and members have the right spirit to overcome them and so we all feel well in the work and rejoice that we belong to the National Woman's Relief Society." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS, AMY BROWN LYMAN MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emma A. Empe Miss Sarah M, McLelland Mrs, Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Editor Mary Connelly KIMBALL Manager Louise Y. ROBISON Assistant Manager Amy Brown LYMAN Vol. XX FEBRUARY, 1933 No. 2 Sincerity THE second month in the year brings a galaxy of great men to our attention because their birthdays come in February. As we dwell upon their virtues and focus our minds upon their achievements, we realize that they all have one trait in common, namely sincerity. Be the man a great statesman, poet, scientist or artist, if his work is to shine resplendent through the ages it must be sincere. Story after story could be told of President Lincoln showing his honesty of purpose, his simplicity of soul, and his realization that the important thing was for him to do the best he knew how, no matter how he was criticized or misunderstood. At one time he was speaking of an attack made on him regarding the conduct of the war for a certain alleged blunder or something worse in the southwest. The matter involved being one which came directly under the observation of the officer to whom he was talking and who possessed official evidence completely upsetting all the conclusions of the commander. "Might it not be well for me," asked the officer, "to set this matter right in a letter to some paper stating the facts as they transpired?" "Oh, no," replied the President, "at least not now. If I were to try to answer all the attacks made on me this shop might as well be closed to any other business. I do the very best I know how, the very best I can and I mean to keep doing so until the end. If the end bring me out all right, what is said against me won't amount to anything. If the end bring me out wrong, ten angels swearing I was right would make no difference," EDITORIAL 109 Council of Women Program THE National Council of Women are busy planning their program for the Century of Progress Exposition. An advisory group on November 30th expressed great enthusiasm for the proposed program for Chicago and after much discussion decided that there shall be two major topics for consideration: the first "How to Obtain a Minimum of Security for Every Individual" and the second: "How to Insure Each Individual Maximum Opportunity for SelfDevelopment." "The committee recommends a series of roundtables, conducted by experts, for the discussion of such pertinent subjects as unemployment, housing, the regulation of production and distribution, the stagger wage plan, the banking and credit structure, and various phases of education, including vocational training and guidance and the right use of leisure. Findings of these roundtables will be brought in and made a part of the general discussion at the congress." "The challenging purpose of the organization in attempting such a program was thus defined by Miss Phillips at the close of the meeting: "We hope to set larger objectives for all women so that they may use the power they have acquired through suffrage, personal rights, education and platform privileges in helping to solve the problems of the machine age. In short, we want to draw economics, politics and culture, too long separated, into a plan which will secure for each richer opportunities and for our country and citizens greater contentment and more effective service. Our aim is to rouse women to a sense of their political and social responsibilities." The International Congress of Women which convenes July 16- 27th will have their program center about "Our Common Cause—Civilization." Experts from many countries will be called to discuss current political and social trends and to determine the part women's organizations can play in furthering social and economic progress. The chairman of the exhibit says: "We shall tell the story of the work of our member organizations along educational, civic, philanthropic and other lines, not in conventional fashion with dry statistics, but with colorful exhibits suggesting action. It is a challenging task to attempt to portray the splendid contribution women's organizations have made to present-day social progress, but we believe we shall find a medium to do it in some striking and original way. The Nation Mourns CALVIN COOLIDGE, the former President of the United States, died in his home January 5, 1933. A Nation, appreciative of the high service he rendered, sorrows at his passing. His regime was marked by the careful research he made in matters that came to the fore during his administration. He thought things through and then arrived at a clear decision. His life was a sermon to his countrymen. He was sincere, retiring, true to his trust. His devoted wife desired that his 110 funeral should be as he would have it, void of ostentation and show. The young clergyman, Albert J. Penner, offered these beautiful prayers at the services: "Almighty God, our Heavenly Father, at this moment a whole nation stricken with grief, bows before Thee. We are made to realize again the frailty and transitoriness of our life here upon earth, and our constant need of Thee, who art the eternal Rock of Ages. We thank Thee, O God, that we can cling to Thee, and that amid all the change and decay which all around we see, Thou never changest. "It is not alone a grief stricken nation which bows before Thee, it is a thankful nation, as well. We thank Thee for the life of him whose death we now mourn. We thank Thee for what his life has meant to the country and the world. We thank Thee for the exemplary devotion which he showed in the discharge of all his public duties. We thank Thee for the faithfulness with which he served his town. "We thank Thee for the measure of dedication which he brought to the service of the commonwealth. And, above all, do we bless Thee for the consecration with which he served his country in the highest office within the gift of the people. He kept the faith which the people placed in him. "May we not begrudge him, whose loss we so deeply mourn, the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE rest with Thee which he has so richly deserved, knowing that by Thy mercy and grace he finished his course, having kept the faith." "Almighty God, grant us Thy light to shine through the shadows of this hour. Comfort the hearts that are heavy with sorrow, and have compassion upon our weakness. Give us the vision of the large life beyond. * * * We know he is not dead—for with Thee there is no death. * * * And now we pray that Thou wouldst make his memory to be a bright and shining light upon the untried way that we still must walk, and upon the unknown path that our nation still has to go. May we share his devotion, his consecration and his ardent faith in the future, a faith that was rooted and grounded in a profound faith in Thee." Mrs. Coolidge, who has won the admiration and love of her countrymen as did her distinguished husband, has ever set an example of wifely and maternal devotion and helpfulness. She has been a radiating power and an ever present loveliness in his life. She set an example of control at the funeral that was most praiseworthy. The press records that she entered the church, where 27 years before she and Calvin Coolidge had plighted their troth, with her head held high, elasticity in her step and a smile about her lips. She had led a devout life and her faith sustained her in parting from her life's companion.. A Beautiful Prayer EVERY morning Grace Morrison Poole, President of the General Federation of Women's Clubs offers this beautiful prayer, "Help me dear God to make the most of the many opportunities for service that will be mine today." EDITORIAL 111 "Mother Heart of Gold" THEODORE E, CURTIS has just published a volume of beautiful poems and tributes to "Mother" entitled "Mother Heart of Gold." The paper is very fine, the print clear, the illustrations good. The volume also contains lovely tributes to "Mother" from President Heber J. Grant, President Joseph F. Smith, Elders John A. Widtsoe, Orson F. Whitney, Melvin J. Ballard, Reed Smoot, James E. Talmage and David O. McKay. President Ivins pronounces the book "A gem." Dr. Talmage wrote to the author, "Every reader of your inspired lines is better for having read." Orson F. Whitney said, "Your poems are beautiful, you are a true poet." This volume would make a lovely gift for mothers on "Mother's Day." "Echoes" ANNA JOHNSON, long known because of her efficient labors in the Beehive Work has just issued a volume of poems called "Echoes." The book is divided into sections, entitled Philosophy, Songs of the Sea, Nature's Loveliness, A Bit of Nonsense Now and Then Memories and Fancies, and Meditation. We are surprised at the variety of thought which has come from Miss Johnson's pen. One may open the volume where she will and get an uplifting thought or a bit of humor. Many of the poems will appeal to children. Important Announcements WE call the attention of our readers to two announcements on page 103 of this issue. We hope there will be widespread interest in the exhibition of handwork. We are sure the display will be a source of pleasure and profit to all who see what is being accomplished in the stakes of the Church in this department of our work. Every stake should begin immediately to prepare the exhibit that is to be sent to represent their handwork. We all feel the need of a Relief Society song that shall be worthy of our great organization and that shall inspire us when we sing it. We hope our poets and musicians will send in some outstanding songs. Some Pertinent Questions Does the temperature rise or fall when I enter the room? Do I poison the atmosphere with my whining? Am I given to fault finding? Am I pessimistic? Am I harsh in my judgment? Am I just? Do I talk too much? Do I talk too loud? Do I spend my time profitably? Am I fussy? Am I selfish? Am I lazy? Am I untidy? Am I my worst at home? Am I dependable? Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in April) Doctrine and Covenants ORGANIZATION OF THE CHURCH 1. A Period of Security. While at the Whitmer home at Fayette, the Prophet enjoyed a period of security and freedom from outside annoyance, scarcely equalled at any other time in his life. The Whitmer family was large and highly respected throughout the community in which they lived. The fact that the Prophet was: welcomed at their home did much to create a friendly feeling toward him by the people of Fayette and adjacent parts of the entire country. Indeed, because of this, many of the people invited him to come to their homes and instruct them. 2. Early Baptisms. Soon after the Book of Mormon was translated and published, the Prophet naturally turned to the matter of effecting an organization of the individuals already converted. It will be remembered that nearly a year earlier, May 15, 1829, Joseph and Oliver were baptized at Harmony, Pennsylvania. A little later Samuel H. Smith was baptized at the same place. In June of that year, Hyrum Smith, David Whitmer, and Peter Whitmer, Jr. Were baptized in Seneca Lake, not far from the Whitmer home. Considerable interest has centered in the question as to the number who had been baptized up to the time of the organization of the Church, April 6, 1830. David Whitmer places the number at seventy-five; others at thirty, thirty-five, and forty. Elder B. H. Roberts, however, has computed that the number probably did not exceed nine. (See Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. 1, pp. 195, 196.) 3. A Young Men's Organization. Another matter of widespread interest is that nearly all of those who early joined the Church were young people. At the time of the organization, Joseph Smith was only twenty-five; Oliver Cowdery, twenty-four; David Whitmer, twentyfive; Hyrum Smith, thirty; William H. Smith, twenty-two; Peter Whitmer, Jr., twenty-one; Brigham Young, twenty-nine; Heber C. Kimball, twenty-nine; Parley P. Pratt, twenty-three; and Orson Pratt, nineteen. It appears that the New Dispensation was especially attractive to the zeal and enthusiasm of young men. 4, Preliminary Instruction. As early as June of 1829, the word of the Lord came to Joseph Smith in the Whitmer home at Fayette, outlining the procedure that should be followed when the Church was to be organized. Here are the Prophet's words: "We had not long been engaged in solemn and fervent prayer, when the word of the Lord came to us in the chamber, commanding us that I should ordain Oliver Cowdery to be an Elder in the Church of Jesus Christ; and that he should ordain me to the same office; and then to ordain others, as it should be made LESSON DEPARTMENT known unto us from time to time. We were, however, commanded to defer this our ordination until such time as it should be practicable to have our brethren, who had been and who should be baptized, assembled together, when we must have their sanction to our thus proceeding to ordain each other, and have them decide by vote whether they were willing to accept us as spiritual teachers or not; when also we were commanded to bless bread and break it with them, and to take wine, bless it, and drink it with them; afterward proceed to ordain each other according to commandment; then call out such men as the Spirit should dictate, and ordain them; and then attend to the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, upon all those whom we had previously baptized, doing all things in the name of the Lord." (History of the Church, Vol. 1, pp. 60, 61.) The Prophet declares that thereafter the Lord continued to give him instruction from time to time concerning these new duties which now devolved upon him. 5. A Comprehensive Revelation. A few days before the Church was founded, the Prophet received a remarkably inclusive statement from the Lord relating to Church doctrines, organization, and management. Students are advised to read the revelation (Section 20) with care. Space prevent more than an enumeration of the principal topics therein treated as follows: 1. Early history of the Church. 2. The Book of Mormon. 3. The existence of God. 4. Creation of Man in the image of God. 5. The Atonement of Christ. 6. Universality of Salvation. The limitations of present, 113 7. Trinity of the Godhead. 8. Justification through grace of God. 9. Proper subjects for baptism. 10. Duties of the elders, priests, teachers, and deacons. 11. Duties of the members. 12. Manner of baptism. 13. Blessing on the bread. 14. Blessing on the wine*. 15. Conferences. 16. Membership records. The 6. Organization of the Church. Thus instructed, and in compliance with Divine command, Joseph met with a number of his associates at the Whitmer home in Fayette, New York, April 6, 1830, and six of those who had been baptized proceeded to organize the Church. The names of the six who participated in the organization are: Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, Hyrum Smith, Peter Whitmer, Jr., and Samuel H. Smith. Following is the Prophet's own account of the procedure: "Having opened the meeting by solemn prayer to our Heavenly Father, we proceeded, according to previous commandment, to call on our brethren to know whether they accepted us as their teachers in the things of the Kingdom of God, and whether they were satisfied that we should proceed and be organized as a Church according to said commandment which we had received. To these several propositions they consented by unanimous vote. I then laid my hands on Oliver Cowdery and ordained him an Elder of the 'Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints'; after which he ordained me also to the office of an Elder of said Church. We then took *(See Section 27:2-4.) 114 bread, blessed it, and brake it with them. Also wine, blessed it, and drank it with them. We then laid our hands on each individual member of the Church present, that they might receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and be confirmed members of the Church of Christ. The Holy Ghost was poured out upon us to a very great degree—some prophesied, whilst we all praised the Lord, and rejoiced exceedingly." (History of the Church, Vol. 1, pp. 77, 78.) 7. Before the group disassembled, a revelation was received directing that a record be kept and that in it Joseph should be designated as "a seer, a translator, a prophet, an apostle of Jesus Christ, an elder of the Church through the will of God the Father." (Doctrine and Covenants, 21:1.) The Lord then commanded that the Church give heed unto his words, adding that his counsel should be received as if it came from the mouth of God, for he was now appointed as leader of Zion in the last days. 8. Joseph states that before the assembly was adjourned others of the brethren were ordained to different offices in the Priesthood. Several of those who attended the meeting became converted and shortly thereafter were received by baptism, among whom were Joseph's own father and mother. Martin Harris was baptized "about the same time." 9. Bishop of the Church, On the fourth day of February, 1831, shortly after the Prophet's first arrival in Kirtland, Edward Partridge was called by revelation to leave his merchandising business and become a bishop in the Church, to which office he was required to devote his entire time. (Ibid. 41:9.) 10. Organization of the First RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Presidency. Two years later, March 18, 1833, the First Presidency of the Church was organized, with Joseph Smith, president, and Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams, counselors. This action was in keeping with a revelation received ten days earlier, in which the Lord said to the Prophet 'And again, verily I say unto thy brethren, Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams, their sins are forgiven them also, and they are accounted as equal with thee in holding the keys of this last kingdom." (Ibid. 90:6.) Indeed a year earlier Frederick G. Williams had been called by revelation to this position. (Ibid. 81:1, 2.) Of the organization the Prophet says: "Accordingly I laid my hands on Brothers Sidney and Frederick, and ordained them to take part with me in holding the keys of this last kingdom, and to assist in the Presidency of the High Priesthood, as my counselors." On the fifth of December, 1834, Oliver Cowdery, second elder of the Church (Ibid. 20:3, 4), was ordained by the Prophet as assistant-president "to officiate in the absence of the President according to his rank and appointment, viz: President Cowdery, first; President Rigdon, second; and President Williams, third, as they are severally called." 11. The First High Council. Meantime, February 17, 1834, the. First High Council of the Church was organized at Kirtland, Ohio. With the following members: Joseph Smith, Sr., John Smith, Joseph Coe, John Johnson, Martin: Harris, John S. Carter, Jared Carter, Oliver Cowdery, Samuel H. Smith, Orson Hyde, Sylvester Smith, and Luke S. Johnson. 12. Patriarch to the Church. "The first patriarch to the Church in LESSON DEPARTMENT the New Dispensation was Joseph Smith, Sen., father of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Jun. He was ordained to that office by Joseph Smith, Jun., Oliver Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon, Frederick G. Williams, who at the time were the presidency of the Melchizedek priesthood on the 18th of December, 1834, at Kirtland, Ohio." (Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. 1, p. 387.) 13. Calling of the Twelve. In 1834, Zion's Camp made its memorable and trying march from Kirtland to western Missouri. Measured by its immediate results, some have thought that the trek was largely unsuccessful, at least in its efforts to reinstate the suffering saints on their property in Jackson County from which they had been ruthlessly driven. But viewed in the light of a preparatory training for more important responsibilities, the "Camp's" journey of a thousand miles proved to be of inestimable value to those who did not falter, for, as the Prophet later explained, "those who went to Zion with a determination to lay down their lives, if necessary, should be ordained to the ministry, and go forth to prune the vineyard for the last time." 14, The members of Zion's Camp were summoned to a special meeting held at Kirtland, Ohio, February 14, 1835, at which time it was announced by the Prophet that the meeting was called by command of God for the purpose of choosing Twelve Apostles from among their number. At the afternoon session. Following an impressive prayer, and the song "Hark! Listen to the trumpeters," the Three Witnesses were called upon to pray—each in turn —and to proceed with the selection of twelve men to be apostles. (See Doctrine and Covenants 18:37.) 115 After prayer the witnesses were blessed by the Presidency. They then selected the following twelve men and ordained each separately: 1. Lyman. E. Johnson 2. Brigham Young 3. Heber C. Kimball 4. Orson Hyde 5. David W. Paten 6. Luke S. Johnson 7. William E. M'Lellin 8. John F. Boynton 9. Orson Pratt 10. William Smith 11. Thomas B, Marsh 12. Parley P. Pratt 15. Heber C. Kimball states that after the twelve had thus been ordained by the witnesses, the First Presidency laid their hands upon them and confirmed these blessings and ordinations (See History of the Church, Vol. 2, 190-200.) 16. The First Quorum of Seventy. Two weeks later, February 28, 1835, at another meeting of those who had been members of Zion's Camp, the members of the first Quorum of Seventy were selected from their number. The names of the first seven presidents follow: 1. Hazen Aldrich 2. Leonard Rich 3. Joseph Young 4. Zebedee Coltrin 5. Levi W. Hancock 6. Lyman Sherman. 7. Sylvester Smith 17. It had evidently not been revealed at this time that the seven presidents should be "chosen out of the number of seventy," (Doctrine and Covenants 107:93.) for five of these men were High Priests. Accordingly, at a later date these brethren were directed to unite with the High Priests' quorum and five seventies were selected to fill the places thus made vacant. The new RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE presidency consisted of the following: 1. Joseph Young 2. Levi W. Hancock 3. James Foster 4. Daniel S. Miles 5. Josiah Butterfield 6. Solomon Gee 7. John Gayford 18. Thus when the Church had been founded scarcely five years all of its major governing bodies had been organized and placed in operation. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Why, in your judgment, was 116 the Church not fully organized, with all necessary officers, at one time? 2. In what sense was Zion's Camp a training school for those later selected to the Council of Twelve and the First Council of Seventy? 3. Why were the Three Witnesses called upon to select those who constituted the first Council of Twelve? 4, Why was Oliver Cowdery made a member of the First Presidency when the Prophet already had two counselors? 5. Have any additions been made to the organization of the Church since the days of the Prophet Joseph? Teachers' Topic THE BEATITUDES Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes and apply their beautiful truths to our daily lives. "Blessed are the peacemakers: For they shall be called the children of God." (Matt. 5:9.) God delights in peace, and all who seek to bring about peace shall be like God, and shall be called children of God, Peacemakers. However, are not passive persons, but active—active in preventing and in settling disputes and in trying to get men to love and understand each other so as to live in peace. They strive to reconcile men to God, and so bring peace to their souls. Papini tells us that "these peacemakers are not the meek of the second beatitude. The meek refrain from answering evil with evil; the peacemakers do more, they return good for evil, they bring peace where wars are flaring up. The origin of every war is self love, love which becomes love of riches, pride of possession, envy of those more wealthy. Hatred of rivals; and the new law comes to teach love for all creatures, even for those who hate us. The peacemakers who teach and practice this love, cut at the root of all war. When every man loves his brothers more than himself there will be no more wars, neither great nor small, neither civil nor imperial, neither of words nor of blows, between man and man, between class and class, between people and people. The peacemakers will have conquered the earth and they will be called the true sons of God, and they will enter among the first into His Kingdom." (Papini—"Life of Christ.") Christ was the great peacemaker. He tried to get men to love and understand each other so that they LESSON DEPARTMENT could live in peace. "For where envying and strife is there is confusion and every evil work. But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be intreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, and without hypocrisy. And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace." (James 3: 16-18.) We should labor to promote peace in families and communities and use our influence to prevent wars—so following the example of Christ. Peacemakers shall be recognized by God as his children, because they share in His purpose. Where 117 God lives in the souls of men, there is peace and righteousness. Apostle Melvin J. Ballard at the last General Relief Society Conference urged: "Let us be peacemakers, and if any of your sisters, in your visits, open their hearts to you, and tell you, and some feel that they just have to, the troubles they are having with their husbands. Er with a neighbor, and you can solve the trouble, do not come to Relief Society teachers' meeting and tell it. You do not have to report it to anybody, but can settle it yourselves. If you will do that you will spread the spirit of peace." (The Relief Society Magazine for May, 1932.) Literature THE DELIGHT OF GREAT BOOKS (Third Week in April) MOBY DICK—MELVILLE "Tis God's to judge, deny the fact who can, The proper study of mankind is man."—Alexander Pope. "Moby Dick" by Herman Melville is a great book. It has been likened to an epic poem, because it portrays one great figure, one great conflict, and one great emotion. The story becomes in turn myth, allegory, and parable as it deals with the inner strife in everyman, the strife of spirit and sense. The conflict is told in the terms of whaling. As a book of adventure it is the adventure of a soul. Time has recently discovered the book for us, a great book neglected in its own age, and marked it as a masterpiece of American literature. John Masefield, England's poet Laureate, comments upon the story: "In the wild beautiful romance. "Moby Dick", Meville seems to havc spoken the very secret of the sea, and to have drawn into his tale all the magic, all the sadness, all the wild joy of many waters. It stands quite alone, quite unlike any other book known to me. It strikes a note no other sea writer has ever struck." Lewis Mumford in the most recent biographical study of Herman Melville (1929) says of the book: "Moby Dick" is one of the first great mythologies to be created in the modern world, created, that is out of the stuff of that world, its science, its explorations, its terrestrial daring, its concentration upon power and dominion over nature— Moby Dick thus brings together the two dissevered halves of the modern world and the modern self—the externalized self bent on conquest and knowledge, and the ideal self bent on human values. Thus we have the best tragic epic of 118 modern times and one of the fine poetic works of all time." Herman Melville—Ishmael. Herman Melville, mariner and author, was born in New York on August 1, 1819, the birth year of Kingsley, Lowell, Ruskin, Whitman, and Queen Victoria. His ancestors were of old Scottish lineage tracing their origin to a Sir Richard Melville, a nobleman of the court of Edward the First, in the thirteenth century. Allen Melville, his father, was a merchant importer whose business took him on frequent trips to Europe. In 1814 Allen Melville married Maria 'Ganesvoort, a lady of Dutch origin whose family won fame and honor in the War of Independence. Mr. And Mrs. Melville were correct members of society. Herman was the third of eight children. The boy's disillusionment began at home. Of the kind but inadequate father the memories were chiefly the stories of the sea and ships and of the great ports Havre and Liverpool told by the sea-coal fire on winter evenings. Allen; Melville died a bankrupt when Herman was thirteen. Mrs. Melville was a woman "fitted chiefly for the gilded prosperities of life." She is remembered by her son as "cold", "worldly", "haughty", and "severely critical" in his autobiographical novel "Pierre". The disappointments of childhood, poverty, and loneliness, account for the author's curious identification of himself with Ishmael—'an infant Ishmael driven out into the desert with no maternal Hagar to accompany and comfort him. The death of his father forced Melville to discontinue his education at the Albany Classical Institute. It was a hardhearted world to which the boy turned RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE while the Ganesvoort cousins continued to go to school and to have butter on their bread and cream on their porridge. He first got work as a clerk in the New York State Bank. A year later he joined an older brother in a business venture. The failure of the business sent the boy to work on his uncle's farm at Pittsfield, Massachusetts. Now the boyhood ambitions, to go to college, to become an orator, to become a traveler, to make the name of Melville glorious—all seemed unattainable. The proud seventeen-year-old youth cut himself loose from his family and set out to see the world as a sailor on the "Highlander" bound for Liverpool. The comfortless ship, the blaspheming crew, the drudgery and hardships made the voyage particularly unpleasant. In Liverpool with romantic zest he visited the abbeys, the minsters, the green fields of his father's stories, with morbid questioning he viewed civilization's crop of human dregs in the dock of life of the world poet. The return journey after six weeks in Liverpool was fraught with more hardships and privations. Melville found himself "a sort of Ishmael in the ship without a friend or companion." In "Redburn", a record of his early life including this first sea experience we begin to read the riddle of Melville's personality. In the story we can trace his feelings about life. We see a disappointed youth who had had hopes of education, cultivation, and gentility. Like Dante he felt that he had received unforgivable affronts from the world; like Hamlet he suffered the sadness that came from diseased thought. For the next three years Melville lived among the civilities of life; he taught school at East Albany, New LESSON DEPARTMENT York. School teaching provided him with board and six dollars a quarter, social adequacy, and some leisure time. He made good use of these years reading widely and experimenting at authorship. "Fragments from a Writing Desk", a series of essays commenting upon life, reveals the fact that the Jone hours by candlelight were nights of preparation. In 1840 Richard Henry Dana published "Two Years Before the Mast”, an account of a long voyage round Cape Horn to the Spanish settlements of California. The book was a clear, wild call, the call of the sea to Melville. The sea fever coursing his veins he answered the call: "I must go down to the seas again, to the lonely sea and the sky, And all I ask is a tall ship and a star to steer her by Ok OK I must go down to the seas again to vagrant gypsy life, To the gull's way and the whale's way where the wind's like a whetted knife; And all I ask is a merry yarn from a laughing fellow rover, And quiet sleep and a sweet dream when the long trick's over." —Masefield. So Herman Melville went whaling on the Achusnet, sailing from New Bedford, Jan. 3, 1841. "A whale ship was my Yale College and my Harvard," declared Herman Melville, the gentleman adventurer. He saw the golden age of whaling, the age that was to close soon with the discovery of petroleum in 1859. The Achusnet cruised in the South Pacific for fifteen months without entering a port and for six months without sighting land. The captain was tyrannical, themotley crew dissatisfied, the routine 119 monotonous, but the adventurer learned whaling. As the ship neared the Marquesas Islands, Melville and a shipmate planned to desert the ship and escape the intolerable condition which promised to continue for four or five years longer. For the next four months Melville lived among the Typees, a cannibal tribe of the islands. The Typees were simple to the point of childishness, all things adding to the enjoyment of life instead of the defeating of life. Melville learned from these primitive people that civilization but multiplies the complexities of life and living 'Sf truth and justice and the better principles of our nature cannot exist unless enforced by a statutebook." The moment for escape came again, this time in the form of an Australian whaler. Now Ishmael found a friend, another Ishmael, Dr. Long Ghost, the ship's physician. In this educational adventure the doctor, a man who had roved the world over, who quoted Virgil, and who was a gentleman, was a picaresque library and he who associated with him had much to read and much to learn. Mutiny occurred on the whaler as it lay in the harbor of Papeetee, Tahiti. The crew was taken on board a French man-of-war and held for five days. Melville and Dr. Ghost were freed. The next two months were spent in pleasant wanderings about Tahiti. Melville joined a whaler "Leviathan" bound for Japan leaving the brother Ishmael behind never to see or hear of him again. Honolulu lured Melville to leave the whaler, and for several months he worked as a shipping clerk. The sea fever was satisfied and the rover took the homeward journey on the frigate "United States', arriving in Boston, October, 1844. Melville left America to seek adventure. He 120 traveled far and experienced much. The home coming was a joyous adventure. Melville settled down immediately to record his adventures. During the next ten years the author's chief works were completed. First came "Typee'', an account of life among the Typees, a pagan Utopia. Then followed in rapid succession: '"Omoo"', the experiences in Tahiti; "Mardi", a fictitious story of the South Seas; "Redburn", the experiences of the first voyage to Liverpool; "White Jacket", life on the frigate "United States"; "Moby Dick', Melville's masterpiece; "Pierre", Melville's Hamlet; "Israel Potter', the life story of a 'Revolutionary soldier. The first books were well received, the prodigal was welcome. The later books, however, received little attention from the American reading public. During the period of intense litetary activity, three noteworthy events 'happened in Melville's life: first, his marriage to Elizabeth Shaw; second, a trip to England to arrange for the publication of his books; third, the establishment of his home in the Berkshire 'Hills' on the Arrowhead Farm. It seems ironically strange that Nathaniel Hawthorne was Melville's neighbor at Arrowhead, and both men were working on their masterpieces at the same time in their Berkshire retreat. But how different the reception of their works. "The Scarlet Letter" received immediate recognition, while "Moby Dick" was definitely neglected. The Puritan setting brought reverence and understanding for Hawthorne's theme, while the sea as a setting brought a mysterious vagueness to Melville's. Poverty again stalked with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Ishmael. His books yielded very little income. But for the generosity of his wife's father he would have been in destitution. The Melville household suffered from niismanagement as well as from poverty. Mrs. Melville was not fitted for domestic life. She was, however, an understanding and _ loyal wife. She secured for her husband the means for a long European trip. While abroad Melville turned his attention to writing poetry, the best selections being "Battle Pieces and Aspects of War" and "Clarel, a Poem and Pilgrimage in the Holy Land". Upon his return to the United States Melville received an appointment as inspector of customs at New York. It was a partial release from poverty. The duties kept him close to the things he loved best, the sea and its ships. Years passed, almost twenty of them and at last Ishmael was free. A legacy from Mrs. Melville's brother brought the freedom. With a new enthusiasm Melville turned to authorship, but not long was granted. On September 21, 1891, the announcement of the death of Herman Melville came as a surprise to a public that had forgotten and ignored the man they had once hailed as one of the glories of their literature. Moby Dick—I shmael's. Story. "Moby Dick" is a story of the sea and a tragedy of revenge. Today the whale has become a memory. In the records of American whaling is a strange story. It is the story of Moby Dick, the terror of whaling vessels for many years. No whale was ever so fiercely hunted. He was encountered in every ocean and on every feeding ground. LESSON DEPARTMENT From first to last Moby Dick stove fourteen boats and caused the death of over thirty men. This record was undoubtedly known by Herman Melville, the mariner. Melville's novel is more than a story of a great white whale, it is a tragedy in which a human being is brought to disaster. Captain Ahab identified himself with God and assumed the task of judgment. His quest for revenge ended in tragedy. "Call me Ishmael', says the teller of the story. Ishmael is lured 'to a whaling voyage by the stories of the demonic actions of the great white whale, Moby Dick. Ishmael begins his adventure at the Spouter Inn, New Bedford. Here he meets a companion for his adventure, Queequeg, a cannibal carrying around with him an harpoon, an idol, and a dried human head. This strange character had left his native island far away in the West and South to learn more of the Christian lands than a few sailors could tell him. Alone he had paddled to a far distant strait frequented by whalers. After many encounters he arrived at the Spouter Inn. Ishmael is drawn to Oueequeg by the sincerity and simplicity of the heathenish rites he observes daily. As a bond of friendship Ishmael joins Queequeg in his worship. One Sunday morning Ishmael attends the Whaleman's Chapel. Father Mapple delivers an unforgettable sermon, expounding the story of Jonah and declaring the wisdom of the God of the Ages. "Woe to him who would not be true! Woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness!—O Father! I leave eternity to Thee; for what fs man that he 12] should live out the lifetime of his God?" On the boat that takes Ishmael and Queequeg to Nantucket to board the whaling ship "Pequod", Queequeg rescues a man whom he had previously punished for making fun of him. A mystery surrounds the captain of the "Pequod", he does not appear until the vessel has been to sea several days. The first time he appears on deck, a foreboding shiver runs over Ishmael. Captain Ahab assembles his crew. The chief mate, Starbuck, is a Quaker by descent and a prudent earnest man. Stubb, the second mate, is a happy fellow, sensible and competent;: Flask, the third mate is happy and ignorant. The harpooners are Queequeg, Tashtego, an Indian, and Daggoo, a gigantic negro., With titanic pride Ahab announces the purpose of the voyage, to capture the great white whale. Moby Dick had bitten off Ahab's leg and left him 'humiliated and crippled. Ever since the encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness against the whale identifying with him all his bodily woes and all his intellectual and spiritual troubles. Ahab pledges his crew; they drink and swear death to Moby Dick. Starbuck alone remonstrates, "To be enraged with a dumb thing seems _ blasphemous." Ishmael takes the oath of revenge and makes Ahab's feud his own. Night and day Ahab broods over Moby Dick. From the charts in his cabin he guides the ship to the feeding grounds in season. Every vessel sighted is accosted with the same question, ''Hast seen the white whale?' The "Pequod" sails on week after week and month after month. In the Indian Ocean a 122 large sperm whale is killed by Siubb. Then follows the butchering of the whale, the preparation of the blubber, and the storage of the oil. During this activity Queequeg was seized with a fever. Long weary days of suffering followed. Queequeg requests a coffin-canoe to be made. All is ready and Qneequeg is placed in his last bed with his harpoon, biscuits, and a flask of water. Later this odd character decides to live. When asked whether to live or die be a matter of will, he answered to the amazement of the crew, "Certainly," It was a strange incident with a strange significance in the story. A week or two after Queequeg's strange recovery, an English whaling ship is met. The captain of the vessel tells a strange story, the story of losing his arm in an encounter with a great white whale. Ahab urges the man to seek revenge in another encounter. At last definite news of Moby Dick and his course was given to the "Pequod's" crew. Then came the chase. Somehow as Ahab nears his enemy his old humanity comes back; he tnderstands Starbuck's love for his wife and child; he thinks of the girl-wife he deserted; he meditates on his forty wasted years. As he tries to grapple with the problem of his own nature, he asks, "Is Ahab, Ahab?' The soliloquy that follows reveals no answer for Ahab. The next day Ahab's enemy glides back into his life. Mobey Dick appears mild as the day, a glittering white mass in the azure sea. "Call all hands', is the thundered command. The four boats are lowered, Ahab's in advance. Aware of the chase the whale bites Ahab's boat in twain. Ahab and his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE crew are rescued as the "Pequod" sails on the whale and drives him off. The second day comes, again the enemy glides back. The boats are lowered again. With open jaws and lashing tail Moby Dick dashes for the boats, this time throwing Ahab's boat high in the air. Ahab's ivory leg is snapped off this time. The third day comes, a calm beautiful day. In due time the boats are lowered to seek the whale. Starbuck pleads with his captain, "Go not, Moby Dick seeks thee not." Ahab staggers on; nothing can divert him. The whale is sighted and the boats give chase. Moby Dick churning his tail among the boats dashes in the bows of the mate's boat. Ahab keeps on until hz is near enough to send the harpoon into his enmey. The stricken whale flew forward and bearing down on the "Pequod" shivers her sides. As the ship settles, Ahab makes one last thrust at the whale. He becomes entangled in the line and is drowned. "The great shroud of the sea rolled on." Ishmael alone is left to tell the story. The story finished a few months before Melville's death is in many ways a thought sequel to "Moby Dick". Melville's early gospel was that of Selfhood. After a life of spiritual turbulence he found peace and comfort. His last work, "Billy Budd", reveals a _ reconciliation with life and an affirmation of the divine law, "'Tis God's to judge." Suggestions for Study. A. Materials. 1. Moby Dick—Melville. 2. The Delight of Great Books —Erskine. 3. Herman Freeman, Melville—John LESSON DEPARTMENT 4. Herman Melville—Lewwis Mumford. B. Projects. 1. Music: a. Crossing the nyson. B. Invictus—Henley. 2. Reading: a. Sea Fever—Masefield. B. Father Mapple's Sermon —Chapter viii. Bar—Ten- 123 C. Method. The lesson and the essay on "Moby Dick" provide ample material in themselves. If any of the books listed are available, they will add much to the understanding of the greatness of the novel. There are two stories equally interesting, Melville's story and the novel. Social Service (Fourth Week in April) INTERPRETING THE WORLD IN TERMS OF MEANINGS LESSON VII. Life is complex. A person must learn to act in relation to all of its elements. People who try to control others often misunderstand those whom they direct because of differences in what the world means. Each generation has experiences as children unknown to the childhood of its parents. The new experiences make the world tmean different things. These feelings of meanings really control the behavior, conduct or reaction the individual makes to his environment. It is not possible except in an extended study of the psychology of perception and ideation to know in detail the mental processes involved. The aim of this lesson therefore is to show the need for parents and teachers to know the part "meanings" play in life so they will not misjudge children. Suggestions for Class Procedure: The material outlined in the reading guide is very general. As indicated there the chief value will be to see the relation of "meanings" to some specific problems. Assign the class this reading and ask them to come prepared to explain the eleven topics listed. The class leader should use the first quotation in the supplementary material as a statement to develop interest. Then discuss the topics from the reading in the pamphlet. The material under topic III in the supplementary material should be used if and as needed by the class leader. A special topic on "Conflict in the Homes because of Misunderstood words" could be assigned to a class member. An excellent summary could be made by having class members relate incidents of adult-child adjustment which have been unpleasant because the adult assumed that the child has feelings ur meanings which his experience has never furnished, or which have been very successful because the adult understood the meanings as the child knew them. The ability to put oneself in the position of the child, vicariousness, is a great art for those who would lead children. Reading Guide for Class Members. Growth—pages 29-31, 124 This material is very important and will require careful intensive reading. Read the three pages through. Turn then to the paragraph on page 30 which begins: "Gradually the real and the unreal become more clear to the child." Read this carefully and note the implied questions or conclusions: 1. The child gradually develops an adjustment to a real world properly interpreted. 2. The child grows by participating in this world. 3. Children do not try to pretend. 4. Children act in the world even though it is only partially understood. They may seem to be in a world of fancy or imagination because of this incompleteness of knowledge.. After analyzing this paragraph, carefully reread the others to see how children acquire the following meanings: 1. Other children have feelings, wants, desires, etc. Sharing and cooperation. Safety from physical risks. Use of common objects. Toys. Feeling of security in the home. Good manners. Source of comforts leading to appreciation. 9. Need for self care. 10. World of vocational opportunities. 11. Relation to control of other people. CONRAN WN Supplementary Material I. The problem: (Curti, 186-7). "A baby of one month responds only to a very limited range of stimuli. Things happening in the next room are entirely beyond his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ken, the past is probably non- existent in his thought, the future unimagined. He has no ideas of self or of other people, no conceptions of the world, of space or time or beauty. Taken to the top of a high hill in the midst of a fertile countryside, he would see nothing of the fields and villages, or the green hills against the sky. The sound of the engines in the city below, the whirring of an aeroplane, the rush of the wind in the pine trees—none of these would have for him either value or meaning. Yet in five years more, taken to the same hilltop, this child will look out seeingly upon the same world, exclaiming about things far and near, asking questions, scanning the sky when he hears an aeroplane, and breathing in the odor of the pine trees with delight. Years later, as a youth, he will see a still different picture. He may be then less interested in the objects themselves than in what they stand for. Not factories in the hill villages, but problems of modern industry may occupy his mind; not the number and size of the houses, but the lives and thoughts of the people living in them. The sight of the hills against the sky may make him feel dissatisfied with his own city home and way of living: he may begin to dream and to plan out his own future. Obviously, the same world appears very differently to different people. But for every child its meaning grows and changes with astonishing rapidity. How does the world come to take on this rich and changing significance? It would be too much to expect, ever, an entirely adequate explanation of this complex and marvelous development. The psychologist can, however, show LESSON DEPARTMENT that it is an orderly process and point out some of the factors and principles involved.'" II. An illustration of how the child learns the meaning of "Mother." (Curti, pp. 218-19). "To the baby a few months old the word mother means no more than' any other combination of sounds. After he has heard the word repeatedly applied to his own mother, however, it has begun to take on meaning; for now when the mother herself is absent, and he hears the word, he may respond to it with some of the behavior which was formerly called out only by the mother herself. A year-old baby, told "Mother is coming," may begin excitedly to rock back and forth in his crib, to smile and coo. After the child has begun to "think," the word mother may evoke ideas, as well as emotional and overt responses. Now as time goes on the child reacts to the mother, and to the word mother which is applied to her by himself and others in an ever widening variety of situations. She feeds him, and the name is thus associated with (tends to call out) pleasant feeling responses connected with the dinner hour. She bathes him, caresses him, tells him stories, and tucks him in bed with a good night kiss. Thus the word mother, heard when the actual person is 'present, comes to elicit many positive reactions, and, when the child is old enough to think about his past experience, many related ideas. The word becomes capable of reinstating less pleasant responses, too, for the mother slaps his hand when he snatches at food, and speaks solemnly to him when he is naughty. Hence the word mother comes gradually to mean refraining from 'harmful actions. 125 In early childhood this word is likely to call up ideas of goodness, even of perfection. The mother answers all the questions the child can ask, and she tells him what is good and what is bad. Therefore he comes to think of her as an authority and a judge. With the experiences of his later childhood, the meaning of the word mother alters still more. The child learns that his mother suffers, and that she sometimes makes mistakes; and when people speak to him of his mother, he may think of these things too. For a child whose mother has left home, has died, or has become insane, the word becomes charged with very special meaning. It may now evoke tears, disturbing terror-dreams, or feelings of loneliness and depression. In later years, when the child approaching maturity, has had wide acquaintance with other mothers than his own, in actual life as well as in books and plays, the word mother usually has much richer meaning than it did in childhood. For children brought up in accustomed ways, the word will have a more or less standardized meaning—it will have been associated with certain common experiences.. But for each individual the shading of meaning will vary according to his special experience and the social maturity he attains.' III. Meaning is the varied responses stimulated by a situation. Meaning develops through experience. Each experience leaves an effect which modifies future responses. The object or situation means different things, therefore, as responses change, it is only through the gradual acquisition of experiences and their organization in adjustment that the child's world assumes meaning- 126 ful organization. Some homely practical problems will illustrate the necessity for care in controlling both the response the child makes to things and the effect each has on his life. A child is given a tin cup to play with. He drops it and the noise pleases him. Again and again he drops the cup as it is returned to him. He is also rewarded by the smile of his nurse who thinks it is a cute reaction. Later he is given a cup of milk. It is immediately dropped or thrown on the floor. This is what cup means. A little child is playing when a strange kitten comes into the home. The child is attracted by the moving animal and reaches for it. The mother seeing the situation realizes that the cat might be dirty and undesirable so she shrieks and strikes at the kitten, frightening it away. But the child is also frightened and begins to cry. Sometime later a nice little clean pup was brought to the home. The child cried in fright. This is what the little animal meant. Dr. Judd points out that learning what social situations mean is really a process of developing '"expectations." For example if an adult in taking children along the highway always follows the rules of the road with pleasant results the child learns to expect that a car coming toward him means turn to the right. If the example of courtesy which the child sees is high grade and results in pleasant associations to him, being in the company of other people brings certain expectations of conduct which he tends to produce. If lawful living is his example he tends to expect obedience to law and law becomes meaningful to him as something to be respected. Words acquire meaning through use and association. Communication RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is possible only when words have common meanings. These meanings don't just happen, experience determines them. The world is different in a home where conversation is almost wholly "ugh" and "ughhugh" or words of one syllable uttered somewhat unwillingly, from what it is in a home where words are chosen for proper expression, where questions are asked and answered freely, and conversation is common. At times parents and teachers expect children to react to words for which the child has no feeling for meaning. Many of our ethical terms such as good, sin, honest, truthful, pure, etc., come in this class. Confusion in human relations comes from a lack of meaning or lack of experience on the basis of which meaning is expressed. The child who defined "father" as a "person who gave us pennies" will often be misjudged. The child who interpreted "To our Heavenly Home on High" in terms of automobiles might be called irreverent. "Justice always gets its definition in detail from the social environment. The justice of earlier days is not the justice of modern times. The justice of the army is wholly different in its details from the justice of the factory. Justice is a mode of arranging relations and is therefore, a changing equilibrium." (Judd: The Psychology of Social Institutions, p. 317). The person is a part of the situation which gives meaning. For example to a hungry child a candy toy or an apple or an orange will mean immediately something to eat. To a child who has just finished a meal such objects become toys. To a jealous young man a kindness to his lady friend by others means something to resent whereas the same act performed for his sister will bring LESSON DEPARTMENT forth a response of gratitude. How meanings modify conduct and lead adults to care in controlling children is summarized by Curti as follows: (Page 237-38). "The fact that children's perceptions tend to become, as they grow older, increasingly more analytical, more logically organized, and more impersonal, may be expressed in the statement that with increase in age comes increase in accuracy. The perceptions of the young child are bound in the very nature of the case to represent, often, confusions between recalled and imagined data, to be distorted by childish interests and childish ideas, to be very inadequate as representations of reality. Onthe other hand, they may reflect what sometimes seems to be uncanny emphasis on important features of a situation. In their spontaneity and their symbolism they may be fresh and poetic in a way not possible in the more accurate and practical perception of adults. But the perceptual meanings of an adult's world, although often less aesthetically satisfying than the child's, are of course more serviceable in making possible effective adjustment. For all their charm, childish interpretations as well as childish speech and childish manners must be early put aside if the individual is to develop normally toward maturity." IV. Ideas - Memories - Imagination: These words refer to meanings where the object or situation is absent. Memory is merely the re-instatement of a past experience. Imagination associates this idea with 127- future anticipated situations. When ideas are used to plan adjustments we have the situation called thinking. Ideas will be limited wholly by the experience giving the original meanings. Miss Harrison in her little book, '"'"Misunderstood Children" tells the story of three year old Sammie who in his eagerness to. Have his aunt share a new found flower came in while she was sweeping the floor. The wind scattered the results of her labor. He was sent out. Just as she finished the second time he returned to see if she was ready. Again the fluff and dust were scattered. Anger followed. "True, she had not thought to explain to him why she wanted the door kept shut, nor had she assured him that she would let him know when he might open it. But she did not stop to think of this. He had disobeyed her intentions. "He ought to have understood. She would be obliged to sweep the room all over again!" (P. 11). The punishment and struggle need not be retold here. The story is effective. Why did the "naughty" behavior come? "He had never swept a room," nor noticed that the dust had been scattered by the wind. On what basis could one assume that "he ought to have understood." References: *Curti: Child Psychology, pp. 186-7.; *Curti: Child Psychology, pp. 218-19. "Judd: The Psychology of Social Institutions, p. 317. 'Curti: Ibid, pp. 237-8. Solitude By Merling Clyde How I love the solitude of my own home, When those I love have strayed away seeking pleasure; And I am alone to follow the bent of my choosing, To read, to write, to ponder dreamily at my leisure. I am not lonély, for fond memories of happy hours, A smile from a friend, a cheery word spoken hurriedly, A slow, warm pressure of the hand come now To live again and stir the heart tenderly. If it were not for hours like these, when alone we face Our true selves and see the. Error of our ways. We might grow hardened, but, here, the mask slips down And only that which is good within us stays. Dreamily, luxuriantly, I lay away all the tired thoughts of daytime;; Content that only Peace and I are here; Watching the flames that leap and are ever changing, Dying down, then suddenly to reappear. So with our hopes, so with our aims, Giving to each task our very best; Failing sometimes, yet quickly we, renewing, Hope that each new day be better than the rest. Ideals born anew at morning, now at evening Though unfinished are yet our guiding star; Though we stray sometimes from the path that we have chosen There's a Hand that seems to set the gate ajar; So that, at night-fall, when we, returning, Find still the same sweet Peace awaiting here, Like the flames quick upward leaping, ever trying, Catch the torch and start again with silent tear. Through my idle dreaming all. These things seem Clear and true. Tis the spark that keeps on shining, Shining that inspires the things we do. Heart-throbs pulsing like the fitful embers, Glowing warm while reason tempers love; When the ashes of our efforts lie before us, Let us leave the verdict to the Judge who rules above. WE SAVE YOU MONEY | Out of the High Rent District. No Rent to Pay. ROUND OAK FREE RANGE Beauty and Utility Combined in this New DEXTER 1933 ROUND OAK RANGE. A wonderful heating Range—an outstanding quick and perfect baker—a range which consumes less fuel than others— WASHER Purchased Above $59.50 awaits your inspection at our store. Call for Free Demonstration Hyland 676 Granite Furniture Co. Approval Having one's conscientious efforts approved is always thrilling, whether those efforts have for their goal the designing of a nation's flag or some more every-day objective, such as building up a printing service to a point where it meets a real need. A growing list of clients, an ever increasing number of men and women turning to us for printing counsel, and availing themselves of our efficient, courteous service, is a most pleasing assurance that our efforts to meet the printing and binding needs of the people of our communities, are winning approval. The Deseret News Press 29 RICHARDS STREET SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine DON'T BUY Just Merely Life Insurance There's such a great difference if you'll just investigate it's certain you'll insist on your policy being BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE Because it is the one company that offers you Share In The Net Earnings You'll be money ahead if your policy is with The BIG HOME COMPANY. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE—SALT LAKE CITY HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager If it's a Beneficial Policy it's the best Insurance you can buy BEAUTY SHOP NO. 3 Ogden, Washington and 24th Cost of Operation When Buying Mention Prohibition Declaration: The Board of Bishops of the Methodist Episcopal Church The Methodist Church has no intention of retreating from our historic. Age-long stand against alcohol. Our law still is "Total abstinence for the individual, prohibition for the state." No moral question is ever truly settled until it is settled right. No new arguments in favor of alcohol and its traffic have been presented recently. All the substitutes proposed for prohibition have been tried during the centuries, and all have proved ineffective to curb the evils of this narcotic. Modern civilization and the machine-age are antithetic to the traffic in alcohol. For humanity and genuine prosperity we must have prohibition. Prosperity can never be purchased by beer. Every dollar so secured costs commerce and the country more than its value. The need of the hungry for bread can not be satisfied by alcohol. We call attention to the fact that the recent election did not change the Constitution or any national law. The Eighteenth Amendment is still in the Constitution and its enacting law still stands. Until laws are changed by the orderly, legal processes, public officials are under obligation to be guided by them. Governors, mayors, judges and others responsible for the enforcement of the law should remember their oath of office. They have solemnly sworn to uphold the Constitution and laws. H, LESTER SMITH, Secretary. Revenue and What it Costs "They have been getting a lot of revenue from the sale of liquor up in Canada. You don't often hear what this revenue costs. So just for your information we are giving you the following facts: "To collect $35,274,390 liquor revenue in ten years there was expended in British Columbia $139,725.788. "To collect $14,872,131 liquor revenue in seven years there was expended in Alberta $84,315,108. "To collect $13,558,683 liquor revenue in six years there was expended in Saskatchewan, $65,445,139. "To collect $12,260,251 liquor revenue in eight years there was expended in Manitoba, $57,487,087. "To collect $43,796,458 liquor revenue in four years, five months, there was expended in Ontario, $235,575,320. "To collect $68,032,472 liquor revenue in ten years there was expended in Quebec $589,944,914. "To collect $5,329,788 liquor revenue in four years there was expended in New Brunswick $16,666,844. "To collect $774,358 liquor revenue in a little over one year there was expended in Nova Scotia, $5,602,823—From The Voice." THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. XX MARCH, 1933 No, 3 CONTENTS Salt Lake Temple.....................................................Frontispiece March 17, 1842—March 17, 1933......................... Bertha Knowlton Ekman 129 Relief Society, the Premier Organization................ Elder Joseph F. Merrill 131 Missionaries and the Relief Society....................... May Booth Talmage 134 Manna................................................Marguerite Johnson Griffin 137 Play the Game.......................................................Susan Rey 142 Our Servants—Words.......................................Ramona Wilcox Cannon 143 The Story of the College of Opportunity........................Lydia Burrows 147 Prohibition................................................................. 150 Your Home Beautiful.......................................Mabel Margaret Luke 151 Happenings....................................................Annie Wells Cannon 155 A Most Important Position..................................Rosannah C. Irvine 157 A Teacher's Visit in Early Days...............................Edna May Irvine 160 Happy Birthday...............................................Lucy Rose Middleton 162 A Wrong and Right Way........................................Heloise Merkley 165 Opportunity Makes a Masterpiece of Your Life.................. Elise B. Alder 171 Notes to the Field................................................................. 173 Notes from the Field............................................................ 174 Editorial—Our Birthday......................................................... 177 Growth of the Relief Society.................................................. 177 Leadership Week................................................................ 178 John Galsworthy................................................................ 178 Lesson Department............................................................. 179 The Cultivation of Flax.........................................Heber S. Cutler 195 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone 'Wasatch 3123 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving 'both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of: October 8, 1917, authorized June 2, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. L. D. S. GARMENTS, CUTLER VALUES No. 68 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Cotton...................................... $1.09 No. 74 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Fine Cotton................................ 1.19 No. 64 Light Med. Wt. Bleached................................... 1.29 No. 62 Med. Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back...................... 1.59 No. 56 Hvy. Wt. Unbleached Double Back......................... 1.79 No. 26 30% Wool.................................................... 2.89 Veces Super Non-Run Rayon "Short Sleeve and Knee Length".................................................. 1.19 In ordering garments please state if for men or women, and if old or new styles are wanted, also state bust, height and weight of person. Marking 15c. Postage prepaid. Special—When you order three pairs of garments at one time we allow you a 15% discount on third pair only. Cutler's 5 SOUTH MAIN SALT LAKE CITY UTAH L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear: No. 1 New style, ribbed lgt. wt. Mercerized. An excellent Ladies' number................................$1.00 No. 2 Old style, ribbed lgt. wt. Cotton, our standard garment 1.10 No. 3 Ribbed med. wt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number. Men's new or old style.... 1.25 No. 4 Ribbed heavy wt. Unbleached cotton. Our double back number. Men's new or old style 1.50 No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number. Men's new or old style.... 2.50 No. 6 Light weight garment. Ladies' new style. Silk Stripe.95 No. 7 Light weight Spring and Autumn garment. Men only .80 No. 8 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only................ 1.00 No. 9 Medium wt. Silk for men and women, new style only. Non-Run, 1.50 In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, short legs and sleeves or ankle length legs, are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid on orders accompanied by money order. Special discount to missionaries. Our Jack Frost Blankets are made of Utah Wool and Utah Labor Write for Prices FACTORY TO YOU--THE ORIGINAL Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates, LDS. GARMENTS Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. 472 Lt. Wt. Cotton $.75 98 Special Rayon, Ladies'..................$1.25 464 Fine Ribbed Cotton...................... 95 306 Run Resisting Rayon.................... 1.75 144 Spring Needle, Combed Cot......... 1.00 752 Hvy. Cot. Db. Bk., Ecru or White 1.75 208 Med. Wt. Cot. Ecru or White...... 1.35 904 Unbleached Cot. Extra Hvy..... 2.00 228 Med. Wt. Rayon Striped........ 1.35 1118 Med. Hvy. Wool & Cot., Mixed 3.00 252 Med. Wt. Firm Knit Cot........ 1.45 527 Ray. Plated Comb. Cot. Med. Wt. 2.00 708 Med. Wt. Rayon Striped. Ecru.... 2.00 BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Hundreds of Relief Society Members Are Reading "The Ordeal of Richard Feverel," By George Meredith We have it in the Handy Clear Type "Modern Library Edition'' at $1.00 POSTPAID Buy a copy now and enjoy it Deseret Book Company Salt Lake City SAVE TIME! SAVE MONEY! By Wearing MOUNTAINEER Overalls and Auto Suits Equipped With Stop-Loss Pockets Join the ranks of enthusiastic workmen who have found Stop-Loss Pockets to fill a long-felt need. No more loss of tools, valuables, money, from your pockets while working, no matter what your position. No more precious time spent in hunting for lost articles. They Cost No More! ASK YOUR DEALER FOR MOUNTAINEER Overalls and Auto Suits Made in Salt Lake City by Z. C. M. I. Clothing Factory Getting a Foothold in Life High School graduates will find that the best opportunities to find their places in life will come through specialized training for specific vocations. Such training is provided in our school in the shortest possible time consistent with thoroughness; and at low cost. To help our graduates in securing a foothold, we conduct an active Employment Department which is in constant touch with business firms. Write or call for complete information. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE (A Department of the L. D. S. College) SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine March 17, 1842 March 17, 1933 By Beatrice Knowlton Ekman When Joseph organized and set apart The women for relief work in Nauvoo It was that they might succor the distressed And lend their aid in want and sickness too. "I turn the key for women!" Joseph said, In prophecy that mid March natal day. "If you live up to tendencies, which God Has given you, how great—and glorious!" And now almost a century has passed. The hand of Time is turned to March again, And daughters of their daughters carry on The mighty work that little band began. These noble women strive to make the world A better place for all who live therein. They do a work of service selflessly And countless hearts and homes are cheered by them. They symbolize a prophecy fulfilled "Charity in its fulness is their aim" Vast fields for women open to their gaze; The key an open sesame has been. THE SALT LAKE TEMPLE Utah Photo Materials Co. The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XX MARCH, 1933 No. 3 Relief Society, the Premier Organization By Elder Joseph F. Merrill, of the Council of the Twelve THE Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a wonderful organization, considered from a sociological point of view," said a famed American scientist to the writer almost eighteen years ago. We sat at a banquet table. The conversation had turned to Utah, the Church, and the Word of Wisdom. The scientist said the study of sociology was his avocation. He had spent three summer vacations in Utah studying the ''Mormons," though this was unknown to them. He had quietly traveled among them and out in their rural communities. The more he learned about them, the more he liked them. The Word of Wisdom, he thought, was an exceptionally fine document, and said if its teachings were observed the "Mormon" people would become famous for their physical and mental vigor. The Church as an organization, he observed, should be the pride of its members; it was worthy of their staunchest loyalty. Why? Because of the many opportunities freely offered for personal development and individual growth. This scientist especially commended the missionary system of the Church as an effective agency in the educational training of those who engaged in it. To him the value of this training to the missionary appeared to be so great that he believed a missionary call should be regarded as the receipt of a very high honor. At length the rap for attention, in order that the program of speeches might begin, interrupted what to me was a delightful conversation; perhaps I might better say postponed a delightful conversation, for about nine years later we met again and the professor seemed pleased to tell me once more of his high regard for the "Mormon" people and their unique church organization.. The remarks of the friendly and fluent professor gave me a point of view that I have not since abandoned—the view that the Church is wonderful because of what it offers its members. We commonly hear adherents relate what they do for the Church, the service they render in this or that capacity. Sometimes we hear even returned missionaries tell of what they have done, the thought being that they have served the Church, have sacrificed for the Church, and therefore put the Church under obligation to them. And frequently others hint, sometimes actually. Assert, that, because of services rendered, the Church is obligated to those who have once func- 132 tioned in it and should, when necessary, come to their material relief. Due to economic conditions now prevailing these hints and assertions are not uncommon. This phase of the matter perhaps never occurred to the professor above spoken of. He saw the situation from another point of view—to him the all-important point of view—which is, what the Church does for the members, the opportunities it offers them for self-expression and growth. And was not the professor right? Would not the spiritual growth of the members be more satisfactory and solid if his point of view were fully accepted by all of us? "Man is that he might have joy." Experience teaches us that service to others, that type of unselfish service which expects no material rewards, coupled with clean and honest living, is the par excellent means of bringing joy to ourselves. And somewhere in the Church, or in one or more of its organizations, every individual may find abundant opportunities of joy-creating activities— activities that not only bring joy but growth and power as well. For illustration—it has been rightly said that as a rule two years of energetic and devoted service in the mission field better qualify a young man to make his way in life than two years of college training. And the great majority of returned missionaries publicly declare that the time they spent in missionary work was the most happy and profitable period of their lives to date. It is true that they have served the Church but they have also served themselves—in most cases they probably did more for themselves than they did for the Church. Is it therefore not logical to think they should thank the Church for their opportunity of going on a mission rather than hint the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Church is obligated to them for this service? In any case the Church is wonderfully organized. By virtue of its organizations opportunities are afforded every member to make something of himor her-self, physically, mentally, and spiritually, any one or all of these. GROWTH. Depends on activity. This is a law of nature. Every athletic coach requires practice of his boys. To become excellent they must acquire strength, endurance, skill, and the knack of team work. This is done by activity and by exercise of all the powers of mind as well as body. And in a sense it is true that the athletes serve their school but they do not have the idea of service prominent in their consciousness. They think more of what athletics does for them; they are grateful to the school for the opportunity of being on the "teams." And so forms of activity for members are provided by the various organizations of the Church. The development resulting from these activities brings a sense of satisfaction, of joy, of growth, of power, of the worth-whileness of life. Inevitably, then, when the situation is logically and carefully studied, there must arise a feeling of gratitude to the Church for the blessings it brings to its members. Now this writer has long believed that the premier auxiliary organization in the Church, considered both from the nature of its program and the devotion and loyalty of its workers, is the Relief Society. In - saying this there is no wish to make comparisons. All the organizations in the Church are officered by devoted, capable people. Each organization is doing very good work. But the Relief Society stands out from RELIEF SOCIETY THE PREMIER ORGANIZATION the others, not because it is the oldest organization, not because it has the distinction of having been organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, not because of its size (several others are larger), but primarily because of its effectiveness and efficiency. In these respects it probably leads, also, most of the priesthood quorums. Of course there are reasons for this distinction. Its membership includes the mature and experienced women of the Church and others who also appreciate fully the need of growth, the value of loyalty, the worth of dependability, and the beauty of service. Women, too, asa class feel more keenly than men and youth an urge or call to duty. With them an obligation is a sacred thing and must be met. They are therefore readily responsive to requests for action and to calls for service. For illustration, whoever heard of oft repeated public appeals to Relief Society members to pay their dues or to subscribe to their Magazine? And yet what organization is there in the Church that receives from its members so high a percentage of dues? Bishops would certainly experience a relief if ward teachers were to exhibit the faithfulness characteristic of Relief Society visiting teachers. Relief Society is a term synonymous with faithfulness and efficiency. This is public knowledge. Another factor that distinguishes the Relief Society is the richness of its program—work and service, art and literature, practical religion and theology—a program so varied that every taste can be satisfied, every major interest engaged. These elements of the program are harmoniously coordinated, no one of them being permitted to dominate. Thus the membership feel a sisterhood, permeated by a spirit of unity and love, that makes this organization as 133 nearly Christ-like as any that can be found. "But it is an organization for gray heads and grandmothers," we heard it said. Certainly, and for young women, too, especially for mothers. The spirit-of Relief Society in the heart and in the home will make any woman, young or old, more attractive and charming, more successful in her sphere of action, whatever it may be, than she could otherwise be. The training she gets in this organization will also enable her to function more efficiently in her realms of activity. It will make her a better wife, a better mother, a happier woman. The spirit of Relief Society is the spirit of service in its broadest, finest, and best sense. And this spirit is irresistible. It grips those who come under its influence and lifts them heavenward. Their souls are filled with a joy and peace that is indescribable. Having been touched by this spirit is it any wonder that Relief Society women respond with alacrity to calls for service and sacrifice? Measured by the yardstick of sincerity, devotion to duty, and effectiveness of effort is it any wonder that this is the premier auxiliary organization of the Church? And is not this position of leadership readily granted by the other organizations? Who would wish to take it away from the Relief Society? There is no position too good or too exalted for our devoted mothers and the faithful women of the Relief Society; for these are those who pray: "These are the gifts I ask of Thee, Spirit serene: Strength for the daily task, courage to face the road, Good cheer to help me bear the traveler's load, And, for the hours of rest that come between, An inward joy of all things heard and seen." Missionaries and the Relief Society By May Booth Talmage BY varied means does the Gospel message find its way into the homes and hearts of honest souls who are receptive to its truths. Many of us have heard the thrilling story of Gospel tracts having been carried by wind and wave to distant shores, then gathered up and read by people who became convinced of the truths thus brought to them. Others have first learned the message of Mormonism through sermons printed in newspapers tossed from train or motor car while passing isolated prairie habitation. But the general method of disseminating the truth is through the missionary system which is. Characteristic of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. Accepting in all sincerity the admonition given by the Master—"Go ye into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature" —Latter-day Saint parents find great joy in the successful achievements of their missionary sons and daughters, and ask no greater compensation for the necessary sacrifice of means and companionship than that the one sent shall return with an honorable release. Almost from infancy the desire "to go on a mission" is implanted and nourished in the hearts of children reared in genuine Latter-day Saint homes. In some families a fund is started which is gradually increased through the years, thus making possible a prompt and cheerful response when the call to missionary service comes. NOW, with all this desire to serve and this willing sacrifice of time and money, should there not be equal concern of both parents and children as to the education that will prepare the one who goes to meet the prob-. Lems and add to the efficiency of missionary life? It isa commonly accepted fact that one cannot teach what he does not know. Therefore, our prospective missionaries are given training along lines of theology and fundamental doctrines of the Church. Even more important than understanding of and ability to explain the plan of salvation is a genuine and individual testimony as to its being in very truth the Gospel of Jesus Christ, restored in this the last dispensation prior to the Lord's advent. __ In thinking of essentials in the educational preparation of a missionary the average person has in mind: (1) A testimony as to the Gospel he is to preach being in solemn truth the © Gospel of Jesus Christ; (2) a knowledge of its principles and doctrines; and (3) the ability to present this knowledge clearly and convincingly through conversations while distributing tracts, in travel and by other personal associations, and by public speaking. A young man thus equipped before starting for his mission field would be considered well prepared, and one could wish in all sincerity that every missionary thus setting out might be so fortunate. But there is still another line of missionary activity—vitally important yet seldom mentioned and almost never stressed. It is of this phase I have been asked to write. Not until one has been in charge of activities in mission, district, or branch capacity, does this problem MISSIONARIES AND THE RELIEF SOCIETY arouse the important consideration it deserves. Most missionaries are familiar with some part of the auxiliary work conducted by the Church. The Sunday School is a co-educational organization for religious training, as are the Primary Association and the Seminaries. The first of these has its special missionary class. In the Mutual Improvement Associations all sorts of leisure time activities are stressed and development in leadership is an outstanding feature; but one may safely venture the assertion that not one in fifty of the missionaries sent out has any practical knowledge of the work done by the Relief Societies of our Church. Indeed, if the suggestion be made that a young prospective missionary acquaint himself with the details of Relief Society activity it would be regarded, most likely, as facetious; and yet there is a problem here to be met. It is a recognized fact in the mission field that because of greater spirituality in women than in men, or for other reasons, more women than men become converted and come into the Church. Therefore, as a rule the Relief Society is the strongest organization in a mission branch. Naturally the members try to interest their friends in this work, believing it will bring them under thé Gospel influence and that subsequently they may become attendants at the general Sunday service and develop into sincere investigators. While in the mission field I made numerous inquiries of converts as to what factor had led to their becoming interested in the Gospel; and in far more than a majority of cases I learned that through the helpful ministrations of the Relief Society to neighbors who had illness or were bereaved or in other trouble, the people had become interested in 135 learning more of this ministering agency. Then followed a visit to the Society meeting, and later, membership, which eventually resulted in conversion and baptism. Now, in many small branches the Relief Society, to be successful, must have help from the missionaries. In fact the local Society is under the direct supervision of branch and district presidents who are frequently chosen from among the missionaries. A Relief Society president may have been in office for several years and yet she must consult and cooperate with her branch president, asking his counsel and accepting his advice, as do our Relief Society presidents and bishops who work together at home, but with this difference: A bishop as a rule is a man of judgment and experience who retains his office for years, while a branch president in the mission, if chosen from among the missionaries, may be in charge for a few months or a year at most and may be a young and comparatively inexperienced man. It will be readily seen that if the branch or district president be ignorant of Relief Society work and the problems connected with administration, distribution of funds, etc., he is but poorly qualified to direct and counsel the Relief Society officers in the conduct of their work; and if he be uninformed concerning this important service, and especially if he be lacking in sympathy and tact he may give inadequate or even objectionable counsel and instruction, even such as may be at variance with the advice of his immediate predecessor who may have had a clearer understanding of Relief Society activities. Even, however, when a missionary is not needed as a presiding officer (as is most frequently the case) he is sought after for counsel and helpful suggestions wherever his assignment may take him. Especially is this true in small branches where leadership is scarce or in newly organized Relief Societies, the officers of which may be comparatively new converts. In such instances a missionary finds it necessary to act as class leader until he can help the sisters to grasp the many problems confronting them, assist them in the preparation of their lessons and inspire in them sufficient courage to assume the full responsibility of leadership. On several occasions after giving a talk at conference on the organization and general aims, activities and achievements of this great institution, I have had new missionaries come to express appreciation for their enlightenment and to say in effect: "I had no conception of the importance and magnitude of the work as you have explained it; indeed, I have always thought of Relief Society meetings as gatherings of elderly ladies who like to meet together and sew and gossip." This brings me toan expression of my definite purpose in calling this subject to the attention of Relief Society mothers. Where have missionary boys obtained such distorted ideas of Relief Society objectives? Surely not from mothers who are actively engaged in this work—not from women who on their appointed rounds have gone through sunshine or storm to homes in their district to learn if any were ill or in need of assistance, and to carry a message of cheer to the home-bound, to lend aid when death had come to the family, to drape the stand and otherwise prepare houses of worship for funeral services, and to bring comfort and sustenance to the destitute —Boys from such homes are, at least, acquainted with the spirit of Relief Society affairs through having absorbed it in the home. No derogatory expressions came from boys who through school or business training had helped Mother get out her yearly report as Relief Society secretary, nor from those whose high school or college training had made them able and willing to assist their mother or sister in the preparation of her lessons on the subject of religion, literature or social service. To me it was never difficult to recognize the missionaries who had grown up in an atmosphere of Relief Society ideals and who came from homes in which Relief Society standards had been magnified. In almost all cases we found that when missionaries had an intelligent understanding of and a helpful and sympathetic attitude toward Relief Society work and its officers, the branch was in a fine flourishing condition, and that where these qualities were lacking there was a corresponding dearth of enthusiasm in Relief Society work and in branch activities generally. If these observations and conclusions be true, is it not of paramount importance that children while young and through advancing years shall be given a thorough understanding of the purpose of Relief Society service, aS it was clearly set forth at the time of organization by the Prophet Joseph Smith? It is not sufficient that the young missionary learn a little about Relief Society work during the short period of his stay in the Missionary Home just before his departure for the field. He should have grown up in an atmosphere of appreciation of this organization and be educated in the spirit of helpfulness in the home, the neighborhood and the community. Ts it not worthwhile for mothers to familiarize themselves with the MISSIONARIES AND THE RELIEF SOCIETY scope and magnitude of Relief Society work if their attitude toward it will contribute to the success of these sons for whom they are saving, and hoping and praying that they may "go on a mission?" The work of the Relief Society has a definite relationship to the success or failure of missionaries. Mothers, just what does it mean to you what the outcome shall be? Have the time and money spent, the sacrifice and effort which you have been so ready and willing to make, brought uplift and cheer, comfort 137 and harmony into the hearts and homes of converts, as well as being the means of spreading the Gospel message, and of bringing honest souls to a knowledge of the truth? Are your missionary sons gaining strength and achieving success through an understanding of the Savior's blessed assurance: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me?" Let the answer be a solemn and determined resolution for future action! Manna  By Marguerite Johnson Griffin T had come at last as she had known it eventually would. Their pitifully small savings had melted entirely away, and the last bit of food was being ravenously and cheerfully stowed away in the always hungry stomachs of her three small boys. How could they be so innocently igleeful when dire necessity was staring them in the face? And now Fred and Albert, the two older boys who were in school, had jumped from the table, had quickly donned sweaters and caps, and were squeezing her in a wild embrace. "After school, Mother, we would like to go with Jim Brown on his news route, 'cause if we know something about it maybe we'll be able to get one sometime. Do you mind?" "No." She shook her head, and before she could say more each had plastered an affectionate kiss upon her solemn cheek. "But we'll remember to be here in time for supper!" and away they were gone for a busy school day. Supper? The word sounded a leaden knell in her heart. Always there had been a warm and nourishing isupper, even if an inexpensive one, prepared punctually for her husband and three boys. But tonight—tonight, for the first time. There would be no supper. No supper because their money was all gone, because there was not a scrap of food in the house which any amount of ingenuity might concoct into a dinner dish. "Mummy, I'se frew," called small Dan from his high chair. Mechanically she lifted 'him down. "Mummy, I loves you," he cried, patting her pale cheeks with sticky hands. Convulsively she pressed him tightly to her, while a lump rose in her throat and her eyes smarted with tears she must not shed. Tears which she dare not shed because Ned, her husband, would be coming in the kitchen at any minute now, and his courage had already almost gone; for months he had been unable to get work anywhere. It was only 138 her smile and her constant efforts at cheerfulness which had kept him trying in spite of galling discouragement to find some sort of employment. And so, this morning of all mornings, he must see no tears in her eyes. No tears, though panic was gripping her heart. What a hard job, that of wife and mother! The children could cry when they were hurt and disappointed. Her husband could pour out his aching despondency to her tender ears, but at such times above all they must not know of the terrorizing fear which was clutching at her own soul. She must smile and soothe their woes. But who was there to soothe hers? A feeling of being all alone suddenly encompassed her, and then almost at once she felt ashamed. For there was Ned standing before her, dear, kind Ned, who had always worked hard and provided well, who had always been so kind, so generous and affectionate, whose every thought and consideration had always been for her well-being and the children's. As he took her in his strong, yet gentle, arms she realized how alone she would be without him. After all, what a small task it was just to smile if it kept that demon discouragement from furrowing its lines too deeply in his dear face. "You are pale this morning, Myra. You've been working too hard, trying to keep the wolf away from the door. I know." "Oh, no, Ned. You just imagine it. It's fun economizing." (But not the way you've had to lately, beat ther rebellious heart.) "Tt can't last forever," he replied, and the desperation in his 'voice startled her. "No, of course not, dear," she responded cheerily. 'Come and eat your breakfast." He seated himself at the table. 'would be no supper. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "I don't' believe you have eaten a thing yourself this morning," he said eyeing her keenly. "I don't feel hungry right now," she replied. I bet this is all the mush there "Oh, no. More." She took the pan over to him, and satisfied with what he saw, he began to eat heartily. Little did he know that that had to be saved for the baby's lunch. Small Dan would have a meal at noon even if there No supper! Nothing in the house to eat! The thought beat relentlessly at her temples. And now Ned was through, and was holding her close again. "Have you enough to manage on for today, Honey #"' he asked. She gazed deep into his gray eyes and saw there perplexity, bewilderment, and, most terrifying of all, humiliation. He should know the true state of their affairs, she thought. Perhaps he would be able to do something about it. But what —what could anyone do in times like these when jobs just weren't to be had? A chilling sense of futility swept over her. No. She could not tell him today. She could not see him leave for his daily heartbreak-. Ing search for work, his shoulders sagging and all light of independence crushed from his very soul because of such a worry. No. Today she could not tell him. Tomorrow he would have to know, if—if nothing happened. But—perhaps something would happen. "Yes, I can manage, she answered. She saw a wave of relief sweep the anxiety from his eyes, and she felt thankful for her decision. "I guess our funds are getting pretty low," he returned. MANNA "Yes, they're pretty low," she replied softly. "And they'd have been gone long ago if it hadn't been for your careful management. You've been a brick." He gave her an impulsive squeeze. "But maybe something will happen today." Maybe something will happen today! The words were left ringing in her ears long after his footfalls had faded away. Maybe something will happen today! Strange, the thought stirred no warmth of comfort within her. Instead she felt chilled by the knowledge that nothing could happen. There just weren't any jobs to be had. There was nothing that could happen. Absolutely nothing. Her mind reverted with a discontented longing to better days, to days when Ned had been Chef at the 'Ellison hotel and had drawn a good salary. Three babies and sickness had taken its toll of the income, but they had always managed to save something, if only a little. They had never been extravagant. They had even paid for their home. Why, then, should they be experiencing such hard times now? The Hotel had changed hands a year ago, and in consequence Ned had been let out, because the new owners had most of their own employees, and since that time he had not had one hour's work. There was no opening anywhere for a man of his profession. For a year they had existed merely on the savings of better days now past. For a year Myra had planned and schemed, schemed and planned to prolong the day she knew was inevitable—the day when the money would all be gone. And now it was here. There was nothing in the house for supper. Times were so bad there was no apparent way of providing anything for her little family. And 139 yet, the two oldest boys had gone merrily to school, saying, "We'll be home in time for supper." A rueful smile crossed her face. Bless their hearts! How she used to scold them for being away at play or other activities and then coming late for their meals. She had always liked routine and system, and punctuality. And so they had promised to be home in time for supper. And there would be no supper. But such a fear or thought had never entered their little hearts. She recalled their eyes filled with confidence and love as they looked into hers. They always had had supper. They just naturally expected it. Well, at least they would have a good lunch anyway, and that thought consoled her. Ever since school had begun in the Fall they had worked in the cafeteria and had thus earned their lunches. What a help that had been! What good boys they were! Once again she saw their trusting eyes glowing with—what was the word? Faith. That was it. Faith in her. Faith to the extent of a confident knowledge that they would be home in time for a supper that was prepared for them. Oh, Heavenly Father, surely the faith of innocent children will have its reward! A feeling of calm swept over her. New thoughts filled her brain. It seemed as if someone almost spoke to her, so clearly came the words to her memory: "Unless ye become as a little child—" And then this line was replaced by other fragments. "Ask and ye shall receive—" "But ask in faith—" Faith—That was the thing she and Ned had lacked. For years she and he, in their practicability, had liked to know they were providing for the future. They had liked to feel secure in their savings, in 140 their vision of the future. They had practiced independence to the extent that they had become independent even of the Lord. How clear it was now! All along during this dreary year, they had practiced not one iota of faith. All along she had known the end of their money would come. How could it help but come then? All along Ned had known that jobs were not to be had, that there could not possibly be opportunities for all the restless unemployed. How, then, could he expect to get a job? It was true they had put forth much effort. Ned had tramped the streets for work; she had racked her mind and brain in an effort to be economical and to make things last and do. But there had been no faith behind these works. Even as faith without works is dead, so does it not stand to reason that works without faith might often be futile? Even though the situation seemed dark and despairing, was it impossible for the Lord, who is all powerful, to open channels of opportunity for those who qualified themselves for such help in a sweet, humble, faithful spirit? In all humility she sought her room, and closing the door she fell upon her knees to pour forth her heart in prayer the like of which she had never before uttered in all her life. It was wonderful the calm and the fortitude of spirit with which she was filled during the whole day. She flew about her work ambitiously. Dirty dishes soon were washed. Beds were made, mending done. Little Dan's mush was warmed for his lunch, then he was put to sleep. And though she herself ate nothing all day, she felt no pangs of hunger. Her heart was light and joyous. Something would happen today. She must get everything in order, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for there would be supper to prepare. It was late afternoon when Myra answered a knock at the back door. The lady who lived in the neighboring house stood upon the threshold and she had a covered basket under her arm. "Do you suppose you could use these things?" she asked half apologetically. "There is a pot of soup, and some meat and vegetables which I was going to have for tonight, and then some friends called unexpectedly and insisted that we come to their house for dinner; we are leaving by an early morning train for the East to spend a month with my folks. I just can't let food go to waste so I thought if you could use it—"' Myra's heart bounded within her. If only she knew how well they could use it! Indeed we can, Mrs. Weston. It's almost impossible to fill the stomachs of three growing boys. They are perpetually empty. So we'll appreciate it very much." "Well, I'm so glad you can make use of it. I was afraid perhaps at this late hour you would have had your supper planned or something." Myra smiled. "No. As it happens I've been quite busy today, and I hadn't yet got around to that." Shortly afterward Ned came home with beaming face. "Well, Myra," he said, "I've earned seventy-five cents today, the first money I've made in a year. I guess I'm just a silly kid, getting thrilled over a few cents, but here it is." Myra looked at the three twentyfive cent coins in his big brown hand, and she reflected that he had never been so excited when he had MANNA brought home his two hundred dollar monthly pay check. "Why, I think it's great," she responded. "How did you earn it?" "Putting in a load of wood." "Putting in a load of wood?" she repeated dazedly. "Yes," he replied, almost with pride she thought. "Somehow today it came over me all of a sudden what a boob I've been. Too proud to pick up a few little odd jobs now and then in my search for a real job. But now I'm turning over a new leaf. Anything honest is not too menial for me to do. Why should we search for a steady job, trying to make our future utterly secure, when perhaps we are missing from day to day opportunities, which, though paltry, will with careful management provide the means for our daily livelihood?" "Oh, Dan, you're wonderful," she cried enthusiastically. "And now will you go to the store and get some milk and cereal for the children's breakfast?" That night Fred and Albert were indeed home in time for supper, but the supper far surpassed their expectations. The soup was rich and creamy and smelled delicious. The meat and vegetables were tantalizing as Myra spoke and delayed the asking of the blessing. "First, before we start, I want to tell you all something. This meal which is placed before us has been sent to us like Manna from our Heavenly Father." "But that is what the Lord sent to the Children of Israel," said little Fred. "I know, 'cause we had it in Sunday School. Was it like this?" "No," said Myra gently. "It was not soup and meat and vegetables. But is was food of some sort which they needed, and they had to have faith that He would send enough for each day as it came. They were 141 not allowed to hoard up any for the future. The Lord wanted them to rely upon Him and not entirely upon themselves. That is the thing He wants us to do now in these days. We have been so independent for so long that we have ceased to acknowledge Him as we should for His blessings to us. We have become self-satisfied, and adversities have made us disgruntled and disagreeable, rather than humble, sweet, and faithful. Today, Mother had no money left to buy anything for supper, but the faith of her little boys kindled her own faith, and our Heavenly Father made it so that our neighbor was invited out to dinner, and being unable to use what she had planned, she brought it over for us to use rather than see it waste. And so it came to us when we needed it, like manna came to the children of Israel." "And Mother," said Fred, "the man at the newspaper office gave me a paper route. Donald Freeman, who had it, has moved away, and the man said I could make about twenty dollars a month at it, maybe more if I work hard. That will be like Manna too, won't it?" and his little eyes shone eagerly. "Indeed it will be, son. You may ask the blessing now, and let us all remember to be more thankful than ever before for the many blessings the Lord has given us." Later that evening when the children were tucked away in bed, Myra said to her husband, "You know, Ned, there is so much comfort to be had from the scriptures. We have never studied enough, and I don't think we read with the faith we should. Do you mind if I get the Bible and read a passage to you now?" "No. I'd love to have you," he replied. "Listen to this, then,' she said. 142 "It's from Christ's Sermon on the Mount, taken from Matthew the sixth chapter starting at the twentyfifth verse." She began to read in her soft clear voice, while her face was radiant with faith and a new-found joy. "Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment?" "Behold the fowls of the air: for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your Heavenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they?" She paused, then said, "Yes, the birds gather as they need from day to day. They do not hoard up the good things of the earth like man does, selfishly. They use what they need and leave the rest for the others. There would be no want in the world if man were like that." She turned back to the printed page. "Going on in the thirtieth verse: 'Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith?'" Again she glanced up to say, "Isn't the Lord wonderfully good to us who are so weak and have so little faith?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Therefore take no thought saying, What shall we eat? Or, What shall we drink? Or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed? "(For after these things do the gentiles seek:) for your Heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. "But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and His righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you. She paused. "Don't you see?" she said. "This applies directly to what we must do to obtain the temporal things of life. We must seek the Kingdom of God, through humility, faith and works. We must draw near to our Heavenly Father, and acknowledge His kindness and goodness, and He will provide for us the necessities of life. Perhaps He will not shower great wealth upon us, but grant us sufficient from day to day." "Our Manna," added Ned. "Yes. If we only cultivate the faith and obey the law, we will receive our Manna, no matter how hard the times, even as the Children of Israel did." Ned was deeply impressed. "You are beautiful tonight," he said reverently. "I am happier than I've ever been," she said simply. "The Lord has been so good to us." Play the Game This dress I wear would be all right I would not think my hat a sight, If I just had some others. My coat sleeves would not shine so bright, My soled shoes would not feel so tight If I just had some others. I see one way to end my plight To concentrate with all my might And Make I have some others. —Susan Rey. Our Servants—Words By Ramona Wilcox Cannon WHEN Edmond Rostand wrote his farm-yard phantasy, Chanticleer, he reflected the weaknesses, foibles, and vanities of human society in the persons of the owl, the peacock, the dog, pheasants, cocks, and hens of the animal kingdom. Chanticleer feels quite certain that his daily matinal song, '"cocorico, cocorico," brings up the sun, with all its attendant blessings. Therefore, he sings: with all his might, and makes his task a thing of glory. He sings from his soul, not from a book of rules, and is, consequently, bewildered and astounded when he is assailed at the guinea-hen's five o'clock tea, by selfimportant critics who wish to know all about the technique of his song. Does he use head tones or chest tones, and how about the rhythm? "And", says one impertinent creature, "do you say 'co-co-ri-co' (with the accent on the last syllable) or 'coc-o-ric-o'?" (giving the "c's" their full value, and with the accent on the third syllable. ) This little scene is a biting satire on the critics who think they must analyze the spontaneous beauty out of a work of art, and it also strikes at those carping, captious people who argue endlessly over hair-splitting differences in the meanings of words, or in their pronunciation. Many pedantic societies existed whose members spent much of their time in such intellectual occupations. The precieuses, or blue-stockings", learned women, hungry for fame, were among those at whom Rostrand's satirical shafts were directed. OUR Relief Society organizations will doubtless never become so extremely proficient in abstract mental pursuits that we will be called "blue stockings" or deserve to havea book written about us. The greater danger is that we may fail to utilize all our opportunities to grow mentally. Probably with this thought in mind, our Twentieth Ward president, Sister Vivian R. McConkie, decided to try out a project in our organization by which we could, on work days, keep our brains busy, as well as our fingers. We all need a greater mastery over words. In our language, we have some four hundred and fifty thousand words and phrases, according to the Oxford English dictionary. Shakespeare used fifteen thousand words, Milton, eight thousand. According to George Herbert Palmer, "* * * the average school boy's vocabulary consists of one or two dozen nouns, half-a-dozen verbs, three or four adjectives, and enough conjunctions and prepositions to stick the conglomerate together.'" As to our own vocabularies, we are not obligated to confess, but certain it is that we can all afford to enlarge them. Our Twentieth Ward project is, therefore, to increase our knowledge, use, and enjoyment of the English language. PROBABLY we fail to comprehend what wonderful servants words can be to us. Yet, "a soft answer turneth away wrath," and in many Cases, a wise or clever reply has saved a man's life. It was words *Essay on "Self Cultivation in English." 14 that incited the rabble of Paris to the French Revolution. The words uttered by the Saviour and translated into many languages have prevented many an evil deed, bitterness and bloodshed. They have changed the entire code of living for a large part of the world. We have been told that the pen is mightier than the sword, and in these days of peace conferences, we are trying to prove that statement— to show that nations' differences, like children's, can be settled rationally, without the cost of human life. But what! Wise words are necessary to clarify tangled situations, and shed on them the clear light of justice! To many human beings, words bring a livelihood: the success of the author, journalist, lecturer, attorney, advertising specialist, teacher, depends largely upon his skill with words. Even with women who spend their time in the home, words are of vast importance. The realm of home may be lowly; yet its influence, for good or for ill, reaches into eternity. The mothers—fathers, too—who can RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE teach their children with sufficient force or persuasion to inculcate in their natures lasting desires for righteousness: justice, honor, kindness, purity—have perhaps extracted from life the sweetest thing it has to offer. To do this, the heart and the intelligence must be right, but there is also the need of words to express what the heart and the intellect desire. THESE are only a few suggestions as to why it is profitable for us to struggle to bend words to our will. Our real problem is: how to set about our project. I think four aims might be kept in mind in planning this work. The first one is to correct common errors in the use or pronunciation of words in our every-day vocabularies. The teacher might make a list of such words that she hears either at home or abroad, particularly in Relief Society meetings. Correcting errors made by members, is the very thing that will be certain to help members; and this situation may be handled impersonally. Here is one list of mispronounced words, collected within a few days: Correct grievous (gre'-vus) tremendous (tre-men'-dus) height (hit) biceps (bi'-seps) bison ((bi'-son) fanatic (fa-na'-tic) proletariat (pro-le-tar'-iat simile (si'-mi-le) chef (shef) Incorrect griev-i-ous (very common error in words ending in ous) tre-men-du-us height (obsolete) bi-ceps' bi'-zon fa'-na-tic pro-te-lariat (syllables confused) si'-mil chef hors-de-combat (or-du-comba') horse-de-combat (out of the combat) OUR SERVANTS—WORDS If the last three words in this list seem a little far-fetched, it might be interesting to add that they occurred in the conversation of a ten-yearold boy, within three days. So, it seems that it would behoove "the mothers and older associates of such children to enlarge their own acquaintance with words. We might include in this first aim, also the correcting of common grammatical errors. Frequently certain errors are quite commn to certain localities, and women are often very glad to have their attention called to little mistakes. A course in grammar is a large undertaking of itself, and should be handled separately. But a little drill might be included in these lessons, on using as if instead of like; sue is as tall as I, rather than me'; give it to John and me rather than I; she is one of the girls who look (not looks) well in lavendar; and a few other expressions commonly used incorrectly in all localities. The second aim might be to add new words to our vocabularies of common speech. If each member would bring to meeting one or two words that she has never used before, but is now making an actual part of her thought-consciousness, much mutual benefit would be derived. A third aim is to add to our literary vocabularies, so that we may have a greater command of words for writing or occasional speaking, and so that we may enjoy and appreciate the thoughts of masters of literature. George Herbert Palmer, in speaking of English as a joy, says: "He is unwise, however busy, who does not have his beloved authors, veritable friends with whom he takes refuge in the intervals of work, and by whose intimacy he enlarges, re- 145 fines, sweetens, and emboldens his own limited existence." WORD artists exhaust their vitality, often to the point of having nervous break-downs, in their efforts to create beauty for us. Words are so baffling! They have many nuances, or shades of meaning. They seem, often, to wait a certain fragrance of their own. They may satisfy one's soul as does the lilt of music. Sometimes they leave vague, indefinable little trails of suggestions, like overtones in music. Frequently, they have rather definite connotations, pleasant and unpleasant. One teacher asked her students to write down the first thing they thought of as she read each word in a list. When she came to spinach, twenty out of twenty-five — wrote grit. Words, then, are so subtle and elusive that an artist, creating something fine in literature, must feel with all the delicate fibres of his emotional and intellectual being, to find which ones most truly express his mood or thought. And are we not fortunate if we have sufficient understanding to share such an artist's creations? WE might go one step further, and aim to increase our knowledge of the various activities of life, by learning the meaning of some more or less technical words that pertain to such occupations. Take some of the more simple terms used in literature, for example, such as simile, or metaphor. If these were explained, and the members would make lists from their reading, during the next month, and bring some along, some good, some funny, perhaps, it would enlarge the general understanding and appreciation. Do you like this one: 'The sunset clouds looked like pink sheep in a meadow? *Essay on "Self Cultivation in English." 146 Would you like it better if it read, "The pink sunset clouds looked like sheep, standing in a meadow."? Do you like this one: "The frightened little boy trembled like nervous pudding'? It might be interesting to go into some detail about such processes in art as: steel engravings, woodcuts, etchings, illumination of old manuscripts; and to know the meaning of such words as chiaroscuro, bas-relief, gargoyle, pediment, Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian pillars, Gothic architecture. As to the culinary art, can we order from an elaborate menu card? Would it not be fun to obtain one, and find out all about every item on it, from pronunciation to recipes? There are also many musical terms in current usage, of which we should not be ignorant. We might concentrate on them for a few lessons. May we add a few general suggestions? Most of us, being inert mentally, are rather cruel to certain words. We make of them poor little Cinderellas, who must perform all the labor while the more fancy, elaborate, proud, or haughty stepsisters, remain in all their glory, in our mental drawing-rooms, waiting for the prince to ride by before they deign to show themselves. Take one of them, came. He came into the room. Even to say, "He entered the room, invests him with a degree more of dignity. And how much more pictorial he might be if he walked, limped, dragged himself, rushed, ambled, shuffled, shambled, sauntered, bounced, or stalked into the room. "Her behaviour was awful, or terrible,' says some one. Would one's behaviour inspire awe or terror? Her behaviour might have been haughty, autocratic, ill-bred, arrogant, reprehensible, insulting, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE irritating, rude, overbearing, uncouth, unmannerly. Another excellent plan is to translate slang phrases into appropriate English. For J bet, may be substituted, "I venture or I venture to say; for 'm in a fix, or I'm in a pickle, or I'm in a quandary, predicament, or dilemma. One slang phrase might be assigned for the following lesson, so all could have time to think or work on it. This project has been tried once in the Twentieth Ward. All the Sisters were interested, and the class seemed to be very much worth while. The lesson was informal and spontaneous, and successful because so many of the members took part. Our attention was called to the fact that we commonly mispronounce Melchisedick, which should be pronounced as it is spelled; genealogy, the a being pronounced as in am: adult, the accent being on the last syllable. The word eleemosynary was brought up, and its pronunciation and meaning checked. We used it in several sentences, bearing in mind its meaning of charitable with the connotation of benevolent. One sentence was: There are eighteen eleemosynary organizations working in cooperation with the Community Chest. This added to our general information as well as our knowledge of words. Mr. Funk's recent list of the ten most beautiful words in the language was discussed; dawn, hush, lullaby, murmuring, tranquil, mist, luminous, chimes, golden, melody, and a few added from other lists as seasands, slumberous, ballad, modesty, innocence, serenity. This led to a discussion of onomatopoetic words, which are echoic or imitative of the sound they stand for as bow-wow, hiss, sizzle, murmur, lullaby. Might we not stretch a point and include melody and serenity? We were un- OUR SERVANTS—WORDS expectedly led into the art terms, caryatids (draped female figures used in place of columns, to support an entablature) and telemones, (male figures used for the same purpose). (Pronounced car-y-a'-tide, and tel-e-mo'-nes). We took up some similes from a well known author, that are so forced as to be rather ludicrous. We plan to take up some more next time by the same author, that' are very beautiful. One sister asked for some drill on seen and saw, and in answer to that, some one suggested that an old teacher of hers had said that seen was rather a weak sister who didn't step out alone. She had always to be accompanied by have, has, or had, or one of its relatives. If other organizations should plan to take up this work, here are a few suggestions for teachers: The real aim of the class should be to teach people to use a dictionary. The one used in the University of Utahis Webster's Collegiate Dic- 147 tionary, Fourth Edition of the Merriam Series. This may be purchased for $3.50, and is an excellent acquisition to any home without an unabridged dictionary, or to a Relief Society library. Word Study is a little magazine that may be, obtained by writing the G. And C. Merriam Co., Springfield, Mass: This gives lists of words being accepted into good colloquial usage, and much other valuable information, and is sent without cost. One text book. On vocabulary-building is the Century Vocabulary Builder. Archbishop Trench has an interesting little booklet, On the Study of Words, in which he discusses such matters as the history of words, poetry of words, and the like. Two words of advice: Use all new words in sentences, again and again. Suggest that as many directions as possible be given about the sewing before the vocabulary work begins, so that the competition will be no more than necessary. The Story of the College of Opportunity By Lydia Burrows The following pageant and program was Ward, Mount Ogden Stake, Music 1. Improve the Shining Moments. (Congregation. ) 2. Those Songs my Mother Used to Sing. (Chorus.) 3. Cast Thy Bread Upon the Waters. (Sacrament. ) 4, Prayer Perfect. Sacrament. ) 5. Home Sweet Home. (During beginning of Reading.) (Chorus— Characters and Stage The stage setting: There are five Work and Business Ladies, three presented at the conference of the Fifth Ogden, Utah. Seated at a table on one side of the stage and two working on colorful work on the other side of the stage. The stage is decorated with pretty work that has been done in the work and business meetings. Reader: Home, Home is not built of brick and stone; it needs something to endear it. Home is where the heart can bloom and some kind word to cheer it. All the good things of life, are brought into the sacred place where we live, our home. Yes, in youth we feel that life is so full of joy and pleasure. We're given 148 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ee PAGEANT, COLLEGE OF OPPORTUNITY every advantage and opportunity. Not until we reach the age of twenty or twenty-five do we realize we are not as accomplished as we thought we were. Then we begin to wish for an opportunity to keep abreast of the times, in Religion, Art, Drama, Literature, Psychology, Home-making, last but not least we long for some social contact to satisfy these longings. If we were to open a door to satisfy these longings and only admit a select few, how we would long to enter and enroll. We have such a college of opportunity right here in our midst. The door is open to all who wish to enter. Cost, yes, $1.00 per year for the text-book, or magazine which comes as a messenger of light; filled with love and inspiration; going over land and sea, bringing tidings of joy, culture and refinement to the remotest hamlet of the world. Uniting them all together in one common interest. From this college are sent out once a month two ladies. (Two ladies enter from the side and walk leisurely to their place on stage.) Rain or shine they call upon each family in their designated group to make sure that no one is in need, to aid in case of sickness or trouble, and to receive any contribution to be used for those in distress. Absolute want is almost impossible, as is neglect in the case of sickness or death. No one can feel friendless or alone. Psychology, Social service, and influencing human behavior. (Three ladies enter, Matron, Old lady, and School girl.) There's no time limit set for learning, we learn from the cradle to the grave: Why do people remain far below their limit of efficiency even when it is decidedly to their interest to climb, to approach the goal? We may be found among those who will be counted as creative forces in the society of tomorrow. 'Tis said: 'New occasions teach new duties. Time makes ancient good uncouth They must upward still and onward Who would keep abreast of Truth." The things we long for most of all, such as travel, society, may answer to our earnest call. As memory takes back a panorama extending over the entire globe, showing the high points in the age-old endeavor of man to entertain his fellow creatures. There has been no break in STORY OF THE COLLEGE OF OPPORTUNITY the tradition of tale-telling. The story is a fundamental need in the heart of men and women, today, as of old. In our Literary Dept., we've covered a period of nearly five thousand years. We've traveled in Egypt, read the first stories ever written. As we recall now, some of the wonderful visits we have had with choice folks who lived long ago. They have left for us monuments in the great masterpieces of art. These master minds and artists have caught the gleam and tried to interpret in harmony, in color, in form and in word for our benefit. We have added to our list of friends, choice new ones such as Madame Schumann Heink. (Enters in costume and sings lullaby.) We have traveled in Venice where the streets are as a mirror and the quietness is almost sublime. We have visited Sunny Italy—the land of song. (Neapolitan Nights.) Met some of the greatest living novelists of our day, Willa Cather, Sarah Orne Jewet, Bess Streeter Aldrich and others. Renewed our acquaintance of Martha Washington, first lady of the land, George Washington, father of our country. (Minuet, softly.—George W. Enters from right of stage and Martha W. From left. They meet in the center of the stage and curtsey. Steps up two steps onto platform and curtsey again. The flag is unfurled at the back of stage. The Star-Spangled Banner is played, audience arises and sings one verse and chorus.) I am sure when the time comes for the last curtain to fall on the drama of life, and we pass from this sphere of action we will be able to meet, know and converse with these wonderful characters sometime, somewhere. "Tis said man shall not live by bread alone. Religion plays an im- 149 portant part in our nation, country, and home. Home, no matter where we go, what we do, we always return back home with our gain, be it temporal or spiritual. We have studied the Bible, the book of the Jews. (Naomi and Ruth enter and take their places on the stage.) The Book of Mormon, the history of the people who inhabited this continent. The people with the red-skins, our brothers and sisters. (Enter the Indian Chief in full dress. He crosses stage and beckons to others and four more Indians follow onto stage.) (The Nephite Lamentation—Cornet back stage. ) Now for the next three years, we will have the privilege of studying the Doctrine and Covenants, the book of laws, and revelations. Telling us how to live, why we are here, and where we are going. (I Need Thee Every Hour—very softly.) Christ said, (Spirit enters and kneels in center of stage in the attitude of prayer to conclusion): "Seek ye first the Kingdom of Heaven and all else shall be added. The name of our college of opportunity is Relief Society; which makes better homes, better wives, better mothers, and better children. Tis like a book The members are the leaves The Presidency the covers That protecting beauty gives. At first the pages of the book Are blank and purely fair But time soon writeth memories And painteth pictures there. Love is a little golden clasp That bindeth up the trust Oh! Break it not, lest all the leaves Should scatter and be lost. Closing song, Prayer,—Curtain. Prohibition DETERMINED effort is being made to repeal the 18th amendment and to have the liquor laws of the states changed so that the sale of beer and wines will be legalized. It behooves those who stand for this amendment and who are eager to keep the ground gained in the fight against the liquor evil to let their voices be heard in legislative halls. The Relief Societies, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations and the Primary organizations in connection with all interested in the movement have held meetings in many stakes and have sent word to their state legislators that they look to them hoping they will sustain all dry legislation. The following resolutions were adopted unanimously at the meeting held at' Roosevelt, Utah. On motion of J. F. Hoyt the following resolutions were adopted unanimously: Whereas, there are now under consideration before the legislative bodies of the Nation and the States, proposals to annul constitutional and legal restrictions on the liquor traffic; Therefore be it resolved, by the citizens of Roosevelt, Utah, in mass meeting assembled this second day of February, 1933, that we are unalterably opposed to the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution, and of similar provisions of the Utah Constitution: (1) We oppose relieving the spirit of depression by drugging the needy with beer. (2) We oppose aiding any movement to enrich capitalists advertising the allurements of alcoholic drinks that will and do debase manhood and womanhood. (3 We oppose trading the souls of our children for the relief of tax burdens. Be it further resolved that copies of these resolutions be sent to each of our Congressional and Legislative representatives. President Robison has ably served as Chairman for the State of Utah for the Woman's Union for Political Action. Following a meeting at the Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City, Feb. 2, 1933, the following telegrams were sent: Salt Lake City, Utah, Feb. 2, 1933. Senator Reed Smoot, United States Senate, Washington, D. C. Mass meeting of women representing twenty women's organizations desire to express to you their sincere appreciation for your consistent and courageous defense of prohibition and all movements for moral betterment. You have stood for the protection of the firesides of our country and we express our gratitude. LOUISE Y. ROBISON, Chairman for the State of Utah, Woman's Union for Political Action. Salt Lake City, Utah, Feb. 2, 1933. Senator William E. Borah, United States Senate, Washington, D. C. Mass meeting women representing twenty women's organizations State of Utah desire to express to you their sincere appreciation of your consistent and courageous support of Eighteenth Amendment. You are defending the ' homes, the women and the children of the nation and we desire you to know that we recognize our defender. LOUISE Y. ROBISON, Chairman for the State of Utah, Woman's Union for Political Action. Salt Lake City, Utah, Feb. 2, 1933. Senator William H. King, United States Senate, Washington, D. C. Mass meeting of twenty women's organizations in Assembly Hall tonight desire to express their deep conviction that the repeal of Eighteenth Amendment would be a serious blow to the home, the womanhood and the childhood of the nation and their earnest prayers that you will find it possible to resist all attempts to weaken or destroy the efforts of women to banish the liquor traffic. LOUISE Y. ROBISON, Chairman for the State of Utah, Woman's Union for Political Action. The Relief Society stands for the retention of the 18th Amendment and for the rigid enforcement of all liquor laws. Your Home Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke THE FIXED BACKGROUND IN the previous articles we have considered some of the fundamental principles which underly all art. We can now begin to apply these rules to the problems of home furnishing and decoration. The basis from which to begin the decoration of a room is the fixed background. This includes the walls, ceiling and floor, and all of the openings and penetrations into. The room as doors, windows, fireplaces, built-in bookcases and cupboards! In fact, anything that is fixed and immovable. These are the only items of a room's decorative furnishings that cannot be picked up, moved about or carried away. The treatment of this architectural setting may make or mar the room. If it is not intelligently handled, no matter how good the furniture, or how lovely the draperies and rugs or other furnishings, the room will not be beautiful. This is absolutely true. In a large percentage of rooms which are failures the fault is in the treatment of the background. Therefore, make this right before doing anything else. Any other procedure would be like putting the cart before the horse. If there is only a limited amount to be spent, it will prove economy in the end to spend more on the background. Movables can always be added from time to time. If the room is plain, without any particular architectural distinction you have a clear field in which to work, to use any desired furnishings or scheme. If, however, there are certain features that demand consideration, you must work out your scheme in conformity to them. For example, the walls might be of rough plaster, with fumed oak woodwork, beamed ceiling and a brick or stone fireplace. Into such a room you could not put fine mahogany furniture and expect a harmonious then into that room you must put furnishings in agreement with the background, which in this case would require oak or walnut furniture of rather strong character. Often the background seems irredeemably bad, but if you examine it, the fault will usually be in some architectural detail, or in the proportions of the room. Try to locate the chief defect, remove or remedy that, if possible. Usually the one bad feature removed will make the rest of the room appear right. A background that lacks character may often be improved by minor changes: rearrangement of openings, addition of a cornice at the angle between wall and ceiling, by installing an attractive door in place of one of bad design, by panelling the walls, or addition of a dado (wainscoat) of wood, or merely a chair rail. If there is a fireplace it is usually the most conspicuous feature. One of fine design and proportions will add greatly to the charm of a room, but the whole effect will be ruined if the design is clumsy or poor. It can often be remedied by the removal of meaningless carvings, grillwork, and decoration. And may I add here if you have a built-up fireplace open it, or if there is any way you can add one to your room do so, for the hearth is the symbol of home and 152 has been through the ages, and is one of the greatest assets a room can have. If the proportions of the room are bad there are a few camouflages that might be employed. In a room with low ceiling that you wish to appear higher create vertical lines by means of striped wallpaper, vertical panelling, long drapes, etc. Horizontal lines by means of wall paper, panelling dado, cornice and chair rail reduce the apparent height. As a rule lowness and horizontal lines make for repose and tranquility; height creates a formal and stiff atmosphere. Plain spaces make a room look larger, large pattern decreases the apparent size. Mirrors in a room not only add a decorative note which is lovely but give an effect of spaciousness. Because the walls constitute such an important part of the area of a room it is essential that they be handled with care. They are the keynote of the entire decorative scheme. They must be harmonious, serviceable and beautiful (and of a beauty that is livable). They are architectural and structural and should look that way—firm. And strong—flat and upright—to be the convincing: vertical boundaries of the room. William Morris says: "Whatever you have in your rooms, think first of the walls, for they are that which makes your house and home, and if you don't make some sacrifice in their favor you will find your chambers have a kind of makeshift, lodginghouse look about them, however rich and handsome your movables may be." Attempts at wall decoration date from earliest history. They were man's first response to the inherent desire for the beautiful and were used with little or no regard for: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE their surroundings. As knowledge and education progressed walls were seen to be an integral part of the whole scheme of room decoration and were treated with greater care. At first this was evidenced in the paintings and tapestries hung on the walls, and were only within the reach of the wealthier class. But thanks to modern methods of production beautiful wall decorations have been made available for everyone. There are two possibilities open for the treatment of walls—they may be treated either as backgrounds or as decoration in themselves. They must be one or the other, they cannot be both. Before you can proceed with your decoration it is absolutely necessary to decide which one it shall be and then never swerve from this purpose. Many rooms are complete failures because they do not observe this rule. If the first course is chosen, the walls must be of such an unobtrusive character in color, pattern and texture that they will be a good background for whatever is hung or placed against them. Background walls include plain plastered, painted and kalsomined walls, plain papers or those with unpronounced pattern, stone and panelling devoid of carving and decoration. If walls are to be of decorative character then in pattern, color and material they may furnish decoration and interest, but pictures, tapestries and other wall hangings must be kept off them, and tall wall furniture should be dispensed with as far as possible. Decorative walls include most patterned wallpapers, landscapes, scenics, decorated plaster, and panels with carving and decoration although the latter may have a painting or mirror hung on YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL them if space is specially designed for it. There are many kinds of walls and wall treatments:—stone, plaster, panelled, painted, paper, fabric and trelliage. I will only take up in detail those which are practical for the average home. Stone walls belong to the large rooms of the Renaissance period. They are, as a rule, not suitable for small homes, but they are occasionally jused in sun porches, and basement rooms. They give a lovely effect of light and shadow, and unless the joints of the stone and colors are jof peculiar interest such walls make jgood backgrounds. Brick walls would also come under this same classification. An interesting treatment for such walls as these (as well as plaster walls and timber walls and beams in Early American rooms) is whitewash. 'There is really no such thing as a pure white wall as the play of light produces colors in all the tints of gray, green, blues, pinks, violets and yellows. A whitewash that will not rub off is the "Lighthouse" Mixture: Slake half a bushel of lime with boiling water, cover during; the process to keep in the steam. Pour through fine strainer and add to it a peck of salt dissolved in warm water, three pounds of ground rice boiled to a thin paste and stirred in while hot, half a pound of Spanish whiting and one pound of clear glue, previously dissolved by soaking in cold water, and then hanging over a slow fire in a small pot hung in a larger one filled with water. Add five gallons of hot water to the mixture, stir well and let it stand a few days covered from dirt. To be applied hot. Wood panelled and partially panelled walls are lovely. It seems as if there is magical quality in wood that appeals to us. It gives an effect of warmth, strength, dignity and charm toa room. Wood panelling is coming once more to the fore 153 by the use of pine in copying old Colonial interiors. Wood was used for finishing the interior walls of the earliest houses in the American Colonies before the use of plaster became common. Wood iis not as expensive as is often supposed and the first cost is practically the last. If you are intending to build or remodel consider a wood panelled room, if not all, at least a dado, which may be left natural or painted. 'Often mere horizontal boarding is very effective, especially in Colonial rooms. Manufacturers are making these panels, dados, cornices, mouldings, mantels and built-in units in stock sizes which are much more economical to buy. Then too, there is a new product on the market, a thin veneer of wood on a foundation of burlap or other similar material 'which can be applied to the walls as paper and the stile and rails may be of the solid wood to match. This may be waxed and rubbed to the mellow tones of old walls and the cost is comparatively small. This wood panelling may cover the entire wall, it may be to within a yard or so of the ceiling, or it may be a dado, or the dado and the fireplace end of the room. It may be of different materials, oak, walnut, beach, pine, chestnut, gumwood, and often painted. French and English Renaissance 'interiors require walls of oak and walnut, either entirely or partially panelled. Elizabethan panelling was of small square oak panels and extended to the ceiling. In Colonial America the panelling was frequently of pine or other native woods in natural finish and waxed, but more often painted in light or greyed tones as white, grey, oyster, ivory, green and blue-green. 'This 'was_ especially used in the Georgian period. Pine vertical boarding is suitable to Early American rooms. 154 There is a beauty and distinctiveness about panelling that is hard to achieve in any other kind of interior finish. It marks the smart interior today as it did a century or more ago. A simple and inexpensive means of panelling a wall is by means of canvas and picture moulding, and can be done by any capable woman. It is suitable to large or small rooms and as a background for most every kind of furnishing. Decorator's canvas, unbleached muslin, or special products made for this purpose are pasted on the walls, entirely covering them. They are then divided into the spaces desired. If the walls are high enough, have a dado about to and one-half or three feet from the floor, a cornice at the angle between the wall and ceiling and a baseboard. If the room is low leave out the dado and cornice, although a cornice, if nothing more than a picture moulding is desirable in most cases. The walls are divided into panels, the width and length depending upon the wall space. It is well not to have too many different sizes, or cut up the wall space too much as it gives a feeling of restlessness. Make a panel to fit the smallest wall space, leaving a suitable margin at sides, top and bottom; then use this as a unit, repeating it or making the larger panels two or three times its size. Distinctive schemes can be worked out by making a model to scale of the walls of your room and trying different effects. Panels over doors and windows should have four mouldings. Do not use the top of the door or window trim for one side. In selecting mouldings try to get them of graceful and pleasing design. Give them one coat of paint before putting on wall. Mitre the corners and nail on with small brads, then cover brads with putty before painting final coat. (The mouldings RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE may be applied directly to wall, instead of on canvas, if it is in good condition and there is no danger of it cracking.) The whole wall is then painted and may be done in different ways, paint mouldings and wall alike, or tthe mouldings a tone lighter or darker than the walls, or a contrasting color. The first' is the most satisfactory, or the mouldings might be a tone darker than the panels. In French rooms gold was often used on the mouldings. Contrasting mouldings usually give a gaudy, theatrish look to a room. The panels themselves are often made more decorative by stippling, glazing or antiquing, or by the use of paper or fabrics. May I suggest here a very fine method of keeping painted walls, whether panelled or plain, and also the rough texture walls in excellent condition? That is, after the final coat of paint has dried thoroughly, apply a starch dressing. This will not only tone down the walls to a uniform finish, but will catch the dirt, and when they are washed the starch will wash off, bringing the dirt and smoke, and the walls are left clean and fresh. Another starch coat is then put on. In this way the 'walls are kept as beautiful as new. This method is used by high class decorators in the very finest homes and apartments. The recipe and directions for this dressing are as follows: A handful of ordinary laundry starch should be put into a pail with just enough cold water to dissolve it. When the starch is all in solution, add a little boiling water, until the starch becomes thick and of jellylike consistency. The starch will be perfectly clear when it is mixed in this manner, and the next step is to pour cold water into the mixture until it is about as thick as milk. It is then ready to brush on the wall with an ordinary flat wall brush. A pinch of dry color may be added to the starch to YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL tint it slightly like the wall color. This should be mixed into the starch before the final thinning and thoroughly stirred. These directions must be followed carefully for best results. If cold 'water is used the starch is not cooked and will leave a white powder on the walls. It is unwise to use a starch coat on walls or ceiling which have been painted with only one coat over an old darker surface, as thin places, laps and streaks will show, but starching on two or three coat jobs 155 c and upon fine jobs of decoration is well worth what little it costs. Next month we will consider other methods of wall treatment, as well as ceilings and woodwork. I hope that I shall be able to help you in your wall problems and that I have impressed upon you the necessity for a right background so that costly mistakes and experiments are avoided. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon SEARCH under the snow for the first violet, scatter crumbs on the ground for the red breasted robin if you would know the thrill of spring's awakening. Then with the lark sing a joyous song: MRS. MARY PRIESTLY of St. Pierce, Fla., is City Manager, while Mrs. Eloise Brown of Charlotte, N. C., holds the position of sergeant of police. RHEA CLYMAN has been expelled from Russia because of a series of articles in London papers. FPITH WHARTON'S novel, "The Gods Arrive," is one of the most popular of the new books. Dr. EMMA M. DENKENGER'S "Elizabeth and Leicester," is just published by Bretanos. RIO DE JANEIRO is the latest country to.*grant suffrage to women. LORENCE KELLY, famed humanitarian and social reformer, died recently in Philadelphia. ORWIN, Ohio, has a woman mayor and all city jobs filled by women. That they all received a second term would indicate efficiency in office, MRS. LOUISE Y. ROBISON and Mrs. Ruth May Fox of Utah, presidents of two of the largest organizations affiliated with the National Council of Women have joined forces with the Woman's Union for Law Enforcement in the effort to prevent any legislation either state or national that would weaken or repeal the 18th Amendment. Alice STONE BLACKWELL, daughter of the pioneer suffragist, Lucy Stone, writes, "From the sewing circle to the President's Cabinet in 100 years, may sound like a dream but it is the probable achievement of the American wom- 39 an. HE National League of Women Voters in a recent survey has found 87,506 women have held Federal executive office in the last twelve years. The greatest surprise is the number of women in the foreign service as they are well represented both in the diplomatic and consular service. 156 PROFESSOR ELIZABETH BAKER of the department of economics at Columbia University suggests the establishment of a tempo of new machine installations so that the complimentary social and economic changes may be made at the same pace. ISS JOAN PAGE and Audrey Sale-Barker, English aviatrices, found a new use for the lip stick when they crashed in a dense African jungle. With the crimson stick they wrote a note and sent it by a Masao herdsman to a village for aid. LADY BAILY and Amy Johnson Mollison were both reported lost while on flight towards Cape Town. These daring English women kept the officials of two continents in a state of anxiety for several days. GARAH TEASDALE, the poet, is dead but always will she live for those who love the melody of her rhythmic verse. Miss ELIZABETH MARBURY died recently and because of her high talents and useful life one of the most noteworthy funerals ever held in New York RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was held for her, attended by state and city officials, writers, actors and other professionals and yet she counted her life a failure for she had often said, "The only real success for woman is to marry, have children and fa home." EDITH SITWELL has just published a delightful novel called "Bath" in which she depicts in a most entertaining and delightful way the social glory of that delightful watering place of England in the 18th Century. ROSA PONSELL is going to her, mother's native land to sing at the great music festival in Florence, Italy. While there she is to be presented to Mussolini. CORNELIA OTIS SKINNER, Ruth Draper and Dorothy Sands are three of the foremost women who are bringing back the classic drama in a form of monologue. This idea of the one woman theatre has cast a spell on lovers of dramatic art and the theatres where they play are filled, night after night and week after week. It is one of the marvels of this jazz age when three women have taken to themselves the whole field of the art called theatre. A Most Important Position By Rosannah C. Irvine HAVE you seen an athlete in training? Have you watched his muscles strain? Have you noticed how the tasks are made constantly more difficult? How accomplishing one strenuous feat, he is still not satisfied and strives for even greater results? How day by day he sets himself to harder work? And how day by day he gains skill and strength? He is willing to renounce pleasure, ease, comfort, leisure, society, everything that would be a handicap to his ambition. He does not implore his trainer, as people often pray to God, to make his work light, to give him comfortable, effortless drilling. He accepts his punishment and {begs for more. He discovers early in the game the joy of achievement. His desire is to win even at the greatest of personal sacrifices. Sometimes he fails. He does not give up. He does not sulk and whine. He begins again and tries harder than ever. He takes on added hardship, greater handicaps; more rigid discipline. He glories in action, in effort, in struggle.. Spiritual achievement requires more stamina and greater sacrifice than the acquiring of physical prowess. It sometimes happens that' one is endowed with the rare quality which characterized the Savior,— the ability to love others better than self. Flashing through the crowded pages of history like brilliant meteors at night they fill the soul of the onlooker with awe and wonder. Today the eyes of the world are turned toward India and the little, invincible Mahatma Gandi. A hunger strike to the death is not glamorous and 'romantic. One may disagree with the policy of the Mahatma. 'No one doubts the sincerity of his sacrifice. One-may question his wisdom. No one questions his motive. Jesus said, "Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends." Another East Indian of much earlier date, five centuries before the birth of jour Lord, was Gautama, the founder of Buddhism. Wealth, position, and power failed to blind him to the suffering of this fellow men. His faithful attendant tried to pacify him. "Such is life" he said. 'We live and suffer and then we die." The East Indian philosophy is that to attain perfection it is necessary to scourge the body. The greater the pain and self sacrifice one endures the sooner one reaches the blessed state of Nirvana, a condition corresponding to our Heaven. Imbued with this spirit of asceticism Gautama renounced everything worldly. 'By acquiring control of his appetites and passions he gained spiritual power. Like our Savior he was tempted. Like the Christ he resisted temptations. The creed he taught and practiced was similar to the Gospel of Jesus. Unfortunately it has been distorted and mutilated until it bears little resemblance to his original teaching. Grace Darling, the young daughter of a lighthouse keeper, saw a ship wreck in a wild sea. Through her spy glass in the early dawn she could distinguish people clinging to masts and spars. She begged her father to try to save them. To him it seemed a futile effort. He felt sure that it would be a useless sacrifice of their own lives. They could never reach the sufferers. Finally, 158 however, her pleading won his consent. He and she ventured out in a little frail boat on the tumultuous ocean. By superhuman effort and the blessing of God they made three trips and rescued nine people from death. At this distant date the life of Joan of Arc is enveloped in an aura of enchantment and romance that grows with the years. She loved her country and her people better than she loved her own life. There must have been real inspiration in her dreams and the voices that she heard to have sustained her through her many trials and on the funeral pyre. Courageously and uncomplainingly she died. Without bitterness toward those who had caused her death, without loss of faith in the God whom she adored, she gazed heavenward with a prayer on her lips as the cruel flames devoured her. Father Damien, a Catholic priest, went to the Sandwich Islands in the middle of the last century to ease the suffering of the outcasts in the leper colony. He fell a victim to the terrible disease himself and died in his noble effort to save others. One cannot contemplate the lives of such: characters without being spurred into a new determination to do likewise. To read the histories of great people is thrilling. To emulate their example is wonderful. How would we act if we could visualize the 'Savior at our side in the flesh, gazing at us with His all seeing eyes, listening to our words, being cognizant of our most secret thoughts? How many hasty words would remain unspoken! How many unkind thoughts would perish before they were formed! We cannot but believe that our lives are an open book before Him. The thought too often fails to impress us. We formerly had the idea that in the last RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE judgment we would be confronted with a written record of our deeds in this life. An account kept by an ever present, vigilant recording angel. In these modern times when the radio, television, and other marvels are becoming so common as to no longer be regarded as miraculous, we feel that perhaps our lives may unfold before us much as a moving picture is shown upon the screen. Possibly we 'will need no greater punishment for our misdeeds. The Visiting Teachers have the greatest opportunity of any group in the world to fulfill the admonition of Jesus. These righteous women are in a peculiarly strategic position. They are the contact arm of the organization. They visit the widow and the fatherless. They can carry comfort and solace to the distressed. They can inspire and bless those whom they meet. If all these sisters are really filled with the spirit of Christ consider the quality of their work! Contemplate the results! If they can actually feel 'Jesus at their side as a companion on their visits what an inspiration it must be to fulfill His divine will! Jesus was so charged with the spirit of God that a woman who had been ailing for twelve years merely touched the hem of His garment and was instantly healed. Every member of His church is entitled to a degree of that same spirit. The most impressive words in the ritual of the church are those pronounced in the confirmation: "Receive ye the Holy Ghost." It is at once a promise and a command. It is the thing above all things that we should remember. If every 'Visiting Teacher has her full share of the Holy Ghost what peace, contentment, faith, power to face life courageously will surely inspire the hearts of those whom she visits! A gardener once gave this advice A MOST IMPORTANT POSITION to an inquiring friend, "Plant so many flowers that there will be no room for weeds." A mind overflowing with sweet thoughts will be free from vicious ones. Kindness, sympathy, and love will displace envy, selfishness, and intolerance. Every person must be! His own gardener. No one can get inside of another's mind and rid it of weeds and rubbish. A friend may admonish, advise and exhort; but every person must do his own cultivating and weeding. As an organization we are great visitors. Practically every Relief Society member is at some time in her life a Visiting Teacher. Many hours: are spent in this gracious service. However, in all our visiting there is one person who is too often neglected,—Self. How often do you sit down and' have a confidential chat with yourself? Are you well acquainted with that most important person yourself? You are really worth knowing. Did it ever occur to you to have a heart to heart talk with yourself? Have you learned to admit your faults to yourself? Have you tried giving yourself advice? If you learn to know and appreciate yourself 'you will be surprised to discover what a delightful and companionable creature you can be. You are the one person in the world of whom you never tire. You can become cordially good friends with yourself. You can be perfectly frank without giving offense. You can call attention to your good points and abilities without being considered a flatterer. You can be on such 159 intimate terms with yourself that you can without fear or favor tear down, build up, change, re-construct. Review the mistakes of the day, and make new resolutions for the future. You are your very best friend. You can be honest and severe. You can be sympathetic and understanding. In analyzing yourself you will find many capabilities and excellent qualities that you had not suspected you possessed. The combination of yourself for and against yourself is a remarkable thing. These visits should be frequent. They can be made very delightful as well as profitable. Learn to visit yourself and you will never be lonesome or bored. And being good friends with yourself will make for friendship toward others and for appreciation of their abilities, handicaps, trials and efforts. Twenty thousand cheerful, kind, saintly women carrying peace and comfort and courage to the downhearted and unfortunate will do much to lighten the gloom of the present world condition. We are experiencing an era of unusual hardship. Can we make it a blessing? Can we accept the trial of poverty and discomfort as a beautiful experience? Can we consider it a test of strength? Can we develop spiritually through strain and effort? Adversity is a wonderful teacher. Adversity makes for strength. If at the end of the day we are not stronger, more capable, more patient and Christlike; if at the end of the day the world is not better and happier for our having lived, then that day we have lived in vain. Big Sister: "And did you let little Tommy play with your sled half of the time?" Johnnie: "Oh, yes, we divided up—didn't we, Tommy? You see, he played with it going up hill, and I played with it going down!" A Teacher's Visit in Early Days By Edna May Irvine CHARACTERS: Dicey Brown and Mary Ann Williams, Relief Society teachers, Sarah Jane, housewife, and her mother, Sister Richards. SCENE: 'An old-fashioned combination kitchen and dining room. Dining table prepared for ironing, water bucket and dipper on bench or stand, old chairs, homemade rugs, etc. As curtain rises, Sarah Jane is discovered ironing and her mother is seated, sewing carpet rags. Sarah Jane: My, it's hot ironing. Mother: It ud be a lot worse if the stove wasn't in the shanty. Sarah Jane: Yes, it would, but it makes a lot of extra steps and the irons cool off while I'm carrying them in., Mother (preparing to rise): Let me change you off for a while. Sarah Jane: No, you sit still. I'm getting along all right. I'm thankful you're able to knit and mend. And sew rags again, and I do want to get that carpet done so I can have a quilting in the Fall. Mother: Yes, we must get it finished before then. Sarah Jane: I think you'd better have a little sage tea, Mother, your color isn't very good yet. I'll get you some. (Sarah Jane gets tea either from cupboard or shanty.) I must remember to have the children bring in some more sage, too. (Sarah Jane exits to change iron; returns presently with fresh iron and a copy of the "Woman's Exponent."') Mother: The News hasn't come already, has it? Sarah Jane: No, this is the "Woman's Exponent." Sam's just come from the Post Office. Says he saw Dicey Brown and Mary Ann Williams out gathering for the Relief Society. They'll be coming here pretty soon. Wonder what I'll give 'em? Guess I can spare a pound of butter, though the cow getting bloated has run me kinda short. Mother: Yes, I think we can spare some butter even if we have to go a little short ourselves. There's no blessing without sacrifice, you know. Give them a piece of that calico you got to make me a dress. It will be nice for a sunbonnet for some poor soul. Sarah Jane: If I do I'll have to leave one ruffle off your dress, but that ud be one less to iron so 'twould be a double blessing. Mother (reading paper): Here's another poem by Eliza R. Snow. She is a wonderful woman. (Reads poem. ) Sarah Jane: That is lovely. It's a good thing we have writers to relieve the monotony of our busy lives. I'll bet this is Dicey and Mary Ann now. Dicey (calling and knocking): 'Anybody home? Mother and Sarah Jane: come right in. (The two women enter each carrying a large market basket well filled. Greetings are exchanged, chairs placed, etc.) Yes, Sarah Jane: You are certainly loaded today. Mary Ann: Aren't we though? Si Hibberd said he'd give us a load of hay if we'd take it with us. Dicey: You're sewing carpet rags for a change, Sister Richards. Mother: For a change! Seems like I'll never be through sewing carpet rags. Dicey: Never's a long time, Sister Richards. Do you think you'll have to make rag carpets for the golden stairs? Mother: Maybe I will. I'd probably be better at it than I would at playing a harp, anyway. Mary Ann: I'm going to get a A TEACHER'S VISIT IN EARLY DAYS drink. Won't you have one Dicey? Dicey: Guess I will. We've had one everywhere we've been. Mother: Sarah Jane will give you some sage tea if you'd rather have it fora change. She just made me take some. Sarah Jane: I guess that water is warm. It's been drawn quite a while. Sam's always wanting me to put ice in it, but I just can't bear to put ice off that slewey old pond, in the water. Mary Ann: I don't believe it's healthy, either. Tom Jones says a man was telling him of a new kind of well. They drive pipes in the ground and the water spurts out. Tom says he believes we'll soon all be having them. Sarah Jane: Wouldn't that be wonderful. I'm so afraid of these open wells with children about. And it is hard work drawing water, especially on wash days. Dicey: And then I guess the waste water would run onto the garden so's we wouldn't have to irrigate. That sounds too good to be true. Sarah Jane: To change the subject, what did you do at meeting last month? It seems an age since I was there. Mary Ann: Oh, that's right, you weren't there, were you? Sarah Jane: No, with mother not feeling well and fruit to dry, I just couldn't get away. Mary Ann: Well, we sewed rags, as usual, bore testimonies, distributed donations, Dicey: And don't you remember? Sister Simpson predicted that the time would come when we'd hold meetings every week. Sarah Jane: Every week! How ridiculous! How could us busy mothers ever find time to go to meetings every week? Mother: Why, we couldn't get 161 enough rags to keep busy every week. Mary Ann: Well, I wouldn't mind going to meeting for a couple of hours every week if that would do away with so much sitting up nights. Many a night I sew till nearly morning, making burying clothes and such. Sarah Jane: I don't see how holding meetings every week would do away with that. You can't make folks burying clothes before they die. Dicey: Or if it would do away with sitting up with the dead. I was all done up last week from sitting up two nights with that little Smith baby. Some folks thought it was diphtheria and everybody was afraid to go, so I was all alone. And with this hot spell, it just kept me busy putting fresh ice on the little thing. And I couldn't keep a door or window open for fear I'd drop off to sleep and the cat would come in. I never put in two such nights. Mother: That's real Relief Society work, sisters. Mary Ann: We must be going, Dicey. I've got to churn when I get home. I'm. Going up to the tithing office tomorrow and I want to take some nice fresh butter. Dicey: Yes, and I've got an old hen coming off today. It's late but she was crazy to set. She'll trample ~ the chicks if I don't take care. Sarah Jane: I'll get my donation. (Exits and returns with calico) Mother wanted to give this and I'll give some butter. Why don't you leave one of your baskets and when the girls come home they'll bring it over for you. Mary Ann: That is a good idea. Then we can both carry this one and it won't be hard. Dicey: Well, we're glad you are well again Sister Richards, and hope you and Sarah Jane will both be able to come to meeting next month. They shake hands all around. Curtain. Happy Birthday By Lucy Rose Middleton MARCH 17, the day on which the Relief Society was organized, is celebrated throughout the church. The type of entertainment probably varies with 'each ward. Programs which review the history and progress of the organization together with appropriate music and refreshments constitute, perhaps, the most common way of observing. This day. A novelty to add interest and color to the occasion would be to serve a dinner at twelve tables, each one representing one of the months of the year. The guests may be seated at the tables corresponding to the months of their birth. Seasonal devices for designating the tables offer an opportunity for originality. As a suggestion, the January table can be decorated to represent the New Year, using bells as a central idea. February is an easy month to indicate for there are hearts, valentines, cherries, or hatchets from which to choose. The March table may be made to hold the center of the stage, the centerpiece signifying any phase of the Relief Society. I suggest a large birthday cake, dotted with candles and the numerals 1842-1933 scrolled in frosting. The oldest members may be seated at this table, if you wish to deviate some from the general scheme, or individuals might be dressed to represent the seven women who have been presidents of the organization. Easter flowers or the Easter basket can be used for the month of April. Since © we have a wealth of flowers in May, they would make a lovely centerpiece. June is the month for brides, July is dedicated to the observance of two important 'holidays—one dealing with the birth of our coun- | try and the other with the birth of our state. Flags or covered wagons are true emblems of those days. In August our summer flowers are at their best or one might develop the idea of vacation at the seaside or mountain resorts. The September school bells ring back memories of slates, hickory sticks, and the little red school house, and offer a ready material for the table decorations. Hallowe'en devices and the horn of plenty symbolize October and November, and, of course, December cannot better be typified than by a tinselled Christmas tree or a red nosed Santa Claus. A menu should be selected which is both easy to prepare and to serve. If a hot dinner is desired, the following is suggested: Individual chicken, veal or beef pies Potatoes Gravy Vegetable or Fruit Salad Relishes—water cress, radishes, pickles Ice cream Cake HAPPY BIRTHDAY If it is more convenient to serve a cold dinner this will suit the occasion: Chicken or Veal Loaf Potato Salad Butter Relishes Ice cream Cake Hot chocolate or a fruit punch are suitable drinks. Individual Chicken 'Pies Cover the fowl with boiling water and cook slowly until tender, adding salt and pepper when half cooked. Remove the bones and cut the chicken in cubes. Thicken the stock with a flour and water mixture. A rather thick gravy is necessary. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Roll out a plain pastry and line individual pie plates. Fill with the chicken and gravy and cover as for a fruit pie. "Bake in a hot oven until the crust is well browned. Extra gravy should be made to pour over the pies when they are served. If the small pie plates are not available, roll out the pastry and cut in diamond shapes, large enough for individual pies. Put filling on half of pastry and fold over. Avoid too much liquid. Wet the edges and press well together to keep gravy from running out. A few incisions must be made in the top crust as an outlet for steam. Bake in a hot oven until well browned and serve with chicken gravy. Individual Beef or Veal Pies 1 to 2 cups of beef or veal cut in cubes, (cooked or uncooked ) 3 cups boiling water Y onion 1 cup potatoes, cut in cubes 2 small carrots Salt and pepper Cover the meat with boiling water, and cook until tender. Add onion 20 minutes before it is done, then remove. Add_ vegetables, Rolls 163 which have been parboiled 10 minutes. Dilute if necessary. Thicken with a flour and water mixture. Season to taste. Use the individual pie plates or the diamond shaped pastry and continue as for chicken pies. Serve hot with additional gravy. Chicken Loaf 4 pound fowl 2 quarts cold water 4 slices carrot 1 onion, stuck with 8 cloves 2 stalks celery Bit of bay leaf Y teaspoon peppercorns 1 tablespoon salt 1 tablespoon granulated gelatine soaked in 1 teaspoon cold water Salt, pepper, celery salt Lemon juice and onion juice Cover fowl with water, add carrot, onion, celery, bay leaf, peppercorns, and salt. Bring quickly to the boiling point and simmer until meat is tender. Chop meat finely. Reduce stock to 34 cup, cool, remove fat, reheat and add 'soaked gelatine. Add to meat and season. Pack solidly in buttered loaf tin. Chill and slice. Note: The recipe for veal loaf was given in the December Relief Society Magazine. Vegetable Salad 1 cup wesson oil 1 can 'peas 1/3 cup vinegar Celery 114 teaspoon salt Radishes yy teaspoon pepper Cucumbers 1 can string beans Green onions Mayonnaise dressing Mix oil, vinegar and juice from string beans together and pour over peas, beans, and the onions, radishes and cucumbers which have been cut in small pieces. (Do not use the juice from the peas). Let this mixture stand in a cold place for an hour or so, then pour off juice and add the finely cut 164 celery. Place on a lettuce leaf and top with mayonnaise dressing. Decorate with paprika. Jellied Fruit Salad 1 package of lemon jell-o 1 pint boiling water % cup each of the following canned fruits: peaches, pears, apricots, and pineapple Dissolve the jell-o in the boiling water. Set; then add the fruit, cut in pieces. When it is thoroughly set, cut in squares or rounds and place on a lettuce leaf. Top with mayonnaise dressing and a maraschino cherry. Potato Salad 144 cups cooked potato cubes 3 hard-cooked eggs, finely chopped 114 tablespoons chopped pimentos 2 small slices of onion, chopped fine Boiled dressing. Mix potatoes, eggs, pimentos and onions with the dressing. Serve on a lettuce leaf or on bed of water cress. Top with chopped parsley, or slice of egg. Chocolate Cake Dark batter: 1 egg Y cup light brown sugar 1 cup grated chocolate Y cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla Beat the egg slightly, add sugar, milk, and chocolate. Cook over hot water until the mixture is thick and smooth. Stir often. 'Let cool, then add vanilla. This mixture can be cooling while the cake. Batter is being made. Cake batter: 4. Cup butter 1 cup light brown sugar 2 eggs 1 cup milk 2 cups flour Y teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in 2 tablespoons boiling water. Cream the butter well then add Let stand until it begins to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the sugar. When well blended add egg yolks well beaten. Mix the baking powder with the flour and add alternately with the milk. Add the dark batter, and then fold in the well beaten egg whites. Lastly, dissolve the soda in the boiling water and add to the batter. 'Pour out in well buttered layer tins and bake in a moderately hot oven (350 degrees) for forty minutes or until the cake pulls from the sides. Standard Plain Cake Y cup butter 1 cup sugar 2 eggs 2/3 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 2 cups flour 4 teaspoons baking powder Y teaspoon salt Cream butter, add half of sugar gradually, and beat until light. Add remaining sugar to well beaten egg yolks. Combine mixtures. Mix and sift flour, baking powder, and salt and add alternately with milk to first mixture. Beat thoroughly, add vanilla, and fold in egg whites beaten until stiff. Bake in buttered layercake pans 25-30 minutes in moderately hot oven (375 degrees F.) Vanilla Ice Cream 2 cups scalded milk 1 tablespoon flour 1 cup sugar 1 egg or 2 egg yolks slightly beaten 4 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 1 quart thin cream Mix flour, sugar and salt, add egg slightly beaten, and milk gradually; cook over hot water for 10 minutes, stirring constantly at first; should the custard have a curdled appearance, it will disappear in freezing. When cool, add cream and flavoring. Strain and freeze. If a chocolate flavor is desired, heat 2 squares of 'unsweetened chocolate and 1% cup sugar with the milk. _ A Wrong and Right Way By Heloise Merkley Brief playlet illustrating two ways of Relief Society Teaching. Characters: Announcer. Two Relief Society Teachers. Hostess. Properties: Relief Society Magazines, August, 1932. Teachers' Report Book and Pencil. Clock, for Announcer. May be presented without any stage or curtains. If a stage is available the Announcer may be omitted from the cast and the curtains drawn to indicate the passing of time. Part I Announcer. Dear Relief Society Teachers: In presenting this little skit today we are asking you to use your eyelids for the curtains, your imaginations for the stage setting, and your own logic to tell which is the right and which the wrong way of doing your work as Visiting Relief Society Teachers. Our clock will tell you how fast the time is supposed to pass, as we must be very brief. Everyone please close your eyes until I say "Curtain." (She sets the clock at 2 o'clock, the Hostess takes her place, pantomiming sewing on the sewing machine, and the Two Teachers place themselves ready to enter.) "Curtain." All eyes open. (Announcer sits quietly, holding clock. ) First Teacher (Knocking as though at door, to second Teacher Aside): I almost hope she isn't home. We've been so slow getting around today. Second Teacher: She is, though. I can hear the sewing machine. Hostess: Oh, dear, another interruption! Well, if it's somebody selling something, I think I'll just shut the door in his face. (Going to meet Teachers, pantomiming opening of door.) Oh, how do you do! Do come in. I know you're the Relief Society Teachers, and I'm glad to see you. Second Teacher: Yes, we carry our label with us! (Laughingly showing the Magazine and Teachers' Report Book.) And I guess if it wasn't for Relief Society Teaching, I never would get to visit any of my neighbors. I tell Jim I'm so busy lately I never know which way to turn next. ~ Hostess: We're all busy, I guess, what with school just starting and everybody so hard hit by this depression and trying to make ends meet somehow or other. Do sit down! (All sit.) First Teacher: And what a relief it is to have school started again. I thought I'd lose my mind those last two weeks, between children finding new things to quarrel about and all the work I had piled up to do. And I'd no more than get settled down to a job when there'd be another quarrel to settle and then have to get back to it with nerves all upset. Hostess: Isn't it the limit the way the Old Nick just seems to get into the youngsters the last week or two before school starts? And it seems worse this year than ever. I believe they hear us worry about this depression till they get to worrying, too. I'm glad to have somebody come to see me who has something else to talk about. 166 First Teacher (Glancing at open Magazine): We have such a wonderful subject this year, too. It's so full of inspiration. Second Teacher: I feel that way, too. I'm so sick of hearing people tell how we're all apt to starve together if things keep on the way they are going now. I just hate the word depression. Hostess (To What did you say the subject was? Second Teacher: That poor little Mrs. Hansen was talking with me this morning. Didn't you know they were back? They just seem to get lower down the scale every year, but no matter where they go for the summer, they always come back to our ward for the winter. I tell Jim they just take advantage of our Relief Society President. They know she and the Bishop are so soft hearted they'll give out of their own pockets themselves if the organization doesn't have any money. First Teacher: Our subject for this year is— Second Teacher: And he's completely laid up with rheumatism or a stretched ankle tendon or something. So there's all that family with nobody to earn a cent except the mother and the oldest girl. And with this depression on, I'm sure I don't know how they'll be able to make it. She was telling me this morning, she'd be delighted to do housework for fifty cents a day. She was trying to beg or borrow some old chairs. They had to sell their furniture when they left in order to get out of the valley, and so far she's hardly been able to rake anything together. First Teacher: Our subject for— Hostess: It certainly is a shame when you see people trying to get along with no resources or anything, and just right down to nothing. Second Teacher: 1 guess about the main thing that's the matter with him First Teacher): RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is that he's suffering from ingrown laziness. Some people make me tired. He's just like that lazy Bill Simms, only he's older so maybe there is something the matter with him. Hostess: I heard Bill had gone with his wife to her people in California. We won't have them on our hands this winter again, will we? Second Teacher: Oh, no, I guess not! They're back again with the two babies. You know I just don't have any patience with Bill's wife. Even if she is only a kid, she ought to have sense enough to know that shiftless fellow never will get anywhere in this world and stay with her father before Bill starves them all to death. First Teacher: I saw her and the babies yesterday and they all looked well-fed enough. I thought Bill must be working from their looks. Second Teacher: Oh, you needn't worry. Bill and a job just don't stick together. They say when she went out to her folks last spring she told Bill she was through with him and he told her to get out and stay out. But it wasn't a week till he followed her. Her father rustled him a job, too, and he stuck it out for a month or so. But when he quit or got fired, they say her father told her he was willing to take care of her and the children but he wouldn't have Bill hanging around—she could take her choice. So here they are back again and the ward can worry about feeding them all winter. He'll manage to get money for cigarettes, but he won't be able to buy food for them. They are well fed now, I guess, after being with her folks three months or so but it won't take long before they'll be as thin and pale as ever. Hostess: What if my husband should lose his job, and us with our A WRONG AND RIGHT WAY brood of four? Our home isn't entirely paid for yet, and it wouldn't be many months till we'd be on the ward too! Second Teacher: Oh, no, you wouldn't! You'd find something someway. Your man is an entirely different caliber from that shiftless Bill! He never would hold a job two months straight when we were on the very crest of prosperity! You can't tell me the best workers in the world will let their families starve. Any of us might be hit by hard luck once in a while, but some just lie around and coax hard luck to come and stay with them. We'll come out of this depression one of these days, and the ones that want to work will soon pick up what they have lost in the last year or two. But Bill Simms will still be wondering why the world don't pay him the living it owes him. And that poor little fool of a wife sticking to him when her father would take good care of her and her children. Hostess: Maybe he'll have the privilege yet. She might decide that Bill isn't worth sticking to. And still, you can't help sort of admiring her loyalty. I guess she thinks he's as wonderful as we think our men are Second Teacher: Maybe she'll still stick when she doesn't think he's any more wonderful than we think our men are—just because he's her man. I always did say us women didn't have a lick of sense once we picked out a man to stick to (her voice grows lower, almost indistinguishable. ) Announcer (Stands up and slowly turns hands of clock to indicate the passing of an hour as she speaks while Second Teacher's voice grows softer) We ask you now to imagine the rest of their conversation for the hour we show you by the clock to 167 have passed. And now we finish this part. (Announcer sits and Second Teacher's voice grows louder). First Teacher: Goodness: Look what time it is! My children will be home from school and there's no telling what mischief they'll be up to if T'm not there. We must go. And here we haven't touched on the lesson atall! Hostess: You can stay long enough for that, can't you? Second Teacher: Oh, no! I never realized it was so late. But we've had a wonderful visit anyhow. We'll give both lessons next time. You never do come to see me. Do drop in sometime. Hostess: I will. And you call again, both of you. Good-day! (Exit the Teachers). My word! The whole afternoon gone and nothing accomplished! Announcer (Turning hands of clock back to 2 o'clock): And now you close your eyes and imagine that the curtain has dropped. Imagine also that what you have seen has never been presented, while we go back to the beginning and do it all over differently. Once again, "Curtain." All eyes open. (Hostess is again seated pantomiming the running of a sewing machine, and the Two Teachers ready to call upon her.) First Teacher (Knocking as though at door, to Second Teacher, aside): I almost hope she isn't home. We've been so slow getting around today. Second Teacher: She is, though. I can hear the sewing machine. Hostess: Oh dear, another interruption! Well, if it's somebody selling something, I think I'll just shut the door in his face. (Going to meet Teachers, pantomiming opening of door.) How do you do! Come in. I know you're the Relief Society 168 Teachers, and I'm so glad to see you. Second Teacher: Yes, we carry our label with us! (Laughingly showing the Magazine and Teacher's Report Book.) And I guess if it wasn't for Relief Society Teaching, I never would get to visit any of my neighbors. I tell Jim I'm so busy lately I never know which way to turn next. Hostess: We're all pretty busy, I guess, what with school just starting and everybody so hard hit by this depression and trying to make ends meet somehow or other. Sit down! (All sit.) First Teacher: And what a relief it is to have school started again. I vow I thought I'd lose my mind those last two weeks, between children finding new things to quarrel about and all the work I had piled up to do. And I'd no more than get settled down to a job when there'd be another quarrel to settle and I'd get back to my work with nerves all upset. Hostess: Isn't it the limit the way the Old Nick just seems to get into the youngsters the last week or two before school starts? And it seems worse this year than ever. I believe they hear us worry about this depression till they get to worrying, too. I'm glad to have somebody come to see me who has something else to talk about. First Teacher (Glancing at open Magazine): We have such a wonderful subject this year, too. It's so full of inspiration. Second Teacher: I feel that way, too. I'm sO sick of hearing people tell how we're all apt to starve together if things keep on the way they are going now. I just hate the word depression. That poor little Mrs.— Hostess (To First Teacher): What did you say the subject was? First Teacher: "The Beatitudes." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE You know, they tell us that the Sermon on The Mount is the greatest sermon that has ever been preached and preserved in literature. I love to read it over and imagine all those people gathered on the beautiful mountain, away up above the lovely Sea of Galilee, sitting about listening to the Master they had learned to love because he had healed so many of them and was so kind. Second Teacher: The lesson says he would be sitting, too, because that was the custom among the Jews. You know, I think it would seem more intimate and friendly somehow than the way we always have people stand up to preach to us. When I teach a class of children, I love to sit with them gathered up all around me. It seems like we can get so much closer that way than with one standing while the rest sit. Hostess: More like a father or mother with their children, isn't it? I didn't know that about Jesus sitting down to preach. I do like the idea, too. I'll remember that. First Teacher: And the loveliest part of his great sermon that the world considers such a literary masterpiece—the very heart of it all—is the few verses that have been called the "Beatitudes." Hostess: "Beatitude?" Just what does that word men, anyhow? I've always thought it had such a nice sound and I've been going to look it up in the dictionary, only I never could think of it when I had time. First Teacher: Our lesson tells us that it means "Blessed." I looked it up in the dictionary yesterday when I was studying the lesson and it gave "Blessedness" as the first meaning and then it gave "highest felicity," too. Somehow, it always carries the connotation of beauty, to my mind. Not only blessedness, but a beautiful blessedness. As though A WRONG AND RIGHT WAY to gain the qualities of mind and spirit that Christ names in His Beatitudes and make them part of our lives were, somehow, to gain an inner loveliness of life, a sweetness of character that we cannot get in any other way. When you read all these articles on "charm" in the magazines, it seems to me as though, after all they have said about thoughtfulness of others and kindness and so on giving personal charm, they might just as well go back to the Bible and quote the Beatitudes and tell us that if we wish to have the truest and deepest charm of all, we should live up to them. Hostess: That is a lovely thought. I used to be able to recite all the Beatitudes when I was a child, but I have about forgotten them now. Second Teacher: We are only supposed to consider the first one today. It is "Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." Hostess: 'What a_ wonderful promise to the poor in spirit! That theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven! First Teacher: I like the explanation given in the lesson today. It defines "poor in spirit" as being humble, teachable, eager to learn. Like the poor in this world's goods are always humble and hungry—so the poor in spirit are always humble in their own estimation and eager to gain spiritual food, so that whatever truth comes their way, they seize upon it and make it their own, a very part of their lives. Then if we think of joy and eternal progress which we hope for in the next world, we can see how the poor in spirit, those who are humble and teachable will someday have it for their own. Second Teacher: One thing in this lesson puzzles me. It says here, "every syllable of it He had already written down in deeds." "He not only taught the Gospel, He was the 169 Gospel" and then further down, it says, "They contain the heart of the Master's teachings and show His spirit and way of life. They furnish a true picture of the Man of Galilee, a sort of autobiography of His real life." It doesn't seem to me like Jesus would have been "poor in spirit" if He was the Son of God and knew so much more than all the rest of us put together. It seems to me that He would have been the "richest in spirit" of anybody. Hostess: He was poor enough in this world's goods, we know that. First Teacher: Well, by the time He preached the Sermon on the Mount and gave us all those wonderful rules for Blessedness, I guess we might say He was rich in spirit, and that He had already won the Kingdom of Heaven for Himself, in one sense. But consider when he was a child. The Bible tells us that He grew in grace and goodness. And when He was twelve, He talked in the temple with the doctors and asked and answered questions. He was asking and answering questions and they marveled at Him. Even as a man, when He entered upon His mission—look how humble and patient He always was about letting people ask Him questions and about listening to their side of a discussion first? Even when Satan tempted Him, He listened to what the Devil had to say with courtesy at least; and in every recorded argument in the New Testament, we find Him always willing 'to listen to the other person, no matter how wicked they were. And then, if we consider that God is still learning and progressing, as we must if we believe in the doctrine of eternal progress, isn't Jesus even now, as a member of the Godhead, "poor in spirit" in the sense of being humble in the face of truth and eternally teachable? 170 Second Teacher: Yes, it's a lesson to us not to take the attitude we sometimes feel like taking—that because we have the Gospel and so much more is given us than others have, we are better than they. Maybe some of us who think we have learned everything worth knowing just because we have grown up in the church, had better take an "about face" in our attitudes and begin being poor in spirit for a change. First Teacher: Let's read the rest of the lesson together, and if you'll get us copies of the Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Bible, we might enjoy looking up these other references on the subject, that it gives at the end of the lesson. (Her voice grows soft as) Announcer (Turning clock onehalf hour ahead): Again we ask you to imagine the rest of their discussion for the half hour we show you by the clock to have passed. And now we finish this part of our playlet. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE (As she seats herself, the Teachers are bidding Hostess goodbye, all standing.) Hostess: It seems like you've been here only a few minutes. I don't know when I've enjoyed a visit from Relief Society Teachers so much. I'm certainly going to try to be "poor in spirit" from now on. (Come again next month. I don't want to miss any of these lessons. Second Teacher: We surely will. And you come to see us. Good-bye. (Exit. ) Hostess: Well, I feel all rested. I'm glad they came. I can get more done now, I believe, than if I hadn't been interrupted, I was getting so nervous and their visit was such an inspiration. (Sits down to sew.) Announcer: And now we drop the imaginary "Curtain" for The End. Note: Presented at the Relief Society Teacher's Convention of Maricopa Stake at Mesa, Arizona, September 25, 1932. THE GUARDIAN OF THE DESERT Opportunity Makes a Masterpiece of Your Life Radio Talk given over KSL Dec. 2, 1932 By Elise B. Alder LIFE is a great and noble calling and not a mean commonplace existence to be shuffled through most any way." Real living is an art and must be gained by our own efforts. Our growth depends on straight thinking and a proper conception of the relative value of things. The art of living is a process of selections, eliminating the things not worth while, selecting the essentials, concentrating on spiritual and mental values. We are successes or failures, happy or miserable depending on the satisfactions we select and the relative values we put upon spiritual and material possessions. An unknown author gives us these words: "Suposing today were your last day on earth The last mile the journey you've trod After all your struggles how much are you worth How much can you take home to God? Don't count as possessions your silver or gold For tomorrow you leave those behind And all that is yours to have and to hold Are the blessings you've given mankind. "Just what have you done as 'you journeyed along That was really and truly worth while? Do you think your good deeds would offset the wrong Could you look o'er your life with a smile? We are only supposing, but if it were real And you invoiced your deeds since your birth And you figured the "profits" you've made in-life's deal How much are you really worth?" We must learn to appraise the durable satisfactions of life and to evaluate properly those unsatisfying prizes on which nearly all hearts have been set during the last few years. We had literally become slaves to the artificial things of life. Life was too complex. We must now turn to the simpler form of living, one in which there is less luxury and more stability. Our success is not measured by the wealth we accumulate, nor the speed we can travel, but by the quality of our intellectual and spiritual interests, and the effort we are putting forth to make other lives sweeter and more joyous. The search for knowledge in and of itself brings a joy and satisfaction that no other activity can supply. Wealth may take wings and fly away, but knowledge is an everlasting possession, and is a vital force. We do not think much of a person who is not wiser today than he was yesterday. Michael Pupin's mother said to him, "Knowledge, my boy. Is the golden ladder over which we climb to Heaven, knowledge is the light which illuminates our path through this life and leads to a future life of everlasting glory." We often hear people say, if we had only had an opportunity for education. Opportunity is knocking at our door. When we stop to think of great men such as Shakespeare and Lincoln and others whose school education was limited who have given to the world master pieces in the English 172 language we say with Longfellow, "The heights that great men reached and kept, Were not attained by sudden flight, But they while their companions slept Were toiling upward through the night." There is an Indian legend of a good spirit who, wishing to benefit a young princess, led her into a ripe and golden corn field. "See these ears of corn, my daughter; if thou wilt pluck these diligently, they will turn to precious jewels; the richer the ear of corn, the brighter the gem. But thou mayest only once pass through this cornfield, and can'st not return the same way." The maiden gladly accepted the offer. As she went on, many ripe and full ears of corn she found in her path, but she did not pluck them, always hoping to find better ones farther on. But presently the stems grew thinner, the ears poorer; farther on they were blighted and she did not think them worth picking. Sorrowfully she stood at the end of the field, for she could not go back the same way. She regretted the loss of the golden ears she had overlooked. To each of us are golden opportunities offered; life speeds on to the goal from which there is no return; let us redeem the time, for fields are white to harvest. Confidence and belief in our own ability to achieve will speed our progress. Making life a masterpiece does not necessarily mean that one must engage in some high profession, some great special work or learned calling. All honest labor is dignified and ennobling. Many men have made masterpieces of their lives as cobblers and have lifted this occupation into dignity and respect. Multitudes of farmers are raising farming to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE height of a grand profession by mix- ~ ing brains and character with the soil and are making masterpieces of their lives and glorifying their work. No matter what the occupation, though it be washing dishes or carrying a hod, one can always if he will—be a thoroughbred. One can look up, live up through every moment of the daily routine. The humblest occupation may be glorified by the spirit one puts into it. To find one's work is to find one's place in the world, and it is a good rule to endeavor hour by hour and week after week to learn to work and work hard for work is a character builder. Charles E. Jefferson says: "Out of a man's work the Divine Voice ever comes. God set the first man to tending the garden and it was among the trees that the first conversation between man and his Creator occurred. Moses was a shepherd and it was while he was tending the sheep that he came to know that it was God's intention to make him a leader of men. David was also a shepherd, and it was in the sheepfold that the Divine Voice was first heard. The greatest of Hebrew law-givers and the greatest of Hebrew kings came to the throne through their daily occupations. It was while Gideon was threshing and Elisha was plowing and Amos was pruning the sycamore trees that the Lord became to them audible and they discovered what it was that Heaven would have them do." We are heirs to all the culture of the past—and books and the radio bring us the culture of today. We are free to choose, our development and happiness depends on our choice. We must develop the power of straight honest thinking and in our cultured life we must also seek the truth. Notes to the Field Work and Display WE are looking forward with pleasure to the Work display at our 'April Conference. We hope to have the stake presidents of every stake in the Church join with us in being both hostesses and guests. One of our desires is to have stake officers become better acquainted with each other and to talk over our successes and failures. A Message from Switzerland RESIDENT ROBISON has received a letter from Sister Laura W. Salzner, whose husband is presiding over the Swiss-German Mission. She reports that they have 15 districts in which conferences are held twice a year. Some districts are so far away from Basel that it is not possible to return between conferences and this keeps some away from Headquarters two or three weeks at a time. They employ the time in holding Missionary meetings and visiting the outlying branches during the week. When they have gone around the Mission they have traveled 2,570 miles. She reports that on her first visit around the Mission, she gave Sister Robison's message of love and appreciation for the good work they are doing and expressions of happiness lighted up the faces of the women. They love their leaders, enjoy their work and the spirit of love and service is manifest among them. Sister Salzner writes, “We have 1,100 Relief Society members enrolled in our 54 branches. Practically all have reported having held successful, well attended bazaars, and branch conferences during the past year, and are doing progressive work. It is a noticeable fact that wherever our sisters are working together with a spirit of love, unity and harmony, the branch also is in a spiritually healthy condition." "The financial condition in Switzerland is much better than in Germany, due to unemployment there. During the past year the Swiss Relief Society organizations have gathered clothing and food stuff which has been sent to the organizations in Germany for distribution. The clothing has been cleaned, renovated and sent out postpaid and ready for use. A report of this activity has been sent in with the yearly report."' We are glad to learn that financial conditions in Switzerland are better than in some other places and we rejoice that the spirit of sisterhood prompts them to send supplies to those in need, even though they do not belong to the same nation. The Gospel does away with boundary lines and makes all who enter its fold feel close kinship. "Our records," reports Sister Salzner, "show one-third more female than male members, and it is seldom that we find an entire family belonging to the Church. In fact the majority of the husbands of our Relief Society officers and members are not members of the Church. It is therefore often difficult for these good sisters to do all they would like to. We are often entertained in the homes of Relief Society Presidents, and have rejoiced to have more than one non-member husband say, "I have a good wife, she is happier, and is a better wife, and a better mother, since joining your Church and working in this organization." Wee believe that every woman who joins the Church and who lives the 174 Gospel is transformed. She lives a more abundant life and all who come RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE under her influence sense the change that has taken place in her. Over the Top T gives us great pleasure to call attention to the fact that the same two wards in the Ensign stake have gone over the top again in their Magazine Subscriptions. Ward President Magazine Agent Jennie B. Griffin Alma Erickson Ward Membership No. 12-13th............ 91 93 In times' like the present this certainly indicates devotion to the cause Vivian McConkie aud enthusiasm in the efforts for the Magazine. Jean H. Betenson Our Conference HE April Conference will cover two days. The first day will be devoted to meetings as follows: 10 a. M. Session for Stake Executive Officers only. Stake Board Members will not attend this session. 2 p. M. Department meetings for Stake Officers and Stake Board Members only. I. Social Service Department for Stake Presidents and Stake Social Service aid, and other Stake Board Members. II. Work and Business Department for Stake Counselors in charge of work and other Stake Board Members. III. Choristers and Organists Dept. For Stake Choristers and Organists, and other Stake Board Members. The second day of Conference will consist of 2 general sessions in the Tabernacle for Stake and Local Officers and the Public. A unique feature of this conference will be the display of handwork from all the Stakes. Lesson work will be left for the October Conference when class leaders will be given as much help as |possible. Notes from the Field Southern States Mission: HE following is a very delightful report from Sister Grace E. Callis, president of the Relief Societies of the Southern States Mission: "Responding to desire for service, ten additional Relief Societies were organized in 1932, as shown by our report, which we are mailing today. Several of these Societies have a small membership, but tthe spirit in 'which the sisters work strengthens and fits them for every duty. "The Social Service Department of the work is making many friends for the sisters among prominent women who are not members of the Church. The lessons on Literature are inspiring the women to desire book knowledge. One of the results of these lessons is shown by well directed efforts to introduce into the homes more refinement in home making that makes the home more attractive for the children and also for the parents. In other words, more pronounced educational atmosphere is surrounding families, thus environment is being improved. "More and more the sisters are desiring and working for a better Ensign Stake 20th.........111 Magazines Taken 115 NOTES ROM THE FIELD outlook for their children. In one way especially is this desire being expressed, namely: the earnest efforts being put forth by the mothers to send their sons and daughters on missions. The spirit of sacrifice shown by parents, notably the mothers in providing for their missionary sons and daughters, is one of the most beautiful phases of Relief Society work in this mission. "Tt is a high privilege for mothers and daughters to be enlisted in the Relief Society work, and we are blessed with the spirit of unity and the determination to show our gratitude unto God for this privilege by going about doing even as our Master did." Pioneer Stake: "THE organization in this stake holds a rather unique place in the sisterhood of the 'Relief Society; the membership consisting almost entirely of women from the humbler walks of life, its principal activity is necessarily welfare work. To this task the officers and teachers have given unselfish and Christlike 175 devotion. While pursuing mostly, the ways of benign charity, these fine women eagerly take advantage of the many educational opportunities the Relief Society offers. The accompanying picture of the four women who have served as Stake President—Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, 1904-1920; Mrs. Mary A. Cutler, 1920-1927; Mrs. Lettie Taylor Cannon, 1927-1929; 'and the present president, Mrs. Edna T. Matson, 1929-1933, was taken shortly after the last Conference held in 1932. At all anniversaries and conferences these four presidents aim to be present, and unite their efforts in promoting the work in the stake. They never lose interest in the welfare of this devoted group of women. Pioneer stake, true to its name, has been foremost in many of the activities of the organization. It had and designed the first emergency cabinet, according to present standards, to dispense clothing and hospital supplies to the poor. It also claims to have had the first circulating library to help the members in the preparation of the lessons. Lettie T. Cannon, Edna T. Matson, Annie Wells Cannon, Mary A. Cutler RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE PAGEANT, ETERNAL WOMANHOOD the organization, and in the words of the Stake President, "everyone who had come in contact with her, loved her, and there is a deep gloom Juab Stake: "This picture is of the Nephi Ward sisters who took part in the pageant 'Eternal 'Womanhood.' This pageant portrays the admirable attributes of the ideal woman, and iwas successfully given in each of the wards of the Juab Stake at the 'Ward Conferences during the past year. So much interest and enthusiasm was created that the Stake [Board has jplanned that a pageant be given in each ward during this present year. "The Teachers' Message” with the Beatitudes as the theme, will be given by the wards at this 'year's conferences." Wasatch Stake: THE General Board of Relief Society 'was shocked and grieved to hear the sad tidings from the Wasatch Stake, that Mrs. Emma J. Carlile, Second Counselor in the Relief Society Stake Presidency, had passed away on January 7, 1933. Sister Carlile was a particularly charming and efficient member of over the stake. Our Relief Society women admired her charming personality, sunny disposition and the efficient service she rendered among the women. Her kindness for the sick and aged 'will never be forgotten. While her talent was of the kind that found expression in every walk of life, her special responsibility on the (Relief Society board was the supervision of the music and the class work. In this she evinced most exceptional leadership. At her | funeral the choristers and organists from all the wards furnished the music. Everything which human skill and great faith could do was in evidence in 'her illness, but we must all feel that 'the Lord doeth all things well,' and be reconciled." The General Board extends sincere condolence to Sister Carlile's family, and to the stake Relief Society officers among whom = she labored. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN: MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - - - THE GENERAL BOARD.. President Counselor Second Counselor Secretary and Treasurer - General Mrs. Emma A. Empe Mrs. Amy Whipple Evang Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor:  A Mary Connelly KIMBALL. VOL. XX MARCH, 1933 No. 3 EDITORIAL Our Birthday IT is a fitting thing to remember brought to memory. Their past and mark anniversaries by some special gathering or celebration. There is great value in observing birthdays and wedding days. There is even greater virtue in celebrating the natal days of organizations and ° nf nations. What they stand for is achievements are recounted and people are inspired to put forth greater effort to make their future more resplendent. We hope each organization will have a most successful birthday celebration. Growth of the WE often praise but more often do we think with wonder of the devotion to this great relief society work of, our officers and members.. We are delighted with their accomplishments. The lessons are presented in a most effective way, the visiting teachers taithtully go from home to home carrying the spirit of peace and good will, the unique entertainments given especially on March 17, are most enjoyable and show the skill and ingenuity of our women, the needy are looked after remarkably well. We rejoice in the growth of our organization not only have we orRelief Society ganizations in the 43 out of 48 states but we have \spread also to Canada and Mexico, to most of the European countries, to Asia Minor, to Africa and to the Pacific Isfands. We rejoice also in the growth and development of our members. Each year finds more effective work being done in the lesson work and in the charity work. The organization is meriting and receiving the approval and blessing of the priesthood and of 'all who note what it is doing, May it continue to increase in power and come nearer and nearer to attaining its God ordained purposes. Manager Assistant Meander Louise Y. Rosison Amy Brown Lyman 178 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Leadership Week ANOTHER successful Leadership Week has been enjoyed at the Brigham Young University. This has become one of the outstanding times of the year for those privileged to attend. ('People from far and near assemble to have a happy, profitable inspiring time. Among the speakers were several members of the General Board of the Relief Society. President Louise Y. Robison spoke on "Spiritual Values in Life," Sister Amy W. Evans spoke on ''Means of Maintaining Morale" and Sister Kate M. Barker spoke on "Leadership and Social Ideals." Councillor Lyman was an active participant of the State Conference of Social work which convened at the Institution during the week. Thanks are due to the President and faculty of this great institution for the uplift they give each year in their Leadership Programs. John Galsworthy IN the death of John Galsworthy the noted British author, there passed from the field of letters a real force in the thinking world. His plays and novels portrayed the problems of modern day life in such a way that his readers were led to think deeply concerning them. He had things to say and he said them clearly and well. He did not pretend to solve the problems but presented them in such a way that his 'readers were led to see their complexities and the difficulties in the way of solution. He did not write to please the public nor for money. In 1928 he declined an offer for knighthood saying “Literature is its own reward.". He was skillful in presenting characters so that the reader can see their brains in action. It is to be regretted that he could not remain with us longer to continue his scholarly work. Bern ward has a population of 165 people and about 25 families living in it. In ten months eight baby boys were born in the ward and the mothers to these boys are all workers or members of the Relief Society as well as workers in Primary, Mutual and Sunday School. Lesson Department Theology and Testimony Doctrine and Covenants (First Week in May) LittLE CHILDREN, THE SACRAMENT, AND THE SABBATH LESSON VIII 1. Little Children. The disciples of Jesus came unto him in Galilee, saying: "Who is greatest in the kingdom of heaven?' Jesus called a little child unto him, and set him in the midst of them, and said: "Verily I say unto you, except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven., Whosoever therefore shall humble himself, as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. And whoso shall receive one such little child in my name, receiveth me. But whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea." (Matthew 18:1-6.) Z. Later when the Master returned to Judea, little children were brought unto him that he should put his hands on them and pray, and his disciples rebuked them that brought them. But when Jesus saw this he was much displeased, and said unto them: "Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not; for of such is the kingdom of God. Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein. And he took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, aes blessed them." (Mark 10:14- 3). Infant Baptism. Regardless of the love which Jesus thus expressed for little children, many early sectarian leaders espoused the doctrine that those who are without baptism are irretrievably lost and eternally damned. While opinion concerning the severity of the punishment supposed to be meted out to such children has undergone some considerable modification within recent years, yet sectarian churches representing more than ninety percent of the world's Christian population are still baptizing infants. It is a relief to turn from such a manifestly unfair practice to the heartening word of God to modern Israel. In speaking of future judgments, the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph: "But, behold, I say unto you, that little children are redeemed from the foundation of the world through mine Only Begotten; Wherefore, they cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children, until they begin to become accountable before me." (Doctrine and Covenants, 29: 46, 47.) The words of the Prophet Joseph delivered at Nauvoo on the occasion of the funeral service of the child of Mr. Windsor P. Lyon, are equally as explicit: "The doctrine of baptizing children, or sprinkling them, or they must welter in hell, is a doctrine not true, not supported by Holy Writ, and is not consistent with the character of God. All children are redeemed by the blood of Jesus 180 Christ." (History of the Church, Vol. 4, p. 554.) 4. Proper Age for Baptism. The time at which children become accountable before the Lord is also fixed by revelation, as follows: "For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized. And _ their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands." (Doctrine and Covenants, 68:26, 27.) 5. That normal children of this age are prepared to form proper judgments, and therefore to know the difference between right and wrong, is attested by the widespread judicial practice of admitting their testimony in court procedure. Infants, on the other hand, are not sufficiently developed to discriminate between right and wrong. 6. Responsibility of Parents. The responsibility of parents for preparing their children for baptism into the Church is clearly set forth in the words of the Lord, as follows: "And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents." (Ibid. 68:25.) 7. Universality of the Requirement. Shortly after the Church was organized, the question was raised by some who had previously been baptized whether they might be admitted to the Church without re-baptism. The indispensability of baptism in the way prescribed and through the authority given by the Lord is plainly set forth: "Behold, I say unto you that all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE old covenants have I caused to be done away in this thing; and this is a new and everlasting covenant, even that which was from the beginning. Wherefore, although a man should be baptized an hundred times it availeth him nothing, for you cannot enter in at the strait gate by the law of Moses, neither by your dead works. For it is because of your dead works that I have caused this last covenant and this church to be built up unto me, even as in days of old. Wherefore, enter ye in at the gate, as I have commanded." (Ibid. 22:1-4.) 8. Sacrament of the Lord's Supper. The sacrament of the Lord's Supper had its beginning on the night of the Feast of the Passover immediately preceding the Savior's crucifixion. 'At this time when Jesus and his disciples were together in an upper room, he broke bread, blessed it, and gave it to them, saying: "Take, eat; this is my body." He. Also took the cup, blessed it, and gave it to them, saying: "Drink ye all of it: For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins."' (Matthew 26:27, 28.) 9, Sacramental Emblems. During the dark ages of Christian history, understanding of the nature and purpose of the Sacrament was largely lost; some even claimed that its emblems, the bread and wine, actually and literally became the real flesh and blood of the Master. It will be re- 'called that shortly after the church organization had been effected Joseph and his wife returned to their home at Harmony, Pennsylvania. Of an experience that occurred a few months thereafter he says: "Early in the month of August Newel Knight and his wife paid us a visit.  As neither his wife nor mine had been as yet confirmed, it was proposed that we should confirm them, LESSON DEPARTMENT and partake together of the Sacrament, before he and his wife should leave us. In order to prepare for this I set out to procure some wine for the occasion, but had gone only a short distance when I was met by a heavenly messenger, and received the following revelation." (History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 106.) 10. Following is an excerpt: "Listen to the voice of Jesus Christ, your Lord, your God, and your Redeemer, whose word is quick and powerful. For, behold, I say unto you, that it mattereth not what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink when ye partake of the sacrament, if it so be that ye do it with an eye single to my glory—remembering unto the Father my body which was laid down for you, and my blood which was shed for the remission of your sins. Wherefore, a commandment I give unto you, that you shall not purchase wine neither strong drink from your enemies; wherefore, you shall partake of none except it is made new among you." (Doctrine and Covenants, 27:1-4.) On this authority the Latter-day Saints use water in the Sacrament in the place of wine. 11. The duty of the Latter-day Saints with respect to the Sacrament is plainly set forth in the words of the Lord as follows: "It is expedient that the Church meet together often to partake of bread and wine in the remembrance of the Lord Jesus." (Ibid. 20:75.) 12. The Sacramental Prayers. After this manner the elder or priest shall administer the Sacrament: "He shall kneel with the church and call upon the Father in solemn prayer, saying: O God, the Eternal Father, we ask thee in the name of thy Son, Jesus Christ, to bless and sanctify this bread to the souls of all those who partake of it, that they may eat 181 in remembrance of the body of thy Son, and witness unto thee, O God, the Eternal Father, that they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and always remember him and keep his commandments which he has given them; that they may always have his Spirit to be with them. Amen." (Ibid. 20:76, 77.) 13. It is recommended that students learn the above prayer by heart, also the one used in administering the water. (Verse 79.) It would also be well to ascertain the number of blessings and pledges entailed in each of these prayers. 14. Worthy Partakers of the Sacrament. The Lord has warned the unworthy not to partake of the Sacrament, and has particularly instructed members of the Church who have trespassed to abstain until reconciliation has been made, for "Wherefore, whosoever shall eat this bread, and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread, and drink of that cup. For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep." (I Cor. 12:27-30.) 15. Identity of the Lord's Day. The following Biblical statements are unequivocal with respect to the identity of the Sabbath day: "And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day. And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it; because that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made." (Genesis 2:2, 3.) "Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou 182 labor, and do aH thy work: But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates: For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested on the seventh day: wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day, and hallowed it." (Exodus 20:8-11.) 16. It is generally admitted that Sunday is the first day of the week, rather than the seventh. Moreover, it is the day upon which the Savior rose from the tomb (Matthew 28:1), and is therefore called the "Lord's Day." The Jewish people still hold to the ancient custom of observing sabbath on the seventh day of the week; this is also true of the Seventh Day Adventists. Much criticism has been aimed by these people against the widespread Christian practice of observing sabbath on Sunday, rather than on Saturday. 17. Insofar as the Latter-day Saints are concerned this question is fully settled by modern revelation. In a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph on the occasion of his first visit to Zion, Jackson County, Missouri, the Lord says: "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High; Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times; But remember that on this, the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord. And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full. Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or, in other words, rejoicing and prayer." (Doctrine and Covenants 59:9-14.) Questions for Discussion and Review 1. Why do you regard the sectarian practice of baptizing little children as contrary to the spirit of the Gospel? 2. Why should parents be held responsible for the proper teaching of their children? 3. Justify our use of water instead of wine in the sacrament. 4. Have all members learn the two sacramental prayers. 5. Why do Latter-day Saints worship on Sunday instead of Saturday? LESSON DEPARTMENT 183 Teachers Topic THE BEATITUDES Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes, and to apply their beautiful truths in our daily lives. "Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for their's is the kingdom of heaven." By means of the Beatitudes, Christ fully explains who are fit to be the citizens of His kingdom. His explanations are so clear that every one can understand them. He sent out His servants to teach the world the principles of His great justice and love, and to warn against evil and injustice. These same servants were attacked and persecuted, tortured in body, deprived of liberty and perhaps of life. "Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution." Timothy 3:12. If this suffering is accepted cheerfully, in the knowledge that they were only humble instruments to carry His great message to others, they have a claim to enter the Kingdom which they have helped to establish through their faith and efforts. Christ and all the prophets who have ever spoken upon the earth have been insulted of men, but their life and labors have not been forgotten by God, our Heavenly Father, and they will receive the reward granted to those who faithfully labor in His vineyard. Joseph Smith, our beloved latterday prophet, gave up his life for the truth which had been given to him, and sealed his testimony with his blood. "We are now in a day of trial to prove ourselves worthy or unworthy of the life which is to come. Every calamity that can come upon mortal beings, will be suffered to come upon the few to prepare them to enjoy the presence of the Lord. Let any people enjoy peace and quiet, unmolested, undisturbed, never be persecuted for their religion, and they are very likely to neglect their duty, to: become cold and indifferent, and lose faith. * * * Hatred and persecution have been the lot of every man holding the oracles of the Kingdom of Heaven, to deliver to the children of men that has ever lived upon the earth. Wicked men, Satan, and all the powers of Hell and hate, are at war with every holy principle that God wishes to place in the possession of his children. That is the true reason of the hatred and persecution meted out for us." (Discourses of Brigham Young.) "For it must need be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not so righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad, etc." II Nephi 2:11. "Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake." "Rejoice and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you." References: Matthew 5:11-12. Luke 6:22-23-26. I Nephi 1:18-20. Mosiah XVII:1-13. 184 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Literature THE DELIGHT OF GREAT Books (Third Week in May) HUCKLEBERRY FINN. Mark TWAIN Behind every book is the man: behind every man is the race; and behind the race are the natural and social environments." The great original forces in American literature have preached the religion of democracy. As the "Lincoln of our literature' Mark Twain freed it from the bondage of a literary brahminism and directed it into a new channel, that of recording its own national life. The fame of Mark Twain, one of the foremost of American novelists, rests not upon the recognition given to him as a humorist, but upon the fact that through his works "Roughing It,' "Life on the Mississippi," "Tom Sawyer," "Huckleberry Finn," and ''Pudd'nhead Wilson," he became the most eloquent advocate of democracy of his age. Mark Twain—Samuel Langhorne Clemens. The story of Mark Twain, the ablest of American humorists, a novelist of first rank, an historian and a philosopher, is a romance in itself— the romance of a genius emerging from poverty and becoming a national literary hero. John Clemens, a dreamer and an idealist, left Virginia with his young wife early in the twenties. The Clemens family was one of the thou- - sands that yielded to the lure of the West in the hope of bettering themselves. During their restless wandering over a period of ten years, six children were born to them. Samuel, the fifth child, was born at Florida, a little hamlet not far from the Mississippi in Missouri. The last move of the family was to Hannibal, "a loafing, down-at-the-heel, slave-holding, Mississippi town," about a hundred miles north of St. Louis on the west bank of the river. John Clemens was a sombre man palsied by defeat. Jane Clemens had married through temper after a quarrel with a young doctor of Lexington. So Mark Twain was born in a loveless household. We are told, "he did not remember ever having seen or heard his father laugh." The. Mother was the backbone of the family. Aunt Polly of "Tom Sawyer" iS a portrait of Jane Clemens, the embodiment of old-fashioned Calvinism, a madonna of the hairbrush punishing and forgiving alternately. She was an inflexible believer in the traditional in behavior; yet she had a kind heart. The alternate punishing and pleading had the inevitable result on the boy, Sam, he was in perpetual revolt against the traditions for which his mother stood. He went to school with reluctance and remained with loathing; he feared God and dreaded Sunday-school. The chief romance of the boyhood days was the River and its life. By its side the boy became Tom Sawyer and found the forbidden playmate Huck Finn. The tremendous Mississippi with its vastness and mystery was the maker of the Mark Twain of later years. The death of his father in 1847 was the first crisis in the boy's life. He was allowed to stop school, much to his satisfaction, and was apprenticed in a printing office. This work later took him to many eastern cities LESSON DEPARTMENT including. New York and Philadelphia. Homesickness for the river, however, brought him back to the Mississippi. Howard Bixby, the most famous of all Mississippi pilots, took Mark Twain as a cub pilot when he decided "to learn the river." The experiences of this period are vividly related in "Life on the Mississippi." The river became his training school in human understanding: "In that brief sharp schooling I got personally and familiarly acquainted with all the different types of human nature that are to be found in fiction, biography, or history. When I find a well-drawn character in fiction or biography, I generally take a warm personal interest in him, for the reason that I have known him before—met him on the river." Mark Twain became a licensed and trusted river-pilot in charge cf his own boat. Life drifted on smoothly and prosperously until the Civil War came and closed the river to commerce. Reluctantly he left the profession he loved far better than any he followed later. After a brief experience as a Confederate soldier Clemens went to his brother in Nevada. He entered into the life of the West, prospecting for gold and participating in all manner of wild-cat schemes for getting rich quick. It was a strange romantic life that of Virginia City, Nevada, in the boom days. The gold that the riverpilot adventurer struck, however, was with his pen when he became reporter for the Virginia City "Enterprise." To his first journalistic contributions he attached the pen name of "Mark Twain," a river-pilot's term meaning "safe water." Later he became a newspaper reporter in San Francisco. When Bret Harte became editor of the "Californian," Mark Twain was appointed to the staff, 185 and was "trimmed and trained and schooled" in the art of writing. The story of "Jim Smiley and His Jumping Frog" in 1865 made Mark Twain's name known throughout the country. In 1866 with fear and trembling he undertook 4 new role, that of a humorous lecturer. It was an immediate and overwhelming success, and for the rest of his life he was sure of an enthusiastic audience whenever he appeared in public. Mark Twain like Tom Sawyer loved the glare and trappings of leadership. It was by the cap and bells he became known at home and abroad. By and by these trappings were to be a millstone around his neck. As the years passed he became deeply philosophical about life, and he suffered keenly when his seriousness was taken as buffoonery. The next year he took an extended trip through Europe to Egypt and the Holy Land. The literary result of this "picnic" was "The Innocents Abroad." Although humorous it is a frank and honest work, a real book of travel. Mark Twain refused to rhapsodize over the sacred relics, landmarks, works of art, and historical associations unless he felt impressed. The book was a tremendous success. It was on the first momentous trip to Europe that Mark Twain met the young man whose sister, Olivia Langdon, he married three years later. Olivia Langdon was the idol of a wealthy merchant of Elmira. New York. It was a strange combination this creature of strange barbaric force with outlandish manners and appearance united with an aristocratic invalid. "Her life had been circumscribed," says Mr. Paine, "but she did not hesitate to undertake the task of polishing and purifying her companion. She had no wish to des- 186 troy his personality, to make him over, but only to preserve his best, and she set about it in the right way —gently." To do this instinctively she kept him a child. "Youth" was the nickname she gave him. Mark Twain accepted his wife's rule implicitly, and rejoiced and gloried in it. His habitual swearing was repressed and only at long intervals he broke loose, an incorrigible naughty boy. Gorki, the Russian novelist, never forgot the demonstration of the sacredness of marriage as he saw it in Mark Twain's home. The next twenty years at Hartford, Connecticut, where he established his family, were happy fruitful years. His success was so phenomenal that he wrote, "I am frightened at my prosperity." He lived in grand style. There were always guests; the celebrities of the day were entertained with splendor. "The Adventures of Tom Sawyer," "Life on the Mississippi," "Huckleberry Finn" are the products of this happy period. In 1884 Mark Twain entered business, a partner in the publishing house that issued his books. In 1895 the company failed. When financial disaster came, as it had come to Scott, through no fault of his own, Mark Twain heroically assumed the debt Fe set out to earn the enormous amount, first by writing and later by a lecture tour of the world. The chief literary works of this period are "The Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court" and "Joan of Arc." In "The Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court" we find the author's philosophy of life, a believer in the present and the future of Democracy. The past of Spencer and Scott with its glittering procession of knights and ladies had no charm for Mark Twain. He felt rather with Hugo and Dickens the sufferings of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the common man under ecclesiastical and social overlordship. From Aristophanes to the present humor has been the weapon of the conservative reformer; no one ever used it to better advantage than did Mark Twain. The great spiritual romance in the life of this great romancer was his passion for Joan of Arc. It began when as a boy he picked up in the street a scrap of paper containing the story of the life of the Maid of Orleans. After many years of interest and research "Joan of Arc" was written portraying this great historical character with spiritual tenderness that will make it endure. "T like it best of all my books, and it is the best," said its creator. The latter years of his life were saddened by the death of his wife and three of his four daughters. Much of the mellowness and refinement of later life was due to the influence of the wife he adored and the association with men like W. D. Howells and the Rev. Joseph Twitchell. On his seventieth birthday his nation tendered him its homage. In 1907 the University of Oxford conferred upon him—Mark Twain, whose schooling in the ragged rivertown had ended before he was twelve —a Doctor's Degree. On the day of this honor a London newspaper said, "The highest and the greatest in the land have joined eagerly in all forms of tribute to this untitled friend of all mankind.—He has won the hearts of Englishmen as no living writer has done." In the famous seventieth birthday speech Mark Twain said, "Three score years and ten, it is the spiritual statute of limitations. You have served your term, well or less well, and you are mustered out." Mark Twain, the incarnate spirit of America was mustered out in 1910. The story of his life recorded by LESSON DEPARTMENT Albert Bigelow Paine as it was dictated is perhaps the best biographical work written in America. To the completed autobiography Samuel Langhorne Clemens attached the following last statement: I will construct a text: What a wee little part of a person's life are his acts and his words! His real life is led in his head, and is known to none but himself. All day long, and every day, the mill of his brain is grinding, and his thoughts, not those other things, are his history. His acts and his words are merely the visible, thin crust of his world, with its scattered snow summits and its vacant wastes of water—and they are so trifling a part of his bulk! A mere skin enveloping it. The mass of him is hidden—it and its volcanic fires that toss and boil, and never rest, night nor day. These are his life, and they are not written, and cannot be written. Every day would make a whole book of eighty thousand words—three hundred and sixty-five books a year. Biographies are but the clothes and buttons of the man—the biography of the man himself cannot be written. —M. T. To Mark Twain, the humorist, who wrote for the masses and made them laugh, the novelist, who caught the romance of a period of American life, the philosopher, who denounced social tyranny and pretense, many tributes have been paid: "One of the supreme novelists of the world." —"One of the great writers of America's social history." —'Huckleberry Finn' may be recognized by the next century as the great American novel for which the Wise Men of Literature have watched for so many years." The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn. ' "You don't know me without you 187 have read a book by the name of 'The Adventures of Tom Sawyer,' but that ain't no matter," says Huckleberry Finn as he opens his story. "Tom Sawyer" is a faithful picture of boy life in a sleepy little Mississippi town. Tom is a "smart" American boy, sophisticated, prudent, bossy. After reading about Aunt Polly, the white-washing of the fence, Tom's school-boy love, Huck and the wart cure, the pirates island, we are agreed that the tale is the best boy story ever written. It is, indeed nothing more than the stery of Mark Twain's own boyhood. Huck Finn, the forbidden boy of Hannibal, was in reality Tom Blakenship, the son of the town drunkard. Unwashed, illfed, unspoiled by convention, Huck was a genuine hero. Tom is the creation of a clever literary artist, but only a genius could have created Huck, the delightful picaro.: Mark Twain at first intended the tale as a sequel to "The Adventures of Tom Sawyer." As the story grew, however, it became not an adventure but a confession, a passionate protest against the civilization of the period. The novels are a reliable social record of American slavery. While Mrs. Stowe in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" portrays abolition sentiment with burning enthusiasm, Mark Twain in his novels portrays slavery giving both points of view, the beautiful patriarchal side and the horrible side, the living dread of the negro that he would be sold down the river. Huck tells his own story. At the opening of the story he is under the "civilizing" guardianship of Widow Douglas, another Aunt Polly. He must live to the sound of the bell, go to school, sleep indoors, have spelling lessons at night, and be generally respectable. He would often slip out at night and sleep in the woods "to rest him," and when he got "uncommon" tired he played hookey from school. The gang, Tom Sawyer, and Miss Watson's nigger, Jim, were his anchorage. Then one night Huck's father returned. He caught the boy and took him up the river to live in an old cabin. Most of the days were comfortable enough smoking and fishing, with no books nor study. But there were the days when the boy was locked in the cabin while the father went to the ferry to trade fish and game for whiskey. The return of the druken father meant severe whippings and abuse for the boy. Huck planned to escape when he could stand it no longer. As this must be an escape forever, every detail was planned to give the appearance of death. After getting out from a hole in the floor, the door was smashed and things generally spattered with blood from a wild pig. Satisfied with the horrible effect, Huck started down the river in the canoe with a few supplies and a gun. 'At first the days were spent in hiding, and the nights paddling down the river. By and by, curiosity led Huck to the ferry landings to hear the gossip of the day. To his satisfaction he learned that his escape had given the desired impression. He was free. Day after day the river and its life provided romance and mystery for the young traveler. Then came the findings of the camp-fire remains near his own camp. In suspense he waited until it was safe to investigate. There asleep he found Miss Watson's nigger, Jim. "Well, you see, it 'uz dis way. Ole missus—dat's Miss Watson—she pecks on me all de time, en treats me poorty rough, but she awluz said she wouldn't sell me down to Orleans. But I noticed dey was a nigger trader roun' de place considerable lately, en RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I begin to git oneasy. 'Well, one night I creeps to de do' pooty late, en de do' warn't quite shet, en I hear old missus tell de widder she gwyne to sell me down to Orleans, but she didn't want to, but she could git eight hund'd dollars for me, enit 'uz sich a big stack o' money she couldn't resis'. De widder she try to get het to say she wouldn't do it, but I never waited to hear de res'. I lit out mighty quick, I tell you." On they went. Then the river began to rise covering the swamp and small islands. All manner of queer things floated down the river. One day a frame house floated by. Into it, the adventurers scrambled in search of usable things. Jim was the first to discover the body of a man, shot in the back. The maneuverings of Jim to keep Huck from investigating the identity of the corpse are touched with pathos. But more pathetic is the revelation that closes the story. _ "Doan' you 'member de house dat was floatin' down de river, en dey wuz a man in dah, kivered up, en I didn't let you come in?'—It was Huck's father. The days were care-free ones for Huck. Not so for Jim, there was always the dread of recapture with its inevitable punishment. Then, too, was the longing for the wife and little ones left in Hannibal. When Huck ventured ashore Jim stayed hidden in the canoe. Capture seemed very near on one occasion when two men approached the camp. Huck's quick wit saved the day by warning them to keep away from ''smallpox." Paddling along on the raft one night a river steamer suddenly loomed up, "like a black cloud with rows of glowworms round it." Jim went overboard on one side; Huck LESSON DEPARTMENT on the other. Huck swam to shore, but Jim was missing. Huck was taken in by the Grangerfords, members of a clan of aristocracy at feud with a neighboring family, the Shepherdsons. It was a new experience fot Huck. The men carried guns to church even, always alert for the enemy. The story of this feud is one of the most impressive in all literature. Huck sees a man shot at from behind a bush. 'Asking a reason for such action he is told: "He never done nothing to me. I must kill him on account of the feud." It was Huck, however, that carried the notes that enabled Miss Sophia, a Grangerford, to elope with Harvey Shepherdson. But the feud found Jim so all went on again. Two or three days passed. They came across "the Duke" and "the Dauphin," two of as great rogues as one could ever find in life or in fiction. Their adventure was entertainment. They tackled Shakespearean production, lectures on temperance, circus, dancing school, missionarying, mesmerizing, doctoring, and fortune-telling. Huck became the advertising manager and enjoyed it immensely. Then came the most daring exploit of all. Hearing of the death of a wealthy slave owner and the expected arrival of brothers from England, "The Duke" and "the Dauphin" took the place of the English brothers of the dead man. However, the relatives arrived and proved their identity before wealth, slaves, and land were disposed of by the rogues. Even these picaresque experiences became too much for Huck. The climax came when he found the rogues scheming to dispose of Jim. One day Jim was missing. Huck found out that Jim was being held for reward by a farmer, Mr. Phelps. Now Huck was full of trouble, trou- 189 ble with his conscience. He decided to write to Miss Watson, and tell her where to find Jim. No, Jim was his friend. "IT was a-trembling, because I'd got to decide, forever, betwixt two things, and I knowed it. I studied a minute, sort of holding my breath, and then says to myself: "All right, then, I'll go to hell'— and tore it up." To protect Jim and stay near him, Huck left the rogues. It was a strange chain of circumstances that brought Huck to be taken for Tom Sawyer by Mrs. Phelps. Then came Tom on a visit and took the role of Sid. Plans for Jim's escape were made and accomplished. During the escape Tom's leg was seriously injured. Aunt Polly was sent for: then all was revealed. Jim went back to security as Miss Watson's nigger; Huck to the guardianship of Widow Douglas. "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" is one of the books that has won a secure place in men's affections because it has portrayed human nature. Because of the convincing realism of the narrative the book is placed with "Robinson Crusoe" in the realm of great fiction. Suggestions for Study. A. Materials. 1. The Delight of Great Books. —Erskine. 2. The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.—Twain. 3. Some Makers of American Fiction.—Phelps. 4. Autobiography of Twain.—Paine. B. Projects. 1. Music: a. Negro Spirituals. Z. Reading: Mark 190 a. Whitewashing the Fence. B. Dialogue on French Language. 3. Review: a. Mark Twain as Tom Sawyer. 4. Discussion: a. What is Humor? C. Method: 1. The material in the journal is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE adequate if no other material 1: available. 2. Try to remember that this is not a lesson in literary criticism. 3. The "delight" of the book is the objective; therefore simplicity of presentation is the best approach. Social Service (Fourth Week in May) DEVELOPING INITIATIVE AND SELF-RELIANCE LESSON VIII Growth is a law of life. It is biologically natural for a parent to protect and care for its young. It is just as natural for a young person at adolescence to feel the urge for independence and self-guidance. The progress and safety of civilization depends on the degree of efficiency with which youth develops the urge to self-guidance. The aim of this lesson is to have parents realize the importance of the following points in child growth: 1. Independence and initiative are dependent upon general health and confidence. 2. Children will naturally assert this spirit of initiative but will need stimulation and guidance. 3. The development of independence does not suddenly bloom forth at adolescence but is gradual throughout childhood. 4, This growth can be thwarted by parents who do not reward its manifestations with pleasing approval. 5. Release of definite guidance is difficult for parents but is very necessary. 6. Parental control with child independence can be and should be exercised by teaching without making a child dependent, fearful and unassertive. The lesson should be developed in such a way as will make these conclusions clear and emphatic. Suggestions for Procedure: The teacher should introduce the subject in the preceding class period by reading to the class the statement of Secretary Ray Lyman Wilbur found on page 20 and the statement of Martha Van Rensselaer on page 38 of "White House Conference 1930." A similar challenge to study can be made by quoting a statement made by Judge Ben Lindsay several years ago to the effect that we spend too much time preparing the path of life for the child and not enough time preparing the child for the path of life. With this as a challenge, go carefully over the reading guide so that the class members will appreciate the fact that the lesson is longer than usual but is a very interesting one. The regular date for this lesson will follow the home study. The first part of the period should be de- LESSON DEPARTMENT voted to drill on the material called for by the reading guide. The remaining time should be spent by the teacher presenting the points suggested in the supplementary material and asking the class to interpret, evaluate, and illustrate the points. It will be especially helpful if class members cite cases comparable to the statements made. Class Members Reading Guide. Growth, p. 31, Habits, pp. 3-7, Habits, pp. 25-31. I. Reread the paragraph studied in the previous lesson in Growth, p. 31. Notice especially the statement that independence begins early in life and should be encouraged. Notice that there are no standards. This fact requires that parents and teachers must be more thoughtful in developing this power in children. Notice carefully the caution against the perpetuation of "cradle habits' and "emotional dependence." II. From Habits—Chapter one, learn clearly the meaning and significance of "security" and "personal achievement" as fundamental needs of childhood. Be able to show the relation of the following items to these basic needs: Economic welfare, p. 3. Protection of adults, p. 3. A responsibility in the group. New experiences. Opportunity for various forms of expression. Worry or quarreling in the home. Development of fears. Teasing. Unguided play. III. Turn to Habits, pages 25-31, and study the effects of various factors in the environment as they relate to the growth of independence. Read hurriedly the discussion of facts which point out the problems. Formulate an answer to these questions based on the issue raised on page 29, 191 Does training in independence remove parental teaching responsibility? Must parents give facts and experience to the children? How can good judgment in children be developed without parents doing the judging for them? What should be done when children make wrong judgments so that the self-confidence of the children will not be destroyed? Is the author correct in saying that "Tt is easier, and perhaps pleasanter, to direct children's activities, than it is to teach them to think and do for themselves?" Selection of food, use of money and willingness to perform required tasks are listed as fields in which independence should be developed. Bring to class a list of at least six other activities in which the judgment, good sense, and individual responsibility of the young person are necessary. Supplementary Material: 1. The importance of early teaching on the spirit of independence and conflict at adolescence. "During childhood, social control is exerted in most instances by the adults with whom the child is in contact at home and at school. In adolescence, there is a marked sub. Serviency to the opinions characterizing companions of the same age. If the social sanctions of the contemporaneous age-group conflict with the codes of the elders as embodied in the parents, the latter are likely to see their disapproval flouted in deference to the opinions of youth, "The suggestibility of youth is easily seen in the fads and fashions affected by the younger generation. Always they must be in the mode of the moment as to clothing, sports and 192 slang. There is almost a horror of dressing, acting or talking differently from other boys and girls. "Thus, at adolescence, the boy or girl grows away from family standards and into those of the high school, college or place of work into which he or she has entered. Very often it is only a superficial growing away, and although young companions are imitated in many respects, beneath the surface conformity, many of the earlier patterns of conduct and ideals remain intact. The kisses and the lipstick of the two girls first quoted in the preceding paragraph, do not inevitably lead to the viewpoint of the last. It takes deeper influences than these to preserve or destroy chastity, or any other behavior pattern which has been built into the personality securely, in the earlier stages of the socializing process. The thing which parents do not understand is that ethical standards and emotional attitudes are developed through experiences more than through exhortations.'" (Blanchard: The Child and Society, pp. 243-45.) 2. Special problem of the girl in our modern world. A. "The girl receives a greater share of disapproval from her elders than does a boy. But some of this is a self-defensive clinging to standards with which the older generation is familiar. Because of their maturity, they feel that a responsibility rests upon them to act as the guides and mentors of youth. Unfortunately, they do not know how to make their advice applicable to the situations as they exist. Many changes have been made in political and economic institutions, but the social institutions of marriage and the family are only beginning to feel the effects of these. We cannot tell with certainty what will be expected of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE women in the future or for what destiny we should prepare the girl who is under our tutelage. We try to: find reassurance for ourselves by insistence on the old regulations, in the hope of producing some semblance of stability in a day of fluctuating standards.'" (Blanchard: The Child and society, pp. 259-60.) B. Under the title "Daughters of Men" Elizabeth Harrison tells a beautiful story of a father who insisted that he and the girl's brother should carry all of the bundles. The last scene in the little narrative tells of the father taking even the newspaper from the little girl and handing it to the boy. As the father did this he remarked: "Girls must not carry bundles! That is what brothers are for." Miss Harrison then makes the following comment: "As the train sped on I gazed out of the window, but I did not see the trees and pastures. Instead, there passed before me a long procession— centuries long—of "daughters who must not carry bundles,' bending, sometimes breaking under the burdens which every true woman must sooner or later carry. And I wondered when well-meaning, loving fathers would learn that a hot-house training is not the best training for their daughters, who must one day take part in the battles of life, or let their souls wither and die under the first chilling frost of adversity, or, perhaps, what is worse, far worse, through indolence grow callous and selfish and trample under foot the love and devotion which every true man brings to his bride, and unwittingly crush out this precious love, because she has never been trained to take responsibilities, and therefore does not know how to help him bear the burdens that must come sooner or later to all daughters as well as all, sons of men." (Harrison: Misun- LESSON DEPARTMENT derstood Children, pages 137-8.) 3. The effects of wrong types ol parental discipline are described in the following three paragraphs from Terman and Almack: The Hygiene of the School Child, pp. 337-8-9. Methods of discipline: "The hygiene of discipline plays no small part in psychoprophylaxis. Nagging, arbitrary, or tyrannical parents and teachers either destroy the child's will or make it rebellious. The unstable and whimsical child is often but the victim of a nervous mother. The tyrannical, domineering father need not wonder when his son develops into a psychasthenic, weak, vacillating, and dependent upon others for guidance." Training in self-reliance and selfcontrol: ''Parental oversolicitude and excessive affection likewise tend to make the child dependent and to develop a mania for sympathy, the abnormal craving for love. The love bonds of infancy should normally dissolve as the child reaches maturity and be replaced by a tie of somewhat different nature. When this does not occur, when the relation of child to parent retains its infantile quality, the foundation is laid for a life of weakness and nervous invalidism. How to free the child from the circle of parental influence, without endangering the mellower filial attachment which should succeed it, is one of the most important problems of child-training. "Self-reliance does not grow up out of habits of dependence, nor does steadfastness develop out of uninhibited impulses." "The extreme suggestibility which marks the hysteria psychosis is best combated by a training which fosters, without overworking, the power of inhibition. As Williams well says, let the child 'be taught not to strike, not to follow, not to jeer, not to give in, even though others do so.' Let him 'learn to take pride in being his own nan, and not a puppet in the hands of others.' The culture of rationality also helps, for the hysterical is first and last uncritical. Whims and shallow impulsiveness do not thrive in the light of reason. Hysteria will be less common when education, from the kindergarten to the university, has more of the scientific background. Irrational prejudices can be combated by the same means.'" On this point a few sentences quoted from Faegre and Anderson: "Child Care and Training," will be stimulating: "In one family a child of three much enjoyed washing his hands when allowed to push his little stool in place, reach the soap, and turn on the faucet himself. His father, thinking to save time, insisted when he was in charge that the nonsense ot the stool getting be omitted. This meant the child had to stretch his little arms uncomfortably and could not have the fun of helping. The time wasted in quieting a rebellious child more than offset what would have been spent in preparing for the 'rite,' which has also the advantage of teaching the child methodical habits which he enjoyed." (p. 160.) "If we want to build up courage we must show the child that we trust him." (p. 198.) "It is only by the actual facing of difficult situations that the child builds up a technique of handling them. The child whose parents, for example, encourage her to dissolve into tears and seek their help in every difficulty is building up a type of response which will greatly handicap her in the ordinary rough and tumble of life." (p. 236.) ""Self-reliance cannot be taught too early. From the time the six-months-old baby is left alone in a 194 room to amuse himself, to the time when the youth becomes self-supporting, he needs constant, exhilarating practice in being able to do for himself." (pp. 236-7.) "Early giving of responsibilities is very closely allied with self-reliance. The growing child should never, of course, be subjected to heavy, routine work; drudgery in childhood does not lead to a happy attitude toward work later. But the assignment of small regular duties should begin very early, while the child's interest in helping is keen. If we wish to make an attitude of responsibility habitual, we must give pleasurable practice from an early age." (p. 237.) "Oversolicitous, overanxious parents often find themselves involved in trouble. Two such parents spent a year going from clinic to clinic, seeking a physical basis for the behavior of their child, for it took them that long to conclude that she really was merely 'spoiled from over-attention,' as they had been told." (p. 243.) "Mothers often worry unnecessarily about the teasing that goes on among the children of a family. While such behavior is hard on the mother, it has the effect eventually of forcing the individual to laugh at or ignore it." (p. 245.) "The danger that the child will suffer mistreatment at the hands of the others is no greater than that he will become flabby and spineless from never having to stand up for himself."" (p. 246.) 4, Analysis of problem children. In Sayles: "The Problem Child at Home" are found many case studies worthy of consideration. The fact that the lack of the proper methods of stimulating and developing self-reliance is a cause in such cases ls intimated in the following brief statements: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "One generalization only can be made regarding most of these children: they have received, during part or all of their lives, the too concentrated attention of their elders." (p. 16.) "Here, for example, is a mother of a four-year-old boy who is keeping him bound to her by continuing to perform for him a host of minor services—feeding, dressing, bathing —which he should be learning to perform for himself; who is praising him extravagantly before his face and rushing to his aid when he quarrels with other children in a way that is rapidly turning him into the terror of the neighborhood." (p. 30.) "One other example of exaggerated parental love may perhaps be offered without straining too far the patience of the reader—that of a tenyear-old only son whose parents were about equally responsible for his spoiling. Harold had never escaped from the bonds of infantile dependence on his mother; he could still hardly dress himself, and the task of getting him off to school in the morning was an almost impossible one, for he would insist on coming back time after time for one more kiss. He demanded that his mother or father lie down with him at bed time, he sucked his thumb and wanted to be his mother's baby. About family errands and school work alike he was utterly irresponsible." (pp. 34-5.) "Those who work with disordered lives, whether in clinics for children or in private practice or in agencies for adults, find numerous instances in which this pattern of parent-child relationships dominates the picture. The boy of four who has no notion of feeding or dressing himself or of attempting to control his temper; the boy of fifteen who can't 'stick it out' at camp because he misses his mother LESSON DEPARTMENT so; the man of thirty who puts off his marriage from year to year because he can't leave his mother in loneliness—these, and hosts of other variants on the theme, are familiar figures to those who deal with ill-adjusted personalities." (p. 39.) The following quotation summarizes the author's positive suggestions: Pages 6-7 from Sayles: "The Problem Child at Home": "Gradually he must learn to hold his own in a larger world of which his home is only the center. "It is this desire for growth, for freedom and opportunity to grow, which reveals the second great emotional need of the child, full satisfaction of which is to be gained only from and through his parents. To many parents this need is less obvious than the need for security; if only they can keep their little boy or girl safe, and their own, they hardly think of the young man or woman in the making. The child, if he be not granted freedom and opportunity in gradually increasing measure, may indeed eventually break away and grasp them for himself. Unfortunately, the prize thus acquired will no longer be what it might have been; the youth, however loudly he may proclaim his independence and adulthood, will be marked by imma turities which he does not himself recognize and cannot shake off. For growing up is a stage-to-stage process, and if he is held back at the earlier stages and then seeks to pass them at a single bound, he inevitably misses the practice along the way which would have fitted him little by 195 little to make intelligent use of each new experience encountered. Security and freedom to grow, though sometimes they may thus interfere with one another, are not, however, necessarily antagonistic The child who is encouraged, as he emerges from infancy, to mingle with other children and to find a great part of his satisfaction in relations with them; who is given ample opportunity to handle and learn about things, to orient himself in the physical world and the world of ideas; who is taught to fight his own battles and encouraged to make his own plans: such a child will not be likely to suffer from over-security in his home life; the sympathy, counsel, and fellowship he receives there will rather be sources of strength. It is only when such parental attentions are exaggerated and made to overshadow every other interest in his life that his growth is hampered by them." References: 1. Blanchard: The Child and Society, pp. 243-5. 2. Blanchard: The Child and Society, pp. 259-60, 3. Harrison: Misunderstood Children, pp. 137-8. 4. Terman and Almack: The Hygiene of the School Child, pp. 337, 8, 9. 5. Faegre and Anderson: Child Care and Training, pp. 160, 198, 236, 236-7, 237, 243, 245, 246. 6. Sayles: The Problem Child at Home, pp. 16, 30, 34-5, 39, 6-7. "Prohibition may not be operating ideally, but we have come a long way from the state of affairs in 1916 when almost four times as much money was squandered for liquor in this country as was spent on education, and more than twice as much as was expended by the national government." The Cultivation of Flax By Heber S. Cutler (UTAH and Idaho are admirably adapted to the cultivation of flax. The climate is jsuch that the best varieties of seed flax and straw for fibre purposes, can be grown strong and healthy, and will compare with flax that is grown in any part of the United 'States or elsewhere. The soils of Utah and Idaho are well adapted to the growing of seed flax and straw for fibre purposes It is recommended that flax be planted on the irrigated lands, as a better crop is had for both flax seed and straw. All hands that will grow sugar beets, cereals, and in fact all other crops, can be used in the successful growing of flax. A dark sandy loam, free from weeds, with a minimum irrigation of three waterings will produce the best results. As a rotation crop. It will follow any other crops planted in this intermountain country. (Flax is especially good as a rotation crop in the eradication of nematode diseases incident to the growing of the sugar beet. Flax can be successfully raised from newly ploughed sod lands, and makes an excellent first crop to break up new land. Flax can be planted on alkali lands perhaps with better results than any other crops. The Utah Flax 'Products Company has already had quite a large plot planted with flax at the Utah Light and Power Plant, west of the Jordan River. Planting flax requires only the ordinary; farm equipment that 'is used in the growing of the cereals or beets, or any other crop of like character. The only requirement in addition to the usual farm equipment, is a finer seive in the thrashing machines To get the best results from growing flax for fibre purposes, the land must be free from weeds. The straw will not be taken commercially if there is more than 5% foreign matter in the production of straw for fibre purposes. There is no more work required in the production of flax, than there is in the production of wheat, or any other crop usually planted in Utah and Idaho. 'Flax is a cash crop, just as sugar beets are a cash crop. If the farmers will plant flax in 1933, and thereafter guarantee sufficient acreage, it will be a rival to the beet sugar industry, in Utah and Idaho. For the labor expended, the time required to mature the flax crop, and the general conditions incident to the growing of flax. It will bring to the farmers as much return as any other crop planted, including sugar beets. There is a cash market at home, and in California, which will consume all of the flax grown up to five thousand tons of flax seed annually. Our home cash market for the consumption of flax for seed and fibre purposes will rapidly grow as the flax meals can be usel in a mixed ration profitably by the poultry industry, the dairy industry, and live stock in general. Besides, flax meal is bought by drug stores for medical purposes. There will be many other industries—22 in all—in connection with the growing of flax, if the farmers will plant flax for seed and fibre purposes. The Utah Flax Products Company 32 South Main St., Salt Lake City, will furnish at cost a pedigreed seed flax, both wilt and rust resisting, of good quality, to all farmers who will plant flax in 1933. Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing A Specialty BREAD Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY  Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 P.M. Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah " O. P. S. Breads and Rolls are unusual in their eating qualities. You'll buy them often after once trying them. OP SKAGGS Efficient Service System 'A Surety of Purity" Springtime Spring is the house-cleaning season. What to do with the prized magazines and periodicals that each spring finds stored away in attic and basement, serving no better purbose than to accumulate dust and consume Space, is a problem that wrinkles the brow of many a house-wife. Let us urge you not to let this valuable reading material remain hidden away when at a surprignly low cost you can convert it into handsomely bound volumes, gracing your library shelves, where you and your family can find easy access to the gems that these magazines contain. A card from you, stating the quantity of such material that you would like bound up, will bring a prompt response quoting costs. We are offering a special discount for ten or more volumes bound at one time, The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street: Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine UP, 5 & prompt response quoting costs. We are offering Progress Each and Every Year.... As time marches on greater becomes our annual increase in financial strength. Through fair weather and foul—through sunshine of prosperity and shadow of depression—the Beneficial has kept the faith of its founders and clung tenaciously to the virtues of conservatism and fair dealings. The Beneficial is nationally recognized for its investment strength; for its net low. Cost of insurance and the unique plan of distributing its net earning to Policyholders. During the year 1932 the Beneficial paid to Policyholders in cash and loans, more than one million seven hundred thousand dollars. IF YOU CAN'T SAVE TO BUY INSURANCE—BUY INSURANCE TO SAVE BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO HOME OFFICE—SALT LAKE CITY If it's a Beneficial Policy it's the best Insurance you can HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager The morning breaks the shadows flee; Lo! Zions standard is unfurled, The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world Keep Posted! On the mighty changes that are shaping our civilization by special study at the 1933 Summer Session of the UNIVERSITY OF UTAH. NATIONAL LEADERS in the field of Philosophy, Sociology, and Education have been engaged to interpret modern-day America in its relationship to a modern, changing world. OUTSTANDING VISITING FACULTY DR. JOSEPH A. LEIGHTON - Philosophy, Ohio State University. MRS. ARTHUR C. WATKINS Secretary National Congress of Parents and Teachers, Education Division. LUELLA C. PRESSEY Asst. Professor Psychology, Ohio State University. JOSEPH E. MADDY Professor of Music, University of Michigan. June 12-18. DEAN MILTON H. TURK English Hobart College. MR. ARTHUR C. WATKINS Director National Student Forum on Paris Pact. (Two weeks only.) HENRY NEUMANN Leader Brooklyn Society for Ethical Culture. (5 Lectures.) SIDOR BELARSKY Professor of Music, Brigham Young University. KEEP POSTED on what science is doing to contribute to the advance of civilization. Summer school students are invited to hear the big scientific minds of the country, gathered on the University campus, June 12-15, for regional meetings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. COMPLETE COURSES Besides these attractions, the summer school offers regular summer school courses given by a splendid resident faculty. Unemployed high school and college students will find summer school study a profitable way of meeting requirements for graduation. COMPLETE CATALOGUE WILL APPEAR APRIL 1 One term of six weeks—June 12 to July 21 University of Utah SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine ONFERENCE "If I was sunk in the lowest pit, with all the Rocky Mountains VISITORS.... Piled upon me, still would I hope and strive...." Will find it a pleasure to shop a Joseph Smith GRANITE wo ae By JOHN HENRY EVANS FURNITURE For a hundred years, world-wide controversy has raged over everything ormon. Here is an impartial analysis and appreciation of the strange, spectacular, fascinating personality which 1050 East 21st South ' embodies the genesis of Mormonism. The book is divided into three parts: WE SAVE YOU MONEY the prophet's career, his religious philosophy, and his account of his own life,. And his works. Everything to furnish the home Stranger than fiction, more exciting.  Than a popular mystery... Because it is based on demonstrable FACTS AT ALL BOOKSTOREGS........$4.00 Range; Dexter Washer and a beautiful THE MACMILLAN line of Draperies. COMPANY 150 Living Room Suites And everything to furnish the homes. THE GRANITE FURNITURE CO 1050 E 21st SOUTH A traveling man recently returned from the West says that the high altitude of the mountains is responsible for some of the dry humor of the natives, and tells the story of a party of tourists taking a stagecoach ride to the top of a high peak. At one point the road lay along the edge of a cliff, with the jmountain towering high above it on the right and a deep chasm on the left. It was a most dangerous place, but the passengers all had confidence in the driver except one very nervous man, who, after throwing one frightened glance into the valley, shrank back into his seat. "I say, driver," he called, anxiously, "do people often fall down this cliff?" The driver never flickered an eyelash as he answered, "No; only once." A. LEVEL-HEADED Lunatic Henry Hollins, a young mill-hand in Massachusetts, having some slight mental trouble, was sent to a State asylum. After he had been there for a few weeks, a fellow-worker visited him. "Hello, Henry!" he asked: "How are you gettin' on?" "I'm gettin' on fine," said the patient. "Glad to hear it. I suppose you'll be comin' back to the mill soon" "What!" exclaimed Henry, and a look of great surprise came to his face. "Do you think I'd leave a big, fine house like this and a grand garden to come back to work in a mill? You must think I am wrong in my head!" WHAT BOTHERED Him A Saginaw man tells of an Eastern college graduate who got work in a Michigan lumber-camp. He was told to get busy on one end of a cross-cut saw, the other end being in charge of an old and experienced lumberman. At first all went well, but at the end of the second day the young man's strength began to wane. Suddenly the old man stopped the saw and spat. "Son," said he, not unkindly, "I don't mind your ridin' on this saw, but if it's just the same to you I wish you'd keep your feet off the ground." THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. XX APRIL, 1933 No. 4 CONTENTS One of the Tablets of the Seagull Monument........................ Frontispiece Easter Morning......... Mabel S. Harmer 197 Do Not Shun the Fight............Dr. Richard R. Lyman 199 Spring in Liberty Park 2.0.0..... 205 To an April Day......... Mary Hale Woolsey 206  Ella J. Coulam 206 Thanks for Today.........Linnie Fisher Robinson 206 Recompense........Lucy Goodrich Lind 206 Lilac Lure Lella Marler Hoggan 207 Prohibition Dr. George W. Middleton 218 Don't Forget Fish.......Lucy Rose Middleton 222 A Talk to Mothers.............Ruth May Fox 224 Sowing Dragon's Teeth........... 226 Three Meals a Day—An Adventure..............Franke Beal Johns 227 Happenings  Annie Wells Cannon 230 Notes from the Field 231 Editorial—The Light of the World............ 235 President Franklin D, Roosevelt............ PEEP oc col. 236 We Thank You................  236 Lesson Department............ 237 Plant Perennials for Perpetual Gardens.................. Cora Carver Ritchie 254 A Garden Walk........ Ezra 'J. Poulsen 256 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone 'Wasatch 3123 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving 'both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879, Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. - Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear: No. 1 New style, ribbed lgt, wet. No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Combed Cotton. An excellent Our best selling wool number Ladies' number............$1.00 ber. Men's new or old style....$2.50 No. 2 Old style, ribbed lgt. Wgt. Our standard garment 1.10 No. 3 Ribbed med. Wgt. Cotton, No. 7 Light weight Spring and bleached. Our all season number. Men's new or old style.... 1.25 Autumn garment. Men only.85 No. 8 Light weight silk for ladies No. 4 Ribbed heavy wgt. Unbleached cotton. Our double back number. Men’s new or old style 1.50 No. 9 Medium wgt. Silk for men and women, new style only. Non-Run 1.50 In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, short legs and sleeves or ankle length legs, are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Rt Postage prepaid on orders accompanied by money order. Special discount to missionaries. Our Jack Frost Blankets are made of Utah Wool and Utah Labor Write for Prices FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates, LDS. GARMENTS Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. OLD OR NEW STYLE Fad ONLY, MAN OR Light Rib Cotton... 75 144 Spring Needle Flat Weave............$1.00 Med. Rib Cotton. '98 205 Rib Knit, Lt. Weight.................. 1.15 92 Lt. Wt. Rayon Stripe... 1.00: Lt. Weight.................. 1.2 228 Lt. Wt. Rayon Stripe.... 1.35 84 Rayon Plated...... 1.35 256 Double Carded, Med. 7 5 405 Non-run Viscose Rayon....- 1.35 758 Med. Hvy. Cot., Ecru or White.... 1.45 306 Non-run Viscose Rayon................ 1.75 BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Testing Uncle's Faith "We'd have more prayers answered," said Bishop Hoss, of Muskogee, "if we had more faith. "Too many of us are like Willie. Willie, on a visit to his uncle's in the country, admired a fine colt. "Uncle, give me that colt, will you?' he asked. ""Why, no, Willie," said his uncle. 'That's a very valuable colt, and I couldn't afford to give him to you. Do you want a colt so very badly?' "I'd rather have a colt than anything else in the world," said Willie. " 'Then,' said his uncle, 'I'll tell you what you ought to do. Since you want a colt that much, you ought to pray for one. Whenever I want a thing I always pray for it, and then it is sure to come to me.' "Is that so, uncle?' said 'Willie, eagerly. 'Won't you please give me this colt, then and pray for one for yourself?' "—Pittsburg Chronicle-Telegraph. SEE THE NEW EUREKA VACUUM CLEANER NEW—MODERN—BEAUTIFUL With Full Floating Brush, Beautiful Red Bag and 14 Other Major Improvements ings and hotels. Face litter. $5.00 Down Balance on Easy Terms Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 177 East Broadway Phone Wasatch 4764 This super-powered Eureka De Luxe cleans deeply, swiftly and thoroughly—removing all deeply embedded, stubborn dirt by "High Vacuum"—the identical cleaning principle of all costly installed systems built into large buildThe new "full floating'? Brush automatically removes all lint, hair and other surTime for Spring House Cleaning! BENNETT'S CLEANSERS AND POLISHES Save Time, Work and Worry! PASTE CLEANER and CRYSTAL CLEANSER for woodwork, linoleum, tile and glass "KLENZENE" for Wallpaper All Types of 'Waxes for Floors and Furniture At your dealer's, or BENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO. 61-65 W First South "Today's Milk Today" GRADE "A" Pasteurized Milk Brainard's Cottonwood Dairy Call Hyland 670 Always ask for Grade "A" Milk Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing A Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine .. Easter Morning By Mabel S. Harmer Without the city gate, a Pilgrim stood, His garments old and torn, his sandals gone. He raised his head and murmured, "Why 'should I enter in and worship here? I have no jewels or silks, I have not even bread Nor lowliest hut where I may rest myself." And as he stood the Sabbath bells rang out, Sweet voices told the joy of Easter Morn. The Pilgrim bowed his head and said, "Forgive me Lord—I had forgot The riches that are mine, Eternal life—Salvation from the grave, With blessings such as these, I need not worldly wealth, I am content." ONE OF THE TABLETS OF THE SEAGULL MONUMENT "Her faith in Almighty God never wavers" (See page 201). | THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XX APRIL, 1933 No. 4 Do Not Shun the Fight By Dr. Richard R. Lyman of the Council of the Twelve A Ray of Hope EN may fail but women never! For years I have used this expression repeatedly. And now that the women of the country are combining in their defense of Prohibition and in their efforts to defeat at the polls candidates for office who will not live in accordance with the law, those who have not supported and will not "support, obey and, defend" the Constitution of the United States in accordance with the solemn oath every official of our government is required to take, it begins to look as if success may finally come to our "noble experiment," to our great and commendable cause of Prohibition. Congressmen Warned WE are told through the press that Mrs. Henry W. Peabody, militant chairman of the Women's National Committee for Law Enforcement, has recently warned members of Congress that the women of the nation are organizing "in revolt" to turn wet legislators out of office. Welfare of Children MBS: PEABODY declares that the pending beer bills throughout the country are a menace to the welfare of our 40,000,000 children. She says that women citizens throughout the states are in revolt as normal women always have been and always will be when the welfare of children is in danger. Clamor of the Selfish THE asks legislators which they will do, protect the women and children of the nation or yield to the wet clamor of brewers and self-interested men who would violate the Constitution of the United States on behalf of that habit-forming drug, alcohol. We join with her and her associate workers and say, "Thank God for honest men in our Congress. We pray God to help women remove from office the men who defy Him and who defy the laws of this nation." To You the Women Call WHEN the World War was raging, when the nations of the earth were appealing to the United States for help, Henry Van Dyke in his poem, the "American Flag Song," entitled, "From Glory Unto Glory," wrote the following apostrophe to our glorious flag, the Stars and Stripes: 200 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ONE OF THE TABLETS OF THE SEAGULL MONUMENT “Her faith in Almighty God never wavers” (Se page 201). Mrs. Henry W. Peabody "Thy sister banners hold the line; To thee, dear flag, they call; And thou hast joined them with the sign— The heavenly sign, the victor sign— Of the stars that never fall. CHORUS "All hail to thee, New Glory! 'We follow thee unfurled To write the larger story Of Freedom for the World." And now the women of the nation, including the women of Utah, the women of our Church, those of the Relief Society, of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and of the Primary, unitedly call, and you, the women of the Church, have joined them, you who never fail. Strong Pioneer Women MEN may fail, but women never! You women folks, look at that picture preserved in everlasting bronze on the south side of our Seagull Monument. The crickets and the grasshoppers have come, and the crops have been destroyed as completely as if they had been burned by fire. The man, the pioneer, strong, noble character that he was, is discouraged. He has thrown down his scythe and his shovel, he has cast aside his hoe, he has gone down upon the ground, DO NOT SHUN THE FIGHT his chin is resting on his breast, he has quit; for him the struggle is over, he is defeated. But not so with the pioneer wife, the pioneer mother. Her bones are little, her muscles small but great are her faith and her determination. With children clinging to her skirts and a baby in her arms, her strong face is turned skyward, and as she looks into the blue of heaven she sees the seagulls coming. Her faith in Almighty God never wavers. All our hearts are touched by this picture of her heroism and by the story of the seagulls as this story is told in these few words on the bronze entablature: Seagull Monument — Erected in grateful remembrance of the mercy of God to the Mormon pioneers." Women and the Welfare of Their Sons YOU, daughters, descendants, followers of these noble pioneer women, will not, you cannot fail. Women may be interested in fashions, in jewels, in social functions, in fine feathers; their interest may be such in fact that they have little time or inclination for things religious. But few if any mothers are so much interested in dress and jewels and fashions and society that these will not be deserted and forgotten when to a real mother a call comes for her to render service whose purpose is the welfare of her son. Example: A little mother on the train in Idaho during the World War said she had a son, her only child. When the boy was but an infant his father died. And while the step-father had been kind to and was generally interested in the boy, to her, who was his mother, this son, her only child, was everything. Upon receiving a telegram at her home in St. Louis that soon 201 her son would sail for France she took the train for Camp Lewis in Oregon hoping to see once more the face of her soldier son before he started for those trenches on the western front. "Could Walk Through Fire' THAT son of mine," said she, "is dearer to me than all else on earth. Some complain because we are expected to eat bread made of coarse flour, or because our supply of sugar is limited. To me these little things are nothing. Going without sugar under these war conditions is a pleasure. I am glad to make the sacrifice. I could walk through fire if so doing were necessary to bring my boy back to me alive and well." That is but an example of the unselfish, the determined devotion of women, the spirit, the sterling worth of those who are genuine mothers. Wise indeed are those in our Church who have organized the mothers of the Deacons, the mothers of the Scouts, etc. Great wisdom is exercised also in effecting this powerful organization of the women of the nation in the interest of the Eighteenth Amendment. Example of the First Lady of the Land ET me stop here to commend the life, the labors, the ideals, the example of Mrs. Herbert Hoover, wife of the former President of the United States, as indicated by the following article which appeared in the Washington Post on March 9, 1929: "Women Aid Dry Drive—Ten National Affiliated Women's Organizations Pledge Support of 12,000,000 Women. The wife of the President was pointed to as a fine example of the way in which American women can help in the enforcement of the liquor law by refusing to participate in social functions where the law is broken." 202 I appeal to the women of the Church to follow this noble example. Fortunate indeed is any country which has for the wife of its chief executive one whose soul thus seeks first the good of the children of men. Latter-day Saint women, Latterday Saint mothers know by revelation and from scientific demonstration that intoxicating liquors are not good for man. Knowing the facts concerning the effect of alcohol upon the health, upon the success and effectiveness of the lives of their sons, surely' the women of the Church, the mothers, will unitedly come to the assistance of the women of the nation in their efforts to retain in our Constitution the Eighteenth Amendment and to enforce our Prohibition laws. Pledge to the Women of the Whole World A LITTLE woman, a little mother, reported in a Prohibition meeting in Salt Lake City recently that she was a delegate some years ago to the International Convention of the Women's Christian Temperance Union which was held at Geneva, Switzerland. She explained that it was thrilling when in a body all the women, all the mothers, delegates of the other nations of the whole world arose in a body and with their hands extended towards the delegates from the United States, appealed unitedly to the women of our country to continue to struggle to retain in our Constitution the Eighteenth Amendment and to have our Prohibition laws enforced. In reply to this impressive appeal of the women of all the rest of the world, the representatives from the United States arose en masse and, unitedly, holding one hand toward high heaven and the other on their hearts they made a solemn pledge to those women and mothers of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE world assembled that they will not cease to struggle, they will not cease to fight until the Eighteenth Amendment is permanently fixed in the Constitution of the United States and until our Prohibition laws are enforced. Appeal to Women of Church HEREBY appeal to the women of our own Church to remember that in unity there is strength, that a house divided against itself cannot stand. I appeal to them therefore to come forward with a solid front, backed by the revelation and by scientific knowledge that alcoholic liquors are not good for man, and give every support at their command to the women of the nation in their efforts to retain and to enforce our Prohibition laws. A Front Page Story Coming BURIED on the inside of a Salt Lake City paper issued this very day, February 28, 1933, appears the following: "Speaker I. A. Smoot of the House of Representatives was advised Monday afternoon that petitions against repeal of State dry laws, signed by 55,287 persons from 28 counties of the State, had been received by the National Women's Relief Society, Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, President, announced. "The petitions were circulated by auxiliaries of the L. D. S. Church and representatives of other churches in line with the national campaign against wet legislation conducted by women's organizations." If these women are determined and will struggle on until the election comes on the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment, these 55,287 persons will get a front page announcement. In the last election the total vote cast in the State of Utah was 201,325. If under present conditions the women's organizations DO NOT SHUN THE FIGHT can get over 50,000 signatures to petitions, their united effort will surely result in holding safely the western front for Prohibition. Is it necessary for me in this appeal to the women of the Church to say anything about the ill effects of alcoholic beverages? Since those younger than thirty-five can hardly remember the saloon or its effects, it may be well to summarize a few of the outstanding facts and conditions concerning the use of liquor. The statements given below are taken mainly from a pamphlet entitled, "Let's Have the Truth About Prohibition,” published by the American Business Men's Prohibition Foundation, 7 Dearborn Street, Chicago, Illinois. The Truth About Prohibition MEPICAL authorities mention as some of the common manifestations of liquor drinking that the face becomes flushed and hot; the pulse accelerated. Thére is general loss of self-control. The brain is dulled. Speech is impeded. There is staggering and loss of equilibrium. There is nausea and vomiting. There is stupor—unconsciousness resembling the deep anesthesia produced by ether or chloroform. If we partook of food that produced such effects, we would call it poison and summon a physician. Alcohol is a poison—a dangerous habit-forming drug. In fact, if alcohol anesthesia lasts more than 10 or 12 hours, it is often fatal. One hundred years of education preceded the enactment of the Prohibition amendment. Educational efforts came to a virtual standstill when the amendment was passed. In the meantime wet propaganda— highly colored and distorted, but often cleverly prepared—has flooded the nation. Millions of people 203 are being deluded by this constant outpouring of misinformation. Ignorant of the facts and blinded by the unanswered charges of the wet press, increasing numbers are nullifying the Prohibition amendment and seeking its repeal. Is Prohibition Corrupting Young People? ANY are often positive that young folks drink more today than they did before Prohibition. The educators of America whose life work brings them into daily contact with young people say otherwise. President Wilbur of Stanford University says they have only onetenth the problem they had with ° liquor before Prohibition. Professor Clarke of Yale says in the old days their committee on discipline was constantly busy with cases involving intoxication. Now they have practically no business of this kind to transact. High school principals of the country state overwhelmingly that drinking among high school students has decreased since Prohibition. Coaches of 100 leading colleges state that drinking by athletes is now no problem. "We have had no trouble so far as liquor is concerned in the past seven years," says Ralph Young of Michigan. A. A. Stagg, famous Chicago coach: "Liquor is less of a problem here today than it ever has been." The heads of 213 colleges report almost unanimously that drinking in the colleges has decreased. Drinking Always Harmful THE most ardent advocates of repeal abhor the thought that their sons or their daughters may become drinkers. Liquor has always been and will forever be the boon companion of crime. It has been and 204 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE will forever be a breaker of the law. Witness the following from a speech made in Ohio in 1912 before the Retail Liquor Dealers' Association: "We must create the appetite for liquor. The open field for the creation of appetite is among the boys. Nickels expended in treats to boys now will return dollars to our tills after the appetite has been formed." Drinking Decreases Under Prohibition N 1908 there was one retail liquor dealer for every 333 persons in the United States. The yearly expenditure for liquor was three times as great as the cost of operating our public schools. Commander Evangeline Booth of the Salvation Army says: "Before Prohibition in New York City from 1200 to 1300 drunks a night were brought to Army 'homes,' while the number now on an average does not exceed seven." Has Prohibition increased crime? No; since Prohibition crime has diminished. George W. Kirchwey of the American Institute of Criminal Law says: "'The official record covering the eighteen years, 1910 to 1927 inclusive, shows a decline of from 35 to 40 per cent in the general crime rate in the United States." Those under the age of thirty-five years who do not remember conditions during saloon days should be impressed with the following quotation from the Chicago Tribune of July 11, 1917: "If the veritable narrative of the American saloon were ever written, it would make the decadence of Rome look like an age of pristine beauty in comparison. The liquor business has been the faithful ally of every vicious element in American life. It has protected criminals, fostered the social evil and bribed politicians, juries and legislatures."' What more evidence than this does any woman need to induce her to put her all upon the altar to protect mankind from the deadly effects of alcohol? Age of Speed "THIS is the age of speed and speed is typically American. It is not only logical but inevitable that the United States—pacemaker in the age of motor advancement—should have led the world in the adoption of National Prohibition. Cheaply indeed will we value human life if we legalize the sale of alcoholic beverages. Imagine the condition of our country with its automobiles, flying machines and swift-moving machinery if our Prohibition laws are repealed and alcoholic beverages are advertized by radio and other modern methods as cigarettes are advertised today. It is greed, it is financial gain, it is the selfishness of men which makes possible this insistent demand now being made* for the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment and for the repeal of our -Prohibition enforcement laws. The M. I. A. General Boards have said: "Alcohol strikes at the very foundation of human progress. Prohibition is the most successful means yet tried or devised by this or any other nation for dealing with the liquor traffic. Since the observance and enforcement of our liquor legislation would mean that the laborers of our country would buy food, clothing, shelter and education for their families with the money that might otherwise be spent for drink, the M. I. A. Stands strongly against repeal and as strongly for the enforcement of our liquor laws. The ground already gained, which has cost so much in time, effort and money, ought not to be lost, it ought not to be surrendered. DO NOT SHUN THE FIGHT Since this enemy of the happiness, prosperity and success of mankind can never be completely eliminated, good citizens will always have it to fight." What Mother Will Sell Her Son's Success? ARE we going to surrender to conspiring, selfish men who before our very eyes are struggling to sell the success, the character, the dependability, yes the very souls of the youth of our land and nation for financial gain? By the power of God may we the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, men and women alike, have the courage and the stamina to struggle on to the bitter. End. If we must go down, if defeat is inevitable, may we to the last remain united, to the end may we continue to fight. Let us remember the words of Baron Pierre De 205 Coubertin, founder of the modern Olympic games, "The main issue in life is not the victory, the main issue in life is the fight; the essential thing is not to have won, the essential thing is to have fought and to have fought well." Men may fail but women never! Prohibition Succeeds BEFORE Prohibition every city had in its streets drunken men, hungry women seeking drunken husbands, cold and naked children crying for drunken fathers. Few mothers and children today wait in terror for the return of a drunken husband and father. Prohibition protects the poor and means that the children, even the poorest, will be clothed, fed, educated. Today our country is free from drink-caused poverty. God help us to prevent its return. SPRING IN LIBERTY PARK To an April Day By Mary Hale Woolsey At dawn you promised springlike Warmth 'and cheer; But ere had passed an hour, Storm was here! You promised sunshine to us For today,— Then substituted dreary Skies of gray. Rude winds and sleety snowflakes Chilled us through, And winter-weary spirits Drooped anew. Then, roguish little mischief!— Swiftly you Romped out with sunny breezes "Neath the blue. Our hearts were lifted upward As on wings; So magical the joy your Laughter brings! You sent us songs of robins, Sweet and clear, To carry joyful tidings: Spring is near! Still you'd not be contented. Soon again From tossing, tearing clouds, fell Silver rain. You've capered through the moments Like a clown, With gay grins bursting through a Painted frown. But freely we forgave you, After while, And bore your whims and tantrums With a smile; You try us—but you have a Winning way; We love you still—you impish April Day! April By Ella J. Coulam Oh! Moody month of April You've such a fickle way— Bowed down to-night in sorrow, Tomorrow—gold and igay. Your tears are so abundant They fall most every day, And then for consolation The Sun wipes them away. Our lives seem just as fickle With grief and joy and pain; We look to God for solace Like sunshine after rain. Thanks for Today By Linnie Fisher Robinson Oh wasn't it lovely the way The robin built her nest? Wasn't it fine to see the sun Sink in the golden west? Oh wouldn't we miss the flowers, If we couldn't walk where they grow? And wouldn't we miss the grasses, If we could no more see them blow? So, just to give us happiness And make the day seem glad, Let's thank God for the day we have Whether its good or bad. For, if the day should be cloudy And we can't see the sun, Let's thank God we can look for it Before that day is done. Recompense By Lucy Goodrich Lind Was ever a spring so welcome For rude Winter, relentless king, Has held me so nearly snowbound— Caged, when I would be on the wing. Was ever Spring so joyous Now ecstatic the heart sings on His coming is one Easter nearer And we're near, so near'the Dawn. Lilac Lure By Lella Marler Hoggan HE soft dusk was heavy with the sweet odor of lilacs. Clusters of the purple-tinted blossoms drooped gracefully from the luxuriant arbor near by. A little trailing breeze stirred the leafage lightly, and spilled perfume extravagantly across the vine-covered porch. The garden was bathed in a silver shimmer of white moonlight. From out the shadows came _ the chirp of a night bird calling to his mate. A muffled twitter sounded in reply. The night was entrancing. Margaret was held in its magic spell. When she looked at the straight, light hair of her suitor, she saw a cluster of soft, brown curls. His strident tones did not carry true; for she heard the music of a deep, well modulated voice, that suggested rippling laughter. How could she hear what he was saying to her when her soul was so filled with old sweet dreams? Dreams that had never been fulfilled. Memories of the lover of her youth would not be crowded out of her heart tonight. The moonlight, the mating call of the birds, the heavy perfume of the lilacs, carried her back through the years—back to another moonlit night in May, another sweet-scented arbor in an old-fashioned garden. She drew herself up with a start. Why must other men stand always in a shadow before her? Why must their virtues be forever compared with this past ideal? Why should her life be stripped of its romantic joy because of a memory, a dream that could not come true? Had not Philip Norton made his choice ten years ago when he married pretty little Lillian Gray? Then why should she permit the memory of her youthful romance with Philip to spoil her mature years? To rob her of life's richest experiences, and leave her alone when the shadows of old age should finally spread their empty wings about her? Time had mellowed and sweetened Margaret McLane's thirty-five years of life, and made of her a charming, beautiful woman. The ten years she had spent in a hospital had given her a broader understanding, a deeper sympathy, a sweeter patience, and a more loving generous outlook on life. But she wanted a home. To be a housewife, to do simple, homely tasks in her own time and way, was her ideal of happy usefulness. To be a mother— But her thoughts were interrupted by Arnold Simpson's voice as he walked back and forth before her. "My dear girl," he was saying, "the years do not wait. Why not take your happiness now, before some trick of fate dooms you to the hospital for life?' His attitude was almost severe. "Yes," admitted Margaret, seriously, "invalid trays, and white cots do in time lose their attraction for one." "T shall be only too glad," he promised, ''to give you a beautiful home with every comfort and convenience. Ease and luxury shall be yours. What more can you desire?" A cold little chill crossed Margaret's heart. She felt that she was being bought with a price. "Mr. Simpson," and her voice was deep with emotion, "let me assure you, I fully appreciate your gener- 208 ous offer. You are very kind. But I—I—simply can't—'" "You shall not give me my final answer tonight," he protested, rising hurriedly, and coming nearer. "Wait awhile, there is no hurry. Think it over." Again he paced back and forth, clasping and unclasping his hands nervously. He was ten years her senior in reality, and older than that in appearance. ""We cannot be young always," he meditated, more to himself than to her. 'And there comes a time, at the end of the road, when life seems empty. And gray if we are alone. One needs companionship." Margaret smiled sweetly, "Companionship and marriage are not necessarily synonymous terms," said she. "Charming, interesting, old people seem never to be lonely." He shrugged his shoulders and smiled sardonically, "But, my dear, age brings its aches and pains and bitterness," he argued. "It is hard to feel that one is not needed." She did not reply. There was a hurt look in her large dark eyes. Not seeing the pained expression on her face, he' continued, '"Prosperity opens the door to old age and overlooks perversity, you know." He closed his lips in a straight line, and fingered his watch chain, nervously. "We should put beauty into our lives," she said softly, "against the day when our charms must, of necessity, offset our tired hands and empty purses." "But why contemplate the unpleasant phases of life?' He raised his eyebrows and matched his fingertips as he continued, "You are young and charming. You have a large circle of friends. Think what it would mean to you to be in a position to meet them socially; to be free from financial care; to travel; to study; to rest. Think it over, girl. Give yourself a chance." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Margaret turned away from him. She dared not trust the expression of her face even to his casual gaze. "Let us go for a ride," she said, rising. He was glad to accept her suggestion. "It is a wonderful night," he announced, scanning the landscape, as if he had just that moment discovered the beauty of the -night. "Wonderful," she echoed, dreamily. They drove far out into the country, out into the quiet places, where little mountain streams rippled softly over pebbles; where the pastures, closed in by rustic willow fences, were fragrant with the intense sweetness of blossoming clover and meadow flowers; and where night birds called from thickets of wild roses. The car glided softly along in the moonlight. And then, out of the night, a small house shaped itself against the background of the dark mountains. It was a humble abode, nestling close beside tall lilac bushes. A kerosene lamp on a small table cast a dim shaft of light across the graveled path. There was a break in the even rhythm of the purring car. Simpson stopped directly in front of the little lighted window, and stepped out to see what was the matter. Before he was at the wheel again, the house door opened. A man with a cane came slowly along the walk, betraying by his groping manner and the dark glasses he wore, the fact that he was feeling, rather than seeing, the path ahead of him. He was not an old man. Dark hair clustered aganist his white brow. And his strong hand reached out pathetically, searching for the latch on the old-fashioned wooden gate. He spoke in a deep, well modulated voice. "T am glad you stopped," he said. I heard the car and tried to hurry LILAC out. I have already missed more than one car tonight." Margaret could not reply. She turned her face away from the pathetic picture, and tried to still her throbbing heart. What strange freak of fate had blotted out the last decade of her life, and brought her face to face with the past? If she kept silent she need not betray herself. For poor Philip Norton's unseeing eyes could not recognize her. "What is your trouble?' questioned Arnold Simpson. "Anything we can do to help you?" "T have a very sick child," Philip answered. "We need a doctor. There is a telephone a mile down the road, but there is no one to go. I could grope my way down all right, but I dare not leave the little fellow alone while I go. He is only seven." "We shall be glad to drive down," said Simpson, "but how is it you are here alone with him?" "My wife died four years ago." There was a note of sadness in the deep voice. Margaret wanted to cry out in sympathy. Little Lillian Gray dead. Poor, dear Philip! "My mother has been with us ever since,' he went on, after a pause. "Norman seemed so much better yesterday, that I persuaded Mother to go to my sister's for a few days rest. I am surely glad you chanced to stop." "Tell us who your doctor is," said Simpson. "We shall go right down and call him." Margaret felt relieved when he mentioned Dr. Hugh Bernard, for she had never met Dr. Bernard. He could not betray her. "My friend here is a professional nurse,' explained Mr. Simpson. "Perhaps she would not mind sitting with the child while you ride down to the telephone with me." Margaret stepped into the room where the sick child lay on his bed LURE 209 tossing and moaning. One glance at the pitiful little patient told her that he was suffering from some heart trouble, and that he must have immediate professional help. "Poor little fellow," she whispered, pressing one of his white wasted hands between her own warm fingers, "How long has he lain here?" "Six months," said Philip, and there was a note of sadness in his voice. Margaret knew the long days and the longer nights that Philip must have bent over that little white bed, listening to the faint flutter of that murmuring heart, coaxing a lagging appetite to partake of some dainty morsel, watching, waiting, praying. Philip's hands reached out gropingly, to smooth the crumpled covers about the child. "Norman, lover, Daddy has to go down to talk to the doctor. This lady will take care of you until Daddy comes back. It will not be long." Norman's big dark eyes looked into Margaret's face, seriously. The little white hands trembled, and he moved about on his pillow uneasily. "You will let me stay with you, dear, I know you will," she smiled. Again Philip bent over him, speaking in an assuring voice. Then he kissed Norman tenderly and groped his way out of the sick room. Stooping over the pitiful little figure, Margaret smoothed back his dark curls, and smiled sweetly into the pathetic, trusting face—a miniature of Philip Norton's own face, Save it was so drawn and pale and so marked with longing. "Are you in any pain tonight," she asked gently, as she dexterously smoothed his sheets, fluffed his pillows, and carefully drew the coverlet across the bed. "Tt hurts tonight, right here,". He admitted, placing his hand on his chest. 210 Margaret questioned him gently concerning his needs, as she carefully prepared him for his night's rest. ° Her calm assurance soon quieted his nervousness. He scarcely realized that he was sipping a glass of warm milk through a straw, so engrossed was he in the fascinating story she was telling him. When Philip and Mr. Simpson returned they found Norman sleeping quietly. But Margaret was very anxious concerning the child's condition. "When will the doctor be here?' she asked at once. "Not before morning," Philip replied. 'He is out of town on a very important case." "Ts the child dangerously sick?" questioned Simpson, aside to Margaret. "Very serious," said she simply. "IT shall not leave him until mornx9 ing. "You really think it necessary to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE remain?' And Arnold Simpson's impatience sounded in his peevish tones. "Absolutely." "Shall I stay or come for you?" "Do as you think best," she said, "but it would not be right for me to leave, now." He looked at the child so pitifully thin and white. He noticed the labored breathing and the fluttering little throat. 'At the side of the bed sat the father—his prematurely dimmed vision still guarded from the pale kerosene flame by the dark glasses—the father, so earnest and sympathetic, and yet so helpless. In contrast, he saw Margaret, strong and calm and capable; her skilled hands preparing the smallest details for the child's safety and comfort; her trained fingers reading the fluttering pulse; her practiced ear listening to the murmuring heart-beat. She moved about the room calm and unafraid, prepared for whatever LILAC emergency might arise during the long night. Yes, Margaret was right, she must not leave. "T shall come for you in the morning," said Arnold Simpson, "unless you think I had better stay?" His voice rose to an interrogation. "No," she replied, decidedly. "You had better go. I am sure everything will be all right." Simpson, satisfied, walked out into the cool moonlight and drove quietly back to town alone. She spoke with assurance, yet something about her voice as it fell on Philip's sensitive ear, made him alert with a new fear, a nameless foreboding of what was lurking in the silent hours just ahead of them. And so they watched together beside the patient little sufferer, while the white moon mounted high into the starry night, and the world of living creatures slept in silence. Whenever Norman tossed on his pillow or moaned in his sleep, Margaret's comforting touch calmed his nervous movements and her tender, reliant voice quieted his nameless fears. More than once Philip raised his hand to his forehead, as if he would brush away the veil that hid Margaret from his view. At last he spoke, "Your voice," he said, "there is something about your voice that reminds me of some one I knew long ago. And yet, perhaps it is only the night. The night is so—so—soft and fragrant. It brings back memories—memories of other days." "Lilac time, May time, is rich in tender memories for all of us, I think," said Margaret in a quiet, practical tone. "Yes," he consented, plainly not satisfied. Occasionally he would go to the sleeping child and listen again to the throbbing heart, the little flutterLURE 211 ing heart, that murmured its hopeless story so pathetically. "Do they ever recover?" he asked her at last. "Yes," she said confidently, "they often recover, almost fully, their normal health and strength. But eternal, painstaking vigilance is the price of their lives. Your child is in a very serious condition." Philip sat silent near the foot of the little bed. Margaret spoke but little. At times she felt half afraid that the black glasses would suddenly fall from Philip's eyes, and she would stand before him revealed. And yet she knew that a heavier veil than any that a bit of glass might provide, now held her securely from his sight. He must never guess her identity. He was the same Philip of old. The ideal, that through the years, had stood between her youthful dreams and a realization of happiness. And yet he was different— so different. She groped about in her memory trying to find out just what charm, what magic holding power was lacking. Was it merely the mark of age, that time places so relentlessly upon all men? Or had her memory tricked her? Could it be that she had built up a dreamman, around the personality of Philip, recalling only the ideality; the chivalry, of her youthful hero? Or, after all, had the change been wrought in her own life, not in Philip's at all? More to shut out the breath of the lilacs, than the night air, Margaret finally closed the window. "T am afraid it is getting too cool for him," was her alibi. Philip sat quiet, his head in his hands for so long a time, that Margaret thought he had fallen asleep. Then his voice broke the silence softly, "Science has proven herself a miracle worker," he began. "The 212 doctors tell me that there is a possibility of restoring my vision." "Yes," encouraged Margaret, 'in many cases it has been done." "It would be wonderful," he ruminated, more to himself than to her, "to be able to see again. To see the starlit skies and to watch the spring come creeping back into the meadows. And what a joy it would be, to look into my boy's pretty little face once more." It was so pitiful she could not reply. Would the restoration of his vision, she wondered, bring back the unfaltering initiative and the high heart of other days? When he opened his eyes to the vision of a glorious May morning, would he be the same Philip she remembered so well? It was nearly midnight. The little patient had become more restless, and the two silent watchers had forgotten their own meditations and dreams, drawn to his bedside by a common fear that clutched at their hearts. Occasionally he would moan or call for his father. "Daddy is right here," Philip would reply. "What does my little boy want?' The faltering childish voice would trail off incoherently, and the boy would sleep again. But as he continued tossing about, his actions became more vigorous and alarming. Philip could not see Margaret's hurried movements and anxious expression, and yet he realized that Norman's condition had suddenly become very much worse. He bent over the child trying to calm him. He waited in silence to do Margaret's bidding. "Stand right where you are," she commanded hurriedly. "Take whatever I pass you and do exactly as I tell you. If we work fast enough we may make it." She felt of the child's little feet. They were cold, and pinched, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE blue. The cold perspiration was pouring from his face. His eyes rolled back threateningly. His breathing became more difficult every moment. And the expression on his little drawn face became more pathetic. Faster, and still faster, Margaret worked, making every movement count. Philip stood silently by, gropingly, clumsily, obeying her every command. After what seemed like ages to both of them, Norman at last sighed heavily and gradually relaxed, breathing more naturally. Margaret lowered the pillows under his head, and in a short time he fell into a quiet sleep. He had passed through a serious crisis of his condition and he still lived. With head bowed upon his folded arms, Philip wept softly. Margaret held her feelings under a rigid control as she moved quickly and quietly about the room, putting things in readiness for the doctor's arrival. Streaks of rose-colored light shot up from the summit of the purple hills. A light stir in the lilac branches cast a shower of faded petals upon the dewy grass. There were subdued bird mutterings from the green foliage; while across the meadow a lark's clear note sounded cheerfully. Margaret extinguished the yellow kerosene flame and set the little lamp aside. She gazed at Philip long and tenderly. He looked worn and aged in the daylight. The influence of the entrancing, silver, fragrant night was gone. Philip Norton stood before her a plain, practical man, his hair streaked with silver, his hands toil-stained, his face tenderly marked with the symbols of sorrow and sacrifice. Had the courage, the vision, the fire of youth, faded out of his soul, just as the light had faded out of his eyes? Must he be LILAC LURE excused and condoned and bolstered up to meet life? Had he not learned to pay the eternal price of happiness? Margaret turned away. Suddenly her own life seemed gray and empty. The glory of the waiting years had turned to ashes. Raising his hand to his forehead as if to shade his unseeing eyes, Philip looked longingly into Margaret's face. "Your voice,' he said slowly, "sounds so familiar. It reminds me, somehow, of—of some one I knew years ago. I wish I could see your face." She turned to open the door to Dr. Bernard and a_ professional nurse. The others stood silent while the doctor made a careful diagnosis of the child's condition, which he found hopeful. When Arnold Simpson's car drew up before the rustic gate, Margaret bent over Norman's white bed, and spoke a few tender encouraging words to him, and bade a smiling good-morning to the others. Philip groped his way out to the hedge beside her and in halting words tried to express his appreciation for her night's vigil. "T shall not forget you," she said. "And I surely hope that your little son improves rapidly." As the car rolled down the winding country road, Philip listened to the dying rhythm of the motor, and wondered if he would ever see this woman's face. "Her voice," he mused softly, '"'reminds me of my old sweetheart, Margaret McLane. 'And come to think of it, I did not find out her name, after all." Margaret did not look back. She was conscious of Arnold Simpson's voice, again pleading his cause.. "It grieves me to pain you," she said, "but I have decided that hap- 213 piness cannot be bought with a price. I am going back to the hospital." ig was lilac time again. A cluster of the dainty, fragrant blossoms drooped from a tall vase, beside a little white hospital cot in the children's ward of the Dundee Hospital. Margaret McLane's countenance brightened as she looked into the sunny face of her brave little patient, Norman Norton. She touched the lilacs lightly with her finger-tips and then playfully nipped Norman's nose. "Someone has had a visitor since I was here," was her smiling banter, "and. I can plainly tell by the signs of good cheer drifting around this room, that said visitor must have been the Good Fairy." "No, it wasn't the Good Fairy," laughed Norman. "Guess again." "Let me think," mused Margaret. "I know, it was the Elf of Happiness." "No, no," laughed Norman. "It wasn't an elf or a fairy at all. And you have just one more guess." "Was it the Doctor?" "No. Course it wasn't the Doctor," disdainfully. "It was my own daddy. And guess what, Miss Mc- "The kittens have opened their eyes." "Yes, but it's better than that." "T give up," volunteered Margaret. "You'll have to tell me." "You couldn't ever guess," assured the child. "Daddy is going to take me home next Sunday." "Next Sunday!" ejaculated Mar- ° garet, really surprised. "Why, Norman, I think I shall go right along with you; for I know how dreadfully lonesome it will be here without you." "Would the doctors really let you go, Miss McLane?" "T'm afraid not, Norman. I was 214 only joking," she hurried to explain. "You see, some other little boy will be coming to this bed, and I should stay and take care of him. Don't you think so?" "Then Dll have my daddy bring you some flowers, too," volunteered the child, thoughtfully. "Thank you,' smiled Margaret. S° Philip Norton had come again while she was off duty. In all of his visits to Norman, she had never once seen Philip. And now, Norman was so much better that he was going home. It would be so lonely without him. Margaret was forced to admit that the child-had been an inspiration of joy to her for many days. He seemed to stand as a symbol of the past romance in her life. She had become so interested in his case, that to give him up now, would seem like letting her own little boy go away. Never before in all the years, had she so longed for a home, and the love and care of little children. Perhaps, after all,— and yet, it was so impossible to think of a home with Arnold Simpson. But that afternoon she went with him for a long ride along country lanes. It brought back memories and heartaches, and a great burning desire for the fulfillment of her life's most cherished dreams. Just as the sun had overturned his paint-pots in sheerless abandon, they turned into a quiet driveway that led up to a quaint cottage. It was hedged round about by a most exquisite setting of shrubbery and spring blossoms, with a background of rugged, picturesque mountains. Margaret was keenly alert to the exaggerated beauty of the surroundings, dipped as it were, in roses and burnished gold. Simpson stopped the car quietly in the driveway. He did not speak, but smiled in a satisfied way, as he noticed with what RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE admiration Margaret viewed the picture. When the rosy hues had turned to purple and the blue shadows had begun to creep up the sides of the mountain, he stepped out of the car and helped her to alight. "Let us go inside," he said. Upon discovering that the house was empty, Margaret turned to him in questioning surprise. "For you, my dear," was his smiling explanation. "I have built it for my wife. And now I want to know if it pleases you. Are you going to accept it?" "You mean?" "Our home, of course." It was a long moment before Margaret could control her voice. "It would be a poor marriage," she began, and then stopped short in confusion. She did not want to appear ungrateful. "Only say you will be my wife, let me assume the responsibility of the outcome," he hurried to cover her confusion. He took her from room to room displaying every little convenience and comfort and beauty of the place. As they rode home in the twilight Margaret was strangely silent. How could she ever be brave enough to refuse to accept that wonderful little home? It was the fulfillment of her best dreams—of a house. ON Monday morning she found little Norman Norton counting the days on his fingers until his daddy would come for him to take him home. In their conversation it developed that Daddy had moved into a new home. Norman would have a little room all by himself, with a case for his books and shelves for his toys, and a place for everything. He became so enthusiastic about the new place, that Margaret finally told him a story to help him to think of other things. LILAC The bright spring days slipped by so quickly that Margaret wanted to weep when, a week later, she opened her eyes and remembered that it was Sunday morning. Little Norman would be going home today. Her heart ached at the thought of losing him. And today was the day, when she was to tell Arnold Simpson whether she would go to live in the wonderful little house he had built for his wife. She could see it now, dipped in the sunshine and rainbow colors as it was that first night. Life was so strenuous and she was so tired. Sometimes she felt almost afraid of the time when she would be old and alone and without a home. Should she let some other woman thave that beautiful little house that had been built for her? And yet, was it for her? It was for Arnold Simpson's wife. Somewhere she had read that life is always fair to those who have kept faith with themselves through the years. Had she reached a place in life where she was not brave enough to meet the issues honestly? Her hands trembled almost as badly as little Norman's did, as she gave him his breakfast and helped him to dress in his best suit. Together they sorted out his books and magazines and gifts, and wrapped them in handy parcels. Together they decided who among the little patients would enjoy Norman's flowers most. He was all ready and sat waiting long before his father arrived. Whenever Margaret passed he would look up and smile coyly. Then she would stop and fix his tie, or button his jacket, or look to see that his hose were securely fastened. Repeatedly she warned him to be careful not to play too hard. And many times she invited him to come back and see them all. She was carefully LURE 215 arranging a bed in the ward when he called to her excitedly, "Oh, Miss McLane, come quickly. See, there comes my daddy and Aunt Lilly." Margaret stepped to the window -where Norman was sitting, and for one long moment she gazed steadily down at the approaching man and woman. Philip Norton's step was springing and his smiling face was animated with joy, as he courteously assisted the woman to ascend the steps leading up to the hospital. Margaret turned abruptly from the revealing picture. As she hurried from the room she playfully blew a kiss to Norman, and with an effort, called sweetly, "Good-bye, be good. And don't forget to come back and see me." 'As she pushed the hamper of soiled linen into the elevator and stepped in beside it, her heart was beating so rapidly she felt suffocated. She closed here eyes in a vain effort to shut out the picture that was disturbing her. She wanted to run away from herself. She wanted to cry. So Philip's vision had been restored. The same ambitious fire as of old was radiating from his face, and pulsing through his being. But there was a woman—a pretty, gentle woman. Now she understood about the new home and a hundred other things of which Norman had told her. Her heart was in a tumult. How foolish, oh, how stupidly foolish, she had been. Why must she have to lose the loveliest things that had ever come into her life, in order to recognize her own best desires? After all, her blindness had been worse than Philip's. Not until she knew that he was going out of her life forever, did she fully realize that he was the one blessing that would have made her life worth while. Whlthout him all the wealth 216 of the world would forever be dust and ashes under her feet. A short time afterward, as she hurried down the long hall, she was conscious of a man's thoughtful gaze following her. But she did not turn back. She was on the verge of tears. Besides, the other woman was at his side. WHEN Arnold Simpson came for her in the afternoon, there was no hesitancy or uncertainty in her manner, or her speech. The wonderful little house, in a halo of prismatic colors and burnished gold, had lost its fascination for her. How could an empty house atone for an empty heart? So she gave him her final refusal. And so it was that she sat alone in her own sweet scented porch, at the dusk of twilight. She was wondering where she would gather courage to go on with life. The dull pain tugging at her heart, was fraying her nerves to ragged edges. Where could she turn for an incentive to give her renewed strength and hope? Would her life like a lone skiff drifting aimlessly out to sea, be buffeted by wind and wave, and eventually tossed on the sandy shore with the bleached driftwood? It was one o'clock in the morning, but all unconscious of the hour, she still sat there alone in the darkness. Suddenly she was acutely aware of the presence of a man cautiously approaching the house. He came quietly up the walk and opened the screen door softly. Then stepping inside, he flashed a searching light across the house door. Margaret turned cold with fear but she did not move or speak. She could not see his face from where she sat, but she was assured of his evil intent. After fumbling in his inside pocket for a moment, the suspicious character RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE again flashed on the light and seemed to be comparing some pocket notes with the house number. Apparently satisfied, he put the light in his pocket and turned to leave. Evidently he had not seen Margaret. She was uttering a little silent prayer of gratitude for her deliverance, when suddenly a long drawn-out yowl of pain echoed through the porch. There was a clatter of splintering crockery mingled with the thud of a heavy falling body. Rushing to the house door, Margaret turned on the porch light. There in the corner crouched Midnight, the house cat, with fur bristling and eyes flashing. A well dressed man was awkwardly pulling himself together as he arose from the wreckage of the crushed oleander. For a moment Margaret stood in dignified silence. The stranger pushed a mass of dark graying hair back from his brow, and then his eyes opened wide in glad surprise. "Margaret," he whispered, ''Margaret. I've been searching for you ever since I heard your voice a year ago — the night you saved little Norman's life.' He stood waiting for her to answer him. When she could control her voice she asked, '""Why should you want to find me?" "Wihy?" his eyes searched her white face for a moment. Then coming very close to her he spoke in a very low gentle tone. '"Margaret, I realize that this whole situation is ludicrous. It demands an explanation, an apology, to say the least. However, that can come later. Right now, I have something very different to say. Now that I have found you after so long a search, I want to tell you that I love you, just as I loved you twelve years ago. I want you. I need you. My whole LILAC LURE 217 "Margaret, I've been searching for you ever since I heard your voice a year ago." life shall be shaped to meet your happiness. Can you ever love me enough to become my wife?" "I—I thought," stammered Margaret, "that there was another woman." "No, Margaret, there can never be any other woman than you." "But the woman who came to the hospital with you?" "Was my mother's sister," he explained. "Tell me, Margaret, you will come to me." "Yes, Philip," she whispered, smiling through the tears that were shining in her happy eyes. Prohibition By Dr. George W. Middleton UR cause is not lost, though it may be for a time in eclipse. As long as the controversy between right and wrong remains in the world, no righteous cause will ever go down in permanent defeat. Perhaps the friends of prohibition were too precipitate, and pushed their cause with too much speed. Great moral reforms are not accomplished overnight, but people have to grow up to them. For eighty years after the founding of our government the American people wrestled with the vexatious problem of slavery. It seemed to be so integrated into the economic fabric of our system, that there appeared no way out of the difficulty without tearing vital things up by the roots. But people came gradually to the realization of the fact that the moral side of the issue greatly outweighed the financial side of it. America found her conscience and then slavery was doomed. God sent Lincoln to make vocal the awakened conscience of the multitude, and their united effort, with heroic sacrifice, accomplished God's will, and wiped that black spot from our escutcheon. IN a wave of righteous enthusiasm, after the world war, our government wrote the prohibition amendment into the constitution. We who had fought for the cause thought the millennium had arrived, so far as that issue was concerned. But gradually it has dawned upon us that the people were not yet ready for such a sweeping reform. If we had attempted something less absolute, we would probably have done better. Relying on the strong arm of the government for enforcement, the churches, and the other betterment organizations lay down on the job, and failed to back up the fight, and as a consequence we have lost much of the ground we had gained before, and shall have to build most of our foundation over again. In all probability, we will go to the other extreme, and then we will get our real lesson. We have turned like the dog to its vomit, and the distressing consequences will soon be upon us. I want the readers of this article to mark my words, and see if I am not a true prophet. I know something whereof I speak because I was in the thick of the fight before. I know the heartlessness and the absolute unscrupulousness of those forces that stand for the sale of liquor. I have seen, as all those people have seen, who lived in the days before prohibition, drunkenness on the wholesale order. We have seen the workman turn his weekly pay check over to the saloon keeper, and leave his wife and children to starve. We have seen riot around the family altar; we have seen weeping women and pauperized children; we have seen men stamped with the image of the brute, instead of the image of the Creator. And we are going to see most of these things again. It makes one's heart ache to think of what is coming to us. We are going to see times when the danger PROHIBITION of driving on the highways will be greatly increased. The United States owns and operates 80% of the automobiles in the world. Gasoline and alcohol do not mix, and many people will learn that lesson in a tragic way. Casualty lists are terrible enough now, but wait until we increase our drunken drivers and see what will happen. For upwards of a century prohibition has been a burning issue in our country. The first state wide prohibition law was enacted in Maine in 1846, at which time a wave of prohibition sentiment swept over the northern states, and held the front of the stage for many decades. The recession of the wave indicated that the movement had proceeded too rapidly, as it did with us in 1917. We had yet to learn that the goal must be won: by slower steps. The south adopted prohibition with enthusiasm, because they realized that the negro with whiskey in him is much more of a menace than when he is sober. It was out of self defense that the southern people enacted their prohibition laws. It was soon noticed that there was a corresponding benefit tio the white race. In localities where local option obtained, savings banks deposits increased, criminal dockets diminished, and alcoholic diseases developed in fewer people. Especially was this true after the constitutional amendment of 1919, which committed the whole United States to the prohibition cause. Any fair minded person knows that these things have been true in Utah, as they 'have in many parts of the United States. In some sections the local sentiment against prohibition has been so strong, that much of its benefit has 219 been annulled. That has been especially true on the eastern seaboard, where there is a large foreign born population. We frankly admit that nation wide prohibition has not been entirely successful; the bootlegger and the proprieter of the speakeasy have been in evidence, and in some localities have flourished; many young people as well as older ones have found means of gratifying their desire for alcoholic beverages; furthermore racketeers have found in the illicit liquor traffic a ready means of working their nefarious trade. We admit all this, but in spite of it assert that conditions have been infinitely better since prohibition than they were before. We have seen few drunken men in the streets, where we used to see many; we physicians have had few cases of delirium tremens or other forms of chronic alcoholism to treat. Every doctor knows that. How many of you who read this article have heard of people of your acquaintance having snakes in their boots? Yet that was a fairly common ailment in the olden day. WE must not loose sight of the fact that our national backdown on the prohibition issue does not take the poison out of alcohol. It is just as harmful as ever to the human body, and its use will be followed by results just as tragic. The habitual drinker develops hobnail liver as every physician knows, and the inside of his stomach is in a condition of congestion that borders on ulceration. That is one of the reasons he craves more liquor. With these organic changes his digestion is naturally impaired, and his body fails to receive the proper amount of nourishment. There is not an organ of his body that fails to be 220 damaged. The life insurance companies refuse to grant him insurance, because they know he is a bad risk; the surgeon fears him because experience has abundantly shown that he has poor vitality, and does not resist infection. Alcohol has a peculiar affinity for the brain. In a few minutes after RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE imbibing an appreciable amount, the mental faculties are altered. There is at first an undue stimulus to be followed by an undue depression. The fine discrimination between right and wrong is impaired. Men do things under the influence of liquor that they would not think of doing in their normal condition. It's the woman who pays through all the long days And nights of horror and fear; It's the woman who pays all her sorrowful days, The tax on the big brewers' beer. It's the children who reap in suffering deep What fathers have selfishly sowed; The Pay Day will come to each poor little home, And children will carry the load. PROHIBITION is probable that the brain never fully recovers itself after a drunken debauch. There is an injury to the delicate mechanism which is never fully compensated. By repetition of the offense the injurious effect accumulates. The brain of a drunkard becomes so shrunken that it fails to fill the cranial cavity nature has provided for it. It is but natural that the mental and moral faculties degenerate with the organ which generates them. The sense of honor and rectitude becomes more and more obtuse, until it is quite in abeyance. The word of a drunkard is not to be relied upon. I once saw a demonstration of the telationship of chronic alcoholic poisoning and the perverted human behavior that resulted from it. One day at the morgue of the great London Hospital a group of dead bodies were brought down for postmortem examination. Among the number was a young intelligent looking fellow. He had a ticket tied to his great toe, which was the badge of the pauper class to which he belonged. I remarked to one of the students, that this young man seemed a superior type to come down in this guise. The answer was that he had been a student of this very school some years previously. He was brilliant of intellect and seemed to have a very promising career ahead of him, but he took to drink and went from bad to worse until he landed in the gutter. He had been honorable and dependable, but he soon ran the gamut. To the lowest depths of moral disintegration. I witnessed the postmortem examination of this body, and shall never forget the way this various organs 221 tallied with the story of his delinquency. The lining of his stomach was as red as fire, and one could imagine that the physical suffering such a condition entailed would be a constant urge for more alcohol to benumb the over-sensitive nerves. There were splotches of fibrous tissue all through his liver and the abdomen was full of fluid which had been dammed back in the portal circulation. His brain was crenated and shrunken in all of its dimensions, and the microscope revealed degeneration in all the big nerve tracts going to the various parts of his body. It was no wonder that he had been physically unfit, and that his moral sense was all perverted. If death had not come to his rescue he would probably have developed insanity as many chronic alcoholics do. He was like an automobile with all of its bearings burned out, and its delicate-machinery rendered useless. Because of the fact that we did not follow up the great victory we won in 1919, by a continuous campaign iof education, we shall have to do most of the work of the bygone decades over again. Our task is not so much one of legislation as it is of education You cannot enforce a law unless the people are converted to the wisdom and necessity of it. There is no time to lose; the forces of evil are gathering for another thrust at the splendid young men and tyoung women of our fair land. Their bodies and souls are at stake; are you willing to enlist as a soldier to help regain the ground we have lost, and push on until we have 'gained the victory? Don't Forget Fish By Lucy Rose Middleton. About the source of the foods which come to us from distant places. The subject of fish calls to mind the historic old city of Gloucester, north of Boston, which is one of the largest centers of the American fishing industry. There are 20,000 people in this town whose livelihood depends on what comes back in the fishing boats. In the early morning Gloucester Harbor is a mass of white sails, all set for the trip out to sea. They are usually not back until late at night. It is a tradition of this port never to consult the calendar. Winter and summer, in good weather and bad, the boats go out as a matter of course. Danger is commonplace to these fisher folk, for they see it often. Every year some vessel goes out beyond the breakwater and never returns. Often one will see a boat returning with the flag at half-mast. Some little dory far from the mother ship has been capsized by strong winds, or lost its way in a heavy fog. Last year there were twelve such mishaps; still "with silent courage the fishermen carry on, daring the Atlantic storms while the town watches the sky." Not only on the sea is there industry. The fish that are brought back to port mean work on shore. In plants many men are busy cleaning, splitting, drying, putting down in brine, skinning, and canning. The famous Grotton fish cakes are made in this town, and many other recognized brands of fish are shipped from Gloucester. More different kinds of fish appear in the markets in March and April than in any of the other months of the year. Because they are so plentiful, we should concentrate on |: is always interesting to know their use to provide variety on the dining-room program. There was an old belief that fish was especially a brain food, because it was considered to be a rich source of phosphorus, and one of the sages said: "Without phosphorus there is no thought." Tihis fallacy about fish has been exposed, for it is well known that protein foods from other sources contain quite as much phosphorus. However, fish is nutritious, easily digested, and furnishes the idoine that so many of our foods lack. Sea-food dinners, with the correct accompaniments, should be served oftener. Most persons would enjoy fish twice a week. HOLLENDEN HALIBUT 2-pound piece of chicken halibut. Fat salt pork. 1 small onion, thinly sliced. Bit of bay leaf. 3 tablespoons butter. 3 tablespoons flour. 34 cup buttered crumbs. Arrange 6 thin slices salt pork on oven-proof platter or in dripping pan. Cover with onion, add bay leaf. Place halibut over pork and onion. Spread top with butter and flour creamed together. Cover with crumbs and arrange narrow strips of salt pork over crumbs. Cover with buttered paper and bake 50 minutes in moderate oven 350 degrees F.), removing the paper during last 15 minutes to brown the crumbs. Garnish with slices of lemon cut in fancy shapes, sprinkle with chopped parsley and paprika.. Serve with white sauce. FRIED SCALLOPS Clean 1 quart of scallops, drain, and dry very carefully between towels. Season with salt and pepper, DONT FORGET FISH dip in egg, then in fine crumbs or corn meal, and fry 2 minutes in deep fat (385 degrees F.). Drain on brown paper. Mock scallops may be made by using halibut cut in pieces about the size and shape of scallops. SALMON SOUFFLE 2 cups salmon (fresh). L4 teaspoon salt. Paprika. 2 teaspoons lemon juice. 1/4, cup soft stale bread crumbs. 1/2 cup milk. 3 egg yolks. 3 egg whites. Thoroughly rinse the salmon, remove bones and skin, separate into flakes, and add seasonings. Cook bread crumbs in milk 5 minutes, add salmon and egg yolks beaten until thick and lemon-colored; then cut and fold in egg whites, beaten until stiff. Turn into buttered dish, set in pan of hot water, and bake in moderate oven (350 degrees F.) until firm. Serve with Spanish Sauce. SPANISH SAUCE 2 tablespoons finely chopped bacon. 1 tablespoon chopped onion. 4 tablespoons butter. 4 tablespoons flour. 2 cups tomato juice. Cook bacon and onions with butter until butter is well browned; add flour, stir. Then add tomato juice and cook 5 minutes. Season well. SCALLOPED OYSTERS 1 pint oysters. 4 tablespoons oyster liquor. 2 tablespoons milk or cream. Y4 cup stale bread crumbs. 1 cup cracker crumbs. 1/2 cup melted butter. Salt. Pepper. Mix bread and cracker crumbs and stir in butter. Put a layer in bottom of shallow, buttered baking dish, cover with oysters, and sprinkle with salt and pepper; add half  223 each of oyster liquor and milk or cream. Repeat and cover top with remaining crumbs. Bake 30 minutes in hot oven (450 degrees F.). Never allow more than 2 layers of oysters for Scalloped Oysters; if 3 layers are used, the middle layer will be underdone, while others will be properly cooked. If desired, sprinkle each layer with mace or grated nutmeg., FRIED OYSTERS Clean selected oysters and dry between towels. Season with salt and pepper, dip in flour, egg, and cracker crumbs, stale bread crumbs, or corn meal, and fry in deep fat (375 degrees F.). Drain on brown paper and serve with tartare sauce. Garnish with ring of lemon and parsley. TARTARE SAUCE 34 cup Mayonnaise dressing. 1% tablespoon finely chopped onion. 1/2 tablespoon capers. 1/4 tablespoon each, finely chopped pickles, olives, parsley. 1 tablespoon vinegar. Combine ingredients. BAKED STUFFED SMELTS Clean and wipe dry as possible 12 selected smelts. Stuff, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and brush over with lemon juice. Place in buttered shallow dish, cover with buttered paper, and bake 5 minutes in hot oven. Sprinkle with buttered crumbs and bake until crumbs are brown. Serve with Tartare Sauce. Stuffing: Cook 1 tablespoon finely chopped onion with 1 tablespoon butter 3 minutes. Add 1/2 cup finely chopped mushrooms, 11/2 cup chopped oysters (parboiled and drained, if fresh), 1/4 teaspoon chopped parsley, and 3 tablespoons thick white sauce. A plain cracker crumb stuffing moistened with melted butter and seasoned with salt and pepper may also be used. A Talk to Mothers By Ruth May Fox RAW up your chairs, mothD ers, especially you who have convinced yourselves that the drink habit is worse now than before the 18th amendment became law. If you will bear with me a few moments, I should like to refresh your memories as I fear that many of you have forgotten the old days when we were so often warning our children to avoid certain streets lest they should meet' a drunken man. I am not going to bore you with statistics nor am I going to prove to you how much revenue you will bring to your state and nation if you will only open wide the gates to the liquor traffic that your husbands, your sons and oh, shall I say daughters, too may get liquor under the law? Alas I fear so, time was when we thought our daughters, at least in this western land, were well nigh invulnerable to the temptation of strong drink; but in this modern day when every allurement that Satan can devise will be brought to bear on your daughters as well as your sons to create in them the habit of indulging in intoxicants I fear for the result. So insidious will be the methods employed, enticing them to be up to date, to be good sports, to be like others of the crowd that it will take more than tears and more than prayers to protect them from this tremendous evil. The radio with song and fair speeches will be used extensively to promote the sale of alcohol, not only by what is termed legitimate advertising but by that more subtle manner of social contacts. The movies too in a perfectly respectable way, of course, will, perhaps, depict a family group, a party, a holiday scene in which young people will be inveigled into taking a glass just as cigarettes are being exploited for no other reason than to increase the sale of the little "white slaver." Even as I write I am led to exclaim, 'O Lord shut out the vision.' Let me tell you a few true stories, facts that happened long before the prohibition law was passed. I am English and England is a beerdrinking nation. May I add with all her drinking she has not drank herself "back to prosperity." Knowing that some of my progenitors were given to the national habit I resolved that as far as possible, by teaching and example I would counteract any tendency in that direction which-might appear in my children. Imagine my indignation when my sixteen year old son making Newyear calls was offered a glass of wine in an apparently good home. A year or itwo later that same boy was put to work on the streets for a short time, it was a hurry up job as I remember. One morning he came home with a bottle of beer in his pocket that some good man had given him. Fortunately he did not succumb to the temptation. As a young girl I think I endeavored to keep the right kind of company and I am sure my parents tried their best to see that I did, but if I went for a bobsleigh ride one of the young men would sometimes produce a bottle of liquor. At dancing parties, even when the bishop had scrutinized the list of invited guests, two or three empty flasks would be found fmext morning some where about the building. In that A TALK TO MOTHERS day I saw a young man of the popular set slumped down by the fence not able to find his home, making cat-calls and other hideous noises. I had a neighbor who worked in a brewery, once a week at least he came home so intoxicated that it took two men by sheer force to prevent him from committing some act of violence. When the brewery closed and he got work elsewhere his wife remarked that a better husband never wore clothes. I have seen men true to the core when not poisoned with strong drink try to borrow or even beg a few cents with which to assuage their craving. One of my own kin, so I have been told, had a husband who was a good workman and had it not been for his perverted appetite he would no doubt have been a good provider; but his weakness made a tyrant of him. Under this baneful influence he would whip his children most unmercifully; their mother intervened taking some of the blows that were meant for them on her own body. Often this good woman would get up at four o'clock in the morning and go to a near-by tavern to clean it up that she might be able to buy a loaf of bread for the family breakfast. At other times she would pawn her best shawl for the same purpose that of obtaining food for her little ones. Once ina fit of drunken rage her husband set fire to her bed, she did not scream or jump so the man demore to extinguish the flames himself. One other story: this same woman was turned out of her home because she could not pay the rent; as she walked toward the poorhouse with three or four little children clinging to her skirts she was heard to exclaim: "There's a host behind and a sea before and rocks on either hand." 225 You say these are extreme cases, Mothers, do not deceive yourselves; millions of women have been beaten, starved and locked out of doors at night because of the demon drink, with no where to turn for comfort or shelter, to say nothing of their tears and anguish of soul. THESE and kindred evils some of them unspeakable, prompted some good women away back in 1870-80 to carry on a crusade against the saloon, that filthy den of stench and obscenity. They prayed in the streets and in the saloons pleading in tears for the Lord to soften the hearts of the saloon keepers, until some of them became ashamed of themselves and closed their doors. Frances E. Willard, the only woman whose statue has been given a place in Statuary Hall, Washington, D. C., was early attracted to this movement and became in 1878 the president of the Illinois Woman's Christian Temperance Union. By and by temperance became a national issue and Miss Willard became its head, working hard, traveling much, and speaking wherever she could get an audience. Compensation or hope of reward was not thought of other than the joy of service to her fellows. In 1883 she initiated a world temperance organization and later became its president. When her statue was presented to congress it was said of he.: "The mother of all mothers, the sister of all wives, to every child a lover, [Fraces E. Willard gave her own life to the happiness of her sisters." In her own autobiography she 'wrote: "I have been called ambitious, and so I am, if to have had from childhood the sense of being born to a fate is an element of ambition. For I never knew what it was to aspire and not to believe myself capable of heroism. I always 226 wanted to react upon 'the world about me to my utmost ounce of power, to be widely known, loved and {believed in— the more widely the better. Every life has its master passion; this has been mine. Very few things waken my contempt, but this couplet, in the hymn book did: 'Make me little and unknown, Loved and prized by God alone.' "Its supreme absurdity angered rather than amused me, for who could be 'loved and prized' by the Great Spirit and yet despised by the lesser spirits made in his image? Who could deliberately desire to be 'little and unknown,' of small value and narrow circle in a world so hungry for help and strength and uplift, yet beloved and prized by God? No. I wanted to be now and in all worlds - my very utmost. I fully purposed to be one whom the multitude would love, lean on, and bless. Lying on the prairie grass, and lifting my hands toward the sky, I used to say in my inmost spirit, 'What is it that I am to be, O God?' I did not wish to climb by others' overthrow, and I laid no schemes to undermine them, but I meant that the evolution of my powers should do for me all that it would. I felt that a woman owed it to all other women to live as bravely, as helpfully, and as grandly as she could, and to let the world know it." I was largely the result of the efforts of outraged but courageous women that the 18th amendment was placed in the Constitution of the United States. Shall we give up the struggle or shall we continue to fight for our homes, our children and ourselves, aye and for our country? This fair land of ours—the land of destiny, of glorious promise, must not RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE again succumb to the wine bibber and to those who would make traffic of the souls of men for the sake of profit. Many noble women have consecrated their lives to this cause. Evangeline Booth, who knows whereof she speaks, admits that because of lawbreakers prohibition has not accomplished all it should have done but she knows that drinking in the slums and among the poor has decreased many fold so she is not discouraged. The commander writes: "First and last I am a soldier in the great conflict against sorrow and sin and shame. In the front line of this warfare I have given all my life. It is here that I shall give my last service and after years of experience I think I know the difference between a winning and a losing fight. The fight against drink can only end one way, and that way is victory." For one hundred years the Lord, through His servants, has warned us and forewarned us against the evils of wine and strong drink. He has promised observers of His counsels rich blessings of health of wisdom and knowledge. For one hundred years the world has been on trial. The sifting is now in progress. Shall we, the mothers of Israel, compromise our principles with the adversary? Or shall we continue with all our strength to battle for righteousness and trust in the Lord for results? We know that His word will not fail. His laws will eventually triumph.
Sowing Dragon's Teeth
When, for the gratification of their appetites, or the promotion of their interests, lawyers, bankers, great merchants and manufacturers, and social leaders, both men and women, disobey and scoff at this law, (the Prohibition Law) or any other law, they are aiding the cause of anarchy and promoting mob violence, robbery and homicide; they are sowing dragon's teeth; and they need not be surprised when they find that no judicial or police authority can save our country or humanity from reaping the harvest."—The Judicial Section of the American Bar Association, August 31, 1921,
Three Meals a Day—an Adventure By Franke Beal Johns
Doesn't it? How often have we all gazed disconsolately at the breakfast dishes and been almost overcome by the sinking feeling which always accompanies the thought, "What shall I get for dinner?" It sounds like a paradox, does it not? How often have we all gazed disconsolately at the breakfast dishes and been almost overcome by the sinking feeling which always accompanies the thought, "What shall I get for dinner?" It sounds like a paradox, does it not? Doesn't life frequently seem just one continual round of cooking and washing dishes? Often, indeed, have most of us indulged ourselves, as has been the wont of our sex for ages past, in the luxury of planning the delightful things we could do if only it were not necessary to spend the larger part of our waking moments between the cupboard and the cook stove. If only we were not obliged to do so much mixing, stirring, boiling, baking and stewing, we have said, we would be able to fulfill some of our hearts' desires. We might write our poem or give expression to the musical stirrings within us or take time to satisfy our ever present longing to delve into the realms of literary masterpieces. Deep within us we all have felt the urge to build, to create. These desires we might be able to satisfy, we might be able to express something really worthwhile were it not for those everlasting three meals a day! For most of us our rebellion may or may not relieve our feelings but the three meals per day we continue to have with us. Our family must be fed. It ranks with the inevitable. Granted then, that as the mother of the house, fate has decreed we must prepare those three meals day after day, year in and year out, is there anything at all that we can do about it? Well, there are two things. For one, we can resign ourselves to our fate, grit our teeth and go to it. Every day we can fry the eggs and meat, boil the potatoes, make the gravy and stew the fruit. Our weekly routine we may soon be able to follow without much conscious thought and by following it we may be able to cut the time required for preparing food to a minimum, but ah, how frequently we shall rail at the monotony of our existence! On the other hand it is possible to make of three meals a day an adventure. Absurd and fantastic, do you say? Accept then, this challenge, take with you into the kitchen your suppressed desire to create, give it expression in your cooking, and see if your skepticism doesn't disappear.
We begin with the first and perhaps most perplexing problem, before mentioned, "What shall we get for dinner?" Most of us are prone to brood over the problem for a while in dismay and end up by preparing practically the same meal we presented to our families only a day or so ago. Naturally we can't expect to get much of a thrill out of repeating that experience. It isn't just a matter of being a good cook, for many really good cooks are also dull cooks and in order to make of cookery an adventure the dull, the commonplace and the unvaried must be avoided as the plague. So instead of following the routine let's have an experience. Let's prepare at least one dish that we never have made before. Let's not stop at preparing food that is just good and wholesome; let's make it interesting as well. If we desire we 228 can make all of our meals intriguing, something to which the family will look forward. We can prepare delightful dishes that will cause us to thrill with just pride and pleasure when we place them on the table. We need not necessarily rank among those who live only to eat, yet in the view of the fact that while we live we must eat, surely it should be permissible and even desirable that the process partake of as much of the pleasant and aesthetic as possible instead of being left to rank entirely among the grim necessities of life.
The first essential in our attempt to add zest to cooking, after the inclination, is a variety of cook books and recipes. This does not mean that we must hasten forthwith to invest in such articles. Most of us have at least one good cook book which is most useful but which does not sufficiently stimulate the imagination. A very easy way to obtain the desired aids to our cook book is to clip and send in the coupons attached to the advertisements found in the larger magazines. These advertisements concern endless things, shortenings, cheese, bananas, and innumerable varieties of canned goods. In return we receive little booklets of recipes which are mines of valuable information. Another way we may obtain extremely useful cook books is by cutting those pages which contain recipes and menus from the magazines which feature household sections. These pages can be stitched into very handy books. Not only are such magazines a source of splendid suggestions on the preparation of food but they also contain pictures of great practical worth. These pictures of various foods and dishes, accompany the articles or illustrate advertisements and indicate the acme RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of perfection in the appearance of prepared foods. Such pictures serve as models toward which to work for when the food we prepare equals in appearance these illustrations we have accomplished a creation which may well be classed among the works of art.
It is possible to dress our food up in such fashion as would do credit to any famous chef. This, of course, requires the expenditure of time and effort but inasmuch as we must prepare the food anyway it is far better to put forth more energy, take more time and obtain a result from which we can derive intense satisfaction. We can be physically tired and mentally weary to the point where the prospect of preparing the next meal is almost appalling but if right at that moment we find a recipe for a dish we have never tried before the effect is surprising. Interest and enthusiasm replace disinclination and lassitude and we hasten to create a new masterpiece. This, however, is not the only source of satisfaction resulting from the time and energy we expend. Every mother desires to make the daily gathering of her little clan worth while and every mother will also appreciate the homage of a grateful family for her efforts to add interest to the food. These before mentioned cook books are not valuable alone for the suggested new things to cook but they are a necessary aid to our own ingenuity and creative ability. Just to sit down and try to think up something unusual for dinner is a wellnigh hopeless task but if we sit down and quickly scan the pages of our recipe booklets, we soon have ideas for several splendid meals. Of course, practically everything we would particularly like to make will call for one or more ingredients we do not have, but seldom, if ever, THREE MEALS A DAY should we let that hinder us. This is where our own originality comes in. If we do not have the things the recipe calls for, well, what have we? Let's use that instead. There is no law against making up recipes of our own; all we need is the general idea. It is truly surprising the delicious things that can be created out of the most ordinary bits of food that we just happen to have about. A little left over fruit, plus a simple custard, served in a sherbet glass with a topping of whipped cream and garnished with a bit of gay colored fruit "fished" out of the preserve jar and we have a delicious and attractive dessert. This idea can be extended to create all sorts of really good desserts so very easily and quickly. In searching through the cook book one may see something like the following:
Lemon Pudding 2 cups water. 4 eggs, separated. 1/2 cup sugar. Grated rind and juice of 1 lemon.
Cook in a double boiler until thick; add beaten whites, cool and serve with whipped cream. Surely simple enough, but perhaps one doesn't have a lemon. Then why not use two cups of fruit juice, any kind one may have will do in place of the water and lemon. If eggs are scarce use only two and thicken the juice. This simple pudding has unlimited possibilities. It may be served in a gay dish with sliced fruit or nuts, with whipped cream, caramel or any other sauce. Crushed fruits may be added during the cooking, or it may be packed in salt and ice or frozen in the refrigerator. 229
In the preparation of salads the clever cook has endless opportunities to create. Delightful suggestions can always be found but she can invent equally delightful ones herself with the things she may have on hand. Cottage cheese is often recommended with sliced tomatoes, cabbage, pimentoes or peppers but will do equally well with diced boiled eggs, any sort of pickles, chopped meat, peaches, pears, or what can you think of? Raw grated carrots are frequently combined with cabbage, nuts, turnips, etc., but no more delicious or easier salad can be made than by grinding the carrots through the food chopper and adding to them a few spoonfuls of preserved apricots or canned, stoned pie cherries. An inventive person plus a little cheese and most anything can be created. Cheese can be a redeeming feature to most any otherwise rather flat dishes. It adds a festive touch to potato dishes and is almost indispensable with tomatoes and eggs. Add it to beans, fish or meat to make a most appetizing loaf. All sorts of combinations can be made for salads with either fruit, vegetables, eggs or meat, frozen, gelatinized or raw. Then cheese run through the food chopper comes out in the most enticing little curls to be used for garnishes. These little examples should serve to illustrate the point, which is, try a new cake, originate a new salad, invent a new dessert. Devote the same time, attention, energy and interest to the cooking that would be necessary for the cultivation of any other art. When this is done the thrill of evolving and creating will accompany cooking to make it a joy instead of a drudgery. Then will three meals a day verily be an adventure!
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
April smiled through her tears as a bright winged oriole flashed across the sky.
Miss FRANCES PERKINS, United States secretary of labor, while not an ardent suffrage worker was a strong advocate and one of the few women who followed the Lucy Stone method of retaining her maiden name after marriage. Miss Perkins strongly favors minimum wage standards for women and a shorter day.
MAUD HART LOVELACE in her new novel, "The Charming Sally," ventures to depict the advent of a theatrical company among the austere and sober Puritans of colonial days. With authentic historical material she weaves a very delightful story.
MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN of Utah, third Vice President of the National Council of Women is one of the committee preparing the ambitious program for the Century of Progress at the Chicago Fair this summer. The Council has now announced the names of the 12 outstanding women leaders of the last one hundred years as selected in a recent contest. Likenesses of these 12 women will appear in an appropriate frieze in the Councils' exhibit, the names are as follows: Mary Baker Eddy, Jane Addams, Clara Barton, Frances Willard, Susan B. Anthony, Helen Keller, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Julia Ward Howe, Carrie Chapman Catt, Amelia Earhart Putnam, Mary Lyon and Mary E. Woolley.
ROSA PONSELLE in Italy and Eide Norena, lyric soprano of the Paris opera at the Metropolitan in New York seems a fair exchange of fair ladies.
MARY GARDEN of Chicago opera fame is now singing in a motion picture theatre on Broadway, New York.
E. M. DELAFIELD'S new book, "A Provincial Lady in London," is most popular. Miss Delafield is now regular reviewer on the London Morning Post.
ELIZABETH MADOX ROBERTS has issued a collection of her short stories. She is claimed as a brilliant star in the galaxy of Southern writers, and a master in short story writing.
MRS. FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT and nearly all the ladies of the Cabinet have special lines of work, if not careers, so the social life in Washington is likely to be somewhat colorful and more interesting than usual.
EDITH HAMILTON in her latest book, "The Roman Way," gives a very interesting glimpse into the customs, habits, manners and ways of the Roman people that is most delightful reading without aiming to be historical.
The French women have again been defeated in their attempt to gain the suffrage, though this time they refused to pay taxes unless granted the right to vote.
Notes from the Field
Northwestern States Mission:
MRS. PEARL C. SLOAN, president of the Northwestern States Mission Relief Societies, writes as follows: "In the reports from the different districts of the mission I learn that the conventions held have been instrumental in assisting Relief Society women to put over their social work in a more efficient way. The many ways in which the sisters have tried to render constructive relief have been a revelation. Where many of them were unable to contribute money they have given food supplies. Some of the groups have cooperated very closely with the welfare agencies, and one of the presidents has gone one day every week and contributed her time to the Welfare Bureau in that District. In another District there were a number of families who needed clothing, and these mothers were very willing and glad to remodel articles for their families, but did not have access to a sewing machine, so the Relief Society purchased two inexpensive sewing machines and are loaning these to these mothers. It has been a real help to these families. In Districts where they have had clothing that would not be used, it has been forwarded to the mission office, and from there forwarded to families who could use it. One Society wrote that they did not have any extra clothing to send, but sent a lovely quilt that was made out of sugar bags and percale blocks. This in turn was sent out in a District where there was no Relief Society to a mother with a very large family, who wrote a wonderful letter of appreciation saying that it had never been her privilege to own as nice a quilt before. Portland has had a very splendid commissary. Many articles of clothing have been donated by friends who were not members of our Church, and they have been very liberal turning over clothing to the mission to be sent out to different families in need. In sending out the articles, different sizes and ages were required, and great care was needed in the distribution. There are many cases that are very touching that have come to us through the distribution of these articles. The different Relief Agencies have been very kind in cooperating with the Relief Society, and are always anxious and willing to do anything that they can, and in turn the L. D. S. Sisters have always tried to be careful, and not duplicate any relief that has been given.
"It has been necessary to make a number of changes in the executive officers in some of our Societies, but the sisters who are taking up this work are all very splendid young women, and willing workers, so they will carry on in the same efficient way.
"In the Conference held by the Portland Relief Society the second Sunday night in December, Mayor Elect Joseph Carson was the speaker. His subject was 'Citizen of Tomorrow.' He was very much astonished when he found such a large audience to greet him, even though he had been told that he would find a splendid attendance. After the meeting he seemingly expected to find just a small group of interested women, but as the Church notices always appear in the paper it was not only the fine L. D. S. Group of people who always attend our meeting, but many of his friends that he met there.
"Life in the mission field is a very busy one, however, I have tried to take time to work with our fine Parent Teachers Association, and have enjoyed the contacts I have made there very much. We have a board of 20 women who all live in the District in which our Church is located, and I believe that everyone of us belong to different denominations, but I could not ask for any better treatment than I have received through these fine women, and of course they all know that I am a Latter-day Saint."
Hawaiian Mission:
From Hawaii comes pleasant greetings and a report from Sister Verna Murphy, President of the Hawaiian Relief Society: "In a recent Hawaiian quilt exhibit here in Honolulu, three of the L. D. S. Relief Society sisters were awarded prizes. Next year the Relief Societies intend to enter a greater number of quilts than they did this year, and if they do I feel certain that more prizes will be carried off by them than in this exhibit just held.
"It is a pleasure to again report progress in Relief Society work here in Hawaii. The members are humble and sincere in their service, and it is a privilege to labor among them. On their work and business day they are making many beautiful quilts and other beautiful and useful articles with which they are making their homes and the homes of others more attractive.
"In our three largest Districts, the work is being carried on under the direction of organizations similar to the Stake organizations in Zion. District Relief Society Supervisors visit the different Branches in their districts regularly, and are deriving joy and satisfaction from their service. Their visits encourage the Branch Societies and greater interest is noted everywhere. We hope to have all districts functioning in the same way within a year.
"We are delighted to report that young girls are joining the Societies and are very interested in the work. Many have become visiting teachers and this creates a greater interest among the older members.
"We are enjoying our study of the Doctrine and Covenants. This study is new among the Sisters and they do delight in learning more of the Gospel. Their knowledge of it is astounding. The brethren of the Priesthood, when it is possible, join with the Sisters in this study and say they are deriving much good. Some branches, where English is understood, and where the young girls are translating the articles into Hawaiian, the Magazine is appreciated very much. As you will note from our report, seventy are now taking it, and we are doing our best to help them appreciate it."
Tooele Stake:
Word comes from the Tooele stake of a very fine program for the coming year. To quote the words of the Work and Business Supervisor, Mrs. Gertrude Jefferies: "In our stake this year we are making an extra effort to improve our Work and Business Meetings. Planning work that will be beneficial and economical to all the wards is the foundation of our program. Next Fall we intend to have a display of our work at the County Fair. The following outline will show what we are trying to do. Our motto is Improvement—our aim to utilize every spare moment—our desire is for self improvement—and our objective is to beautify.
Improvement means: I—I'll try M—Making most of my time NOTES FROM THE FIELD P—Perfecting my talents R—Results obtained O—Opportunity V—Value received E—Ever willing M—Mastering Difficulties E—Earnest efforts N—Never give up T—True to the test."
Northern States Mission:
A most interesting report comes from the Northern States Mission. Sister Artemesia Romney, Mission Relief Society President, writes: "My heart is filled with gratitude to my Father in Heaven for the privilege I have of working with this splendid group of women. Although a great many of the husbands are out of work most of the time, and some do not have the real necessities of life, still the sisters of the Relief Society are filled with the Spirit of Love and Charity, and are working hard to help each other, and to take care of the needy. If they have no needy in their own Branch, they aid another Branch. The Visiting Teachers are organized in most of the Branches, and are doing a great deal of good by contacting the members. Where they do not have enough members to select teachers, the officers do the teaching, as you will see from the reports. The sisters are doing a great deal of missionary work in giving tracts and Books of Mormon and engaging in Gospel conversations. The Relief Society work is a great stimulus to the investigator.
"The Work and Business meeting is a great factor in bringing the women out, and many of the Branches have cupboards full of canned fruit and vegetables, which will be given to those who are in need.
"The spirit of the work is growing in this mission, and we have organized three new Relief Society branches in 1932, and have three more ready for organization. We have discontinued two in the past year.
"The sisters are becoming better acquainted with Relief Society work, and are learning to take its duties and responsibilities more seriously. I am working hard to get every Relief Society President to write up the history of her organization from its beginning, and send it to me, so it might be compiled here in the office.
"On the 17th of March, 1932, a number of the branches put on plays and pageants, and were very successful.
"Although the report shows a decrease in many instances, I feel that even more effort has been put forth this year than last. Many of our sisters and their families are in destitute circumstances—yet as is always the case, the sisters have a courageous, patient, and hopeful attitude."
Ensign Stake:
It is gratifying to note the steadily growing interest in the Literary lessons of the Relief Society. The women appreciate the efforts of able class leaders in handling the well outlined course of study in cultural training, and have reacted to the incentive with greater outside reading. Especially delightful was the lesson on Goethe's Faust. So pleased was the Bishop of the 12-13 Ward of Ensign Stake that he requested the Relief Society to repeat the lesson for the ward generally, and offered them the full time any Sunday evening they chose. Under the fine management of Mrs. J. P. Fernelius, chorister and Mrs. Amelia Bennion, literary class 234 leader, a beautiful program interspersed with music from Gounod's Opera was arranged and carried out on February 12, 1933. Nearly 600 persons attended. Mrs. Bennion gave the story of Faust—stressing the beautiful lesson of the drama as only Goethe of all the great writers has interpreted the theme 'What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his soul." She explained how in the end Faust through sorrow and suffering had learned that only in unselfishness and service to mankind could he find that which he sought, Peace and Happiness. The following musical program by well known artists added to the enjoyment.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Opening Chorus, "Prayer", by the Gustave Adolphus Swedish Chorus, under the direction of Axel B. C. Ohlson.
Selection, String Orchestra, directed by Mr. Brunswick.
Valentine's Farewell, Clive Bradford.
Mephistopheles' Song of the Golden Calf, Sten Englund.
Flower Song, Miss Helen Skidmore.
Waltz Song, Orchestra.
Tenor Solo, "Oh Dwelling Holy", J. P. Fernelius.
Spinning Song, Miss Skidmore.
Jewel Song, Mrs. Eula Sadler.
Romance, Miss Jessie Evans.
Soldiers' Chorus, Swedish Male Chorus.
The accompanists were, Misses Lorraine Smith, Becky Almond, Mabel Woods, Beatrice Davis.
I Didn't Dream By Alberta J. Engar
This Poem received First Honorable Mention in the 1932 Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest.
I planted in the soil a seed Lifeless, flat and brown Knowing little of its need. Would success my effort crown?
The sun and rain upon it smiled, The seed began to swell, I waited anxiously the while Content that all was well,— I didn't dream such joy was found When it peeped above the ground.
The plant that pushed up through the soil Is covered now with bloom, A little care, a little toil My recompense came soon.
The traveler on the thoroughfare Marvels at the sight, Both he and all who look may share With me, my real delight— I didn't dream such loveliness Was hidden in a seed.
A babe was given to my care Helpless and unclothed, O would it, like the blossoms fair Develop unafraid?
I fed and clothed my little one With a devotion deep, Nor faltered till my tasks were done And baby fast asleep— I didn't dream its waking smile Could bring such bliss complete.
Through years of tender care and love I've watched my baby grow; Sought inspiration from above In choice of seeds to sow,
Among my plants there are no weeds Their loveliness to mar, My child responds with worthy deeds Bearing Truth to lands afar,— I didn't dream divinity In a little child could be.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Manager - Louise Y. Robinson Editor Assistant Manager - Mary Connelly Kimball Amy Brown Lyman
VOL. XX APRIL, 1933 No. 4
EDITORIAL
The Light of the World
In the days of Christ, crucifixion was considered the most ignominious death that could be inflicted on a malefactor. As the Savior walked up Calvary's hill amidst the taunts and jeers of the multitude, weighted down with the heavy cross, his suffering was more than mere mortal could bear; even His divine power was taxed to the uttermost and a prayer for strength was in His heart. At this crucial test as He was lifted upon the cross, crowned with thorns and given vinegar to quench his thirst, his Godhood was made manifest. He railed not but prayed "Father forgive them for they know not what they do." Seldom do the people have the vision to see through the clouds. When Christ was crucified even His disciples could not foresee the glorious resurrection that would be the aftermath. They felt depressed and hopeless for their Master had been cruelly executed and they went about sorrowing, knowing not what to do. Christ changed the cross into a symbol of Glory. His obedience to God's plan had been absolute and complete. Since then people have looked upon His death not as an ignominious one but as one of glory and power. His words have been fulfilled "and I, if I be lifted up will draw all men unto Me." This crucified one has been and is the life and light of the world. His followers are ever trying to carry out His teachings. In proportion as they have done so have they put off the mortal and put on the divine and have been literally transformed. As he broke the bands of death, hell and the grave, they look forward to emerging from the tomb to be judged by their works and in their hearts each Easter Day is the joyous song "Hallelujah, He is risen and we too shall rise."
Editor Amy Brown Lyman Assistant Manager Mary Connelly Kimball
236 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
President Franklin D. Roosevelt
On March 4th, 1933, Franklin D. Roosevelt assumed the high position of President of the United States. He prayerfully entered upon his arduous duties and called upon the nation to rally to meet the national emergency. He promised quick action by the new administration. "And if legislative action is not reasonably prompt," he warned, "I shall ask the Congress for the one remaining instrument to meet the crisis—a broad executive power to wage a war against the emergency as great as the power that would be given me if we were in fact invaded by a foreign foe." While many momentous problems are awaiting solution he has firm faith that the problems can be solved and the difficulties overcome. He says, "This great nation will endure as it has endured, will revive and prosper. "The only thing we have to fear is fear itself—nameless unreasoning, unjustified terror which paralyzes needed efforts to convert retreat into advance."
God grant that our President and his associates may prove equal to their tasks and may guide our country past the dangerous shoals into the harbor of peace and prosperity so that unhindered she may go forward to fulfill her high destiny.
We Thank You
Again have our Relief Society Officers and members shown their willingness to respond to every call. When liquor bills were introduced into the Utah Legislature petitions were sent out to all the Stakes in Utah with the request that they be returned within a week so as to be taken to the Legislature. The women lost not an hour in sending in their signed petitions. They said many more signatures could have been secured if they had been given more time. Over 60,000 signatures were obtained to the following resolution:
February, 1933.
To the Honorable Legislators of the State of Utah.
Whereas, the use of intoxicating liquor has always been a menace to society, and one of the chief causes of crime and poverty,
And Whereas there is at the present time pending before the Legislature of the State of Utah, the Patterson and Greenhagen joint Resolution providing for the resubmission to the people of the provisions of our State Constitution on the liquor matter, and also the Newman Bill providing for the manufacture and dispensing of liquor by the State of Utah, and also a joint Resolution for the manufacture of beer in the State of Utah, to be sold outside of Utah,
And Whereas we are convinced that the passage of such Bills would not only imperil the well-being of the present generation, but would bring untold misery to the children whom we represent,
Now Be It Resolved by the undersigned representative men and women residing within the area covered by the............................... Ward, in the............................... County, State of Utah, that they are unalterably opposed to the passage of any of the above mentioned Bills or Resolutions,
And Further are unalterably opposed to any Bills or Resolutions which would in any way affect the provisions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of liquor as contained in our State Constitution, or any of the provisions contained in our liquor enforcement laws,
And Be It Further Resolved that a copy of this Resolution be presented to the Legislators of............................... County, Utah, with the names appended to this Resolution.
Respectfully submitted,
This campaign in the interest of Prohibition must go on. People must be educated. They must have the (Continued on page 256)
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony (First Week in June)
EMMA SMITH, THE PROPHET'S WIFE
LESSON IX
The Smith Farm. Shortly after the removal of the Smith family from Vermont to New York, the father, Joseph Smith, Sr., purchased a hundred-acre tract of land within the northern limits of Manchester township, some two miles south of Palmyra. Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet, states that within the first year the family made nearly all of the initial payment, erected a log house, and cleared practically thirty acres of land for cultivation. In the meantime, she herself furnished all of the provisions for the family and replenished the household furniture through the sale of oil-cloth coverings for tables, etc., painted by her own hands.
Joseph's Employment with Mr. Stoal. To assist in maintaining the family and also in meeting the annual payments on the land, the male members of the family found occasional employment among the neighboring farmers and others near by. When Joseph had reached early manhood, an elderly gentleman by the name of Josiah Stoal came to the Smith home from Bainbridge, in the southern part of New York state, for the purpose of securing Joseph's services to assist in opening a purported silver mine, thought to have been formerly operated by Spaniards. Joseph attempted to discourage him in his purpose, but he was obdurate, and even offered Joseph a high wage if he would help him. Joseph finally accepted the offer and worked nearly a month when, at Joseph's repeated insistence, the project was abandoned.
Joseph's Marriage to Emma Hale. While thus engaged Joseph boarded at the near-by home of Mr. Isaac Hale, a respected citizen of Harmony, Pennsylvania. At this time Joseph first met Miss Emma Hale, daughter of Isaac. Mutual love followed. Rumors to the effect that Joseph had received heavenly manifestations aroused the opposition of Emma's parents to such an extent that they opposed her marriage to him. Because of this, the young couple went to South Bainbridge, where they were married at the home of Squire Tarbell, January 18, 1827. At this time Joseph was twenty-one years of age and Emma twenty-two. In the meantime Joseph had spoken to his parents of his intended marriage and received their hearty approval, also an invitation to bring his bride to their home. This Joseph did immediately after their marriage.
Mother Smith's Tribute to Emma. The following well-deserved tribute was subsequently paid by Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet, to her daughter-in-law, Emma: "I have never seen a woman in my life, who would endure every species of fatigue and hardship, from month to month, and from year to year, with that unflinching courage, zeal, and patience, which she has ever done; for I know that which she has had to endure: She has been tossed upon the ocean of uncertainty; she has breasted the storms of persecution, and buffeted the rage of men and devils, which would have borne down almost any other woman." (History of the Prophet Joseph, Lucy Smith, Chapter 38.)
Joseph, Emma, and the Plates. The Prophet's mother relates that shortly after Joseph and his wife came to live at the Smith home, Joseph was stopped by an angel of the Lord on the highway near the hill Cumorah and given further instruction concerning the plates. Accordingly, as the 22nd of September approached—upon which date Joseph was to make his accustomed visit to the hill—interest at the Smith home was unusually high. Indeed on the twentieth of the month, Mr. Knight and Mr. Stoal, two of Joseph's friends from Colesville and Bainbridge, came to the Smith home, apparently because of their high regard for Joseph, and remained there until after the plates had been delivered into his care. Because of the extra work thus imposed upon the Prophet's mother, she had not retired by midnight of the 21st. She relates that shortly after twelve o'clock, on the morning of September 22nd, Joseph surprised her by asking for a chest with lock and key. Her inability to meet his request gave her alarm, but Joseph reassured her that all was well.
Shortly after this, Joseph's wife passed through the room with her bonnet and riding dress, and within a few minutes she and Joseph left together, taking Mr. Knight's horse and wagon. They did not return until after breakfast the following morning, at which time Joseph showed his mother the Urim and Thummim and again assured her that all was well. The part that Emma played in the early morning hours of September 22nd is not known, since neither she not RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the Prophet has left record of the proceedings. Shortly thereafter, when she was asked whether Joseph had the plates, she adroitly replied that she could not tell. The fact is that Joseph thad received them and, for sake of safety, deposited them in a hollow log. 7. Emma Carries Message to Joseph at Macedon. A few days later, as Joseph was engaged in digging a well for a widow in Macedon, it became known that unfriendly neighbors were determined, at any and all hazards, to obtain the plates. When Emma learned of this, she immediately mounted a horse and rode quickly to Macedon, some five to six miles away, and notified Joseph of the impending danger. Joseph borrowed a horse from the widow and returned with his wife to the Smith home, to which place he forthwith conveyed the plates and locked them in a strong hox, the purchase of which was made possible by digging the well. 8. Emma and the Lost Manuscript. Emma again showed her unbounded interest in the affairs of her husband at the time Martin Harris was permitted to take the one hundred sixteen pages of manuscript to his home. Almost immediately after Martin's departure she became the mother of a son who lived for a very short time. Thereafter for two weeks her life hung in the balance, but even so, she became alarmed for the safety of the manuscript and insisted that her husband go in search of it. This Joseph did after arranging for her mother to stay with her. When Joseph learned that the manuscript was lost, he cried aloud: ''Then must I return to my wife with such a tale as this? I dare not do it, lest I should kill her at once." 9. The Revelation to Emma. In July of 1830, some three months LESSON DEPARTMENT after the Church was organized and while Joseph and Emma were still living at Harmony, a_ revelation (Section 25) was received directing Emma in her various duties. In this revelation Emma is called an "elect lady" and told that her sins are forgiven. She is called upon to be a comfort to her husband and to assist him "'in his afflictions, with consoling words, in the spirit of meekness." She is also directed to make a collection of sacred hymns for use in the Church, for, said the Lord: "My soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with blessings upon their heads. Wherefore, lift up thy heart and rejoice, and cleave unto the covenants which thou hast made. Continue in the spirit of meekness, and beware of pride. Let thy soul delight in thy husband, and the glory which shall come upon him. Keep my commandments continually, and a crown of righteousness thou shalt receive." The remarkable extent to which Emma complied with these injunctions is briefly reviewed in the succeeding paragraphs of this lesson. 10. Emma Assists in Mission to the West. It will be recalled that some six months after the organization of the Church, and before the Prophet and his wife had left Fayette for Kirtland, revelations (See Sections 28:8-10; 30:5, 6; 32:1-3) were received directing the following named brethren to take a mission to the West: Oliver Cowdery, Peter Whitmer, Jr., Parley P. Pratt, and Ziba Peterson. The journey, which was to be made largely on foot, was more than a thousand miles in length, and therefore entailed much preparation. Of the part taken in these preparations Lucy Smith, the Prophet's mother, says: "As soon as this revelation was 239 received, Emma Smith, and several other sisters, began to make arrangements to furnish those who were set apart for this mission, with the necessary clothing, which was no easy task, as the most of it had to be manufactured out of the raw material. Emma's health at this time was quite delicate, yet she did not favor herself on this account, but whatever her hands found to do, she did with her might, until she went so far beyond her strength, that she brought upon herself a heavy fit of sickness which lasted four weeks." 11. Death of Emma's Adopted Child. On the 31st of April, 1831, less than three months after Joseph and Emma had moved to Kirtland, Ohio, Emma became the mother of twins, a boy and a girl, both of whom died within the next few hours. Nine days later, hoping to fill the void occasioned by the death of her own children, Emma took the motherless Murdock twins to raise. In September of the same year Joseph and his family moved from Kirtland to the town of Hiram, some thirty miles to the southeast, where they had been invited to take up their residence at the home of John Johnson. Some time near the middle of March the twins were stricken with the measles and soon became so seriously ill that Joseph and his wife lost much rest in taking care of them. In the evening of the 24th while Emma had gone to bed to obtain much needed sleep, and Joseph was resting by the side of the stricken children, a mob burst into the house and summarily carried him away. During this mobbing, which continued throughout the greater part of the night, one of the twins, the boy, contracted a severe cold and soon thereafter died. 12. Helpfulness to the Sick. When Governor Boggs issued his exterminating 240 order, Emma and her little family bade good-bye to her husband, then in Liberty jail, and left with the body of the saints for Ilinois. Some months later, in April of 1839, Joseph joined his povertystricken family at Quincy, Illinois, and soon thereafter purchased a log house at Commerce (Nauvoo). Due to the hardships which the saints had undergone and to the unhealthfulness of the locality into which they had just moved, many of the brethren and sisters were stricken with serious illness. True to her devotion, both to Joseph and the saints, Emma brought the sick to her home in such numbers that she and her family were crowded out of doors and took up temporary quarters within a tent. 13. Emma, First President of the Relhtef Society. The part which Emma Smith played in the early history of the Relief Society is well known. She was appointed its first president by the Prophet at Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842, with Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Sarah M. Cleveland, counselors, Eliza R. Snow, secretary, and Elvira Cole, treasurer. At this time the Prophet explained that the term "elect lady" —applied by the Lord to Emma Smith in a revelation given some years earlier—had now been fulfilled in her election to the Presidency of the Society. The distinction of being Divinely selected as the president of such an organization with its unlimited possibilities for good, is of itself ample proof of God's acceptance of her. 14. A Comfort to the Prophet. In the summer of 1842 the Prophet was forced into retirement because of the unwarranted demands of certain officials in Missouri that he be extradited to that state and tried for the shooting of former Governor Boggs. While thus in seclusion on RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a lonely island in the Mississippi river not far from Nauvoo, Joseph expressed a desire to be visited by Emma, his wife. Adroitly avoiding the sheriff by leaving the city in the opposite direction and passing around it by another way, Emma was enabled to reach her husband at the appointed time. She with others had previously met him at night time in mid-river. After her return to Nauvoo Joseph wrote to her in these endearing terms: "Dear Emma: I embrace this opportunity to express to you some of my feelings this morning. First of all, I take the liberty to tender' you my sincere thanks for the two interesting and consoling visits that you made me during my almost exiled situation. Tongue cannot express the gratitude of my heart, for the warm and truehearted friendship you have manifested in these things toward me." His letter closes as follows: ''Yours in haste; Your affectionate husband until death, through all eternity, for evermore." (History of the Church, Vol. 5, pp. 103-105.) 15. The Prophet's Tribute to Emma. Under the same date as the foregoing letter (August 16, 1842) Joseph recorded the following tribute to his wife: "How glorious were my feelings when I met that faithful and friendly band, on the night of the eleventh, on Thursday, on the island at the mouth of the slough, between Zarahemla and Nauvoo: with what unspeakable delight, and what transports of joy swelled my bosom, when I took by the hand, on that mght, my beloved Emma— she that was my wife, even the wife of my youth, and the choice of my heart. Many were the reverberations of my mind when I contemplated for a moment the many scenes we had been, called to pass through, the fatigues and the toils, the sorrows and sufferings, and the joys LESSON DEPARTMENT and consolations, from time to time, which had strewed our paths and crowned our board. Oh what a commingling of thought filled my mind for the moment, again she is here—undaunted, firm, and unwavering — unchangeable, affectionate Emma." (Ibid. Vol. 5, p. 107.) 16. Emma's Letier to Governor Carlin. Shortly after her return to Nauvoo, Emma wrote a masterful letter to Governor Carlin of Illinois, who had already honored the extradition papers demanding that Joseph be sent to Missouri. In this letter Emma made a pathetic and logical. Appeal for the welfare of both her husband and the suffering saints. A few days later Emma's letter was delivered to Governor Carlin at Quincy. In the presence of Judge Ralston. After carefully reading the letter, the Governor "passed high encomiums on Emma Smith, and expressed astonishment at the judgment and talent manifest in the manner of her address." (Emma's letter should be read and carefully analyzed by members of the class." See History of the Church, Vol. 5, p. 115.) 17. Her Crown. Emma's devotion to her husband was unbounded. Perhaps on no occasion was this more fully apparent than at the time when the bodies of the two martyrs were brought to the Mansion House at Nauvoo. Time and again she attempted to enter the room where her slain husband lay, only to fail from exhaustion of both body and mind. Eventually as she reached his side and was passionately caress- 241 ing his lifeless form, a bystander attempted to comfort her by stating that her affliction would be to her a crown of life. Whereupon she answered quickly: "My husband was my crown." (Historical Record, p. 573.) 18. To the Last. For reasons best known to herself, Emma Smith did not accompany the Church to the West. She seemingly preferred to remain in Nauvoo and rear her children in the environment of the community where her husband lived and worked and died. In harmony with her well-arranged plans, she now rests by the side of her husband, - close to the little log house in which she and he lived when they first went to Nauvoo. Near by the "Father of Waters" is slowly measuring the time until the Great God of Heaven will call forth both the living and the dead to be judged according to their works. Questions for Discussion and Review 1. In what way does Emma's going with the Prophet when he received the plates indicate that she was accepted of the Lord? 2. Analyze the revelation of the Lord to Emma Smith and show how she attempted to fulfill it. 3. What do you think of the Prophet's tribute to her. 4, Emma seldom had a home of her own. How was this a test of her devotion? 5. In what way was she a source of constant consolation to her husband? Teachers' Topic THE BEATITUDES Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes, and to apply their beautiful truths to our daily lives. "Acquaint now thyself with Him, and be at peace; thereby good shall come unto thee (Job 22:21.) May not the good referred to include not 242 only peace and comfort, but also the benefits derived from the ability to understand the deeper meaning of life—its purpose and possibilities? This leads us to contemplate eternal life and the way it may be obtained. The promises made to those who obey the commandments of the Savior and live up to his teachings are a source of great satisfaction and joy. To enter the kingdom of heaven, to see God and to be called the children of God, these are the greatest gifts to which man is heir. Other promises contained in the Beatitudes, such as being comforted and obtaining mercy add much to the fulness of this life. But to receive these blessings certain activity is necessary. "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven." (Matt. 5:16.) "Preach unto them repentance, and faith on the Lord Jesus Christ; teach them to humble themselves and to be meek and lowly in fheart; teach them to withstand every temptation of the devil, with their faith on the Lord Jesus Christ. Teach them to never be weary of good works, but to be meek and lowly in heart; for such shall find rest to their souls." (Alma 37:33-34.) "And thus a not unkindly word Hath done its best for me. Yet have found, O God! No rest, No harbor short of Thee." Has not the careful consideration of the Beatitudes drawn us a little nearer our Savior? If the aim of the Jessons this year is being realized, how will it help us obey the first two great commandments? Contrast the way of happiness which Jesus outlined with popular ideas of how to be happy. Where, according to jthe Beatitudes does happiness lie? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Which of the Beatitudes would mean greatest happiness to you? It has been said that the "greatest of all privileges and the source of the truest, deepest and most enduring happiness of lives, come from sacrificing with and for others." Explain the word ''Blessed." How would you like a person who lived according to the teaching of the Beatitudes? Should a Relief Society member possess all these virtues? Why? 'Are they active or passive traits? Which Beatitudes refers to a teachable humility? What must the mourners do, to be Blessed? Give from the Bible an example of a meek man. Explain. Distinguish between meekness and weakness. How does a man show the condition of hungering and thirsting after righteousness. Explain the fifth Beatitude. Recite and give your interpretation of the sixth Beatitude. To be peacemakers what must we do? ' Do you know of any causes which are being persecuted today? What is the purpose of persecution? How have you been benefited by studying the Beatitudes? Note: The above questions are given for the purpose of summarizing some of the important points which have been given during the study of the Beatitudes. Suggestion is made that they be used in class work, rather than taken directly into the homes. May not each visiting teacher use in visiting homes, those particular thoughts which have meant the most to her, and which she has been able to best incorporate into her own life? Read Matthew, Chapter 5. LESSON DEPARTMENT 243 Literature THE DHELIGHT OF Great Books (Third Week in June) "An air is more lasting than the voice of the bird, A word is more lasting than the riches of the world." The story of a nation's literature is the history of the forces that have entered into the nation's composition, molded its career, and marked the genius of its people. The songs and tales of a primitive people are symbols of the Past, if we can discover their meaning we have a clue to the spiritual character of the people who made them. "The Past may be forgotten, but it never dies." The Celt and his World. The Irish are a Celtic people. In Ireland, where the past still lives, every place has its tradition and every name its story. Much of the past is still shrouded in mystery, that long march of "noble men of Arya" to the Celtic singers of today, but much has been discovered. In the chronicles of the classical nations about 500 B. C. There are frequent references to a people of great strength and influence living in Central Europe, the Celts. They were tall, fair, and masterful, loving splendor and adornment, driven by passion rather than reason, and seeing deep into the mystery of things. Aristotle recorded that they dwelt beyond Spain and had captured Rome. Ephorus wrote that they had the same customs as the Greeks and were on the friendliest terms with them. At the height of their power, 390 B. C., they conquered Rome. Then for ages they dwindled and wandered. As Ossian said of them, "They went forth to war, but they always fell." The remnants of the race settled in Gaul —Old Irish Proverb. And Britain. Cesar found them there and recorded valuable facts about their culture and religion in his military records. The Roman invasion of Britain drove the Celts to the fringes of the islands, now Cornwall, Wales, Scotland, Ireland. After the Teutonic occupation of Britain, the elements of charm, complexity, and spirituality remained with the Celtic remnants molding their history and in turn stamping the character and the genius of their race on the English speaking peoples. The Celtic temperament is a thing apart from other races just as is the Latin and the Teutonic. The things of the Spirit were the very core of their life and thought, in no other people is the feeling for the supernatural so intense. Religion, the great force in Celtic life, was administered by a priestly caste, the Druids. The priest was the prescribed intermediary between God and man. The teachings of the Druids are still surrounded by mystery, as they forbade the committal of their doctrines to writing. They believed in the immortality of the soul as the existing evidence of their strange burial customs will attest. The moodal temperament of the Celt is the source of his genius, the genius to be a builder of poems. The literature of the pre-Christian Celts is a splendid mass of heroic and legendary tales. This saga-romance material falls into three great cycles—the Mythological, the Cuchulain (Cu-hu'lan), and the Fenian. Cuchulain is the greatest figure of 244 the ancient literature, the heroic cycle records his mysterious birth and parentage, his rearing, his wooing of Emer, a series of combats with the King of Connacht, the last great combat in which unknowingly he slays his own son. The famous story of Deirdra (Dar'dra) belongs to the Culculmlain cycle. The story of Deirdre is the finest remnant of early Irish literature. She has been called the Helen of Ireland, and the tragic pathos of her love and death has been almost endlessly sung by the modern poets—Yeats, Russell, and Synge among them. Fin mac Cumhail (Cool), the central figure of the Fenian cycle of romances, is a kind of Irish King Arthur with a Round Table organization. No other early literature has such a gallery of women, vigorous, independent, fieryhearted women as Deirdre, Meve, Grania, and Findabair. After Saint Patrick, a Celt, apostolized Ireland in the fifth century, the literature of the early Irish was collected, copied, and preserved. Today there is a strange mingling of the old paganism with Christianity, elves, banchees, leprechaums, haunted raths and streams are to be found everywhere in Ireland as in the distant past. The Celtic Renaissance: The Irish Renaissance was a conscious movement for the reconstruction of Irish life. The movement has various phases, literary, dramatic, economic, and social. The literary revival was directed by individuals who felt that the soul of Ireland was to be found in its tradition, in its history, and in its folk-legends. They viewed nationality less as a political force than a spiritual force creating ideals. The Gelic League was organized to attempt the restoration of the Irish language. The chief service of the League, however, has been the recovery of the Celtic tradition RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE long hidden in the undeciphered manuscripts of old Gelic poetry. Two poets and scholars, George Sigerson and Douglas Hyde, labored at this task. Their translations of the precious pieces of folk literature have been already the treasure house for poetic and dramatic material. A new generation of writers has been inspired and a national literature of poetry, drama, prose fiction, and essays has been produced. This new body of literature, intensely national in its origin, has qualities which appeal to all English-speaking peoples —'"a singular revelation of the human soul in all places and all times." Modern Irish Poets. William Butler Yeats. The chief spokesman for the new poetic Ireland, William Butler Yeats, is a lover of the shadowy beauty of pagan Ireland. He was born at Sligo (1866) in the rugged west of Ireland. Beautiful to look at with dark face and eager eyes, as a youth he suffered from being unlike his fellows, "a genius among the commonplace." His natural intellectual and spiritual curiosity found its early satisfactions in the legendary lore of Ireland. The countryside around Sligo was the holy land of fairy-lore where he gathered the folk gossip of the peasants. He seemed to find the soul of Ireland in these folklegends. "The Celtic Twilight" is a collection of supernatural tales founded upon the legendary material. "Ghosts flicker through these tales. —Beautiful meanings crept in, glimmering behind words like a flame shining through a curtain." Yeats joined the Irish nationalists and became leader in the Celtic Renaissance not to foster a political revolution: he desired a spiritual renaissance. The Nobel Prize was conferred on him in 1923, "for his consistently emotional poetry, which in LESSON DEPARTMENT the strictest artistic form expresses a people's spirit." He worked zealously with Lady Augusta Gregory to establish the Irish National Theatre. He is at the present time a senator of the Irish Free State and Minister of the Fine Arts in the Dublin Cabinet. Everything he writes, tales, essays, poems, and plays has a wistful beauty, a shadowy mysticism, and a lingering melody. George William Russell By general consent George William Russell, who writes under the pseudonym "A®," ranks next to Yeats among modern Irish poets. A man of singular integrity and beauty of character he is a leader of the nationalist movement. As editor, publisher, and philosopher he has encouraged the profession of letters in Ireland. His prose writings deal with national affairs. To admirers of his poetry he is known as "the poet of the shadows." Poetry to him is the ritual of his religion believing with Plato that inspiration is a divine gift only attained by those who have kept their souls sensitive to beauty. Hence his poetry is emotional and often mystical showing marked influence of Irish folk-lore. A worshiper of the spirit of nature, he is closely related to Wordsworth of the English poets: "The power is ours to make or mar Our fate as on the earliest morn, The Darkness and the Radiance are Creatures within the spirit born. Yet bathed in gloom too long, we might Forget how we imagined light." Padraic Colum. 'As one of the founders of the Irish National Theatre, Padraic Colum has been associated with Yeats in the Celtic Renaissance. His work as a dramatist is better known than his poems. His poetry represents the distinctive note of the younger generation of Irish poets. In "Wild 245 Earth" the poems reveal a contact with Irish national life. He pictures peasants at their work, old women by their firesides, young girls at their spinning. His poetry is free from sentimentality; it is strong with the strength of the soil—intense and vivid depicting man's struggle with nature. At present Colum is living in America, and writing tales for children drawn from the great myths of the world. "A Cradle Song," is one of the most appealing of his peasant poems. The Wanderings of Oisin—William Butler Yeats. The poem is an Irish Odyssey, the story of Oisin's long years of wandering in "fairy lands forlorn." One day in his youth while hunting with his companions, Oisin meets a beautiful maiden, Neave. She sings to him of the Land of Ever Young: "Where ten have heaped no burial mounds, And the days pass by like a wayward tune Where broken faith has never been known, And the blushes of first love never have flown." Together they go forth over the glossy sea to the Island of Dancing. Oisin stays for a hundred years hunting, fishing, dancing, singing, loving. One day, standing by the sea, he finds in the foam the shaft of a broken lance, then he begins to remember. As he remembers a change comes over everything. A faint song of the sorrow of human things breaks the enchantment. Oisin and Neave mount once more upon horseback and ride on the Island of Victories. Here Oisin sets a maiden free who is held captive by a demon. The demon comes to life again every fourth year, and so the battle is endless. *U-sheen 246 After a hundred years the hero passes on to the Island of Forgetfulness. At first he endeavors to awaken the sleepers. All is in vain and so the lovers sleep side by side for another hundred years. When Oisin awakens he is once more filled with a longing to return to his own world. Neave consents, with foreboding of evil, for if he touches the earth he will never be able to return to her. Arriving in Ireland, which he left in the heroic pagan days, he finds all changed. The men are miserable and weak, singing no longer the joyous songs of old. Instead of his people, the Fianna, a religion of penance and prayer controls the land. Sick at heart, lonely and sad, like Tannhauser, he seeks again his immortal love. On the shore Oisin sees two men staggering under a heavy load. In a moment of forgetfulness he leans to help them and falls to the ground. The spell is broken and Ojisin finds himself a creeping old man. To him then comes Saint Patrick, who wishes to hear his story. Learning that the Fianna have been doomed to eternal damnation he refuses the invitation to repent and seek forgiveness, preferring to be with his comrades ''on the flaming stones of hell." The legend, as Yeats has treated it, has a certain philosophic value. Patrick and Oisin represent two kinds of feeling about life. Oisin with Celtic spirituality is in love with the visible beauty of life and with action. The Christian spirituality of Saint Patrick has its interest in the realm RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the soul not in the life of this world. The expression of the one is in exuberance while that of the other is in asceticism. In the portrayal of the Celtic spirituality Yeats has excelled, because there is always present "the haunting beauty of a twilight world." Suggestions for Study. A. Materials. 1. The Delight of Great Books— Erskine. The Celtic Dawn—Morris. The Celtic Twilight—yY eats. William Butler Yeats—Reid. American and British Literature—Van Doran. Since 1890. B. Projects. 1. Music: Irish National 'Airs. A. Believe Me if All Those Endearing Young Charms. B. The Harp That Once Through Tara's Halls. C. The Last Rose of Summer. D. The Minstrel Boy. 2. Biographical Sketch: a. The Celt and His World. B. William Butler Yeats. 3. Readings: a. Selections from Modern Irish Poems. 4. Story: a. Deirdre. B. The Wanderings of Oisin. C. Method: The material in the lesson is adequate if no other material is available. SAG So [se LESSON DEPARTMENT 247 Social Service (Fourth Week in June) MAINTAINING PECULIARITIES AND DEVELOPING ORIGINALITY LESSON Ix It has been said that if we knew exactly what the future vocational and social activities of a person would be, we could train him carefully for them. But we live in an age of complex human desires, with a complex mechanical system of satisfying these. In industry and occupation there is minute fine specialization. The success of a system of specialization is a group of people different enough in temperament and ability to become expert in the many various lines of work. Psychology points out clearly that we have the differences and peculiarities in people that make this type of social organization possible. A proper preservation of these points of originality and a proper placement of people in occupational activities will produce the greatest amount of happiness. The aim of this lesson is threefold: 1. To have parents see the real significance and importance of variations and differences in the abilities and interests of their children. 2. To direct the class members to real action in seeing that parental ambitions, mass education, traditional measures of school work and other things do not crowd out or crush these expressions of originality. 3. To have the class members see clearly that it is possible to safeguard these variations and at the same time train children in a common language, a common loyalty, common social courtesies and ideals of character. This aim in terms of American education was stated by Dr. I. L. Kendall in the following sentence: "Many of the ideals which underlie American character arose out of the pioneering conditions of the frontier. On the good side these conditions demanded resourcefulness and selfreliance, equality of individuals, and at the same time ability to cooperate with the common good." 4. To encourage class members to feel themselves and teach their children that people who differ from us are neither inferior nor superior, because of those differences, but that it is the degree to which each contributes what he can and cooperates kindly for the good of all, that determines who is the better. Suggestions for procedure: 1. Make the aims clear. 2. Assign the reading guide carefully. 3. Individual members of the class may investigate local school conditions and report on topics similar to the following: 1. Is there a uniform passing mark? 2. 'What are the required subjects? Are there any adjustments? 3. How are elective subjects determined? 4. If children are sectioned on the basis of ability do the slower sections feel inferior? 5. What guidance work is provided in the schools? 6. What determines a school failure? 4, The high school principal may be asked to lecture on the subject: The Successes of our brilliant, average, and less brilliant pupils. 248 Have him stress the way in which adaptations have made happiness possible for all. 5. The class can then read together and discuss the supplementary material. Class Members Reading Guide: Habits, p. 6; Habits, pp. 8-9; Personality, pp. 3-10. Begin by reading the chapter in Personality. Here you will find the following key sentences: "Every normal child has within him the possibilities of a happy and useful life." p. 3. "Each child is different from every other, and the family that forgets this, and expects its children to follow one pattern, is bound to feel— and to cause—disappointment." p. 5. "The outstanding need, in the building up of personalities that can withstand the pressure of life, is emphasis on the child as an individual. We must learn more about human behavior in general, and then we must apply what we know to the children in our care, remembering that each one requires study as to what his own personal needs are, and as to how the surroundings in which he lives are contributing to or checking his development." Study the setting in which these statements are made. The following problems should be in your mind as you read the material again. 1. Uniform personal and health habits are needed. Adjustment to individuality is largely then a matter of method. Habits, pp. 8-9. 2. Sometimes conventional institutions must give way to the spontaneous play of children. Habits, p. 6. 3. Home and family life will need to safeguard itself in regard to several specific dangers inherent in it at we present time. Personality, pp. 4-6. 4. The basic instinctive needs of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE all children need expression. Personality, pp. 6-7. 5. Children with anti-social or. Undesirable variations in conduct are to be studied and educated rather than punished. Personality, pp. 7-8. 6. Success in original activities is to be rewarded in the social order. Suppl ementary Material: 1. The School Problem. A. General Problem. "Wihat is there in our present program that makes for individuality, independence of thought, imagination, insight, initiative, choice instead of mere traveling with the herd? This we should capitalize. How can the program be improved? Obviously disciplining children in a fixed course will not do; the individual must have a chance to express himself. Childish choices must be encouraged and guided to sensible outcomes. Variation must be expected and provided for. Situations calling for initiative must be provided. The possibility of change and improvement must be emphasized." (Editorial Journal of Educational Method. Dec., 1930.) "It is of high importance to prevent the spirit of mass production, which has found its way into the control of pretty much all the processes of industry with resultant economic advantage and esthetic loss, from similarly dominating any part of the field of education, elementary, secondary or higher. The individual is too precious to be sacrificed to the mass. He should be surrounded by those opportunities for diversity of interest, of occupation and of expression that will invite and encourage him to make the best possible use of his talents." (Report of the President of Columbia University, 1928.) B. Dangers of developing the LESSON DEPARTMENT feeling that less efficiency in Mental Tests or School Work are marks of uselessness or undesirability. Commissioner E, W. Butterfield of Connecticut discussed this question at the Department of Superintendence of the National Education Association in 1931. In part he said: "One night a mother called upon me, a stranger, who had driven fifteen miles to see me because she thought from my position I must be very wise. With tears and averted face, she told me her story. "My husband is out in the car,” she said, 'He is too ashamed to come in and I don't know how to tell you this, but we have a boy of thirteen and he is dull. He studies every night, but he doesn't do well in any of his classes, and the superintendent thinks he should repeat the seventh grade. His cards have always been poor though the teachers have helped him after school. At first he didn't care but now he is older and he feels bad to be different from his schoolmates. His teacher has written to me that I am not to expect too much of Ralph, as he is doing as well as one of his ability can do. She has tested his intelligence and finds it is only ninety percent. I know that my husband is bright, but I am afraid 1 am feeble-minded, and have never known it before. "Then I began to question her about Ralph, and she told another story. He was neat and kept himself clean and his room picked up. He was never saucy to his parents, he always did the dishes when his mother had a headache. He was a good singer and played well on his saxophone. He read the American Boy each week and kept the family and neighborhood radios in repair. He was keenly interested in his garden. He planted it and took entire charge. At a roadside stand, and to 249 route of regular customers, he had sold $23.15 worth of beets, cucumbers, lettuce, and string beans. This money, except for Christmas presents to his parents, he had in the bank. He had spent a happy two weeks' vacation with an uncle who is a big hen farmer, and now Ralph has a vocation in sight. "Then I said to my visitor, 'You are entirely mistaken in thinking that Ralph is dull. You have a bright boy and should be both proud and happy. He is school dull but he is home bright, working bright, saving bright. For the social advantage and for his own mature satisfaction, you should keep him at school until high school graduation, but let him choose, as far as possible, subjects which do not abound in words and definitions. Be patient and endure the penance of these years. Keep the home and music and garden as now, but add the hens, and know that when once he graduates he will never be dull again. It is probable that he will be a good business man, an effective producer, and a reliable citizen. He will choose a wife with discrimination and make her happy.' "
C. Tyranny of Special interests and activities. Universities and high schools sometimes permit students in one department to so discredit the work in other departments that students interested in these latter ones feel shame. President Faunce of Brown University tells this story: "Recently speaking at a certain college, I ventured to quote a sonnet of Shakespeare that has been precious to me for many years. At the close of the address as the assembly was dispersing, a shame-faced student showed me a copy of Shakespeare's sonnets which he carried in his inside pocket. He was reading it slyly in moments of leisure, but 250 afraid to show it to his fellow students, who preferred the vulgar periodicals of the day. In that particular college the best was obliged to hide its head. Then democracy becomes hatred of excellence, and that hatred is found today in many schools and clubs and churches in America. The great danger in our schools is that they may be geared to the capacity of the average child, and there is no such creature. They should be geared to the discovery and training of leaders, in the confident conviction that most of our children may lead in something, and that the discovery of the boundless varieties of human ability wrapped up in the most prosaic (common-place) and unpromising children makes the daily task of the teacher an adventure into the infinite far more alluring than any expedition in hunting and fishing, a true voyage of discovery in realms of gold." Democracy means, then, an equal chance for unequal minds. (Journal of the National Education Association, April, 1928.)
D. The Tyranny (cruel exercise of power) of Marks and Eligibility Requirements. Some children find it difficult with even great effort to meet uniform grades in specific required work. Their lives fit with exceptional happiness into certain other activities. The right to expression is barred to them because they are different.
2. Parental Problems.
A. Making the child fit a planned program to satisfy parental ambition or compensate for parental disappointment. A professional man brought in his three-year-old son. Mental tests were given. The evidence pointed unmistakably to ordinary ability. The father forced an admission from the clinic workers that it would be doubtful whether his son would complete college or perhaps even high school. "At this Mr. Prentice burst out: 'If that's the case, I don't want to raise him. I would rather he died this week than feel I had produced a moron. Why, I don't know anyone who hasn't gone through college! All my associates are college people. I was an honor man myself!' " (Sayles, The Problem Child at Home, p. 46.) Of another case Sayles reports: "United in little else, they were as one in their efforts to push and prod their small daughter into doing a higher grade of school work than her good but not remarkable ability seemed to make possible. Much of her nervousness and her poor school adjustment was clearly traceable to this prodding and to the constant fault-finding that accompanied it." (p. 49.) "Whenever we find marked differences between the children of a family, we must undertake to provide opportunities which will give outlets to the unique abilities of each child, no matter in what directions those abilities may lead. The shortsightedness of parents who try to develop their children along lines in which they themselves are interested or capable, is accountable for much unhappiness. Each normal individual has within him or her the possibilities of a happy, useful adult life, and the sympathetic search for and development of a number of these innate possibilities lie within the power of the parent." (Fegre and Anderson: Child Care and Training, p. 72.)
B. The successful parent who tries to force his child into his pattern of life. "Henry, Jr., a youth of nearly eighteen when he became known to the clinic, was considered by the friends of the family and by his employer—the proprietor of a large art store to be a 'prince.' Yet his own father was hardly able to endure his presence in the home. After a school career that had been one long series of humiliations to his parents. He had recently dropped out of high school and gone to work—he had never done anything in the least disgraceful—That anything might have been made of his son's own spontaneous interests—in horticulture and sketching—had seemingly never occurred to him. He had refused point blank to let the boy study art. He wasn't going to have a dauber in his family." (Sayles, p. 44.) "Mrs. Yale came from an Old New England family of whose record through six generations she was proud. 'Such excellent stock ought,' she thought, 'to have produced something better than Nora,' her eight-year-old daughter. Nora was doing poorly in school; her earlier teachers had thought her 'peculiar' and 'retarded,' though her present teacher considered, rather, that she was 'slow' and 'discouraged.' Her mother was much embarrassed that children in families of less standing should get better marks, and was severe and harshly critical in her handling of the child." (Sayles, p. 45.) "On the other hand, no amount of forcing or of family ambition can increase the child's original intellectual equipment. It is sad to see children despoiled of an educational advantage from which we know they could profit because of their high mentality. It is quite as pathetic to see the dullard being prodded and censored because he cannot advance beyond the limits set for him by nature. Very often the child in this situation is as anxious to succeed as 251 are the family to have him do so; then his foredoomed failures are a great source of unhappiness." (Blanchard: The Child and Society, p. 76.)
C. The successful brother or sister who must be imitated. "As one mother put it, there 'had been no let-downs on either side of the family,' and her concern over her second son's poor standing in school was clearly bound up with her pride in this record. Both parents, in this case, were inordinately proud of the brilliant college record being made by their eldest son, and found it extremely difficult to accept the apparent inferiority of the second. As a matter of fact, this boy too had excellent ability, and actually cared more for success than his indifferent manner and lack of concentration upon school tasks seemed to indicate. Less of a student than his brother, he had lived for years in the atmosphere of adulation with which the other was surrounded and had come to accept his own minor role without much question. His scholarly father's relative indifference to him was none the less felt by the boy with a keenness that astonished his parents when they came to realize it.' (Sayles: The Problem Child at Home, p. 42.) "A fourteen-year-old girl, repeating the eighth grade for the third time, represents this sacrifice of individual welfare to the interests of the family. Her father is a college graduate; her mother had a normal school education and was a teacher. The two eldest daughters are college graduates and are teaching in high school. Parents and sisters demand that the youngest daughter follow in the footsteps of the two older ones. Neither the continued repetitions at school nor the assurance of a psychologist that the girl has insufficient mentality to undertake high 252 school work, avails to convince them of the mistake they are making in holding the girl to these demands. As a result, she is unhappy both at home and school. She has a real flair (sagacious sense) for dressmaking and millinery, and could earn her living by its development, would her parents permit her to leave school and learn these trades. Eventually, they will become sufficiently discouraged over her continued failures in school to permit her to go to work, in all probability. But because of their refusal to recognize the innate differences in mental equipment which are characteristic of individuals within the same family, they will send her out from her home with a feeling of disappointment and insecurity which may tend to produce maladjustments even if she eventually finds her own level, because success in any other field than that which they ordained will seem trivial." (Blanchard: The Child and Society, pages 78-9.)
D. Emotional Differences lead to misunderstandings. Fegre and Anderson comment on one case as follows: "Parents think they love and treat all their children alike, not realizing that it is impossible to do so. As each child in a family has a different environment, so the parent in that environment is an unknown quantity in every case. A mother may love a child violently and still lack understanding. A woman whose children are grown voiced her regrets over her attitude toward one daughter, with whom, she said, she had always been more or less at swords' points. The mother, very quick and intense by nature, attempted from the outset to prod the slow, deliberate child to behavior like her own. Ambitious, quick to see through a problem herself, she had urged her daughter RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE on intensifying by every endeavor the antagonism which had its roots in the wide discrepancy in their inherited equipment.
"Parents seldom fail to recognize individual differences in their children. They do make mistakes when it comes to lending all the aid possible to the best development of their children's powers, when those abilities differ from their own. As Crichton Miller put the situation, the parent often conceives of his relationship as that of the potter to the clay, rather than that of the gardener tending the development of a bulb. The potter has in mind the definite outlines of the bowl he is shaping, whereas the gardener cannot alter by one jot or tittle the capacities of the bulb he is growing. He can, however, by providing a sunny place, with good soil and plenty of water, watch it unfold and develop all that is in it; or by neglect or improper care, can see it wither and shrivel into a scrawny, ridiculous caricature of the flower it might have become.
"The child of mediocre intelligence may, by careful handling of its emotions, become as successful and happy a member of society as the child whose brightness sets him apart. It is frequently true that the individual of brilliant intellect fails because of unstable emotions to make the adjustments which make for equilibrium. Effort is bent on training his mind; but if his emotions are neglected, he will fail to become a useful, happy adult." (Fegre and Anderson: Child Care and Training, pp. 246-7.) "Whether emotional differences are almost entirely due to heredity, as some psychologists believe, or whether they are the result of environmental influences, as we have suggested, they certainly play no small role in individualization. And LESSON DEPARTMENT the child's possibility for personal happiness in maturity and for proper social adaptation is determined in large measure, by the direction in which individualization proceeds." (Blanchard, p. 227.)
References:
1. Editorial Journal of Educational Method, December, 1930.
2. Report of the President of Columbia University, 1928.
3. Proceedings—Department of Superintendence of the National Education Association, 1931.
4. Journal of the National Education Association, April, 1928.
5. Sayles: The Problem Child at Home, p. 46.
6. Sayles: The Problem Child at Home, p. 49.
7. Fegre and Anderson: Child Care and Training, p. 72.
8. Sayles: Ibid, p. 44.
9. Sayles: Ibid, p. 45.
10. Blanchard: The Child and Society, p. 76.
11. Sayles: Ibid, p. 42.
12. Blanchard: Ibid, pp. 78-9.
13. Fegre and Anderson: Ibid, pp. 246-7.
14. Blanchard: Ibid, p. 227.
Loyalty By Mary C. Imlay
Once upon a time, God came down and talked with a Boy. He sent messengers with plates of gold and power to perform miracles. When Satan saw this, he called his warriors together and appointed Temptation as General. He said to them, "This is the beginning of the end. If this effort of his is successful, we are doomed. Rally your men, and fight as you have never fought before." So Temptation sent Greed weighted down with money, to buy the golden plates, and with instruction that if he could not buy—to steal. The Boy must not keep the plates. But the Boy's Armor of Faith and His Sword of Loyalty, sent Greed home wounded and crestfallen. Then a great council was called, and Satan himself took command. The Boy had grown to manhood and had fortified His position with an organization. "Drive them from their homes, burn, plunder, send disease and starvation. That will make them surrender." But still the Man marched on. Finally when every other resource was exhausted, Satan took Death, and came to the Man. Not a quiet, peaceful Death, but a violent, vengeful Death. "Will you give up Your God and His work if we spare you now?" The Man looked squarely at Death and answered "No." His Sword of Loyalty He passed to His followers as Death took Him. That Sword, burnished and guarded in the long pilgrimage to found a new land, is now bequeathed to us. May we ever keep it bright and keen through constant use.
All my life I have lived in the presence of fine men and beautiful men going to their death because of alcohol. I call it the greatest trap that life has set for the feet of genius; and I record my opinion that the prohibition amendment is the greatest step in progress taken by America since the freeing of the slave—Upton Sinclair.
Plant Perennials for Perpetual Gardens By Cora Carver Ritchie
How about digging that garden spot back of the house, John? It's time the flowers were in," said Mrs. Housewife every Spring to her busy husband. Every Spring he put it off as long as he could making any kind of an excuse. He didn't mean to neglect his wife or her garden, but you know—
Now, Mrs. Housewife, when he digs it this Spring let it be for the last time. How? You say. Easy. Just plant perennials and never again will you need to ask and ask. What mulching your garden will need you can easily do yourself, one flower at a time if you care to.
As perennials are those flowers whose tops die down in the winter months but the roots live from year to year. One planting does the trick. Perennial means perpetual so forever after you will have perpetual bloom in that otherwise ugly spot. Perennials will grow and thrive where nothing else will even start. Try a few this year. Think of all the places in your own yard you have always been ashamed of—places you don't like visitors to see. Work on the old back fence that separates your house from the rest of the place or cover that old cellar, or dress up that old ditch you have always wanted out of the way, that shady place just outside the north window where the view has hurt your eyes all this time or make that cozy corner you always wanted for hot afternoons. Just a few perpetual vines and shrubs mixed with your perennials will transform any unsightly place into a thing of beauty and comfort.
For that old fence, or to make a background for the rest of your garden, start close to the fence with a few hardy vines, such as grape vine, hop, tea or matrimony vine, then plant a row of hollyhocks, then perennial larkspur, next shasta daisy or iris, finish with a dainty dianthus or feverfew. All are very hardy and will grow easily from seed or plant. Try a hop vine or perennial sweet pea over the front of the cellar. A cluster of shasta daisies on either side of the doorway would live through much traffic.
How happy you should be if the ditch comes anywhere near your house or garden. You can transform it into an eternal everchanging beauty spot. First on either side of the bridge put in clumps of different colored iris. They stand much wear and tear and still grow on. Lilies of the Valley will grow along the banks. Put a few rocks in for mountain effect. All the different ornamental grasses, papyrus, or common fountain grass is beautiful and easy to start. Rock rose will fill the place you want to keep a low line. Lupine, myrtle and even the ferns will add to the beauty of your stream. Whole pages might be written on rustic bridges, side pools, harbors, etc., you can make out of your ditch, that will in no way hinder the flow of the water but will add greatly to the attractiveness and interest of your home.
For the shady places bring the hardy ferns from the mountains, or try monkshood, viola, lily of the valley, phlox, myrtle and pansy. For semi-shade the astella, or spirea, in rose, pink, white or salmon, makes lovely beds or borders, all are hardy.
PLANT PERENNIALS
In hard clay plant shasta daisy, perennial peas, aster, and feverfew. If you have a spot around your house which is rocky, sandy or pathbeaten, plant some of the lovely ornamental grasses such as rattle snake or quaking grass, fountain or pampas. If you would like a white bed or border, perennial aster, phlox, larkspur, lily of the valley, shasta daisy, iris, baby breath, peonies, and feverfew are pretty. Now add a few bold colors for emphasis, say blue lobelia, platycodon or larkspur. For a blue garden bed, or border, use larkspur or the giant delphinium, monkshood, lobelia, perennial aster, iris and fox glove. All are blue and will keep blooming for six months. For a red border first a background of red hollyhocks, then phlox, salvia or lupine, stocks, redhot poker, carnation, dianthus, bleeding heart, salvia, primrose or perennial sweet pea. For a mixed garden, or pink and white border, pink hollyhocks, aster, phlox, lupine and perennial peas. For a yellow bed or border, start with gold dust, add iceland poppy in shades of yellow or white, then plant the yellow African daisy, sneeze wort, or boxwood which grows to be about eight feet tall. Mix in appropriate places white rock rose, baby-breath and feverfew. Off in that odd corner try the new wonder combination, the artemesia, or silverking, which has a large spray-like misty bloom, now surround it with common golden glow; the results would please the most fastidious.
Blending of shades is as essential in the garden as in the house. Varied colors and heights must be considered. Plant white in clusters or between other colors. When in doubt always use white as a mixer. This 255 is an age of color, but some color combinations must be avoided. Such as magenta with shades of yellow. Some plants need to grow in masses, others in decided rows. Lack of good design may bring these remarks: "You ought to have seen my perennial poppies," or, "I wish you could have been here when my peonies were in bloom," etc. Well designed gardens need not suffer these seasonal revulsions. Nearly all perennials will give the second bloom if the seed pods and dry leaves are cut off.
Here are a few don'ts for the flower grower: Don't plant your perennials the same day John digs the garden. Let the soil air at least a day. Don't buy or transplant on a hot, sunshiny day; choose the rainy day or cool of evening. Don't pick out the plants in bloom, or the largest ones. Buy medium sized plants. Don't wait till late spring; start as soon as the frost is out of the ground. Don't plant in squares. Don't plant question marks in your lawns. Avoid the same level sky line. Be as near mother nature as possible. Soften all corners and avoid monotony in color, foliage and height. Do not mix too many kinds—two or three in a group is the most effective. Don't use two bold colors together. Mix soft colors with bright ones to enliven masses. Do not plant all seeds at one time. Rather make a succession of plantings for continual bloom. Do not forget to use lime to kill slugs in damp places. Don't be afraid to use soap suds to wash plants that harbor green aphis or plant lice. Don't forget to cut, fertilize and cover for dormant months. Coarse straw with burlap or coarse manure is good. Don't be afraid to try any perennial. Don't forget to water, feed and love. Don't think because you rent a place you are excused as 256 a flower grower. Plant a perennial, then if you have to move you leave a bit of loveliness in an otherwise sordid world for the next person. Perhaps she needs that bit of cheer. Don't forget the children. Give them a garden of their own. They will watch eagerly for the first signs of perennials, remembering the blooms of the previous season and will cherish any spot you give them. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Your neighbor will exchange, divide and give her perennials. You may learn from her, too. Flower growers are the biggest hearted people I know and oh how they love to sing the praises of their own gardens, and why not? Flowers, especially perennials are really a thing of joy forever. Perennial means perpetual—plant a perennial garden.
A Garden Walk By Ezra J. Poulsen
Broken pieces of cement taken from an old floor or basement shelving make a very desirable walk for the back lot or garden. Since the upper surface is smooth, and at least one side of most of the broken pieces is usually straight, it is easy to arrange them into a walk of any desirable width. Dig a slight trench, then place the fragments into it, fitting them together loosely. When this is done tamp fine dirt into all the crevices, so that the uneven bottom surfaces will be firmly supported. In this manner an attractive, and somewhat rugged flagstone effect is produced; and by sowing grass in the interspaces, the path becomes a perfect blend with the natural beauties of the lawn and flower garden. Often it is much easier to get the cement fragments than the natural rock. From a neighbor making some alterations on his home, from the city street department, or from the community dumping grounds, quantities of this material may be had for the asking. It is easier to handle than most rock, since it is usually about the right thickness, and can be broken readily into any desirable shape with an ordinary hammer.
We Thank You (Concluded from page 236)
facts put before them so that public sentiment will be aroused against the evil of liquor and in favor of the Prohibition law. But there should not be ill feelings engendered. If people differ on this and other subjects there should not be hostility and enmity. While the campaign should be carried on with militant power, yet there should be understanding hearts and a desire to educate rather than force.
BEET SUGAR The factories of Utah and Idaho produce the finest of sugars. Insist on it from your grocer. Buy it in original containers and LOOK FOR THE LABEL. Support our Industries and Farms NOW!
It's what we can do for you NOW that really counts with you. Not tomorrow, or next week, nor when business picks up, but NOW. NOW stands for immediate action and that's just what we can give you. And along with the action, we give you printing and bookbinding of the highest standard of quality, at low cost. Prices and quality of workmanship are in line with what is demanded NOW. We are organized to serve you, and are equipped to meet YOUR printing and binding needs. Let us serve you NOW. Call Was. 550 or write
The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
98.5 PER CENT OF ALL ASSETS IS SET ASIDE FOR THE BENEFIT AND PROTECTION OF POLICYHOLDERS.—In addition to the customary reserves for the protection of Policyholders—The Beneficial has added a surplus fund of One Million Dollars plus a special reserve of Two Hundred Eighty Thousand Dollars. THIS AMAZING PRECAUTION SHOULD SATISFY THE MOST SKEPTICAL AS TO THE STABILITY OF THE BENEFICIAL.
BENEFICIAL LIFE COMPANY If it's a Beneficial Policy it's the best Insurance you can buy
HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager
No. 5
THE MAY, 1933 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
THERE'S MORE—KITCHEN FREEDOM
It is no longer necessary for any modern housewife to spend countless hours of her life in the kitchen, when an ELECTRIC RANGE relieves her of much of this work at no greater cost than her present method of cooking. Electric Cooking is clean, economical, time-saving and dependable.
DROP INTO OUR STORE FOR COMPLETE INFORMATION REGARDING EASY TERMS AND THE ADVANTAGES OF OUR COMBINATION ONE-METER RATE
UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Efficient Public Service
Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing A Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. m. To 5 p. m. Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah
A Dozen Reasons Why Mountaineer Overalls Give Longer Wear and More Satisfaction
Due to large scale production and unusual buying power, Mountaineer Overalls with the Stop-Loss Pockets cost you no more than ordinary overalls.
Ask Your Dealer for Mountaineer Overalls With Stop-Loss Pockets
Manufactured in Salt Lake City by Z. C. M. I. Clothing Factory
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
AMERICA'S FINEST The Celebrated ROUND OAK RANGE We are exclusive agents. Beauty and Utility Combined in this new Range FREE $16.1° With Every DEXTER WASHER Above $49.95 Call us for Free Demonstration
We are big dealers in the much-talked-of NORGE REFRIGERATORS
We Sell the New GRENEAU REFRIGERATOR A new principle of refrigeration The same refrigeration as is used in large office buildings and at the White House.
LIVING ROOM SUITES And everything to furnish the home.
THE GRANITE FURNITURE CO. 1050 E. 21st SOUTH
Time for Spring House Cleaning! BENNETT'S CLEANSERS AND POLISHES Save Time, Work and Worry!
PASTE CLEANER and CRYSTAL CLEANSER for woodwork, linoleum, tile and glass "KLENZENE" for Wallpaper All Types of Waxes for Floors and Furniture
At your dealer's, or
BENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO. 61-65 W First South
WATER HEATER
For a limited time only, we offer you a 30-day free trial, so you may discover for yourself the wonderful convenience and economy of automatic Natural Gas hot water service. No waiting for hot water... No kindling of fires... Just turn the faucet and there it is! And as hot as you like it. The fuel cost is surprisingly low because there's no waste at all. Liberal allowance on your present water-heating equipment, and easy purchase terms. Investigate now.
UTAH GAS & COKE Co. OGDEN GAS Co. WASATCH GAS CO.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
VOL. XX MAY, 1933 No. 5
CONTENTS
Portrait of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. ................................. Frontispiece Mother's Reverie .......................................................... Ella J. Coulam 257 President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. .......................................... Dr. James E. Talmage 259 Olympia .................................................................. Elsie E. Barrett 262 Relief Society Conference ................................................ Julia A. F. Lund Officers' Meeting .............................................................. 263 Department Meetings .......................................................... 272 General Session (Morning) .................................................... 280 General Session (Afternoon) ................................................. 288 Relief Society Annual Report .............................................. 302 A Prayer ................................................................. Lucy M. S. Carter 305 White Carnations ..................................................... Blanche Stockdale Burt 306 Who is April? .......................................................... Vilate R. McAllister 308 Mother Used to Hum .................................................... Elzada C. Brinkerhoff 309 Mother's Day ........................................................... Lula Wilson Bowler 309 To My Mother ........................................................ Ruby Baird Anderson 309 Happenings ............................................................ Annie Wells Cannon 310 And They Called it Mother's Day ......................................... Irene McCullough 311 Your Home Beautiful ................................................... Mabel Margaret Luke 313 Mother ................................................................ Arthur James Bowers 317 Health in the Vegetable Kingdom ........................................ Lucy Rose Middleton 318 The Relief Society Teachers ............................................. Fern Rose McBride 320 Editorial—Conferences ......................................................... 321 Relief Society Conference .................................................... 321 General Conference ........................................................... 322 The Church is Strengthened .................................................. 323 Joseph Smith, an American Prophet ........................................... 323 Thou Livest! ......................................................... Josephine Spencer 324 A Promise of Spring .................................................. Tressa Love Hanson 324
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3123
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear:
No. 1 New style, ribbed lgt. wt. Combed Cotton. An excellent Ladies' number ................ $1.00
No. 2 Old style, ribbed lgt. wt. cotton, our standard garment 1.10
No. 3 Ribbed med. wt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number. Men's new or old style .... 1.25
No. 4 Ribbed heavy wt. Unbleached. Our double back number. Men's new or old style 1.50
No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number. Men's new or old style .... $2.50
No. 6 Light weight garment, cotton, Ladies' new style or old style. Silk Stripe ................ 95
No. 7 Light weight Spring and Autumn garment. Men only .85
No. 8 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only ............. 1.00
No. 9 Medium wt. Silk for men and women, new style only. Non-Run. 1.50
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, short legs and sleeves or ankle length legs, are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit.
Postage prepaid on orders accompanied by money order in United States. Special discount to missionaries.
Our Jack Frost Blankets are made of Utah Wool and Utah Labor Write for Prices
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL
Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates,
L.D.S. GARMENTS
Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid.
OLD OR NEW STYLE
Light Rib Cotton ........................... $ .75 Med. Rib Cotton ............................ .95 Fine Knit, Lt. Weight ...................... 1.25 Lt. Wt. Rayon Stripe ....................... 1.35 Rayon Plated .............................. 1.35 Double Carded, Med. Wt. .................... 1.35 Non-run Viscose Rayon ..................... 1.35
BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
No. 68 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Cotton
L. D. S. GARMENTS, CUTLER VALUES
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
205 Rib Knit, Lt. Weight .................. $ 1.15 758 Med. Hvy. Cot., Ecru or White ......... 1.45 92 Lt. Wt. Rayon Stripe ................... 1.00 306 Non-run Viscose Rayon ................. 1.75
After you finish your high school course
During the past two years, nearly half of all high school graduates have been "just staying at home waiting for something to turn up." During this same time, many other ambitious young people have taken specialized courses in business which have prepared them to earn a good living, to make part of their college expenses and to secure better grades at college or university.
We have special college-grade courses in business for high school graduates, which are especially planned to help you meet the conditions of today. Write for our free catalog now. Visit our school before next June, and be ready for a definite decision without loss of time after graduation.
L. D. S. Business College (A Department of the L. D. S. College) 80 North Main
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Mother's Reverie By Ella J. Coulam
There's a silent urge within me That keeps nagging all the day, To do the things I want to do And put duty quite away.
At seven I must leave my bed To serve the morning meal, And send the children off to school, No matter how I feel.
And then when breakfast's over And quiet reigns once more, That urge keeps nagging me to write Those lines I have in store.
But I must wash the dishes And mix a batch of bread, For noon will bring a hungry bunch In spite of aching head.
Then when lunch is over And I have time to write, I try in vain to catch those words I thought of in the night.
But mine's a pleasant service And I must be content, For I'm in partnership with God With these children He has sent.
PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR.
THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XX MAY, 1933 No. 5
President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. By James E. Talmage, of the Council of the Twelve Apostles
On the sixth of April—a day notable for auspicious events in the annals of the Church and in world history—Elder J. Reuben Clark, Jr., was sustained by vote of the people to be Second Counselor in the First Presidency. The occasion was that of the opening session of the spring conference of 1933, officially known as the One Hundred and Third Annual Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Elder Clark was ordained a High Priest and set apart to this exalted calling under the hands of President Heber J. Grant, President Anthony W. Ivins and eleven members of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, in the Salt Lake Temple on Thursday, April 13, President Grant being voice in the sacred ordinance. In this way—the way prescribed through divine revelation—the highest quorum of the organized Priesthood was made complete by the installation of a successor to the late President Charles W. Nibley, whose call from mortality came on December 11, 1931.
As to the constitution of this presiding body, the revealed word is thus specific and definite: "Of the Melchizedek Priesthood, three Presiding High Priests, chosen by the body, appointed and ordained to that office, and upheld by the confidence, faith and prayer of the church, form a quorum of the Presidency of the Church."
As a people we believe implicitly in the actuality of inspiration and its higher manifestation, revelation, in the selection and nomination of men for positions of presiding authority. We speak of the honor attaching to office in the Priesthood—and rightly so, for a call to such position is a definite expression of confidence and righteous esteem on the part of the nominating authority and of the voting membership. Then, if the call be in accord with the divine will, we do but honor him whom the Lord delights to honor. But with the honor is commensurate responsibility, together with an exacting accountability. The personal realization of the obligation imposed by his new calling was fitly expressed by President Clark in his address before the conference. These are his words:
"I am keenly aware of and am deeply grateful for the great honor the people have bestowed upon me. I am also aware that a responsibility equally great comes with that honor. May I say that just now I am thinking more about the responsibility than about the honor.
"Should any of you have hopes about my work in this high office to which I am called, I trust I shall not too much disappoint you. If any of you have misgivings, I can only say that your misgivings can hardly be greater than my own. I am keenly conscious of my own deficiencies. I come late in life to a new work."
No one who is acquainted with President Clark and his life of strenuous service will construe that last sentence of the quoted paragraph to mean that he comes late to a participation in Church activities. It was the writer's privilege to know him well in his youth and to follow him in his work through early manhood to present maturity in his sixty-second year, and moreover, to observe with gladsome satisfaction his devotion to Church duties in both letter and spirit throughout his career. Before professional and official duties came with insistent demands that kept him for years away from home, he was a prominent worker in the Church, especially in Sunday School and Mutual Improvement Association service. In his home ward, the Twentieth, Ensign Stake, his effective service in Sunday School affairs is an enduring feature of ward history. His efficiency in Mutual Improvement work brought about his appointment to the General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association in 1925, and in this capacity he has served well down to the present. While away from the stakes and wards of the Church he and every member of his splendid family have given their best efforts to the several mission branches with which they have been temporarily associated. Furthermore, Brother Clark has been and is a profound student of both the history and doctrines of the Church and he is justly recognized as one of our able theologians.
Among his distinguishing characteristics are an unusual capacity and an indomitable desire for work. And whatsoever he has undertaken to do, in Church or secular undertakings, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE he has done with the full force of his virile and irresistible energy. A mighty man has taken his place among the leaders of this people.
Among his fellows and associates, from the status of college student to that of United States Ambassador, he has always been prominent and generally eminent. He is equipped by practical experience in many capacities, such as school teacher and principal, research specialist at Columbia University, and he has filled a succession of offices in ascending grade and increasing importance connected with the national Department of State. For such readers as delight to consider details of dates and data, the following will be of interest—taken from Who's Who in Government, Volume 2, 1932 edition, with minor inclusions from Who's Who in America, Volume 13:
CLARK, JOSHUA REUBEN, Jr.; Ambassador to Mexico, born September 1, 1871, Grantsville, Utah; son of Joshua Reuben and Mary Louisa (Woolley) Clark; educated at Latter-day Saints College; University of Utah, B. S., 1898; Columbia, LL. B., 1906; married Luacine A. Savage, September 14, 1898; four children, Louise (Mrs. Mervyn S. Bennion), Marianne (Mrs. Ivor Sharp), J. Reuben, and Luacine Savage. Acting Principal Southern Branch of State Normal School, Utah, 1901-2. Admitted to N. Y. Bar 1905. Assistant Prof. Of Law, George Washington University, 1907-8. Assistant Solicitor, Department of State, 1906-10, Solicitor, same, 1910-13. Appointed by Pres. Taft Chairman of the American Preparatory Commission to represent the United States upon the International Preparatory Commission for the Third Hague Conference, 1912. Appointed General Counsel for the United States before the American-British Claims Commission, 1913. Counsel for Department of State and expert assistant to the American Commissioners, Conference on Limitation of Armaments, 1921. Appointed member of the General Board of the Y. M. M. I. A., 1925. Commissioned Major, Judge Advocate General's Reserve Corps, 1917; assigned to PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. Active duty, 1917; under orders of Attorney General Department of Justice, 1917; relieved from duty in office of Judge Advocate General and appointed Adjutant of Provost Marshal General, 1918; honorably discharged, 1918. Awarded Distinguished Service Medal, 1922. Special Counsel for the United States, American-Mexican Claims Commissions, 1926. Agent for the United States on General and Special Claims Commissions, United States and Mexico, 1926. Appointed Undersecretary of State, 1928. Appointed Ambassador to Mexico, 1930. Member of the American Society of International Law; Phi Delta Phi. Clubs: Cosmos, Metropolitan, Chevy Chase, India House. Residence, 80 D Street, Salt Lake City. S early as 1910 Mr. Clark became officially associated, and deeply interested personally, in Mexican affairs. In his dealings with officials and citizens generally he developed a deep respect for the Mexican people, which was met by reciprocal regard amounting to genuine affection. With his powers of keen discernment whenever and wherever a question of personal or national rights was at issue, and with characteristic good nature and genial disposition, he never failed of success in achieving diplomatic adjustments. At the request of the President of the United States he continued to serve as Ambassador to. Mexico beyond the time duration specified by him when he accepted this important and honorable appointment. With the many and great changes incident to the last national election Ambassador Clark tendered his resignation, to take effect with the close of the Republican administration in this country. His departure from Mexico was attended by impressive demonstrations of both official and popular regret. The Ambassador's resignation was acknowledged by the Secretary of State with the following letter of appreciation: 261 "I have received your letter of February 24, 1933, enclosing a letter to the President in which you submit your resignation, to become effective at the close of business March 3, as Ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the United States to Mexico. "Your wishes, of course, have been met and your letter has been placed in the President's hands. I desire to take this occasion to express my deep and sincere appreciation, not only for your distinguished service as American Ambassador to Mexico, which has reflected signal credit upon the Department of State, but also my personal appreciation and gratitude for the aid of your wise counsel and loyal cooperation at the beginning of my service in this office. "I am fully aware of the peculiar difficulties with which you were confronted in Mexico. It is therefore a matter of fairness to you and a matter of gratification for me to say that your work has not only materially strengthened the connections between the United States and Mexico to the benefit of both, but has served to give definite development to the new policy in our Mexican relations, in the inception of which you played so large a part. The wisdom of the new policy and the soundness of its results would seem to be apparent to any close observer of relations between the two countries and should be to you a matter of personal gratification. "I assure you of my very best wishes for your future success and happiness and reiterate the expression of my appreciation and warm personal regards." In acting upon the resignation, President Herbert Hoover sent to the retiring Ambassador the following communication: "I must of course, accept your resignation as Ambassador to Mexico, to be effective at the close of business March 3. "I wish to take this occasion to express to you the appreciation I have for the service you have rendered, our country as its Ambassador to Mexico. Never have our relations been lifted to such a high point of confidence and cooperation, and there is no more important service in the whole of foreign relations of the United States than this. A large part of it is due to your efforts, and I realize that it has been done at a great sacrifice to yourself. The American people should be grateful to you for it." 262 Justly commended and lauded for his services to the Nation, invested with unusual honors and enjoying the confidence and esteem of the governments of two countries, our beloved Brother J. Reuben Clark, Jr., returns to his native State amidst the welcome of her people of all parties, classes and creeds. To his exalted position in the Church he brings unusual ability, absolute dependability, an unwavering testimony of the divinity of this marvelous work in the latest dispensation and whole-souled devotion to this Church and its people. N ancient Apostle wrote tersely and with truth: "The woman is the-glory of the man" and. Further: "Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord." Possibly President Clark would have accomplished great things even though he had always lived a bachelor; but certain it is he could never have become the man he is had he remained unwed. At the right time and place, within holy precincts, he and Miss Luacine A. Savage, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE: daughter of the much beloved Brother and Sister Charles R. Savage, plighted their troth as husband and wife for time and eternity. As already enumerated, four children have come to inherit the blessings of this goodly parentage. In every way Sister Luacine Savage Clark has proved a help meet for her distinguished husband. Richly endowed with the enduring graces of the noblest order of womanhood, of pure and well-trained mind, in spirit sensitive yet always firm for that which is good, she is held in affectionate esteem by all whose privilege it is te know her. To husband, son and daughters she is a source of perennial inspiration and encouragement. In Church service, especially in Relief Society work, Sister Clark has accomplished much both as a member and as presiding officer in the organizations with which she has been identified. It is the confident hope and sustaining prayer of the Church membership that many and happy years of blessed ministry await President and Sister Clark. May By Elsie E. Barrett Have you brought forth your flowers, bright MAY The ones that belong here with you? Gay March gave her winds, fair April gave showers, And you are supposed to blossom with flowers. A4 I am asking of self too, bright MAY, As months pass away in review; The hours brought time, each day had its duty, Will seeds I have sown grow weeds or reap beauty? Relief Society Conference April 4 and 5, 1933. By Julia A, F. Lund—General Secretary HE Relief' Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints held its Annual Conference, April 4 and 5, 1933, in Salt Lake City, Utah, President Louise Y. Robison was in charge. The meeting's were seven in number: Officers' Meeting, and the following department meetings—Social Service Case Work, Secretaries, Work and Business, Choristers and Organists. There were also two General Sessions. At the conclusion of the Officers' Meeting, a luncheon was served at the historic Lion House, the General Board acting as hostess to the Stake Executive Officers. The Reception for Stake Officers, in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building, was beautifully arranged, and a very large gathering of General and Stake Relief Society workers spent a delightful evening. The attendance at the Conference was. Especially good. Ali General 3oard members were present, 103 out of the 104 Stakes, and 6 missions answered to the roll. There was a departure from the policy of previous years, in the fact that the Departments featuring the lesson courses, Theology, Literature, Social Service and Teachers' Topics, were deferred until October, at which time they will be given prominence. The results from the Social Service Case Work, Secretaries, Work and Business and Choristers and Organists departments, held at this Conference, were most gratifying. Two of the outstanding features of this Conference were the Music and the Work and Business Exhibition. The Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the able direction of Mrs. Charlotte Owen Sackett, achieved a real triumph, and special mention must be made of the exquisite number by Albert Shepherd. Violinist, and Mabel Borg Jenkins, pianist. Officers' Meeting Tuesday Morning, April 4, 1933 PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON OUR hearts are too full for utterance this morning, in gratitude to our Father in Heaven for this splendid attendance. There are so many marvelous things that you have done during the last six months, the most trying that we have had in many years. We have learned to go calmly, meet our hardships, and accomplish the most wonderful work that has ever been done. We have not had one complaint. Not one woman has said the work is too hard when we have 264 asked for extra things to be done. Our prayers have gone out to you, and we have thought earnestly and seriously before we have asked you to do things, because we knew the burden you were already carrying was heavy. It seems that all of the stakes have had a systematic way of working. Women have been away from home day after day, and yet there was no complaint. This little verse seems to me to be the one that our Father in Heaven may have said to each of your hearts: "Child of mine, lean hard And let me feel the pressure of thy. Care. I know thy burden, for I fashioned it, Poised it in my own hand and made its weight Precisely that which I saw best for thee, And when I placed it on thy trembling form I said, 'I shall be near." And when thou leanest Upon me, This burden shall be mine, not thine." I believe this. You have lived so near to our Heavenly Father that He has shared your burden and helped you to carry your load. There could not have been a finer response than we had in the Prohibition campaign. Within a week 60,000 signatures came in from our stakes in Utah. Brother George Albert Smith says if the cause is saved, it will be the women who will save it. We want to be most careful and prayerful about sustaining the Government and supporting the laws, and we must wage an educational campaign. There are many fine people who read the propaganda paid for by the "wets" and do not RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE realize that they are working against the cause of righteousness. We must thank you for the very excellent response you have made to the signatures for the National Council of Women. We have here a letter of congratulation to Relief Society women, which came this morning by air mail, from Miss Lena Madesin Phillips, who is President of the National Council of Women. I do hope many women will be able to go back to Chicago this summer, for it will be a marvelous thing to see what women have accomplished in one hundred years. Weare hoping that although we have made a very fine showing in the signature campaign, we shall still be able to do more. You have, no doubt, noticed a change in our program for this Conference. We have had the departments for our lesson work at April Conference for three or four years, and it has worked out beautifully. There are good reasons for the change, however. Many of our class leaders who have worked during the past year may not take up the work next Fall, and so we have decided to have our educational program in October, just before the opening of the work, as the schools and colleges do. Sister Child will tell us more in detail about this. We want to thank you with all our hearts, and pray the Father's blessing upon you for the effort you have been making regarding the Annual Dues. We have tried to make it just as easy as possible. One President came in the other day with 100%, and we knew the stake was in a straitened condition, so we said, "How did you get it?' She said, "Oh, we put a big thermometer in our Relief Society room the first meeting in January, and at the top RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE of the thermometer, where we usually look for the temperature, we put the amount the women are to pay. There is never a thing said about it, but each week as the women pay their Annual Dues we write in this thermometer, and it just works up and up, We have never asked for any help from any of the members, but the sisters could see the thermometer there." It is amazing, the ingenuity of some of our women. I think this is demonstrated so splendidly in our wonderful display. If you had not done another thing all the year, not taken care of the sick, poor and needy, if you had not lightened the burdens of the Bishops, if you had not made this signature campaign so successful, if you had only sent in the things that are shown in our display, you would have done a marvelous year's work. Men call us up and say that they had no idea that Relief Society was doing these artistic things. A business man remarked, "I had no idea Relief Society women did this, I thought they just did patching and mending." You will know that all the beautiful articles in the Exhibition cannot have the choice place, and so if some of you sisters find your beautiful quilt is not in the best position, be good Relief Society women, and know that there was no thought of discrimination against any stake or article, only that they could not all be in one place, but the committee has done the best it could to show all to advantage. We are asking again for closer cooperation with the Bishops, or that the Bishops cooperate a little closer with us. We can request, but not demand this cooperation. As Josiah Allen's wife said, "Never nag a man, just keep it before him." We are a force in the ward, and we 265 should have a voice in carrying on the work. In our stakes we find that some of our Stake Presidents or Bishops do not consult our Stake Relief Society Presidents about reorganizations within the Society. We know it to be a fact that when they do consult with their Relief Society Stake Presidents they always have better ward officers. We may suggest it sometimes, anyway. Just say, "We are so deeply interested in the success of the Wards, that we wish to help you in the choice of the President." We still have duplications. Some of our stake board members are so valuable that we feel we must have them work in our wards, and so they have asked sometimes if they cannot be a stake board member sand a ward president. We feel this does not work out satisfactorily. It is better to release a sister from the stake if the success of the ward work depends entirely upon her. If she is so valuable that she must be in the ward, we know that she is big enough to feel that she should be released from her stake work, and be made a ward officer. Then, too, we often take someone who has worked in the past instead of developing a new woman. One of the biggest pieces of work you can do is to develop a new woman. I was in a stake one day when a certain sister took part on the program and did it beautifully. The president told me that she had lived in the ward for a number of years. And they did not know her worth until they asked her to take part, and when they put her in office she responded so well that it was just amazing. We suggest again that you will continue to beautify your home surroundings and your chapels, and look after the details that make much for comfort. In some of the chapels 266 where we have visited, the assembly hall and the amusement hall are beautiful, but when we go into the dressing room there is a lack of convenience. Oftentimes there is not a towel in the dressing room where we are having an all day meeting. Have some little woman look after this, it adds greatly to the comfort and culture of the group to see that this is taken care of. It is often very difficult to fill emergency orders for burial clothes when they come in at night, or when the office is closed. We are wondering if you sisters could not see your way clear to have a suit or two on hand. Two complete suits. You could have a medium length robe which would be all right for a man or a woman; the moccasins are the same, the only difference being the little bow of ribbon, and we could send the bows to be attached if necessary. The apron is the same: the garments are the same; so that if you just had one robe, one apron, one pair of moccasins and one pair of garments, a man's cap and a woman's veil, you would have two suits for emergency, and they do not need to be expensive. Consider this, and see if you do not think it is a wise provision. Do not have public meetings when you are discussing welfare work and Relief Society funds. It is a most serious thing. If necessary you should give tickets to those who are entitled to come in, and even at the expense of hurting someone's feelings, do not allow anyone in your welfare or your presidents' departments at Union Meeting, except those who are entitled to be there. It makes trouble, and those not in the work cannot quite understand it. Weare trying to get away from the idea of having the public at our Union Meetings, and I believe you It is not necessary to have | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE will find that it will work out to out advantage. It has hurt the feelings of some of the sisters, but a Union Meeting is not an entertainment, nor a sermon, nor anything that would he of importance to anyone but the people who are entitled to be there. It is marvelous how some of the stakes with widely scattered wards can keep in touch with them. In Juarez, for example, we were amazed to find the volumes of material sent out to the far away wards, They can only hold Union Meeting once in three months, at their quarterly conference, because it is so difficult to get down from the mountains. Every month, instead of the class leaders preparing the lesson for the ward class leaders to come in, they are prepared and sent out. The President explained that the stake had cooperated and bought a mimeograph for the use of all the organizations. It was not so difficult to cut a stencil of a certain lesson and have it mimeographed. Presidents, keep close to your wards, check on them, and if you give them any special thing to do, do not forget it and let them do it or not, just as they see fit. Always check on it, no matter if it is the simplest thing, check on everything you ask them to do, and you will find it stimulates their interest. Sister Lederman, who is so well qualified and has taught in the L. D. S. College, is now teaching the women of the Church. She is having an exhibition over in the Lion House and is happy to let you have the benefit of any instructions. You no doubt noticed an artcle in the Relief Society Magazine for March about flax, and the growing of flax. You will be interested to read in the Journal of Discourses a report of a man visiting Salt Lake City in 1849, where he speaks of the beautiful flax fields which were here, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE just two years after the pioneers came. Now, we are told there is a real money market for flax. It is easily grown. In the exhibition there is a linen tablecloth which was made here in the Third Ward by a Relief Society woman and her husband. It was woven on a hand loom shortly after they came here. It is said that the Jordan river water is the best in the United States for retting the flax, so we may have an industry here. Flax is beautiful to look at while it is growing. For more information write to the Utah Flax Products Company, 32 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. I humbly pray that the Lord will bless us. We have all been praying that you would be able to come in safety, and that your families would be protected during your absence. We did have a bit of sad news this morning, and we want your faith and 267 prayers to go out for Sister Ririte, president of the Taylor Stake. She left home with a number of Canadian sisters to come down to Conference, and we had a message this morning to tell her that her husband had passed away since she left. Let us pray to the Lord to help her bear this sorrow. Prayer is a wonderful thing—all of us here together praying for something. There is a mighty power in prayer. Sometimes I think we rather forget, but we must not forget, for this time of the world certainly calls for prayer and living close to each other and close to God. Pray for Sister Ririe and Sister Kittie Burton, president of Star Valley Stake, who has been ill for so long. She wants us to pray for her, and I know the Lord does hear the prayers of you wonderful women, who are doing so much for his children. Reorganizations Date Stake Released Appointed President Nov., 1932 Lyman Rettie Blackner Martha Field Nov., 1932 Maricopa Mary A. Clark Elnora Shupe Nov., 1932 California Mission Charlotte R. Stahr Rose R. Hinckley GENERAL SECRETARY JULIA A. F. LUND T gives me great pleasure again this morning to express my appreciation to the Secretaries. 'In the reports as they were submitted this year we find the work of the secretaries to be in very capable hands. There were a greater number than ever before perfect reports, and those in which there were errors were of so minor a character that the report itself was practically perfect, showing that the secretaries have an understanding of their work. I think we cannot express too great appreciation for this fine service, for an organization is judged by the record it keeps. We expect this afternoon to meet the secretaries and discuss some possible changes in our record book, and some little differences that may be made necessary. During this particular period. Which we are covering at present, there have been problems arise which perhaps the secretaries have not met before, but their work has been most excellent during this year. The following abridged report is submitted: Nov., 1932 Cottonwood [Emily M. Carlisle Lavina H. McMillan 268 Total balance on hand January 1, 1932, $152,373.58; Total receipts during 1932, $233,519.57; Total balance on hand and receipts, $385,- 893.15; Paid for Charitable Purposes, $111,343.23; Total disbursements, $253,623.18; Total balance December 31, 1932, $182,269.97; Total assets, $983,460.11; Ward conferences held, 1,277; Number of visits by visiting teachers, 881,436; Number special visits to sick and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE homebound, 214,637. Membership: 1931, 66,884; 1932, 67,382, showing an increase of 498. The membership includes: Executive and Special Officers 11,107; visiting teachers, 23,322, other members, 32,953, Average attendance, 1931, 27,234, 1932, 28,790, showing an increase of 1,556. Paid for charitable purposes, 1931, $116,448.17, 1932, $111,343.- 23, showing a decrease of $5,104.94. THE Reiger Society MAGAZINE MRS. MARCIA K. HOWELLS Member of the General Board NCE, as a stranger, in a far away tropical city, so hot that at noonday the streets were entirely deserted, in Singapore, 12,000 miles from here, I found a copy of our Relief Society Magazine. It was like meeting an old friend in a foreign port. There were many magazines, in that hotel reading room, from London, New York and Sydney-—there were magazines there that sold for more than one dollar a copy, but none were more fingered, and none looked so good to me, as that copy of our own Relief Society Magazine; some thoughtful missionary must have left it there. That was ten years ago, and I have read every isstte since that time. I have found excellent recipes for cooking, interesting stories, delightful poetry, always timely topics—a magazine with a cheerful, helpful message, a magazine that ever sings a song of hope to all who will listen. I love and appreciate our magazine and as a Relief Society worker I find it indispensable. It standardizes the lesson work, directs the relief program and keeps workers in close touch with the General Board and with each other. Every member, as well as every officer and teacher, should have it. It would be just as easy for a surgeon to operate without instruments as for a class leader to teach the required lesson without the use of the magazine. Though it meets the requirements of the most advanced thought in — adult education, it is presented so the average worker understands it. Bishops are using it in their relief work. Even the tiny tots enjoy the pictures and, in fact, it contains something of interest to every member of the family. There is sufficient material in each issue to furnish a helpful thought for each and every day of the month. As Relief Society workers, it meets our needs. We simply cannot estimate the benefit it has been to sincere, loyal Relief Society workers. And it invites rereading. We must sell more than twentythousand copies of each issue, to meet the cost of publishing and mailing. The price is about eight cents a copy, and nowhere else is there such magazine value. Eight cents a month is very little to spend for so much interesting and valuable information. RELIEF SOCIETY: CONFERENCE It is less than twenty years ago, that our first Relief Society Magazine, as such, was published. It is being constantly improved and yet the price remains the same. The Literary and Social Service Lessons are comparable with college extension courses, while the Theology Lessons are sources of deep interest and appreciation. Our splendid Exhibition—now in progress, is possible, largely as a result of the exchange of ideas, contained in the Magazine, regarding Work and Business Day Activities. 269 We greatly appreciate your loyal support to our publication. Methods by which you have obtanied subscriptions are often original. Whenever possible they have been passed on to others through the medium of the Magazine. We all know that enthusiastic effort does bring results. The ideal condition would be to have the Relief Society Magazine in the home of every Relief Society member. May our Heavenly Father bless us, to this end, I humbly pray in the name of Jestis Christ, Amen. SUPPLEMENTARY AND REQUIRED READING MRS. MARY C. KIMBALL Member of the General Board HILE there is no compulsion in our work, we have standards that should be up-held and ideals that should be realized. We are eager to see the day when practically all the members of the orgations will thoughtfully and carefully read each lesson and when there will always be a discussion of the subject matter participated in by most of the members. In reaching this desired goal, the first step we wish to urge is that you devise means to get your members to read the lessons prepared in the Magazine and the text books for each subject:. "The Doctrine and Covenants" in Theology, "The Delight of Great Books" in Literature, "The White House Conference" and the Pamphlets on Personality, Habits and Growth in Social Service. The wider the reading the larger will be the storehouse to be drawn 'from. It is desirable that members and especially class leaders shall read the supplementary material suggested, but we wish to emphasize emphatically that very fine lessons can be prepared even though the supplementary material ts not available. One way to get lessons read is to make intelligent assignments of the lesson. Announce a month before hand what the lesson will be; where it is found; what supplementary material is suggested, if the people have access to the books; ask something about the lesson that will arouse interest. For instance, in assigning the Doctrine and Covenants Lesson for April, the teacher might ask: Why might the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when first organized be called "a young men's organization"? What value was there in having this young membership? Outline Section 20 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Does your outline cover the same headings as given in the lesson? What was the great value of the trying march of Zion's Camp from Kirtland to Missouri? In assigning the Literary Lesson for April, she might ask: Why may 1819 be called a wonderful year? 270 How was Melville fitted to write the great sea story "Moby Dick" Compare the reception of the "Scarlet Letter" and "Moby Dick." Why has '"Moby Dick" been likened to an epic? Why do tales of conflict arouse great interest? What is a Parable? Why may this novel be called a Parable? In what is "Moby Dick" unique? What was the purpose of the voyage of the Pequod? Out the psychological value of the story. Bring your books with favorite passages marked. In assigning the Social Service Lesson for April the teacher might ask: Why do people who try to control others often misunderstand those whom they direct? Discuss "Vicariousness is a great aid for those who would lead their children.' How Point ° RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE does the child learn the meaning of "mother"? Give illustrations from the lesson showing how the child learns what things mean. How do words acquire meaning? When is communication possible? What does the lesson say about the development of justice? Illustrate, "To perform is a part of the situation which gives meaning." Tell the story of Sammy. In what way does your child show in what he is developing? When does the need of an imaginary world fade? Discuss some of the steps by which a mother can make her children progressively free of her. Why are not young children grateful for all the sacrifices their parents may make? List instances in which your children have shown increasing independence, or initiative. LEGISLATION OF INTEREST TO WOMEN MRS. ANNIE WELLS CANNON Member of the General Board OOD understanding giveth favor," is a proverb worth taking to heart, and never more truly manifest than in matters of _ government. All legislation should be of interest to women, for happily that day is past when women "need not bother" over business matters, or concern themselves with anything outside the home. Science and education have emancipated women from such fallacies, and the most efficient housewife is the one who acquaints herself with laws and regulations which govern her family life. Nothing comes to her. Door in the way of provisions that is not prepared, wrapped, and labelled, as provided by law, or if it does, she has resources for protection. Some women go their happy way leaving all matters pertaining to busIness, such as taxes, mortgages, rents, loans, etc., to their husbands. "Why worry" is their maxim, and then there comes a'day when, without this protection, ignorant and in great distress, these confiding women may become an easy prey for unscrupulous and clever men or dependent on others to solve problems, which need not have happened. For the woman who faces life's battles alone, it is certainly necessary to be guided by a knowledge of one's privileges under the law. The home is the heart of the nation, and is naturally affected and regulated by the nation's laws. The question of taxes, too intricate to dwell upon at present, but important for all to study, is a vital thing in our daily lives. In the United States we have two sets of taxing authorities, vested in the Fed- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE eral Government and in the 48 States, both unrestricted in form. The main reason for taxation is revenue, and as that power may be, and is doubly used as in the income tax, and more than doubly used as in cases of the inheritance and sales tax, the burdens are increased several fold on the property owner, unless legislators remember, "the law of the wise is the fountain of life," and earnestly seek to be righteous servants of the people. Think well in electing legislative candidates, for the safety of the home depends upon their acts. Legislation of most interest to women is possibly the educational and social, and such laws as affect women in industrial pursuits. This year, because of economic conditions, some most worthy pro- 271 jects would have had to suspend operations had it not been for the interest of women, the Minimum Wage for Women, the Child Labor Law, Establishment of Juvenile Courts, etc. The necessity of these protective measures is because of recent investigations in the several States, uncovering almost unbelievable conditions in the factories. And let us not forget that the Amendment to the Constitution for the protection of Childhood has not yet been ratified by a sufficient number of States to become a law. It is gratifying to note that the legislatures this winter ignored measures discriminating against married women. Let us hold sacred our privileges of citizenship, and elect legislators of wisdom and vision in whose hands are held those things most-vital to the home and the nation, SENSING RESPONSIBILITY OF OFFICE MRS. LALENE H. HART Member of the General Board HE life of each of us is largely governed by a threefold obligation; duty to ourselves, duty to our fellowmen, and duty to our God. The law of ethics prescribes certain rules whereby human relations and _ behavior are controlled. The members of a Relief Society organization are in a school of training in ethics which is far superior to any other class or club. Besides gaining knowledge through outlined lessons, they learn other lessons in courage, tolerance, kindliness, and devotion. This school is also trying to create in its membership a sense of social obligation, to stimulate interest in the welfare of neighbors, and to develop interest in all classes and races of people. Every woman who enters into the service of this organization as an officer does so with some degree of ambition and determination to gain new ideas and experiences that will give her a broader view of life, will raise her own and others' standard of ideals, and efficiently serve those with whom she comes in contact. At no previous time has the preparation for better and more complete living been so intensive. Women are interested in more things and in more people than heretofore. They are eager to know more of human nature, their own personality and its development. Those who have been given the responsibility for directing this preparation, must rise to their possibilities and offer opportunities and experiences to their respective groups which will enable them to find a life freer from those things 272 which discourage, worry and annoy, and fuller of things that satisfy, stimulate and inspire. This responsibility has, not been solicited, but has been bestowed upon us as an honor. Any office, however, ceases to be an honor unless that office is honored. Ben Johnson says, "Great honors are great burdens, but on whom they are cast with envy he doth bear two loads. His cares must still be double to his joys in any dignity." To be worthy to preside over a well-organized society in dignity and poise is an officer's greatest achievement; it requires long intensive labor to acquire. The mission of officers is to create and develop in the lives of our members the spirit of the Gospel, and carry its message to all people, to encourage the distressed and disheartened. As we approach the end of our season's outlined work, we may well ask ourselves, has this year's work been a success or failure as far as I am individually concerned? What is success, and how is it to be meaRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sured? Not by the length of the days, nor the accumulation of knowledge or influence, but by the continuous and unrelenting adaptation of the powers and capacities that we have to the opportunities and needs of our environment. Such a result may be far short of the standard we have set for ourselves, or it may even exceed it, but nothing can excel in loftiness of purpose the desire to make the most effective use of our talents in the service of others. That Relief Society Officer has achieved success, who has lived well, loved much, given generously, served willingly, and grown _ graciously through her responsibility. She has failed if she has ignored the truth, discarded her highest ideals and lain aside the standards of her own organization and the Church. Let us sense seriously the responsibility that rests upon us to rise and shine, and show the way to a doubting, waiting, skeptical world, that there is a God in heaven, that Jesus Christ lives and that He is interested in the walfare of his children. Department Meetings SociAL CasE WorkK DEPARTMENT COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN Chairman HE following program was carried out: Invocation, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon; "Federal Relief," Judge Hugo B. Anderson; Discussion, President Louise Y. Robison; "Importance of Uniform Standards in County Welfare Work," Dr. Joseph A. Geddes;* Discussion, Counselor Amy Brown Lyman; Benediction, Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker. The addresses by Judge Anderson *To be printed later. And Dr. Geddes were freely discussed, with many questions from the audience. In the discussion the responsibility of relief funds was stressed, attention being called to the fact that Government money used for relief must be paid back by somebody, and the same care should be used in its administration as in the administration of any other relief funds. The matter of caring for those in distress after Government Remi BOCIETYSCONFERENCE 273 relief is discontinued, was pictured as a real problem for the, future. Greater economy in everyday life was urged, and reference was made to the economies practiced by the western pioneers, who lived within their income, not expecting outside help or relief. The need of uniform standards in Church and County welfare work was brought out, and illustrated by various examples showing that in some towns in a county the relief rate is much higher than in other towns similarly situated, also that in some. Stakes some wards give much more relief than others where the living conditions are practically the same. The great need of a State Public Welfare Department was stressed, such a Department to standardize and supervise the welfare work of the State, such as the State supported welfare institutions and the County welfare departments. FEDERAL RELIEF JUDGE HUGO B. ANDERSON T is just four and a half years since I had the privilege of addressing one of the sessions of the Relief Society Conference. At that time, although we did not then realize it, we were plunging headlong into one of the worst economic emergencies our country has ever faced. It is perhaps significant of the change in attitude of all of us, that we were then discussing the States' responsibility for social welfare problems, whereas today our attention is directed from the local to the National aspects of the problems and from welfare problems in general to the one problem which has overshadowed all others, the problem of unemployment relief by the Federal Government. For four years almost the Federal Government has been attempting in one way or another to solve the problem of relief for the unemployed. If we look back over those years we can identify four different phases in the national attitude toward the problems of relief. To begin with, we all felt that the depression was going to be of short duration; that the return of prosperity was just around the corner. The attitude of the Federal Government was to stimulate private giving to take care of the problem of unemployment relief. To accomplish that purpose the President of the United States organized a committee which persistently reminded us that relief was a local problem. Extensive publicity throughout the country urged people locally to take care of their local unemployed. As evidence of the success of this policy, in the Fall of 1931, Community Chests throughout the country raised approximately 10% more than they had raised in the previous year, 1930. Even at that time, however, relief was given approximately 759% from public funds, and 25% from private funds. Before the year was over we realized the impossibility of attempting to handle the problem through increasing private gifts, and the following year we entered into the second stage in the national attitude toward unemployment relief—that relief for the unemployed is largely a state responsibility, which must he cared for chiefly through public funds, supplied by local or state taxation. As evidence of that change in attitude, private giving in the Fall of 1932 as shown by the receipts of Community Chests through the 274 nation dropped 22% under the figures for 1931, and the percentage of relief provided from tax funds increased from 75% to 90% of the total, leaving 10% only to be cared for through private contribution. The taxing bodies, however, soon encountered difficulties. Tax revenues decreased and tax delinquents increased. The limits of bonded indebtedness were reached; the sale of bonds was impossible and returns from new types of taxes proved disappointing. We began to realize that the local tax units could not take care of the problem, and in this last year we entered the third stage in our national program for unemployed relief—the stage of relief loans to states. In July of 1932, Congress passed the Emergency Relief and Construction Act as an amendment to the Reconstruction I'inance Corporation Act. Under the terms of that Act, the Federal Government set up a fund of three hundred million dollars to furnish relief and work relief for needy and distressed people and to relieve the hardship resulting from unemployment. Provision was made for obtaining the funds by application from the Governor of the State. The application had to certify the necessity for the funds and the inadequacy of local funds to care for the problem. The funds were then loaned to the State at 3% interest, with a provision for repayment out of future allocations of road funds made from the lederal Government to the States commencing in 1935, and extending over a period of five years. The administration of the funds was placed in the hands of the Governor, as his sole responsibility. Few regulations were given to the states. They were warned that the fund was supplemental to their local resources, and not in lieu of them. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE They were asked to provide periodic reports by counties showing the number of families and homeless individuals in need, the amount of local funds which had been expended in the previous months and_ the amount available; the number of families and homeless individuals actirally cared for, and an estimate of the additional funds required to care for those which could not be cared for through local funds. States were urged to provide their own funds for costs of administration. Funds were to be distributed on the basis of need and to this end a definition of Work Relief was promulgated by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation as_ follows: "Work relief is wages or other compensation paid for work, where the recipient and the amounts given are both determined on the basis of actual need. Such funds are made available from those specifically appropriated or contributed for relief purposes, and are used for worthwhile projects, determined by the locality, which could not otherwise be undertaken at the time or in the immediate future. Wages in return for such work may be paid in cash or in kind." The State followed the example largely of the Federal Government, and made few regulations for the distribution of the money. I am speaking more particularly of Utah, because I am not so well acquainted with the other states from which some of you come. We had no public welfare department in Utah. A volunteer committee of citizens was appointed by the Governor, and a similar committee was appointed in each county of the State. The local committee of representative citizens waS appointed by the County Commission- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ers, but did not usually include the County Commissioners. The County Committee was made responsible for the distribution of the funds within the county. Regulations provided that all families receiving assistance be investigated by the best trained workers available. No cash relief was to be given and orders were limited to items of food, fuel and clothing. To begin with work relief might be paid for in cash or kind. We had not gone far until the State Committee prohibited paying for work relief in cash, because of evidence from many parts of the State that the funds were being used for the purpose of providing employment to all unemployed whether or not they were in actual need. Where work was provided, the state committee required that those doing the work be covered by Workmen's Compensation Insurance. The County was required to pay its own administration costs. Under the provisions of the Federal Act, forty states up to March 15, 1933, had distributed relief, and all but about seventy million of the three hundred million had been expended. In Utah from the month of September to the end of April we have had allocated to us from the Federal fund $2,560,299.00 which, is approximately $5.00 per capita for the population of the state. The average for the United States to March 15 was approximately $1.87 per capita from the Federal fund. There are in the State of Utah, 32,000 families receiving relief through the R. F. C. Funds, in addition to approximately 6,000 single individuals. If you divide the population of the State by about 4%, which is the average number of people in a family, you will find that we are providing relief in the State of Utah to more than one family in 275 every four in the State. The average for the nation as a whole, is about one family in seven. There is only one state in the union which has to date distributed a higher per capita relief from the Federal funds than the State of Utah, and that is the State of Illinois, which up to March 15, had distributed $5.04 per capita, and which just yesterday received an additional 334 million dollars from the R. F. C. The average relief per family in the State of Utah has been less than $15.00 per month per family, whereas the national average runs approximately $17.86 per month per family. According to reports of the Federal Children's Bureau. What do these figures mean to us? We are spending relief in the State of Utah at a rate which, if it were continued for the year, would make our relief bill almost as great as the total revenues of the State of Utah, yet we have no department in the state government to control that expenditure, or to study the necessity of it nor its effects on the lives of our people. We have only a volunteer committee. Is not this problem as vital to us as the problem of any other department in the State government—banking, agriculture, insurance, or any others for which we have set up supervisory or regulative machinery? I believe we cannot separate the spiritual and the social welfare of our people in this state, and yet so far as I know there is no one who is designated by our Church and trained to advise on the causes of these high relief figures or the probable effect of the relief and the methods used in its administration on the moral character and social welfare of the people of our Church. It seems to me we have largely been content to delegate to the Relief Society sisters the study 276 of our social problems, but have been very reluctant to listen to their counsel, or to permit them to disburse the money or determine the policies under which relief is disbursed during this emergency. I deny that an untrained man can disburse relief more effectively or with better social results than a trained woman. I do not mean by that to imply that our relief should be disbursed by the women necessarily, but I do say that if the men are going to disburse our relief funds, it is high time they recognize that training is necessary for the job. I deny that a man who needs training for farming, banking, law or any other vocation can nevertheless adjust human relationships and pass upon methods of dealing with those in distress without special training for that job. The best minds we can produce and train should be today seeking an answer as to what these relief figures mean to our people. We should ask and seek answers to such questions as these: Are we harder hit by the depression than any one else? We should perhaps not be, our resources are more varied than many. Have our people less in personal reserves than the average citizens of this nation? President Hoover's commission on "Recent Social Trends in the United States" discovered by a study of four million income tax returns that the people of the United States in 1928 gave in philanthropic contributions one and eight-tenths of their total income. We in Utah I am sure give a much higher percentage of our incomes for religious and philanthropic purposes. Does this diminish our personal reserves? If it does, should we not provide that the lack of personal reserves be compensated for by some kind of group or social RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE reserve to provide necessities during these periods of emergency? Are we more quick to ask for help than others? Are we less careful in inquiring as to the needs of those to whom help is given? The Relief Society Magazine of February, 1929, quotes me as having said on October 4, 1928, the last time I talked to this Relief Society group: "Outside of the work which is being done by our L. D. S. Relief Society, our system of poor relief has become antiquated. We are giving, giving, without combining with it any effort, through trained social workers, to prevent the necessity of giving. We are pauperizing and injuring the recipients, acting unjustly to our own people and to the tax payers who are not members of our faith." As I look back over our short experience with Federal relief, I cannot help but feel that it furnishes a good deal of evidence of the truth of that statement, disagreeable though it may seem. In the administration of Federal relief funds, there are many problems which have arisen in the local communities. Shall we provide a make work program or give direct relief? I believe the people of this state are in favor of providing work for those to whom relief is given. It has taken us a long time to realize, however, that it is harder to administer, more costly and more subject to abuse than direct relief. We are not in all communities prepared to administer work relief. Shall payment for work relief be given in cash or kind? Payment in kind is cheaper and less subject to abuse. Although this may furnish some justification for payment in kind, we should realize a serious danger in payment in kind. We cannot provide all those who are in need of relief with work. We are not prepared with a work RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE program big enough to take care of them. Some therefore must inevitably receive direct relief. We should not place ourselves in a position of saying to one man, you work and get in return groceries for your family, and to another man, you get groceries for your family and do nothing. Such a policy removes the incentive to work which above all else we should attempt to build up. There is a great deal of justification, it seems to me _ for adopting the policy that if a man works he should be given the advantage of having his relief in cash, so that he may provide for his family as he sees fit. The morale of the unemployed will be better and instead of attempting to secure relief without work the effort will be to avoid direct relief and secure work relief whenever possible. In Salt Lake County we have had an interesting problem as to whether we should give orders for groceries, coal and other commodities on the retail stores, or on a community warehouse. Recently the auditors for the County Committee made an intensive study to determine the cost of grocery orders given through the Community Warehouse and those on the local stores. The result of that audit shows that the warehouse orders for a family of five for two weeks cost per order, in round numbers $5.15 and store orders for the same merchandise cost approximately $5.93. The local committee here felt that the difference in the cost of the orders was not sufficient to justify the breaking down of our regular channels of business, and consequently our warehouse has recently been discontinued in this community. After a winter of Federal loans to the States for relief, the national situation seems to he about this at 277 the present time: the three hundred million dollars which was set up for two years is practically gone, and the first year is not over; further loans to the states in many cases can not be repaid out of future allocations from the Government for roads, because the prospective grants for roads are cut off or exhausted: the questions of rent, light and medical care for the destitute which have been held in the background all these months, are now pressing for solution upon those administering relief; a growing number of the unemployed are exhausting their resources and being forced into the group requiring relief. As a result of testimony recently received by Congressional Committees on these conditions throughout the nation, we are about to enter the fourth phase in the national program of unemployed relief—direct Federal grants to the states, made without provision for repayment to the I*ederal Government. The Roosevelt program, as I gather it from the press, is made up of three parts. Iirst, there is provided a five hundred million dollar relief fund, given as direct grants to the states, part of which will be allocated to the states in proportion to the amount of local relief funds they are providing and the balance of which will be allocated to the states where most needed. These grants, not being loans, will not be handled through the R. F. C. But through a separate relief administration, and being direct grants can be given to the states on any conditions the relief administration may see fit. The second part of the program provides 250 million dollars for the so-called civilian conservation corps. Unmarried men 18 to 25 years of age are to be enlisted through the War Department for a period of 278 six months to a year. They will be paid a wage of $1.00 per day plus board, lodging and medical care, and will work in camps in the National forests under semi military discipline. The third part of the program provides one billion dollars for an enlarged public works program, for projects which are "needful and in the public interest." What is the challenge in this program to social workers? I think we must realize certain disadvantages and dangers in Federal Relief. There is no question in my mind but that the further the recipient is away from the source of his relief, the less reluctant he is to ask and receive help. That is one of the great dangers of Federal Relief. The only way I can see to get the great numbers of our people off the relief lists is through an increase in the regular channels of employment and through work provided by the Federal Government, which will gradually provide resources for these families, and enable the relief agencies to discontinue giving relief to them. The greatest challenge social work has ever had in my judgment is the challenge today to fit these families back in regular channels of work and see that they are required to be self supporting as soon as economic conditions make that possible. There is one hope which we may look forward to in connection with Federal Relief. In the days of Queen Elizabeth when great numbers of the population of England were made dependent through RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE plagues of cholera the English Government was forced to pass the so called Poor Laws of Elizabeth, under which the Government assumed responsibility for the care of and undertook to provide for those who were made destitute. The most outstanding result of those poor laws was the development of preventive medicine and later of preventive social work. The government concluded—if we must take care of these people, certainly we should do something to prevent their becoming destitute. The poor laws, by placing on the government the care of dependents, became a powerful force in hastening the development of preventive social work. So we may hope that after this fourth stage in the attitude of Federal government toward relief that the Federal government as a result of these vast expenditures for the care of the unemployed will see the necessity of preventive action for the future. We may hope that, insofar as possible the Federal government will take steps to prevent future unemployment, and its resulting disasters. We may hope that out of this great catastrophe may come government action to eliminate so far as possible sickness, mental disturbances, premature death, accidents and unemployment, the five great causes of dependency, and that to the extent that they cannot be done away with, the government will provide some means through insurance, or otherwise, to spread their evil effects over larger groups and over a longer period of time.: SECRETARIES' DEPARTMENT GENERAL SECRETARY JULIA A. F. LUND Chairman A VERY successful meeting of the Stake Secretaries was held in the reception room of the Lion House. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Some general instructions in reference to the Secretaries' work were given by the Secretary and Mrs. Ellen F. Shepherd. The meeting took the form of a Round Table Discussion, in which the entire group participated. The subjects discussed 279 were: Annual Dues, Membership in the Relief Society, Methods of Recording, Rolls, Contributions, The Annual Report, The Record Book, The Wheat Fund, and other problems of the Secretary. WORK AND BUSINESS DEPARTMENT MRS. AMY W. EVANS Chairman THE program consisted of the demonstration of a Relief Society social, as it is recommended that occasionally such form of recreation be part of the Work and Business activities. The meeting opened by the congregation singing "Put Your Shoulder to the Wheel." Prayer was offered by Nettie D. Bradford. Community singing was led by Mrs. Eastmond. A trio by Relief Society women from Provo, Utah, Mrs. Eastmond, Mrs. Merle Taylor, Mrs. Cullimore, conducted by Margaret Hull Eastmond, was then rendered. Amy W. Evans and Lotta Paul Baxter spoke briefly on the splendid exhibition of work done through the Work and Business Department. Inez K. Allen was then introduced as mistress of ceremonies. She conducted a very entertaining program of music and readings, which included a talk by President Louise Y. Robison. Under the direction of Lalene H. Hart, who had arranged and beautifully decorated tables according to the four seasons, refreshments were served. Representatives from the Big Horn Stake, the Mexican Mission, Arizona and Nevada, sat at the tables. A social hour followed. Closing prayer was offered by Jennie B. Knight. CHORISTERS AND ORGANISTS DEPARTMENT MRS IDA PETERSON BEAL Chairman VERY successful two hours were spent with the choristers and organists of the Relief Society. Words of appreciation and encouragement were given by members of the Music Committee. The work for the year was outlined. It consists of a major and a minor project. The major project develops two hymns: "Come, Come Ye Saints," and "Come Thou Glorious Day of Promise," and three other group songs: Brahms' '"Lullaby," "I Passed by Your Window," and "Holy Redeemer." These songs are arranged in three parts for women's voices. The minor project is Music Appreciation. Mrs, Charlotte Owen Sackett gave a very comprehensive talk to this group, stressing the thought that the folk song was the basis of musical form. From this basis rhythm was established, and later this form was extended into composed or written music. Helpful suggestions concerning tone, rhythm, proper breathing, correct beating of time, were given. They are fundamental to good singing. A selected group of L. D. S. Singing Mothers sang the songs outlined for the year's study. 280 RELTEM SOCIETY MAGAZING General Session Vednesday Morning PREVIEW OF COURSE OF STUDY COUNSELOR JULIA A. CHILD Member of the General Board WE are nearing the close of another Relief Society season as far as the lesson work is concerned. We feel that the past year has been a very profitable one for the members of our great organization. It has heen very gratifying to hear from the different stakes and wards how helpful the outlined Courses of Study have been. From reports it seems that not only have our Class' Leaders done better work, but that more members have participated in the discussion and in many cases an increase in attendance has resulted from the interest awakened in different subjects. In taking advantage of the opportunity for study afforded by our educational program, we are not only fulfilling one of the purposes for which we were organized, the development of the individual members, but are working in harmony with educational leaders throughout the Nation. During the last decade, the movement of adult education has gained great popularity and is being stressed in all parts of the country. At a recent meeting of the Superintendent's section of the National Education Association held in Minneapolis, the members were told that, teaching the Nation's adults to utilize their free time profitably is a pressing problem before educational agencies today, and they were urged to formulate sound adult educational programs in order to help to do this. Adult education refers to education outside of the usual formal channels for men and women engaged in ordinary pursuits of life, or simply the desire or effort of erown people to go on learning. Learning, growing and developing are continuous processes and it is gratifying to know how many of our women are taking advantage of the opportunity provided for them through the class work in the Society, and by participating in it, are becoming active students, thus becoming educated in the broadest sense of the word. We are appreciative of the help that has been extended the Relief Society by those who have had charge of the different Leadership Weeks through the Church, particularly the Brigham Young University. We feel sure that much good has resulted by permitting the discussion of the lesson work at these sessions. We hope that this may be continued and enlarged upon in the future so that wherever a Leadership Week is held throughout the Church, the lesson work of the Relief Society may be part of the program. We appreciate the work of the Class Leaders, both Stake and Ward. Much time has been devoted to research and the preparation of the outlined lesson, in order that the best possible presentation might be made. The results have been gratifying. It has been the custom for a number of years to have Departments for the educational work at the April Conference, where the work to be given the following year is discussed and demonstrated. This year we RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE are departing from that procedure. Many of our members have suggested that often during the summer the Class Leaders are changed and often Stake Boards are reorganized. When this occurs, the new members coming in have not had the benefit of the detailed discussion in lesson work. To remedy this, the plan is to give just a short preview at this time of what next year's work will he, then at the October Conference when we hope to have Class Leaders in attendance, department work will be held, and the work given in detail as far as possible. THEOLOGY I am sure you will all be delighted to know that in the Theological Department we will continue the study of the Doctrine and Covenants. Topics will be: 1. Obedience to Law, the basis of Human Rewards. 2. The Law of Consecration. 3. Attitude toward Civil Law. 4. The Word of Wisdom. 5. Duty of Preaching the Gospel. 6. The Part Played by Intelligence in Salvation. 7. The Penalty of Bondage. 8. Gifts of the Spirit. 9. Zion, the New Jerusalem. The writer of our lesson says, "Thus the lessons for the year 1933- 1934 deal primarily with the relation between earthly conduct and Divine rewards." Obedience to. Spiritual, civil and physical laws is prerequisite to the reception of God's choicest blessing. Obedience liberates; disobedience enslaves. As the Master says, "The truth shall make you free." Deity rewards his children severally with blessings (Gifts of the Spirit) adapted to their capacity and preparation. Zion, the New Jerusalem, will be established as an abode for those who love the Lord. If you will remember last year, when we started with the work of 281 the Doctrine and Covenants, we were reminded that it was a book of Modern Revelation, especially designed to meet the needs of the latter days. We were told that the aims of the lessons would be to discover the outstanding features, and the specific message which that book has for us. During the past year, we have had a most interesting course in literature with the "Delight of Great Baoks," by Erskine, as a guide. I am sure that all of us have been lead to see new beauties in the Classics studied. The title of the course of study for 1933-1934, "Life and Literature," speaks the spirit of the course. The approach to literature will be that of an appreciation of the best that man has recorded of his experiences with Life. Beginning with the first literary records, as many of the best loved books of the ages as possible will be considered under the following divisions: LITERARY LESSONS FOR 1933-4 1. Life and Literature. 2. The Gifts of the Greeks to the World. The Roman View of Life. The Bible—''A Record of the Life and Literature of the Ancient Hebrews." The Poetry of the Bible. The Prose of the Bible. The Romance of the Ages. A Great Literary Master—Shakespeare. "The Tempest." The Spiritual Values of Literature.; The textbook is "The Story of World Literature," by John Macy. The preface of the book tells us that the purpose of the book is to give an account of the books of the world that are of greatest importance to living people. Other books and selections to be used in the course will be chosen on the basis of suitability eee Middle oO POND 282 and accessibility, and will be printed with the lesson work as it goes along. The Social Service Lessons this year have been on "Conduct Control problems relating to Child Health and Protection," based on "The White House Conference of 1930." History of the cooperative action in interest of children has been studied. Behavior problems typical of mental and physical growth have been discussed with the view in mind. Of helping the child to interpret the meanings and experiences that make up the world in which he lives. The main objective has been to have parents, especially mothers, appreciate and understand the many problems. That beset childhood with the thought in mind that anything that improves the individual will elevate the general level. The lessons the coming year will continue on the same general subject with emphasis on the physical and emotional growth. Habit formation, constructive use of time out of school, play and cooperation between home and school are some of the subjects to be discussed. Topics: 1. Facts on Physical Growth 2. Factors in Early Habit Formation. 3. The Sleep of Children. 4. Foods. And Eating Habits. 5. Affective Sex and Emotional Maturity. 6. Socialized Conduct. 7. Play and Play Facilities. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 8. Constructive use of out-of School Time. 9. Home and School. TEACHER, TOPICS The subject has been The Beatitudes. The Aim, "To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes, and apply their beautiful truths to our daily lives." If each member has gleaned some beautiful thought and made it part of her life, the purpose of the lessons and visits to the home has been accomplished. The topics for the coming year I am sure are going to be equally delightful. 1. Great Objective of Life—Man is that he may have joy. 2. Importance and Purpose of Character Building. 3. Self Respect—To thine own self be true. 4, Self Effort Essential—''Cease to be Idle," etc. 5. Beware of Hypocrites — An Honest Man is the Noblest Work of God. Honest to Self, to Others. To God. 6. Patience—With self, to struggle, to meet disappointments, hope and wait patiently for results—Patience to suffer long and be kind. 7. Loyalty—To principles, to self, to home and family, to Government, to Church Institutions and to God. 8. Sympathy and Tolerance — Avoid destructive criticism. 9, Fear and Anger—How to avoid —Results. HOME AND CHURCH ETHICS MRS. EMMA A. EMPEY Member of the General Board O me there is nothing more beautiful and inspiring than to participate in a religious service where the members of the congregation are devoutly intent upon worship. I have often been distressed by the apparent lack of respect shown by many people for sacred things, and sacred places. While not making a plea for studied formality of any kind, and while believing in simplicity, I still feel that our Churches and Chapels which have been dedicated to the Lord for worship RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE should be regarded more sacredly. I maintain that a Church is a place for worship and meditation, for prayer and consecration, and not a place for visiting or for discussing personal affairs. I have occasionally been disturbed during Church service by people who seemed to have no thought of worship and no interest in the services, and I have wondered what benefit they received by attending. Is it possible that people are not suffciently interested, or that they are careless and thoughtless? Or is it possible that the general atmosphere of the churches does not inspire proper reverence and respect How unnecessary it is to discuss the weather or exchange confidences during a religious service, or to have children running about the chapels and playing here and there. Among the things which are conducive to the spirit of worship are an immaculately clean and well appointed chapel, a color scheme which is restful and harmonious throughout, comfortable seats free from dust and litter, a sacrament service that is scrupulously clean and the linen immaculate. It is also desirable that adequate provision be made for the washing of the hands as a last performance before breaking the bread. Appropriate music well performed or rendered during the sacrament service adds to the sacredness of the occasion. In one church that I know of beautiful organ music is played during the assembly of the congregation, which alone should inspire quiet and reverence. None but sacred music should be permitted during a sacred service and special effort should be made in choosing suitable music for all occasions. I have many times been inspired by a beautiful sermon, a 283 humble testimony, and even the blessing of a baby, only to have the spirit routed by a burst of inappropriate music—good and acceptable as it might have been at another time and in another place. Modern buildings are supposed to be sufficiently ventilated even though doors and windows are tightly closed. However, proper ventilation of our chapels is, I believe, a very important factor in the behavior of a congregation, for with a lack of good ventilation, an over-crowded condition and ° an over-supply of heat, people are apt to become uneasy and inattentive, so should we not open some windows and be refreshed? Important as are these pleasant physical surroundings which I have mentioned, even more important is the attitude and demeanor of those who make up the congregation. I firmly believe that Relief Society women who are the mothers of families could, if they would, greatly assist in improving our church decorum and in cultivating a spirit of reverence for churches and church surroundings. Our children should be taught that not only is the Chapel itself sacred, but the very ground upon which it stands, and that the steps approaching the chapel shall not be used as a playground while the congregation assembles and disperses. Too much cannot be said in commendation of the accomplishments of our Relief Society women and so I believe that along these lines we can and shall improve. For the privilege that is mine this day of meeting with you in another confreence, I am truly grateful, and I pray our Heavenly Father to bless us all according to our greatest needs, and I do it in the name of Jesus, Amen. 284 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THE Spirit oF HELPFULNESS MRS. JENNIE B. KNIGHT Member of the General Board THIS is a wonderful time in which to live, so much to do, so much to remedy, so many opportunities to answer and _ challenge, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these, ye have done it unto me." As we scan the pages of sacred and secular history we realize that it has taken a long and arduous struggle for humanity to come so far, and that periods of depression have come to communities and nations as they come to individuals. It is gratifying to women to learn that through their helpfulness humanity has marched steadily on, and in spite of darkest clouds, it has been given to them to see the silver lining. It is perhaps due to their inherent religious instinct that they have had faith to carry on, this fact alone should fill us with a determination to carry forward the torch of helpfulness handed to us by the torch bearers of the past. The sacred scriptures are replete with testimonies of God's goodness in removing obstacles for those who trust in Him. For our purpose let us consider the story of Ruth, and learn from it the true spirit of helpfulness. Read it and find lessons of faith, self-sacrifice and devotion, industry and appreciation. These principles intelligently adapted in our lives will make us worthy of our calling. We have something more to do than salve things over. We know how easy it is to be unselfish and self-sacrificing for our own, but today, so widespread is unemployment and human misery, that we must extend our sympathies, and summon all our courage to help lift the burden of fear under which _ parents now bring up their children, ease the despair of the aged, comfort the sick and sorrowing. In this crisis we must be patient, that others may be patient, not only with those who administer relief from whatever source, but also with the recipients. Let us be loyal in upholding Latter-day Saint ideals of family life. Let us spare all leaders the caustic tongue of criticism. We must not be discouraged, as we sow so Shall we reap. So may we be God's instrument that those we serve may say of us to Him: "When fell, Thy dreadful shadow and it seemed, That all was blackness, yet the silver gleamed. Beyond the clouds, and in the vanished years, I know these came to me at Thy commanding, Kindness, and love and understanding." Tur Lesson OF ADVERSITY MRS. CORA L. BENNION Member of the General Board THE moral and spiritual values that may be derived from adversity have been recognized by philosophical and religious writers of all historic peoples. The Old Testament records the fact that adversity was Jehovah's common method of bringing the Children of Israel to repentance. Adversity was also used as a test of faith and courage, as RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE indicated in the Proverb: "If thou faint in the day of adversity thy strength is small." This thought is elaborated in the Book of Job. The use of adversity as a discipline is set forth in the "prophecy of Moses," recorded in Deut., Chapter 28, and also in many other passages of the Old Testament. Socrates, the Ancient Greek philosopher and teacher, says, '""Remember there is nothing stable in human affairs; therefore avoid undue elation in prosperity, or undue depression in adversity." And Seneca, the Roman philosopher, is more emphatic in his recognition of the valules of adversity. He says, "We become wiser by adversity; prosperity destroys our appreciation of the right." He also says, "Gold is tried by fire, brave men by affliction." Similar thoughts are experssed by many other leading writers and thinkers. Think about life's experiences will readily see that spiritual and moral growth comes through meeting and overcoming difficulties. What would happen, then, if we had no difficulties to overcome? Difficulties call -out great qualities and make greatness possible. If there were no difficulties there would be very little success. If we would make the best of life, we must not seek the path of least resistance, but rather welcome the difficulties in our way. We should not be frightened by them nor discouraged because of them. They are our opportunities for winning success. Any one who stops to consider the matter will find that nearly all progress, all reform, all advancement in the affairs of the world, has come to the people who have had difficulties to overcome. What would Washington have been had there been no oppression of the colonies, or interference with their rights? Would we have had our federal constitution had there been no serious troubles in the thirteen states following the Revolutionary War? Would Lincoln have become the great American had there been no problems of slavery to overcome? The great and good of all ages have become such through overcoming adversity. This does not mean that we should seek adversity or help to create it, but quite to the contrary of this. Strength of character comes in warding it off, or overcoming it when it is upon us. It is said of Jesus, "Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered." At the present time the world is passing through difficult experiences. How can we, as Relief Society workers, help to make these experiences prove a blessing? Will our faith in God grow stronger? Will we develop spirituality and learn more of the real values of life? Will we love our neighbor as ourselves? These are some of the lessons adversity should teach us. If we could learn that the gospel is a plan of life, of daily living, which should bring us joy each day by applying its principles in our lives, then we would banish much fear and doubt from our hearts. Our faith in God would take care of all future events, and we would be living harmonious, well balanced, happy lives.
RELIGION IN THE HOME MRS. ELISE B. ALDER Member of the General Board
It is a joy and a satisfaction to see so many here this morning. No doubt many of you have made sacrifice to come, with a desire to get 286 comfort and new inspiration to "carry on" in your homes, wards and stakes. The National Association of Real Estate Boards recently sought the best definition for home. The winning entry is quoted by courtesy of the Association: "Home is a domestic sanctuary, wrought out of desire, built into memory, where kindred bonds unite leisure, joys and sorrows." The home is one's fixed place of abode, and is too human to go smoothly all the time. Living together is not so simple a matter as some believe. Nowhere are people so frank and intimate as in their own home. Here the clash of differences in viewpoint and desires is bound to occur. They tell us such disturbances are growing pains of character making, but there is only one test for a home—Does it send out its members well trained to play the game of life? If not, no matter how orderly or comfortable it may be, it is a mere shell of a home. Home is the first and most important school in life, and religion should be the foundation of its education. Everything we want our Church to be, we must begin to teach in the home, our first aim being manhood and womanhood. But the greatest and most important lesson of all is to make the children know and feel the reign of God, and their nearness to Him. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Let us check up on ourselves and see if in our homes we have the Gospel in all its fullness. It is the greatest thing in all the world. There is nothing to compare with it. It is the solver of all problems, and the solace of all ills. So often, when around my work at home, perhaps feeling a little discouraged, I can get renewed courage by repeating the words of President Charles W. Penrose, who spent 75 of his 93 years in studying, living, preaching and enjoying this Gospel of ours. He said: "The Church of Jesus Christ is a religion that satisfies every human need. It is the key to the boundless treasures of wisdom and knowledge, and he who becomes its possessor and expresses it in fullness is one with the Father and the Son in the glory of perfection. It cultivates all our powers and attributes which are everyone's right when put to their legitimate use, and shows us that intelligence is essential to salvation, and is the very glory of God. Old things pass away—all things become new. It teaches us how to live, and thus makes us ready to die." May we so live that when the sun of life has set, and our physical bodies have been laid away to rest, that our light will still shine upon the lives of those whom we have served and tried so hard to guide and influence, is my prayer. Amen.
THE GOSPEL OF CHEERFULNESS ROSANNAH C. IRVINE Member of the General Board
"It was only a glad 'Good morning,' as she passed along the way; But it spread the morning's glory over the live-long day." A smiling greeting often changes the aspect of the entire day for some lonely soul. Cheerfulness is an inward radiance. A cheery disposition is a gift, but if one hasn't it naturally, it can be acquired. Lightheartedness does not mean lightmindedness. Quite the contrary. Cheerfulness requires courage, gallantry, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 287 faith. Nature is cheerful—laughing children, sunshine, singing birds, twinkling stars, rippling water, beautiful flowers gorgeous sunsets, peaceful mountains. Why should we be contrary? We have so much to be thankful for. I have a friend who keeps a very temperamental family in a state of harmony by unfailing cheerfulness. A laugh, a happy phrase, a gentle word changes dissension into peace, hysteria to joy. A few years ago her husband died. Once when I went to see her after his death I caught her unawares. I was startled by the agony in her eyes. In a moment she had controlled her emotions. To present a smiling front to the world is her idea of good breeding. She smiled bravely as she said, "I have much to be thankful for. Jim lived seven months after he was taken sick. We had many happy hours in that time. He didn't want to die in the winter. He prayed to live till spring. His prayer was answered." It is wonderful to be able to recognize blessings in adversity, to see the hand of God in storm, as well as in sunshine. We would be happier if we would accept the philosophy of the old lady who says she just loves weather, and that she is thankful for any kind.
MRS. ALICE D. MOYLE President Eastern States Mission Relief Society
MRS. ALICE D. MOYLE reported the details of the beautiful L. D. S. Church which has been erected in Washington, D. C. It was Sister Moyle's privilege to unveil the statue of the Angel Moroni, which surmounts the spire of this building. Mrs. Moyle has represented the Relief Society organization in the meetings of the Board of Directors and other gatherings of the National Council of Women. She gave some very interesting information of the Century of Progress—the World's Fair, to be held in Chicago this summer, and the part the National Council of Women will play in this. She urged the women of the Relief Society to continue their fine efforts in the signature campaign.
One of the most beautiful stories in literature is Browning's Pippa Passes. Pippa, a little factory girl, has only one holiday each year. Into that one day, made lovely by her own sweet spirit, she crowds enough happiness to sustain her throughout the year. At dawn she begins to enjoy her freedom. She must not waste a moment of her precious day. As she goes through the village streets she sings, and the people of Asolo who hear her song are made happier and better for her having passed by. This is her song:
"The year's at the spring And the day's at the morn; Morning's at seven; The hillside's dew pearled; The lark's on the wing; The snail's on the thorn; God's in his heaven— All's right with the world."
A life-time is just as a day. Every moment is precious. God has a big investment in His children. We are part of a great, wonderful plan. We must do our part well. In these depressing times a vital part is to carry our burdens blithely, and help our neighbor to carry on; to trust our Father, and remember that no matter how dreary and dark the way,—
"God's in his heaven — all's right with the world."
288 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
General Session Wednesday Afternoon
THE VALUE OF LAW OBSERVANCE PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON
A few weeks ago I was given a copy of a most interesting monograph entitled, "The Value of Law Observance." I had not read far in the pamphlet before I was impressed with the fact that humanity desires those things that are not beneficial, and that discipline is required from our earliest infancy. Children, if unrestrained, would eat sweets in preference to wholesome vegetables or milk. Wise mothers put sweets beyond their reach. Very few children would attend school regularly without the encouragement of older people. To these immature minds, a picnic or picture show would be more desirable. Discipline must begin early, but, parents, do not make this more difficult by planning picnics and picture shows on school days. Nor is the desire to live selfishly for the pleasure of the moment confined to children. Many people who have grown to the stature of the adult, are still immature in meeting the exigencies of life. For this reason laws and restrictions are made to govern people. Often prohibitive laws are necessary. Our city laws say we must drive on right side of street; that we must observe traffic lights; that we must not drive above a certain speed. Each of these regulations curtail our personal liberty, but even an immature mind should see the value of observing such law. John Stuart Mills says: "Liberty of every individual extends to the point where it infringes upon the right of some other individual." Only the hermit has the right to live as he chooses, and he doesn't live. It is only as we adjust to others, sacrificing our individual wishes to the good of all, that we truly live, so the value of law observance is imperative in every act of life. To live harmoniously in a group involves discipline where the individual merges his own preferment into the group, which in turn confers upon him benefits and privileges individually impossible. There are really two types of laws—the English Common Law, which the colonists adopted, and the Statute Law. The Common Law of the English people followed by many years the customs or usage of the people before it became a legal form. That is, the people lived the law before it took the form of decisions by courts. The Statute Law is quite the opposite. Frequently a law is written upon the statute book of a State or Nation before it has become the custom of all the people who are asked to observe it. Such a law is our Public Health observance. I can remember when there was no quarantine law. When one of our playmates died of diphtheria, all the children went to the public funeral, with the little casket open that we might say goodbye to her. Years later, a young mother living in Salt Lake knew that her child had been exposed to diphtheria, but there was a reunion in her home town. She just had to go, and as there was no one to care for the sick baby, she took it along. The price paid for her personal liberty was six new little graves in the cemetery, and six RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE pairs of empty arms. Here was the need of a statute law, because one person infringed upon the rights of many. Communities are safer because people observe the quarantine law. Another law which has been fought by many is the pure food law. It is unbelievable that anyone should object to this, Benzoate of Soda in food, Tubercular meat, and so forth; but when the bill was before Congress, a testifying witness for a manufacturer of preserved foods said, "I am simply pointing out that the principle of this bill is wrong. It is not fair." Gambling and Prostitution measures met with the same objections. Do you remember when we had a "red light" district in Salt Lake, where licensed prostitution was carried on, and do you remember the bitter opposition raised against abolishing this evil? People said then, as they are saying about beer now, "We need the revenue." Are there no higher standards than money? Our Government is spending millions of dollars to prevent diseases of the body. Through the splendid efforts of our Health Department, communicable diseases are almost wiped out. Typhoid, small pox, diphtheria, yellow fever, but is there a parent who would choose impaired mentality to body ailment? Read the article in our April issue of the Relief Society Magazine, written by Dr. Middleton, where he so graphically tells of the injury to both body and mind through drink. Every mother's heart must chill with terror when she reads about the fine young medical student. Are your son and daughter safe? Can you imagine greater anguish than to have your daughter married to a man who takes poison into his system that deprives him of his God-given power to think? Who abuses instead of protects her? Can money pay the price? And what of this revenue we hear so much about? I quote from the monograph again: "Under the laws existing in the United States before Prohibition, a man had a right to become a drunkard and remain one, and the State had therefore its duty of taking care of him." Aside from the degradation and suffering of women and children, consider the cost to all of us of caring for drunkards. "It is stated by students of criminology that alcoholism is responsible for 80% of all anti-social propensities. 20 to 35% of inmates in State poor houses indicate alcoholic history: Alcohol is responsible for at least 25% of insane, for 40% of neglected and abandoned children in the United States, for 50% of convicts in prisons, for 80% of inmates of jails and workhouses, for a large number of suicides and accidents, and for almost all venereal diseases." These figures are for 1909-1910. This expense must be cared for by the State. A Lord Chief Justice of England states, "If thoroughly examined, 9/10 of the crimes of England and Wales could be traced to drink." When we consider the millions of dollars the Government is spending now to feed the unemployed citizens, fine people who cannot pay taxes on homes or farms, and then expect a revenue of $150,000,000 for just the tax on beer, can anyone imagine the misery and suffering which must follow? The starved children whose beaten and bruised bodies, whose poor little twisted minds will be the terrific price we pay to keep our Junior colleges open. If education and employment can be provided only by such expenditure 290 of human lives, can civilization continue? Read an article in the Readers' Digest for March, 1933, entitled: "Why Women Rose Against the Saloon." It is written by Mary Austin, who remembers the saloon. She says: "It was a place from which might issue at any moment people you knew, other girls' fathers, forcible ejections of sodden and bleary men who proceeded to be violently sick on the sidewalk. Sooner or later you might meet the mother of one of your schoolmates, shamefacedly steering her abusive lord to their home." Later in the article Mary Austin tells of a pretty little mother who used to bring her three children to the Austin home to be left until their father recovered from one of his spells, and how she came one night with a great bloody bruise on her face. Is there money enough in this world to pay for this to come to your daughter? Nor are bruised and broken bodies the worst that happens in drunkards' homes. A friend of mine, whom many of you know, lived for a time in an Eastern College town, where her husband attended college. There were seven habitual drunkards living within a block or two of my friend's home. I wish you might hear her tell the heart-breaking stories of those women. Of men reeling home in the evening to wives and children, loathsome and beastly, drunk and filthy, who had no control over the contents of their stomachs or other body functions. Can you think of the horror where drink and lust are close instincts? This tragedy may never come to any of you, but can women remain unmoved while women and children in our land are suffering this abuse and degradation? As long as men and women have RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE not the stamina to refrain from injuring themselves and others, should not their guardian, the Government, do as wise parents, and put this harm beyond their reach? We hear people say there is more drinking now than before Prohibition. Probably they haven't lived as long as I for I have vivid memories of drunken men reeling out of saloons right on Main Street here. Women could scarcely walk on First or Second South, between West Temple and State Streets, without encountering dozens of human wrecks, helpless and beastly. I am on the down town streets now more than I was fifteen years ago, and I have not seen an intoxicated man lying on the sidewalk for years and years—have you? An editorial from the Pittsburgh Post of March 4, 1890, states that there were reported to be 4,000 speak-easies in Philadelphia. Of course, prohibition of liquor does not entirely prohibit drinking, any more than the law against theft or prostitution or gambling entirely removes these evils. But can anyone question the statement that law observance pays in increased individual production, greater thrift, longer life and greater enjoyment of living? One man said: "The reason I do not drink is because without liquor I have a clearer head and a stronger body, a lighter heart and a heavier purse." A news item from the Pittsburgh Leader of March, 1907, states: "From July 1, 1876, to July 1, 1905 (29 years) 30,763 illicit distilleries were seized in the United States. The greatest number captured any one year was in 1898, the number being 2,391. Nearly half the seizures that year were in Georgia. From July 1, 1876, to July 1, 1905, (29 years) 54 revenue raiders were RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE killed and 94 wounded; total casualties, 148. This does not include informers or deputy marshals who were killed making arrests. Casualties were much more frequent when the service was young. From July 1, 1876, to July 1, 1882, (six years) 35 raiders were killed and 61 wounded; total, 96 casualties. During this period 5,230 stills were raided, making the casualties 1 to every 54 stills seized. Since 1876 there has been one or more casualties every year excepting 1894, 1900 and 1903. The 291 Government keeps no record of moonshiners killed." In the stress and anxiety our Nation, as well as the whole world is experiencing, I feel as the author of the Monograph: "World leadership is likely to come to that Nation whose individuals are characterized by the greatest sobriety and efficiency." In the language of the great latter-day Prophet: "He that keepeth the law is saved by that law." This is just as true in political and civic application as in a religious one.
FROM THE SEWING CIRCLE TO THE CABINET MRS. INEZ K. ALLEN Member of the General Board
"I turn the key for women," said the Prophet Joseph Smith, less than one hundred years ago, at the organization of the National Woman's Relief Society. At that time group activity of women was confined almost entirely to the sewing circle. Under the law her earnings and all she possessed, belonged to her husband. Even her children might be disposed of by him without her consent. She was shut out from all colleges, and there was not a single free public high school for girls. Only poorly paid occupations were open to her. Her husband might even beat her. Now we have a woman in the President's Cabinet. Frances Perkins is United States Secretary of Labor. This is said to be the most human department in the Federal Government. It is not surprising that woman should rise through this channel. The Prophet said, on the day when the key was turned for women: "If you follow the tendencies which God has given you, how great and glorious will be your achievements." God-given tendencies of woman are human tendencies—love, sympathetic understanding, kindness. Many great women have labored patiently and long to prepare the way for this recognition. Miss Perkins ascends to the high position in the President's official family through her sincere interest in, and desire to do a kindness unto the least of God's children. She has never worked in a mine or steel mill, nor had a union card, nor acted as a labor lobbyist, but she has lived with, and understands working people. She knows the laws, she helped to write them. She is a Doctor of Law, having studied in the United States and abroad. She has never stood on a wet cold floor, breathing hot moist air while turning a wringer in a laundry. But she felt the pain of others doing it, and she helped to draft a code that rescued all laundry workers from such misery in the State of New York. She has never been hungry or jobless, on the strike or picket line. But she does know the infinitude of causes of friction between employer and employee, and that they can never be remedied merely by statute. "You can regulate hours and wages," she says, "but there is no hard and fast technique for labor disputes. Arbitration is not a science, it is an art." At the conflagration of the Triangle Shirt Waist Factory, Miss Perkins stood with hundreds of others and watched helplessly the fire in which 146 girls were burned, smothered or crushed to death because of lack of fire prevention. She immediately took the lead in the enactment of 32 bills for the protection of women workers. When Miss Perkins views the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE $4.95 silk dress in the shop window, she sees back of it many women who earn their bitter bread in tears and silence, while they stitch, stitch, stitch in a sweat shop at from 3c to 5c an hour. She sees in the wake of these atrocities an inevitable train of child dependency, illness and old age, for which, on depressed wages, no provision can be made. Yes, woman has risen from the sewing circle to the cabinet. May she succeed in helping all to rise above misery. May we each one carry on with the same courage and faith, may we continue to follow our God-given tendencies.
ADJUSTMENT—THE CALL OF THE HOUR COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN
In this rapidly changing world we are being called upon constantly to meet new situations and to face new problems. And the question naturally arises: How are we meeting these new situations and facing these new problems? How are we adjusting to these changes? In the last two decades we have experienced one of the most critical periods in the world's history. There have been a number of major calamities with all the evil results therefrom. In addition we are living in a period of transition and change. People have thus been called upon to face startling and strange conditions. First came the world war with its reckless waste of human lives and property and with all the other evils which followed in its wake; then the financial crash and economic stagnation and finally world-wide unemployment. I doubt if there is a family in the civilized world which has not been affected by one or more of these calamities. There are many other changes which are going on quietly and subtly. President Hoover's commission on social trends says that we are older than we have ever been before; i. e., the world is made up of older people, that our birth rate is declining. Therefore as a people the elders are increasing faster than the children and as a result there will be an increase in dependent old people unless there is more opportunity for work for older people or unless they can accumulate more during their working years. We are healthier than we used to be. More of us live to middle life. However, we have no success in controlling diseases peculiar to middle and old age, with the exception of Tuberculosis, or in postponing break-downs. The physical care of children by communities is much better than ever before. It is appalling, however, that nearly 5% of American babies at birth have prospects of becoming so mentally diseased in adult life as to require submission to some institution. Divorces are increasing, so also are broken homes. The ability to face reality squarely and to make satisfactory adjustment is a great asset. It is a sign of good mental health. In fact the modern conception of mental health is adjustment of one's self to inner and outer strains in a manner satisfactory both to the individual himself and to his associates. People who make a habit of facing the facts of life as they really are (instead of as they would like to have them) seldom require the services of a nerve specialist or have a nervous breakdown. This habit should be formed in childhood. It is extremely difficult for an adult to acquire it if all his life he has exercised instead the habit of fleeing from reality. Fortunate is the man who can and will recognize and walk up to his difficulties, problems and perplexities, who will drag them out in the open sunlight, stare them in the face and make effort to overcome them, and 293 who, failing in overcoming them or partially overcoming them can adjust to the final result. In my opinion the most powerful and sustaining force in helping us to meet the realities of life is religion, and so I make a plea for the religious life. Religious faith is a cure for worry, anxiety and fear, and a great asset to mental health. It helps us to face danger and peril, disappointment and loss, sorrow and death. It is a source of comfort when everything else seems to fail us. Religious faith helps us to put our trust in the Lord, to rest our case with Him and to trust in Him for the final outcome. The individual who can do this is calm, unshakable, and full of equanimity. Religious faith, like good mental habits, to be most effective must be acquired early in life and exercised throughout life. It is its own great reward.
THE NEED OF SPIRITUALITY MRS. ETHEL R. SMITH Member of the General Board
There is no influence in the world that will fortify and sustain mankind in the battle with the stern and bitter vicissitudes of life like the spirit of the Master. But faith cannot be bought or quickly obtained in the hour of need. It is acquired slowly through patient devotion, right living, and service to others. "Call upon me while I am near," says the Lord. If we build up spiritual reserves we will need to know there is a God in the Heavens who over-rules all things. We need to recognize his power and intelligence in all the works of nature, remembering that the greatest and truest development of character and the most joyous happiness have come through this knowledge. We need the power to appreciate the blessings that are ours, realizing that fine tapestries, beautiful paintings and automobiles, do not constitute true wealth; but that sweet spirit of peace and contentment that can be found in the humble cottage and which comes not from "bitter envying and strife," but from Him who maketh peace. One of the greatest needs of the world to bring to pass a higher type of spirituality is for men to love their neighbors as themselves. This is an eternal law. Selfishness is the basis of most of our troubles of today. In unselfish consecration to humanity many brave lives have been spent and almost invariably the cloak of spirituality has been their inspiration. Such have come from all the 294 walks of life. Great leaders have manifested their faith in the Almighty and relied upon His sustaining arm. Calvin Coolidge and Herbert Hoover prayed for Divine guidance. On his way to the inaugural services Franklin D. Roosevelt stopped at his church to pray, and as you followed his address were you not lifted up with renewed hope when you heard these words: "In this dedication of a nation, we humbly ask the blessings of God. May He protect each and every one of us. May He guide me in the days to come." In the spirit of prayer is comfort, inspiration, and safety. When hardships, sorrows, and even death come, if one is guided by a faith in God he has a mighty bulwark upon which to lean in his hour of need. As with the individual so with the nation. Roger Babson has said: "More religion rather than more legislation is the need of the hour." People should understand that before prosperity can return there must RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE be a renewed interest in the spiritual life of both individuals and the nation. Nations should realize that the world has always possessed raw materials and labor; but has been prosperous only when the people have been actuated by a religious faith to use those sources for advancement and service. This is the law of life. The story of the hardships of the founders of our faith has always appealed to me and I have marvelled at the fortitude and courage that could bring forth their song "All is well." I have found the answer in the words of the martyr Parley P. Pratt, "Yet we were happy for the love of God was in our hearts." And so may we love Him, remembering the words inscribed on the walls of Stanford University, "There is no narrowing so deadly as the narrowing of man's spiritual horizon." Trust in Him who said, "Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest."
MRS LUACINE S. CLARK
I did not realize just what this Relief Society work meant to me until I was away from it. For the past three years I have lived in another country, and in an entirely different life from the one I was used to. I soon began to inquire into their charity work, and I was amazed to see the great things they were doing in Mexico. I shall be happy today to tell you a little about our neighbors on the South of us, a people we have learned to love as our own. A tremendous amount of work is being done by public, private, and semi-private charities; enormous sums are spent in this work. I saw the women of Mexico work. I know their high ideals, the tenderness of their hearts, and the burning desire they have to work for those who are less fortunate than themselves. Mexican women are naturally retiring; they shrink from publicity of any kind, and shine best in their homes where they are devoted wives and mothers. So when a group of mothers, seeing the great need for some organized social welfare work for needy children, began to study this question, a great transformation took place, and woman came into her own in Mexico. These mothers formed what is known as the National Association of Protection to Infancy, and began the first institution controlled by women in Mexico. It is said, that before this time, no connected charity work was known. A Catholic Priest in 1740 established what is known as the Cradle House in Mexico, but this, due to changing conditions, disappeared and needy children were forced to go to Asylums not connected with social work. Naturally the unfortunate little ones suffered as a consequence. So soon as the women sponsored this work, much progress was made. Under their supervision, love and motherly instincts, they established Home schools, Maternity Homes, and posts for the distribution of milk called the Drop of Milk. Thus they raised the standards of living for unfortunate and expectant mothers, gave them care before, and at birth, and taught them hygienic principles so they could carry this knowledge into their homes. Compulsory vaccination was done free of charge so people could be safe from Small Pox. Perhaps one of the most far reaching pieces of welfare work done in Mexico City is the Home School, and as the name indicates it is a home where the Mother's care is substituted by trained persons perhaps more familiar with hygienic needs of the child, and where it received an education as well. These schools are modern houses, built in the poorest sections to help the working mother, who of necessity has to leave her children to earn the livelihood. For five centavos a day she can take her child to these houses if he is not younger than two, or older than six years. Here he receives a triple education, physical, intellectual and social. He wears a uniform, is bathed, examined by some of the best physicians in Mexico City; he is fed milk, and suitable food planned according to the schedule made by dietitians; trained Kindergarten Teachers are employed to direct his play; he is put to bed one RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hour each day; he is taught to wash his hands, his teeth, to care for his hair, to eat correctly, and to have proper respect for his companions and parents. These groups of children are carefully studied by doctors who classify them into groups according to their physical development and their intelligence. Each Home School is provided with a trained nurse, authorized by the Government, whose duty it is to visit the homes of all children enrolled, so the nurse can become better acquainted with the social and economic conditions of the places in which the children live. She must treat the children according to the doctor's directions, must record their clinic history, must vaccinate them, and see that all instruments are properly disinfected. It is very evident what a blessing these homes are in the communities. In six months, 5,426 children have been taught to be clean and properly fed. Up-to-date there are ten of these houses in operation. No one can measure the amount of good they will do for the future generations of Mexico. All these homes are controlled by the Government. The money for their support is raised by selling a special stamp called the Infancia. This stamp bears a picture of a mother and child, and must be put on all letters mailed and delivered in Mexico. Mrs. Ortiz Rubio was President of these Home School organizations, and took a vital interest in this welfare work. I had the pleasure of visiting many institutions with her. Besides these Home Schools, there are also Maternity Homes which are thoroughly equipped. Patients can go to these free of charge if they are unable to pay. Those who can afford it, pay the small sum of five Pesos only, for confinement. In six RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 297
LITTLE MEXICAN CHILDREN ENJOYING A CUP OF REFRESHING COOL MILK
KINDERGARTEN CLASS
298 months 406 births were recorded in one home. If after birth the mother cannot nurse her child, free milk is provided for her, a mixed artificial food chemically prepared by experts. This milk is put in sterilized bottles which are carefully packed in ice cases, with full instructions as to the quantity necessary for a feeding. In six months 55,441 orders were sent out, and 24,169 bottles were given away. This Drop of Milk movement is also found throughout other states in Mexico. The women of Mexico consider this but the beginning of their work. They hope to establish vacational colonies where sickly children may have a chance to regain their health. They also plan to have a law enacted covering the moral life of children, and providing for their full protection. When this is accomplished they feel they will have laid the foundation of a greater country and a stronger and more united Mexico. Besides the great welfare work done by the Mexican women, other societies also are doing extensive charity work. The Junior League, an organization of young women, has established a splendid library, the proceeds of which are used to help tiny babies in another Cradle Home not controlled by the Government. The League has furnished a large and modern bathroom for the babies, and each Christmas they give eighty-five sweaters to keep them warm. The girls pledge to give fifty Pesos each a year for charity work. To raise their quota some make candy, others cakes, the musical members give a concert, others sell flower holders, but no matter how, they all succeed in raising the promised amount. They have also furnished a very comfortable room in the American Hospital for the use of patients who are unable to pay. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The Rotarians are sponsoring an Agricultural School for orphans and homeless boys who might otherwise spend their time on the streets. The school accommodates forty boys who learn to read and write; each has a garden where he can raise vegetables or flowers; they have a good swimming pool and are taught to keep themselves clean. The wives of the Rotarians make shirts and underwear for the boys who always look clean and neat. When a boy reaches the age of fourteen, a home is found for him where he can earn money for his support, by doing chores, and he is trained to be a useful, honest citizen. There is also a well organized home for fallen women, who are being treated, educated and taught some trade. Doctors and dentists visit the home daily. An up-to-date kitchen, with steam cookers, furnishes good wholesome food for the inmates. Some of the women do beautiful fancy work, others are taught to knit stockings and sweaters by machinery. These are sold to help maintain the institution. The General Hospital, which does a great deal of charity work, is also well equipped. Dr. Charles Mayo, who visited the hospitals, told me he was amazed to find such modern equipment; X-ray and all the latest inventions can be found there. There are many Government institutions, besides those I have mentioned, in which thousands of orphan children are provided for. The buildings are modern in their equipment, and the children are cared for by the latest scientific methods. There are also purely privately-endowed institutions' which, however, operate under Government supervision. Mexico is fortunate in her physicians. Besides their training in medical RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE schools in Mexico (which take high rank) many Mexican physicians go abroad for training, attending the best medical schools in America and Europe. Culturally the physicians stand very high, particularly in music. For example, Dr. Silva, who had charge of the Public Health Department at the time I made my visits, is an accomplished pianist and a talented composer. Another, Dr. Ortiz Tirada, ranks as one of the finest tenors in the country. Many others equally talented might be mentioned. The obstacles which Mexico has ' to overcome in order to extend this welfare work may be properly. Called stupendous. These are principally incident to communication. Mexico is a country of great mountains, deep canyons, large rivers, impenetrable forests. The villages, frequently small, are found in the canyon bottoms, on the hillsides, upon the Mesas, in the depths of the forest. To reach them, and to unite them together in working units is a task which would daunt women of less courage than those of Mexico. But there are certain elements of the situation that are helpful. While of 299 necessity the living conditions in remote localities are more or less primitive, yet the native Mexican is gentle, kind, hospitable, industrious, intelligent, eager to learn, and he is always an apt scholar. Thus the women of Mexico who are leading out in this welfare work will find ready and willing hands among the people to assist them in their labors. The native Mexicans have an inborn refinement, an artistic sense, they love the beautiful, and are naturally religious. No matter where you meet them they are courteous, and respond quickly. So soon as one of them feels you are his friend, all he possesses is at your service. The women do beautiful fancy work. The men are equally deft with tools and make beautiful pottery, leather work, and handicraft. In conclusion, I venture to express the hope that it may be found possible soon to organize among our native church members in Mexico, who are collected in several prosperous branches, Relief Society organizations, for they could be of great service in connection with the general program of welfare work in Mexico. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT "THIS is a very marvelous and wonderful congregation. I am sure that there are no other people of any religious denomination no larger than ours, that could have such a showing as I see before me here today. I rejoice in the wonderful accomplishments of our Relief Society throughout the Church, at home and abroad. Those of us who, in the providence of the Lord, have never had the advice and counsel and example of fathers to lead us in the battle of life, and are indebted for all of the success that we have made in life to the teachings and examples of our noble mothers, take, I believe, a greater interest in the Relief Society work, and in the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement work in our Church, than those who have had the benefit of the advice and counsel of both father and mother. I believe that the great majority of us who have been reared by our mothers are ready and willing at all times to give them credit for what we may have accomplished in the battle of life. There seems to be a power 300 which the mother possesses in shaping the life of the child that is far superior, in my judgment, to the power of the father, and this almost without exception. I have talked with a great many highly educated men and women who have usually been willing to credit the mothers for their success in life more than the fathers. As the daily vocations in life take fathers away from home, they do not have 'opportunity to get as close to the hearts of their children as do the mothers. After all it is by love, real genuine love of our fellows, that we accomplish the most and a mother's love seems to be the most perfect and the most sincere, the strongest of any love we know anything about, and I for one rejoice in it, because of its wonderful example to me. T call to mind having an argument with a man who had been an apostate, in fact was an apostate at the time, and he remarked that no person with intelligence would be a "Mormon." I answered that I had not yet received a testimony of the divinity of the work in which we, as Latter-day Saints, are engaged, but, I said, 'I am going to tell you something that will surprise you, my friend. I have never yet borne mv testimony as to the divinity of this work, but second only to the love and respect of the teachings that have been inspired in me by my sainted mother, the one thing above all others that has made me a Latter-day Saint, is the life of the apostate 'Mormon.' I have discovered that when men living clean, sweet, pure lives in the Church have become indifferent, have broken the commandments of the Lord, have failed to live the laws of health as laid down through the revelations of God to His people, they have drifted away from the truth, and become RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE vicious, and many of them have become liars. I am willing to acknowledge that if I saw a man or a woman doing those things which are ennobling, those things that make them ~ better in every way, if they lost their faith I would be frightened, but I can say I have never yet been frightened on that account. I have found the exact opposite; and certainly when I discover men engaged in preaching against the Church, who have once been for it, found them telling falsehoods against the Church, that fact has strengthened my faith in the divinity of this work. I have been an honest tithe payer, | have observed the Word of Wisdom, I have attended my Sunday School (at this time I announced that I had recently become an officer in the first Improvement Association organized in our Church for young men), I am living my religion, but if you have something better to offer me, I am willing to accept it." But he was not able to give me anything better. I call to mind my intimate association, as a child, with the family of William S. Godbe. I never knew a more generous, bigger hearted or more faithful man, but you know there is a saying in the scriptures that 'to obey is better than sacrifice," and it is only when men and women fail to be obedient to any special commandment, or any special advice of great importance, that they lose their faith. This man knew the advice and counsel of Brigham Young, but he paid no attention to it, and he drifted away; but he was one of the exceptions of men who drifted away from the Church, to my mind, as he did not indulge in falsehoods against it, and I rejoice because of this. I call to mind that my mother made her living by going out to sew RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE for people, and that she sewed for the family of William S. Godbe. Upon one occasion (the house has just been taken down during the last few months and replaced by an oil stand, where they sell gasoline and oil) mother was sewing there in one of the bedrooms. The house was on the corner of Second East and Second South. They were laughing and joking in the parlor over a planchette, or ouija board. They said: "Come in Rachel, and have some fun with us." She said: "No, President Brigham Young said anyone who would fool with that thing, would be led to spiritualism." Of course no person could receive spiritual manifestations through a contrivance of this kind, who would not eventually apostatize. At this time Brother Godbe was first counselor to the Bishop in our ward. She would not go in, so they brought the machine into the room where she was, but it would not work. Then they went back into the parlor and it worked again and would write for them on a piece of paper. They came back and said: “Come on in, Rachel, and have a good time." To my utter astonishment she went in. You know children are quick to call their parents down if they are not doing the right thing. As we were going home, I said: "Mother, why did you go into that room when President Young said you should not fool with that machine?' She said: "My boy, did you notice the machine did not work when they brought it into the bedroom? I told the Lord I was not fooling with the machine, I was not running after it, and 1 prayed to Him when they brought it into the room that He would shut it up, and when they asked me to go into the parlor I told the Lord if he would give me the impression that it would not work, 301 |} would go in. That is what happened, my boy, they could not make it work." What is the final history? Brigham Young said it would lead to apostasy, suicide and insanity, and I have been told that Mr. Godbe's wife, who stayed with him after he left the Church, lost her mind. I remember the brightest young man in my own school days, who committed suicide. I remember staying one night at the Williams Hotel, in Milford, and the next morning looking for William Godbe's son. We found his body about fifteen hundred feet or more from the hotel; he had gone out and blown out his brains. I know of nothing that I feel is of so great value in life as to be obedient to the counsel and advice of the Lord, and of his servants in this our day. Not that I rejoice in the calamities that came to this man, but I rejoice in incidents like this that have come into my life, that have strengthened my faith in the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. It has fallen to my lot to travel in many lands and climes, and to come in contact with a great variety of people in many walks of life, and it is my privilege here today to say to you that from my childhood until today I have never run across anything in the acts of men, in the teachings of men, in my travels at home and abroad, that has in the slightest degree lessened my faith in the divinity of the work in which you and I are engaged. On the contrary, I have been constantly finding additional evidence of the divinity of the work. I appreciate the opportunity of coming here today. I am sorry that circumstances were such that I could not come on time. Punctuality is part of my stock in trade. I do 302 dislike very much to come into a meeting late, but the only way I could get here was to come late today. I wanted to come here to express to this body of splendid women my gratitude for their faith and prayers in supplicating the Lord that my life might be spared. I am very grateful for it. I am very thankful to be here in the enjoyment, I believe, of as good health as I have had for many years. I can remember very distinctly when I was a young man thinking a person 76 years of age would be a very old man, that he would be entitled to sit in a rocking chair, and perhaps be fanned, but 1 am grateful for the vitality of body and mind that I possess today. | can remember very distinctly that as a young man I had very poor health, from the time I was an infant until I was 47 years of age, and went to Europe, where I got a new lease on life. I thought that if I could live to 50 I would be perfectly satisfied, as that was 25% longer than my father lived. Now I am 76 years old, and am anxious to go on living. I wanted to come here and say to you good sisters, that inasmuch as it is my lot and privilege to bless you, I do so. I pray that God's choicest RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE blessing, the inspiration that comes from Him, may be your guide and companion, that your example may be such that your children will live the Gospel of Jesus Christ, because that is of more value than anything else in all the world. Speaking of that young couple who went East to become great in certain lines, reminds me of a teacher coming to me in Liverpool, where one of my daughters was taking vocal lessons, and saying: "It is a shame, although I have the credit of being the best teacher in Liverpool, for you to keep your girl here with me. Send her to Paris—send her to Berlin. She has the finest quality of voice of any singer I have ever heard. She can make herself famous." I said: "My dear friend, I never expect her to make a single dollar with her voice. I would sooner have her sing lullabies to her own children than to make millions and become the greatest singer in the world." Why? Because in rearing children to God through her example, she was giving them a chance to get in that straight and narrow path that would lead them to life eternal. May God bless you all, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. "THE question is being raised by the opponents of prohibition, Does a mild, low-percentage beer give us the way out of our difficulties by supplying a refreshing drink which is not intoxicating? The answer is squarely, No. Anyone who knows anything about the habits of men has seen many get drunk on beer that contains three or four percent of alcohol. The reason for this is simply that a considerable proportion of men drink beer, not because they are thirsty or because they like the taste particularly, but because they want to produce a certain sensation of exhilaration and forgetfulness. This being so, they will go on drinking beer until they attain the desired result. It may take a little more time, but lands a man in the same place as that which he would reach a little quicker by the whiskey route."—Dr. Richard C. Cabot.
Relief Society Annual Report, 1932 - Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary
FINANCIAL ACCOUNT
Cash Receipts Balance on Hand January 1, 1932: Charity Fund......................$ 37,647.07 General Fund...................... 105,500.00 Wheat Trust Fund................. 9,226.51
Total Balance January 1, 1932.... $152,373.58
Donations Received During 1932: Charity Fund......................$102,692.37 General Fund...................... 75,367.61 Annual Dues....................... 21,280.14 Other Receipts.................... 34,179.45
Total Receipts................. $233,519.57
Total Balance on Hand and Receipts $385,893.15
Cash Disbursements Paid for Charitable Purposes........$111,343.23 Paid for General Purposes.......... 86,710.61 Annual Dues Paid to General Board and to Stake Boards............ 25,914.84 Paid for Other Purposes............ 29,654.50
Total Disbursements............ $253,623.18
Balance on Hand December 31, 1932: Charity Fund......................$ 34,534.27 General Fund...................... 88,483.71 Wheat Trust Fund................. 9,251.99
Total Balance, December 31, 1932. $132,269.97
Total Disbursements and Balance on Hand....................... $385,893.15
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Assets Balance on Hand December 31, 1932: All Funds........................$131,723.01 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishop's Office........... 401,188.27 Other Invested Funds............... 47,612.59 Value of Real Estate and Buildings... 202,119.84 Value of Furniture and Fixtures..... 84,558.37 Other Assets...................... 26,529.04 $893,731.12
Stake Board Cash Balances on hand December 31, 1932..................... 28,731.06 Other Assets...................... 60,997.93 $ 89,728.99
Total Assets..................... $ 983,460.11
304 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Liabilities Indebtedness..................... $ 883.00 Balance Net Assets................ 892,848.12 $893,731.12
Balance Stake Board Net Assets..... 89,728.99
Total Net Assets and Liabilities..... $ 983,460.11
STATISTICS
Membership: January 1, 1932: Executive and Special Officers....... 11,047 Visiting Teachers.................. 23,003 Other Members..................... 32,834
Total Membership January 1, 1932 66,884
Increase: Admitted to Membership During Year 7,983
Total Membership and Increase.. 74,867
Decrease: Removed or Resigned............... 6,620 Died............................. 865
Total Decrease................... 7,485
Membership December 31, 1932: Executive and Special Officers...... 11,107 Visiting Teachers................. 23,322 Other Members.................... 32,953
Total Membership December 31, 1932 67,382
The Total Membership Includes: General Officers and Board Members................................. 23 Stake Officers and Board Members................................... 1,138 Mission Presidents and Officers..................................... 80
Number of Stakes................................................... 104 Number of Missions................................................ 28 Number of Relief Society Ward and Branch Organizations.............. 1,567 Number of Visiting Teachers' Districts............................. 12,676 Number of L. D. S. Families in Wards.............................. 122,824 Number of Relief Society Magazines Taken.......................... 20,012 Number of Executive Officers taking Relief Society Magazine........ 5,694 Number of Meetings held in Wards.................................. 69,082 Number of Stake Meetings Held..................................... 2,150 Number of Stake and Ward Officers' (Union) Meetings Held.......... 1,162 Number of Ward Conferences Held.................................... 1,277 Average Attendance at Ward Meetings............................... 28,790 Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers.............................. 881,436 Number of Families Helped......................................... 22,207 Number of Days Spent with the Sick................................ 42,313 Number of Special Visits to the Sick and Homebound................ 214,637 Number of Bodies Prepared for Burial.............................. 2,003 Number of Visits to Wards by Stake Officers....................... 5,519
RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORT 305
COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS
                                1930         1931         1932
Paid for Charitable Purposes... $109,493.19 $116,448.17 $111,343.23 Total or Present Membership.... 64,225 66,884 67,382 No. Of Relief Society Organizations 1,568 1,585 1,567 No. Of Relief Society Magazines Taken 26,639 24,956 20,012 No. Of Days Spent with the Sick 43,672 44,495 42,313 No. Of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound 186,436 204,460 214,637 No. Of Families Helped............. 14,676 17,672 22,207 No. Of Visits by Stake Relief Society Officers to Wards 5,678 5,656 5,519 No. Of Visits by Relief Society Visiting Teachers 763,918 836,778 881,436
DISTRIBUTION OF MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY
                    Total Membership in Stakes...54,716    Missions
Arizona................ 1,312 1,728 California............. 1,131 Australia.............. 107 Canada................ 129 Canada................. 129 Colorado.............. 1,890 Mexico................. 173 Europe................ 4,574 New Zealand............ 512 Hawaii................ 1,078 Samoa.................. 308 United States......... 36,117 South Africa........... 169 9,373 Tahiti................. 336 2,008 Tonga.................. 130 197 223 Total Membership in Missions. 12,666 36
Total Membership in Stakes and Missions..................67,382
(Note: In the foregoing report all funds are held and disbursed in the various wards, with the exception of the Annual Membership Dues.)
A Prayer By Lucy M. S. Carter
Oh, Thou who knoweth all Hear Thou my plea. Speak that I may hear Thy voice And follow Thee, My Father.
Dark are the nights of doubt, I cannot see; So many sounds I hear Confusing me— My Father.
Striving to push my way I stumble so. Seeking with hands outstretched Fumbling I go My Father.
Life asks such heavy toll I dare not pay. Many I meet who though Seeking the way Are broken.
Here in the dark I pray For them and me That I may find a way And bring to thee A token.

Father I hear Thee speak, And see Thee smile. Thou wilt bring us home to Thee, After a while, Our Father.
White Carnations By Blanche Stockdale Burt
Georgia Martin sat on the edge of the lily pond watching her hand as it trailed idly about in the cool waters above the darting gold-fish. It was not the type of hand one usually finds hovering about a lily pond, she mused, disconsolately. One would expect it to be small and white like a fragile butterfly, and her hand was red, work-worn, deep-seamed and middle-aged.
"When you get tired of the garden come into the house. You'll probably be able to find something to interest you there," her sister, Alice called out to her.
"Thanks, Al, but this is heavenly," Georgia told her. "I'd like to stay here forever—and just relax and find the peace I have vainly sought for so long."
She did not think it necessary to tell Alice that a serpent had entered her garden since she had come there—the serpent of discontent.
"I have a couple of drawings to finish and Jane's busy with her correspondence, so just go ahead and enjoy yourself," Alice invited and hurried into the house.
Georgia, left alone, drank in the beauty of the garden with the gluttony of a famished soul—yet it did not give her the joy it should have done, for she was comparing it, symbol as it was of all Alice had accomplished, with her own pitiful lack of achievement.
Though the garden had been established on the self-same spot near which she had spent her life until her marriage, it represented a luxury foreign to any she had ever known. It was the same little acre of land surrounding the old home in which their father had kept his chickens, his cow, and his vegetable garden, but was now magically changed into a fairyland of rolling lawns dotted with quaint stepping-stones, glistening pools, shady nooks and unexpected clumps of trees or exotic flowers of rare color—all kept in order by a gardener who lived in a tiny house at the edge of the estate.
The shabby little home in which all three of them, Alice, Jane and herself had been born, had been as miraculously transformed into a thing of loveliness as the garden under Alice's enchanted touch. She had built things onto it and taken things off. She had made the roof more sloping and had covered it with shingles apple-green in color. Everywhere she had put in more and deeper windows, had added honeysuckle shaded sun-porches and had stuccoed over the faded red brick with tints of ivory. Inside she had removed walls and partitions, had made doors into archways and had transformed the many prim, puritanically plain little old rooms and had furnished them expensively.
Alice could easily afford to do all this though an artist by profession, for she had accomplished the seemingly impossible; she had made a financial success of her art work. Having never married, she had taken over the old place and had transformed it into her ideal of what a home should be.
WHITE CARNATIONS
Jane, the other sister, had been equally successful in another way. Her husband had died soon after her marriage and she had taken over his hardware store where he had left it and had developed it into a big business. She, Georgia, was the only one who had been a failure, she told herself. In spite of two brilliant sisters to set the example for her, she had gone through life economizing, scrimping, playing the household drudge for her overworked husband and five children. Her marriage had been one long session of making over dresses for her two girls and doing without things in order to save enough money from her husband's small salary to send her three boys through college. It had been a gigantic task but now the children were through school and beginning to earn their living in a modest way she and her husband could have a few more comforts than formerly, yet they probably would always have to live in their stuffy little house and Georgia must do her own work and make her own clothes. It hurt her a little to admit that her husband's earning power would always be so far below that of either of her sisters.
Yet, even though it had made her feel so completely her inferiority. She had enjoyed coming home and tasting for a few days her sisters' world so far removed from her own. It was especially appropriate that all three sisters should gather at the old home for Mother's Day which would be tomorrow, even though both mother and father had been dead for many years.
She had not realized how late it was getting until Alice, slender and beautifully gowned, came out in the garden for her, dancing along as she used to do as a child when especially delighted.
"George!" she cried excitedly: "Come on in. There's a wonderful surprise for you. I've had the maid fix it up in your room."
Forgetting for a moment that she was fat and middle-aged, Georgia grasped Alice's hand and the two of them raced up the garden and into the house as they had done when they were children. Eagerly they burst into the room which was Georgia's during her brief visit here—their mother's old room.
It was a changed room, filled to overflowing with florist's flowers, white carnations mostly, set everywhere in Alice's most expensive vases—six bouquets in all. They seemed such a part of her new environment that Georgia had to read the greeting attached to each before she realized that they really came from her old home, for they had been sent by her husband and each of her five children. She should have known as much, for Ellen, her eldest daughter, always jogged up her father's and brothers' flagging memories and saw to it that her mother received her full quota of tribute on Mother's Day. Only this year their gifts had taken on a less practical tinge than formerly—in order to harmonize with her new setting, of course.
Alice and Jane stood by the door watching her—a little sadly, Georgia thought.
"It must be wonderful to have your room filled with flowers on Mother's Day," Alice said wistfully. "Jane's and mine will always be empty, you know. You always were the lucky one of the family, George."
"Lucky? Why, I'm the tramp—the beggar—the poor relation. The only one who hasn't been a success."
"What is our success compared to 308 yours?" Alice wanted to know. "I have created a great many works of art, inanimate things painted on canvas or paper. You have brought into being and developed five beautiful living souls. They say that whoever creates comes near to the Divine Creator of everything. If so, anyone who produces a living soul comes nearest to Him of all."
"Al's right, Georgia," declared level-headed Jane who usually said little and thought much. "What good would Al's drawings or my silly stock of hardware be if women greater than ourselves hadn't peopled RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the world with someone to appreciate and buy it?"
"Doesn't Georgia look like Mother tonight," observed Alice. "She's more like her than either of us."
"Get your best rags on," Jane announced. "I'm giving a theater and dinner party tonight in honor of Georgia, our most distinguished sister."
And Georgia, sitting between her two immaculately groomed sisters, caressing her home-made dress of cheap silk with her coarse, work-reddened hands, was amazed to find that she was considered the greatest of them all.
Who is April? By Vilate R. McAllister
Oh, tell me I pray, if you happen to know, Who is April, and why do her moods vary so?
Is April a baby with dimples and curls, A sweet, winsome lassie, who's sad And bursts into tears when her childish heart aches, Or is radiant with smiles when she's glad?
Or is she a maiden who's deeply in love, And basks in love's sunlight a while, And then does her lover prove false, so she lets A deluge of tears hide her smile?
Or is she a matron whose temper's worn thin, Whose nerves are all shattered in bits? Are her children unruly, her husband a bear, That she falls into storming by fits?
Or is she, perhaps, some hysterical hag, Gone mad with the loss of her prime? Or a capering clown, who just follows his whims, Regardless of reason or time?
Perhaps she's a seamstress in turret so high, Who's busy with shuttle and loom A-weaving a garment for Summer to wear, And the pattern's all sunshine and gloom?
For summer must wear, at whatever the cost, Her wonderful draperies of flowers— Is April the weaver, her warp and her woof Just nothing but sunshine and showers?
Oh, tell me, I pray, if you happen to know, Who is April, and why do her moods vary so?
Mother Used to Hum By Elzada C. Brinkerhoff
At work, my Mother used to hum Sometimes I'd recognize a tune And shrill I'd pipe "Jee-ru-sa-lum" Or "Rock of Ages Cleft for me," I'd sing the words I knew, then hum.
She'd cross the room from stove to sink, At work, she'd hum from morn till night— Now that I'm grown I often think That by the sacred tunes she hummed She taught her child, of God, to think.
I wonder if the mothers hum The old and sacred songs today, Or do they trill ta-te-ah-tum And boopadoop for children' ears?— I'd rather hear my Mother hum.
Mother's Day By Lula Wilson Bowler
The birds are sweetly singing The skies are bright and fair The air with springtime odors Brings gladness everywhere
All nature joins her voices And dons her bright array To honor this glad season For this is "Mother's Day."
We, too, will join our voices In praise of Mother dear Our gratitude and tender love Will reach her far and near.
We'll show her that her sacrifice Her toil, her prayers and tears Have not been spent in vain for us Through all our childhood years.
Then strew her path with blossoms And fill her heart with cheer We cannot e'er repay her Her toil this many a year.
Accept our humble efforts Our gratitude to pay In praise of sacred motherhood This happy "Mother's Day."
To My Mother By Ruby Baird Anderson
Could I repay the love I owe I'd glorify thy name And heap upon thee A mantle white with purity fair
Along the dusty way Where Age must take its faltering step And Youth pass by some day.
I'd pass the spotless mantle on She won with pain and tears, And wrapped around my shoulders weak To wear throughout my years.
When sickness came across my path I'd bathe the fevered brow— And red with valor won To Him I'd meekly bow.
I'd grow sweet flowers bright and Forgetting self in service true. From battling all the faults of life Until her span was done.
In service, truth and righteousness Until her span was done.
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
May—how lacy lilacs bloom and apple blossoms scent the air. The sweetest time to remember and only mother.
MRS. RUTH BRYAN OWEN, brilliant daughter of the great "Commoner" has been appointed minister to Denmark. This high honor marks an epoch in woman's achievement. Appointment of ambassadors and ministers in the diplomatic corps are the highest favors the President bestows upon his friends, and are considered a mark of distinction.
ULDINE UTLEY, a young evangelist will hold a religious revival at the Century of Progress at Chicago this summer.
SPAIN and Portugal have granted suffrage to women. The first woman to vote in Lisbon was 80 years old.
MRS. W. D. CROSS, who saved President Roosevelt's life has been mentioned for the Congressional Medal of Honor.
THE Los Angeles telephone girl who calmly told the New York lady, "Sorry, I cannot connect you. We're having an earthquake," was surely a heroine.
THE Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt yellow rose will go very well with the Eleanor blue.
EIDE NORENA made her debut at the Metropolitan Opera in La Boheme. She is said to be very beautiful.
MRS. PEARL WILLIFORD has been elected mayor of Ellsworth, Kansas.
MRS. ADA B. CLODFELTER, of Missouri, bought a whole town and endeavored to make it ideal. She held all the offices herself and only permitted reputable persons to dwell there.
MARLENE DIETRICH, thrown from her horse while filming for a picture is recovering and will soon return to Germany from Hollywood.
MRS. JANE CLARK BOLWINKLE, 99, the oldest woman in Idaho, who died last March, was honored in 1932 by the George Washington bicentennial committee for being one of the oldest mothers in the United States.
LADY MURASAKI was one of the earliest women novelists of the world. She was born 998 A. D. She kept a diary which still exists and wrote The Tale of Genji, both of which are being translated in six volumes. Her novel, Lady of the Boat, is just on the book shelves.
JULIA WILBOR TOMKINS' play, "Once There Was A Princess," when recently presented in New York was witnessed by three princesses and a duchess—Princess Alexandra Kropotkin, Princess Der Ling, Princess Simon Kristoff and Duchess de Richelieu.
MISS VIOLET OLSILSEN, an archeologist, is adventuring in South America for material for a book.
MRS. NELLIE FANNIE CARTER left her immense fortune of $10,000,000 to those who had served her in friendliness. The dressmaker, hair dresser, secretary. All were remembered in sums from $10,000 to $50,000.
ROSE WILDER LANE'S new book, "Let the Hurricane Roar," a pioneer story, is said by the critics to be a vivid portrayal of pioneer life.
And They Called it Mother's Day By Irene McCullough
"Gee, Mom, it's Mother's Day, tomorrow," spoke up chubby faced eight year old Tommy, "Will you give me fifty cents to buy you a present?"
"But dear, if I gave you fifty cents to buy me a present, I would be buying myself one, would I not?"
"Well yes, but how can I earn it?"
"Clean up the garage and then I will give it to you."
"But couldn't you let me have it right now? Ken and Phil are going down to the drugstore now to buy their mother something and I want to go with them. I will do my work when I get back."
"Run along then, but don't forget, you must hurry back and earn it."
"May I have the afternoon off tomorrow, mum?" said Julia, the maid, "I want to go see my dear old Mother and take her some flowers. She's getting pretty old you know."
"I did want to go to Sunday School," answered Mrs. Spence, "They are going to have a fine musical program. I seldom get a chance to go but seeing it is Mother's Day, I thought I would try. We won't bother with a big dinner so maybe I can go in the morning and you can get off in the afternoon."
"Thanks ever so much, mum."
"Mother," called Alice from upstairs, "I forgot to tell you that father called up and said to tell you that he had invited Grandpa and Grandma up for dinner tomorrow and told them to bring Uncle Ben and Aunt Sue with them. He says it's Mother's Day and he wants his Mother to be here, and Ma, I forgot to save up so I could buy you a present. Will it be all right if I charge one for you?"
"No, dear, just forget it."
Mary stopped her work a moment to brush away a tear and with it went all hopes of going to Sunday School. She knew it would be impossible to get five children and a husband off to Sunday School, prepare a big dinner, let the maid off for the afternoon and take care of a baby in between time and go to school. Dad must be on time as they expected a large crowd and he had been asked to help out.
Morning came. The usual Sunday morning hustle and bustle. "Is my best suit pressed, Mary?" called Dad as he powdered his clean shaven face.
"Yes, I pressed it last night. It's hanging in your closet."
"Thanks, dear," exclaimed the over-indulgent husband as he brought forth the immaculate suit.
"Thank Heaven they're all off and I can get to this dinner," sighed Mary, "There will be at least twelve here and Dad always expects something extra nice for his folks."
It was one grand rush for Mary all day. Evening found Grandpa, Grandma, Aunt Sue and Uncle Ben, Dad and the children seated about the fire place, content with the day and themselves. Mary alone was unhappy. As she wearily climbed the stairs to put the baby to bed, she began to realize how hungry she was. She had been so busy feeding 312 the others she had not taken time to eat.
"There goes that darned old radio again," she thought. "To our mothers," roared out a masculine voice over the air, "we owe everything. We honor them!"
Hastily putting the baby down she plugged her fingers into her ears, at the same time giving the bedroom door a kick shut with her foot. She glanced into the glass. "Look at me," she thought. "Haven't even had time to powder my nose." A tear tried to steal down her cheek but she rudely brushed it away.
Mary had just finished powdering when the front doorbell rang. "Now who can that be?" she whispered. Opening her door a trifle, she listened.
"Come in, come in," called Fred, her husband, "Mary will be tickled to death to see you. She will be down in a minute—just putting the baby to bed. Mother and Dad are here and we can all enjoy the evening together. My, what a swell spring coat you have, Sis."
"Oh, yes. Sid gave me this for Mother's Day," answered Fred's sister. "Of course I am not a mother yet, but I may be someday. We have only been married a little over three years."
"Put me back a few bucks for that coat, Fred," said the beaming Sid. "You see I remember Stella on Christmas, New Year's, Washington's Birthday, Lincoln's Birthday, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Fourth of July, in fact, every holiday in the year. Wouldn't dare go home if I didn't."
Stella laughed. "Well you know you like to."
Mary closed her door softly. "It's the way you train them," she whispered angrily. In a minute they would be calling her to come down. She would be expected to be pleasant and later on in the evening serve sandwiches or cake.
Plunging into her hat and coat she quietly slipped down the back stairs and out into the warm spring air. Free just for an hour or two. She couldn't hear them call "Mother" or "Mary." She started to run for fear they might catch her before she could hail a taxi or bus.
"Let me out at the Haber Cafe," she called to the driver. "I like to eat there. They say it's Mother's Day, so here's where I am going to enjoy a part of it."
It was late when Mary pushed open her front door. "All's quiet," she whispered as she slipped off her wraps. She had enjoyed the evening.
"Mary, will you please come here?" called a tired voice from the dimly lighted living room.
Mary slid up close beside her husband. He put his arm around her and said, "Dear, if you won't ever leave me alone again with a house full of company and four children to put to bed, I'll remember you Christmas, New Year's, George Washington's Birthday, Lincoln's Birthday, Fourth of July and twice on Mother's Day."
"Any patriotic citizen wants us to have ships enough to defend us from enemies outside, but there are two ships we need inside a country—one is Citizenship and one is Statesmanship. And those we can build ourselves."—Ruth Bryan Owen.
Your Home Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke
ARTICLE IV
WALLS—CEILING—WOODWORK
In the last article we considered the more or less structural forms of wall treatment. This month we will take up the applied wall decoration as well as woodwork and ceilings.
Plaster walls may be either rough or smooth finished and make excellent backgrounds. Sand finished walls should not be used in small rooms as they absorb light and tend to decrease the apparent size. Rough plaster furnishes an interesting play of light and shadow and form very fine backgrounds for Spanish, Italian, Old English furniture or furniture of vigorous character. There is also on the market a plastic paint which gives this rough finish and produces the same effect as plaster. While wet it can be worked into various interesting designs with trowel, brush, sponge or the hands. It can be had in many lovely tints to key in with your chosen color scheme. Rough finishes are easily cleaned by using the starch dressing suggested before.
Smooth finished plaster makes a good ground for paint for paper. Painted plaster walls are fine backgrounds and add to the apparent size. Except in kitchen and bathroom they should be in a flat tone. Kalsomined walls come in this class and are an inexpensive finish. Painted or kalsomined walls may be stippled, antiqued, or glazed. Do not be afraid to use colors on the walls, subdued color to be sure. Key your walls to your color scheme. You will be more likely to get a balance of color throughout the room. Always remember in choosing colors for walls, however, to choose a tint several degrees lighter than the actual color you think you want. As colors intensify themselves when seen in large masses on four walls of a room, and a color you may like in the sample, can or package, on the wall will be harsh and irritating. Sometimes stenciling or transfers may be applied but care must be exercised in using them to prevent a spotted appearance. Occasionally a stenciled border may add the finishing touch to a painted or kalsomined wall, but a narrow cornice or picture moulding is usually more desirable. Walls with murals and other painted decorations are lovely, but beyond our reach. However, papers can be purchased which give the effect of mural painting. In fact paintings direct on the walls are the ancestors of modern wallpapers.
Perhaps one of the most common methods of wall treatment is wallpaper, and it is an excellent one too in accenting qualities of space and proportion, enrichment of rooms, and in giving color, character and artistic dignity. Even in its least expensive form it is capable of giving beauty and freshness. Wallpaper has the disadvantages of making the use of pictures practically impossible unless it is very inconspicuous in design. In other words, it is a decoration in itself. Plain wallpaper can be purchased, but it is usually advisable to paint the wall rather than use these unless it is a textured paper that adds interest in that way, or if the walls are poor. For instance, Japanese grass cloth is a wall hanging that is also a wall protector, and an excellent background. However, a perfectly plain paper will emphasize mars and defects in the walls which patterned papers tend to conceal.
In choosing wallpaper there are several things that must be taken into consideration. Never choose a paper just because it is pretty. Personal preferences must always be subordinated to the purpose and spirit of the room in which the paper is to be used. Choose a pattern you like of course but be sure it suits the room. People often choose a paper that appeals to them in the shop only to find when it is hung that it clashes with the room and its furnishings. Never buy paper until you have tried a large piece of it in both natural and artificial light in the room where it is to be hung. Just a word of caution about salespeople selling home furnishings (and wallpaper men are just as guilty as the rest) try to influence people into buying a particular item because it is the fad that it is what everyone is buying." Do not pay any attention to it. Just because it is the style and appeals to a number of people is no reason that it will suit your particular house or needs. Following the style in home decoration is good to a certain extent but ridiculous beyond. Do not let your better judgment be overcome by style promotion. Pay some attention, of course, to what is being shown, but in the final choice buy what is appropriate to your particular situation.
The question of scale, pattern and color come up in the choice of papers. Remember that large designs crowd small rooms and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE minimize everything set before them. The color should be suitable to the exposure and scheme of the room. A monotonous repetition of pattern is maddening. Watch for this in buying papers. It is especially true of medallions and patterns that are in sharp contrast to the background. The architectural background also must be taken into consideration. Let me illustrate: Into a room with oak beamed ceilings and furniture of heavy oak or walnut, you would not put a paper of damask or chintz design, but would want something of more vigorous character as foliage, tapestry, stipple, oatmeal, embossed Jacobean, or strong geometrical design. Delicate gay, glazed, and smooth papers have the feeling of those charming homes of the Colonial period and similar types of interiors identified by enamel woodwork. This would include such papers as satins, moires, small lozenge, toile de Jouy, chintz, shadow stripes, and the many beautiful old scenics. It is often more interesting to use wallpaper in panels than over the entire surface. Some panels may have paper, others left plain or all the panels may be papered. Papers especially suitable for panelling are damasks, scenics, chintzes and panel papers made for the purpose.
Foliage papers are easy to live with as they are unobtrusive yet spread balanced color and design over walls of large rooms. Striped papers two-tone, not contrasting, or of pronounced colors make lovely backgrounds but should not be used in high rooms as they tend to increase height. Many of the modernistic patterns if not too extreme can be used for the background of most any kind of furnishing. Even though your room is of no YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL particular period, the same rules should be followed—if your furnishings are small and of refined design use paper that gives the same impression, if of strong and heavy proportions they can stand more vigorous contrasts and larger designs. There are some papers that have a small all-over design of a leaf, flower or dot which are pleasant to live with, are good backgrounds for pictures and suitable to a large variety of furnishings.
Landscape papers which come in sets give interest and character to a home. They are dignified in effect, yet as refreshing as the outdoors they suggest. They give an air of spaciousness. For the dining room and hall they are especially suitable, but can be used in living rooms and bedrooms. These landscapes and other expensive papers should be preserved by mounting on a muslin lining. This cloth safeguards them from cracks caused by the house settling, and they are easily moved if desired. These landscapes come in a variety of designs and are especially lovely backgrounds for Colonial mahogany furniture. The same thing applies to Chinese papers which come in delicate colors in flower garden effects and are suitable to bedrooms or other rooms where the furnishings are light and delicate.
Today science is combining the charm of lovely old design with modern methods by making wall hangings impervious to moisture. There are a number of papers painted in oil on parchment and can be washed with soap and water and left as lovely as new. Then there are the varieties of oilcloths which come in delightful designs, not only suitable to bathrooms and kitchens, but to every room in the house. Some are even made in imitation of old 315 damasks and brocades and would be appropriate set in panels in a French room. Varnished and glazed papers are used for kitchens and bathrooms as they can be easily washed off. Any paper can be given a washable surface by applying a coat of glue size and one or two coats of clear varnish. It will, however, make it a little darker. There is on the market a wallpaper lacquer which gives a waterproof finish, also a liquid wax which if rubbed on gives a nice sheen. Just a word about wallpaper borders. They are used to a much greater extent than is necessary. A more distinctive finish is given by using a narrow moulding or cornice instead. If borders are used let them be unobtrusive in design and coloring and not more than four inches wide. There are some borders which resemble wood mouldings and are attractive. Occasionally walls are hung with fabrics. Often ginghams, toile de Jouys, or similar fabrics are used in rooms furnished in peasant style or an informal manner. Chintz and India prints are also used in this way, often covering walls that are in bad condition. If they are finished with shellac they are easily cleaned. They are especially appropriate in kitchens and breakfast rooms, and bedrooms with provincial or maple furniture. If brocades, damasks and other fine fabrics are used on the walls, in panels, etc., they should be tacked on frames before putting on wall. Such materials would be suitable only in formal rooms.
In choosing wallpaper the type of room into which it is going should be considered. As a rule bedrooms demand a more informal type of paper as flowers, chintz, and small 316 designs on a light ground. The living and dining rooms require more formal patterns. In these rooms the atmosphere of comfort and restfulness should prevail, the walls should be quiet and subdued. However, do not allow yourself to be intimidated into choosing always the taupe or sand colors for fear you will make a mistake. Tints of greens, greys, ivorys, blue-greens, corals, yellow, silver, and oyster white are all good colors and will provide cheerful yet quiet backgrounds. Dashing, cheerful, brilliant colors can be used in sunrooms and breakfast room, and a little less brilliant note in the dining room where gayety, and good cheer are keynotes. The kitchen and bathroom need wall finishes that are colorful and easily cleaned. Enameled walls and woodwork, varnished paper or oilcloth are very suitable. Tile, tile board or composition is an attractive and sanitary finish for bathrooms, kitchen and laundry, and if carried out in suitable colors add much to the decoration. Tiles also add an interesting element in halls, sunrooms, and about the fireplace. A word of warning about tiling a room—be sure the colors are such that you will not tire of them easily as they cannot be changed without considerable expense. Some of the especially attractive tiles are copies of Spanish and Italian designs centuries old. A Treillage wall, which is merely lattice or trellis work applied to the walls makes an unusual finish for sun parlors. It can be worked up in many interesting designs and color schemes. It is often effective to paint the lattice work to contrast with the background, or wall underneath.
The woodwork may be finished to harmonize with the walls by RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE analogy or by contrast. The more woodwork in a room, the more nearly it should tone in with the walls. If the walls are painted a light color the woodwork should be the same or a tone lighter or darker. If the walls are papered the woodwork should match or at least key in with the background of the wallpaper, or with some color in it, or in rarer instances with some contrasting color used elsewhere in the room. Woodwork in small rooms if painted like the walls will help create an idea of space and in large rooms if stained or enameled like the darkest color in the wallpaper or floor will decrease space. If natural color wood finish is desired it should key in with the color of the furniture and be slightly lighter than the floor.
The ceiling is often neglected. But it is just as necessary a part of the room as are the walls and floor and should have as much a part in the decorative scheme as the sky in a painting. It does not have to be ornate, it may be plain and still be artistic, but consider the ceiling. The first kinds of ceilings were probably those in which the structural joints, and beams were visible. They are appropriate in Early American, Renaissance, and in no-period rooms of vigorous character, and may be either painted or left in natural wood. Often the spaces in between the beams as well as the beams themselves were carved and decorated in gilts and colors. If your ceilings are too high they can be lowered by installing a false ceiling of wall board, nailed on supports at chosen height. The joints are covered with mouldings and a cornice is added to finish and support it. The mouldings may be left in natural color and the rest painted, or all painted. Wall board may also be YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL used to cover cracked and unsightly ceilings. And with it many interesting effects in panelling can be worked out. Plaster ceilings may be of two kinds, decorated and plain. For the smaller, average home the decorated is not available nor suitable, although there are some designs done in low relief that are charming. The plain plaster ceiling may be tinted or papered in a plain color, slightly lighter than the walls. Do not have it white unless the walls are, and never a glaring white. To do so gives the impression of four walls without a roof. Make it seem to belong to the rest of the room. In an informal room, also in attics, a satisfactory and unusual way is to carry the wallpaper, if of small repeat design, over both the wall and ceiling. 317
There are different shaped ceilings—vaulted, lunetted, tunnel, barrel and coved, all of which except the last are more suitable to large period rooms. Avoid the canopy or "drop ceiling." It gives exactly that effect, that the ceiling is dropping down over the wall. The only excuse for its use is in a room with a very high ceiling, but even there all other means available should be used first. Let me repeat for emphasis the general principle that there should be a gradation of color from floor to ceiling. Walls ought to be lighter tone than the floors, the ceiling ought to be a tone lighter than the wall. This is a contrast of values, the contrast should not be great, just a pleasing gradation from the bottom up. Dark colors on top or in the middle just naturally throw a color scheme out of balance. Dark colors appear heavy and the laws of gravity place weight at the bottom. That is, then the agreeable and pleasing arrangement.
Next Month: Floors and Floor Coverings.
Mother By Arthur James Bowers
Today, in a perfumed garden Mantled and colored with spring, I wandered, thoughtful and dreaming, Amongst the gold and the green.
Somehow my footsteps led me To a faded and withered rose; One that had faded forever— Serene in its last repose.
I gazed with a sorrowing hunger, For I knew it would bloom no more, Unless by chance it should blossom Some day, on God's green shore.
It was then I thought of you, mother, Approaching life's wintry years, When the days and the light grow shorter As you near that place beyond tears.
Someday in the hillside-garden of Souls, When the last farewells are o'er, I'll think of today in the garden of flowers And that rose on God's green shore.
Health in the Vegetable Kingdom By Lucy Rose Middleton
Authorities on nutrition are all agreed as to the tremendous value of vegetables, and take great delight in extolling their healthful virtues. Vegetables contain vitamins, minerals, nourishing starches and sugars, and provide roughage which combats intestinal sluggishness. It is easy to use too much meat; protein foods in excess are liable to undergo putrefaction with the result that poisonous substances are absorbed by the body. Vegetables, on the other hand, are free from this reproach, and should be used liberally whenever possible. Great as is the boon of canning, there is no real substitute for fresh vegetables. By careful planning and the use of common sense, one can provide a good variety of vegetables for the table without paying excessive prices, regardless of the month. Do not yield to the allurements of the dealer who tempts you by anticipating the season. In the bitter cold of January and February we see tantalizing displays of fresh fruits and vegetables that normally will not be in season for months to come. But prices are exorbitant, and quality usually inferior. The cucumbers sell at possibly 25 cents apiece, and the tomatoes are small and anemic looking by comparison with those of mid-summer. In the middle of winter we can have plenty of fresh vegetables with economy if we make proper use of celery, lettuce, turnips, carrots, cabbage, potatoes, squash, sweet potatoes, onions, and parsnips. As springtime advances, the supply of fresh vegetables increases steadily. The price of these may still be a bit high, but will grow less. And by judicious choosing, the market basket may be aided without paying prices out of reason. The coming of spring vegetables forces down the price of the stored root vegetables, and these should not be neglected, because many of them are still attractive and nutritious.
Spinach Timbales 1½ cups cooked spinach, finely chopped 2 tablespoons butter 2 eggs, slightly beaten ? cup milk ? teaspoon salt ? teaspoon pepper Few drops onion juice 2 teaspoons vinegar 8 round slices bread, fried in butter 8 slices tomato or 1 cup tomato sauce
HEALTH IN THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM
Combine first 8 ingredients. Fill buttered timbale molds. Bake in pan of hot water in slow oven. Cover bread with tomato or tomato sauce. Turn spinach mold on each. If tomato was used, serve with white sauce.
Glazed Carrots 2 cups carrots 3 tablespoons fat 1 tablespoon sugar Stock or water
Scrape and wash carrots of uniform size, preferably small new ones. Simmer until tender. Melt the fat, add the carrots, sprinkle with sugar and cook over a hot fire until they begin to brown. Add a small amount of stock or water and cook and stir until glazed.
Potato Croquettes (Stuffed with Sausage) 2 cups potato, boiled and riced 2 beaten eggs 2 tablespoons melted butter 3 sausages Crumbs
Mix the potato, egg and butter well together. Take a small portion of the mixture, roll out one-half inch thick on a floured board, cut with a four-inch cutter. Put in half a cooked sausage, bringing the edges together so that the sausage is entirely enclosed. Repeat until all the mixture is used. Roll in slightly beaten egg, then in crumbs and let dry. Place croquettes in a frying basket, not more than three at a time, and fry in deep fat to a delicate brown color at a temperature of 380 degrees Fah. Roll on brown paper. Garnish with parsley.
Boston Baked Beans 1 quart navy beans ¼ pound fat salt pork 1 tablespoon salt 3 tablespoons sugar 319 1 tablespoon or 1 cup molasses, according to taste ¼ teaspoon mustard, if desired Boiling water.
Pick over beans, cover with cold water, and soak over night. Drain, cover with fresh water, heat slowly. Keeping water below the boiling point, and cook until skins will burst when struck by a draft of air. Drain beans. Scald pork and scrape, remove ¼ inch slice, and put in bottom of bean pot. Cut through rind of remaining pork every half-inch, making cuts 1 inch deep. Put beans in pot and bury pork in beans, leaving rind exposed. Mix salt, molasses, sugar, and 1 cup boiling water and pour over beans. If that is not enough liquid to cover beans, add a little more boiling water. Cover bean pot and bake 6-8 hours in a slow oven, uncovering the last hour of cooking, that rind may become brown and crisp.
Corn Fritters 1 cup canned corn ? cup flour ½ teaspoon baking powder ½ teaspoon salt Few grains paprika 1 egg
Chop corn, drain, add dry ingredients mixed and sifted. Add egg yolk beaten until thick. Fold in the egg white, beaten until stiff. Drop spoonfuls on well greased frying pan or in deep fat. When well browned, drain on brown paper and serve hot with maple syrup.
Cream of Vegetable Soup 1-1 cup cooked vegetables, mashed or chopped 3 cups milk 2 slices onion 3 tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons flour Salt and pepper
320 Melt butter in sauce pan and mix with flour. When well blended add the milk, which has been scalded with the onion. Remove the onion and stir until boiling point is reached. Add vegetables and vegetable stock and boil 2 minutes. Put through a sieve and season to taste. If desired, sprinkle with grated cheese. A combination of almost any vegetables may be used.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Asparagus Salad
Marinate cooked asparagus. Chill thoroughly, arrange several stalks on each plate on bed of lettuce or other salad green. Make stripe band across middle, using finely chopped hard-cooked egg white, hard-cooked egg yolk forced through a strainer, chopped pickles, and chopped pimento for the different stripes. Serve with French Dressing made with lemon juice.
The Relief Society Teachers By Fern Rose McBride
Mary Evans had the blues. The baby was cross with a bad cold, and the other boy had been burned, and scratched by the cat. With the two crying, she felt like bursting into tears herself. Besides that, she was lonesome for her husband, who was away earning a living for his little family. And her mother, who had moved away a few months before. The housework was done and the usual lure of music or drawing or reading failed to interest her today. As she sat down and gazed through the window at the bleak trees and shivering birds, she thought to herself. "Here I am, practically snowbound. I can't go to Relief Society meetings in such cold weather, with the babies. Since Mother left, no one comes to see me."
"Why the Relief Society Teachers are coming!" she exclaimed to her small son, and grabbed the brush to smooth his tousled hair.
A knock sounded, and she opened the door to welcome the visitors.
"There is no lesson this time, so we are just making a friendly call to see how everyone is getting along," said Mrs. Prescott.
They talked about many things, and exchanged ideas and thoughts.
"My, what wonderful women," thought Mary, after they had gone. "Mrs. Wilson is a widow with four boys to support and Mrs. Prescott has eight children, besides three of her motherless sisters. I don't see how they manage."
She felt more cheerful, after talking with her mother's friends. Soon the baby awakened from his nap, so sweet and good-natured that she began to hum, forgetting she had ever been down-hearted.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Manager - Louise Y. Robinson Editor Assistant Manager - Mary Connelly Kimball Amy Brown Lyman
VOL. XX MAY, 1933 No. 5
EDITORIAL
Conferences
THE Conferences of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and of the Auxiliary Organizations are wonderful institutions. People from far and near assemble and the routine of their lives for a time is broken. Their cares and perplexities are left behind and they assemble and are physically and spiritually refreshed by the change. They go back to their homes with enlarged vision, increased faith, greater hope, a firmer determination and a new outlook. New friendships have been formed; old ties renewed and strengthened. They have had an opportunity to talk over their problems and achievements with their fellow members from different parts of the Church.
Relief Society Conference
THE consensus of opinion of those privileged to attend our Relief Society Conference this April has been that it will go down in history as an outstanding one. The attendance was remarkable when we consider the difficulty people have in getting money for traveling expenses. All but one of the Stakes and six Missions were represented. The Singing Mothers gave delight to all who heard them. They furnished music for one session of General Conference and President Grant complimented them very highly. The hand-work sent from different Stakes and Missions was a delight to all who viewed it. The beauty, perfection and variety of the work opened the eyes of many people to this phase of Relief Society
Editor Amy Brown Lyman Assistant Manager Mary Connelly Kimball
322 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
activity. Only those closely connected with the organizations had any idea of the scope of the work done and the skill of our Relief Society women in handcraft. We doubt if so many quilts were ever before assembled. The help given in feeding the children and in their playthings will be very suggestive and helpful. We thank all those who made this display such a marked success. We wish all our members could have seen it and been thrilled with gratitude as were those privileged to view it.
General Conference
UNUSUALLY fine spirited addresses pregnant with well being to the Church membership, if heeded, marked the 103rd Annual Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The Word of Wisdom was most emphatically stressed. President Grant devoted most of his address to this law of health. Brother Talmage pointed out that prior to the depression members of the Church had been told by their leaders to " 'keep out of debt and not go into expanding schemes.' They were told of the times now upon us and those who had ears to hear acted on this advice and were benefited." He asserted that the emphasis laid on health during the conference had a deep significance. Said he, "Have you not read of the pestilences which are to be visited on the earth in the latter days? They are among the judgments prophesied for these times. Those who care for their health and keep strong are the ones who will survive. If a pestilence comes, let it not take you because of your poor health. Prohibition was stressed and the people urged to do all in their power that the 18th Amendment would not be repealed. Brother J. Reuben Clark was sustained as Second Counselor to President Grant and Brother Samuel O. Bennion made one of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies. President Clark pointed out that "We must again yield fealty to the law that mouldering wealth, however great, is a mere shadow compared with the living, enduring riches of the mind and heart. We must remember the command given to Israel of old—'Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself'—which, says James, is the 'royal law according to the Scriptures.' "The World problem is not primarily one of finance, but requires unselfishness, industry, courage, confidence character, heart, temperance, integrity and righteousness. The world has been on a wild debauch, materially and spiritually; it must recover in the same way the drunken reprobate recovers—by repentance and right living. "Standing before. Capernaum, Jesus said: 'Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.' To the multitudes on the mount he said: 'Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all these things shall be added.' The Psalmist sang: 'The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether'. President Ivins affirmed that we will survive and emerge from our present and unfortunate condition a wiser, happier and better people EDITORIAL no matter what our suffering may be before we win the victory. "It will come to our country, if it is to come at all, through the united efforts of the American people, whose souls, I believe, will turn to the Lord. Deliverance will not come by a miracle from heaven, but, I believe the Lord will endow us with wisdom and with his help will work out our deliverance." He concluded by saying that his faith in the membership of the 323 Church is unshaken, and he is sure that "by faith, with work added, we will carry the Church through to glorious triumph regardless of the sacrifices which may be required." The people were exhorted to keep up their courage, to shun idleness, cast out greed and ambition and selfishness and bitterness and to return to the old virtues, industry, thrift, honesty, self reliance, independence of spirit self discipline and mutual helpfulness. The Church is Strengthened EOPLE of the Church are delighted with the elevation of Elder J. Reuben Clark, Jr., to the position of Second Counselor in the First Presidency and Elder Samuel ©. Bennion to be one of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies. These men have demonstrated their devotion to the Church. They have lived lives consistent with its highest ideals. They are men who have strong and unswerving testimonies of the divinity of this great latter-day work and are willing to devote their lives to its welfare. May physical strength, mental and spiritual power commensurate with the duties devolving upon them be their portion. May our Father's choicest blessings be with them in their ministry. '*Joseph Smith an American Prophet"' ELDER JOHN HENRY EVANS in "Joseph Smith An American Prophet' has produced a most interesting book and one that will be of great value in Church literature. He has followed only source material and has endeavored to present the available facts without smothering them in opinion. He says he has endeavored to make an interesting book and to give an impression of Joseph Smith and his work and thought, rather than to pile facts upon facts, and to this end has added as much human interest as possible. Since it is true that "whether we view the Prophet of Palmyra as a fascinating personality, as a revealer of truth, as the founder of a church, or as the exponent of a large body of religious thought, there can be no doubt that his figure as times go on will bulk larger and larger against the background of history," this treatise will therefore be widely read. The book is divided into three parts; First: "The Prophet's Extraordinary Career;" Second: "The Prophet's Religious Philosophy;" and Third: "The Prophet's Explanation of Himself." While the volume will be of great interest to the people there are sentences that will startle and call forth protest from those who believe that Joseph Smith was divinely inspired in his mission. The book is beautifully gotten out by the MacMillan Company. Thou Livest! By the Late Josephine Spencer Lo, our Redeemer! From the death bands riven, Gracious and strong, unspotted from Earth's stain, Who but to Thee could such a task be given— Son of the Highest—to rend Evil's chain? Doubt's subtle fetters, Sin's untold dominion— Ills that have bound Earth's children since the day When that sleek serpent, Satan's chosen minion, Whispered the lie that smoothed Man's downward way. Strong warriors all—the foes of Thy high mission— Legions encamped in Mutiny's defense— Lined on high plains in proud and bold sedition, Or in sly ambush linking chains of sense. Brief Thy life's span for such colossal treasure Reaped from Earth's round since that immortal night When Thy lone Star arose Man's fate to measure 'By the high Word emblazoned in its light. Fierce was the fray, though swiftly timed its horror, And then, behold—against Sin's mighty horde Lo! Thou hast conquered—Thou, God's chosen warrior— Crowned by Thy triumph Earth's eternal Lord. No furthest cry too faint for thine attending— No humblest soul beyond Thy sleepless care, One missing lamb a loss to Thee transcending Downfall of thrones, or crash of worlds in air. So we revere Thee, King of God's anointing, So do we love Thee by a gentler name— Brother, Redeemer—by the Heaven's appointing Sent us, Thy kindred, with Thy life to claim! A Promise of Spring By Tressa Love Hanson The Winter has been long and dreary The ground is still covered with snow And yet as I gaze from my doorway There's a promise of spring. Soft and low. There's a breeze coming up from the southland That whispers through trees tall and bare And listen! A meadowlark's singing: There's a promise of. Spring in the air. For Members of the RELIEF SOCIETY LITERARY CLASS ONLY— "Huckleberry Finn" By MARK TWAIN School smelt $1.25 Postpaid. Cash with the Order  Quantity Limited 'This is the Book for May Lessons Order Now DESERET BOOK COMPANY Salt Lake City, Utah Springtime Spring is the house-cleaning season. What to do with the prized magazines and periodicals that each spring finds stored away in attic and basement, serving no better purpose than to accumulate dust and consume Se space, is a problem that wrinkles the brow of many a house-wife. Let us urge you not to let this valuable reading material remain hidden away when at a surprisingly low cost you can convert it into handsomely bound volumes, gracing your library shelves, where you and your family can find easy access to the gems that these magazines contain. A card from you, stating the quantity of such material that you would like bound up, will bring a prompt response quoting costs. We are offering a special discount for ten or more volumes bound at one time, The Deseret News Press When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City Your Family and — Mine So many families apparently living under: ideal home conditions, fail to provide for the continuance of that happiness by arranging A Definite Fut For little cost every household can absolutely guarantee their future happiness and comfort with Beneficial Life Insurance. The one savings-investment-protection plan that has stood the acid test—has always maintained a value of 100 cents on the dollar and payable on demand. Beneficial Life Insurance is cbstndaing because you receive Sti Lous Storr Sarnticispatting Raltew WHICH MEANS POLICYHOLDERS SHARE THE NET EARNINGS EACH YEAR BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO HOME OFFICE: SALT LAKE CITY HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager Volume JUNE, 1933 No. 6 RELIEF SOCIETY The UTAH SUGAR UTAH BERRIES A PERFECT combination for those delicious home-made preserves which will taste oh so good, next winter. Complete Suits for Men and Women — Children's Clothing A Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p, m. Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah DOING OUR BEST We are doing our best to avoid raising our grocery prices.. We are glad to see Butter, Cheese, Flour and other food items advance in price, because such advances will be of aid to the much depressed producer. You can depend on prices not being raised in our stores until it is absolutely necessary. O. P SKAGGS Cfficient Service FOOD System STORES "A Surety of Purity" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine AMERICA'S FINEST The Celebrated ROUND OAK RANGE We are exclusive agents. Beauty and Utility Combined in this new Range FREE $16. With Every DEXTER WASHER Above $49.95 Call us for Free Demonstration We are big dealers in the much-ta! Ked-of Grunow and Norge REFRIGERATORS We Sell the New GRUNOW REFRIGERATOR. A new principle of refrigeration The same refrigeration as is used in large office buildings and at the White House. LIVING ROOM SUITES And everything to furnish the home. THE GRANITE FURNITURE CO. 1050 E. 21st SOUTH "Today's Milk Today" GRADE "A"? Pasteurized Milk Brainard's Cottonwood Dairy Call Hyland 670 Ask any of our Routemen About Trade Certificates Clean Up — and Paint Up Do It Now! And use BENNETT'S Paint Products Pure Paint for Exteriors Gloss Finish for Interiors Quick Enamel for Gay Coloring Manufactured and Sold by BENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO. 61-65 W First South and by Bennett Dealers throughout Utah, Idaho and Neighboring States. SEE THE NEW EUREKA VACUUM CLEANER NEW—MODERN—BEAUTIFUL With Full Floating Brush, Beautiful Red Bag and 14 Other Major Improvements This super-powered Eureka De Luxe cleans deeply, swiftly and thoroughly—removing all deeply embedded, stubborn dirt by "High Vacuum''—the identical cleaning principle of all costly installed systems built into large buildings and hotels. The new "full floating" brush automatically removes all lint, hair and other surface litter. $5.00 Down Balance on Easy Terms Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 177 East Broadway Phone Wasatch 4764 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. XX JUNE, 1933 No. 6 CONTENTS Portrait of President Samuel O. BennionElla J. Coulam 325 President Samuel O. Bennion.............. 0.00. Spencer Kimball 327 Guest Ivy Williams Stone 330 Bending the Twig.............. 00. Istelle Webb Thomas 335 Portrait of Mrs. Luacine Savage Clark 336 My Wealth.........H. H. Ramsay 337 M. C. Stephens 337 The Importance of Standardization in County Welfare Work.. Joseph A. Geddes 338 The "Minichoor"...... Ruth Partridge Richan 347 A Most Interesting Exhibit 350 Be Gentle—Be Yourself—Recognize Worth in Others MINIS Elise B. Alder 351 Mormon Lake Fringed with Yellow Pine Timber 353 Prohibitionists, Fight On!.................Senator Morris Sheppard 354 Happenings......... Annie Wells Cannon 357 Convention of the Woman's National Committee for Law Enforcement......... Louise Y. Robison 358 Happy Mothers.............. Marba C. Josephson 359 Bertha A. Kleinman 361 Your House Beautiful..............Mabel Margaret Luke 362 A North Texas Desert Scene........... 367 Choosing a Dessert Lucy Rose Middleton 368 "Try Me, Saith the Lord" Joseph H. Dean 370 The Resurrection of Iskabog ..........Ina G. Johnson 372 The New Jerusalem........Frank C. Steele 374 The Chicago Conference.......... 376 Friendliness............................................. 377 Notes from the Field...................................... 378 Notes to the Field ....................................... 381 Editorial—Founder's Day in Europe.......................... 382 Family Relationships...................................... 383 Think of These Things..................................... 383 President Robison Attends Convention Abroad................. 384 Sympathy................................................ 384
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3123
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear:
No. 1 New style, ribbed lgt. wt. Combed Cotton. An excellent Ladies' number............$1.00
No. 2 Old style, ribbed lgt. wt. cotton, our standard garment 1.10
No. 3 Ribbed med. wt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number. Men's new or old style— 1.25
No. 4 Ribbed heavy wt. Unbleached cotton. Our double back number. Men's new or old style 1.50
No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number. Men's new or old style....$2.50
No. 6 Light weight garment, cotton, Ladies' new style or old style. Silk Stripe................... .95
No. 7 Light weight Spring and Autumn garment. Men only .85
No. 8 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only............. 1.00
No. 9 Medium wt. Silk for men and women, new style only. Non-Run.................. 1.50
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, short legs and sleeves or ankle length legs, are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit.
Postage prepaid on orders accompanied by money order in United States. Special discount to missionaries.
Our Jack Frost Blankets are made of Utah Wool and Utah Labor Write for Prices
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL
Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates
PERFECTLY SATISFIED
A large, slouchy colored man went shuffling down the road whistling like a lark. His clothes were ragged and his shoes were out at toes and heels, and he appeared to be in the depths of poverty for all his mirth. As he passed a prosperous-looking house a man stepped from the doorway and hailed him.
"Hey, Jim! I got a job for you. Do you want to make a quarter?"
"No, sah," said the ragged one. "I done got a quarter."—Everybody's Magazine.
THE UNIVERSAL EGOTIST
We all would be happy as brothers, And a beautiful world this would be, Had it merely happened that others Were only as perfect as we.
L.D.S. GARMENTS
Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid.
OLD OR NEW STYLE
MAN OR LADY ONLY. Light Rib Cotton.................... $ .75 Med. Rib Cotton..................... .95 Fine Knit, Lt. Weight................ 1.25 Lt. Wt. Rayon Stripe................ 1.35 Rayon Plated........................ 1.35 Double Carded, Med. Wt.............. 1.35 Non-run Viscose Rayon............... 1.35
BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
144 Spring and Needle Weave............$1.00 464 Med. Rib Cotton................... .95 205 Rib Knit, Lt. Weight.............. 1.15 33 Fine Knit, Lt. Weight.............. 1.25 228 Lt. Wt. Rayon Stripe.............. 1.35 84 Rayon Plated...................... 1.35 256 Double Carded, Med. Wt............ 1.35 405 Non-run Viscose Rayon............. 1.35
758 Med. Hvy. Cot., Ecru or White.... 1.45 92 Lt. Wt. Rayon Stripe.............. 1.00 306 Non-run Viscose Rayon............ 1.75
At the Century of Progress Exposition
An opportunity to sit beneath an artificial sky and see the heavens revealed in all the glory of a million stars will be available to visitors to Chicago's 1933 World's Fair—A Century of Progress Exposition. This experience will unfold itself in the Adler Planetarium which will be a part of the Exposition next year. The Planetarium stands on Northerly Island, adjoining the mainland and comprising part of the Exposition site. It is Oriental architecture, with a vast copper dome. Inside, by means of a projecting machine, the firmament passes in review. Stars and planets, the constellation and the solar system sweep across the dome. The Planetarium reduces centuries to years and days and hours to seconds. Spectators may look backward or forward in time, depending on the operator of the projection machine. How did the heavens appear when Christ walked on the earth? How did the sky appear at the time of Galileo? Which star will be the Pole Star, thousands of years hence? What was the appearance of the skies thousands of years ago when the Southern Cross was visible in what is now Chicago? The answer to these and scores of other questions will be found by a visit to the Planetarium. In a few hours more can be explained by this mechanical sky and solar system than many months' lecturing and blackboard demonstration in a classroom. The experience is one that visitors will remember for many years to come.
How man reaches down into the depths of the sea and learns of the strange marine life existing miles below the salt water surface will be explained to visitors to Chicago's 1933 World's Fair—A Century of Progress Exposition—by means of a massive "Bathysphere." The "Bathysphere" will be loaned to the Exposition by Dr. William Beebe, the famous naturalist. This curious device is about six feet in diameter. It has three windows of fused quartz through which the explorer observes the submarine plants and creatures around him. The "Bathysphere" is let down by a cable that will not twist and connected with the surface by two light wires and two telephone wires enclosed in heavy rubber insulation. Thus the diver is in constant communication with the world above him. Oxygen tanks and open pans of chemicals for the absorption of carbon dioxide keep the air fresh and clear during the descent. The "Bathysphere" will be one of the features of an exhibit entitled "The Sea as a Place to Live" which will be shown in the Hall of Science. The contrast between tropic and arctic waters and between the surface and the tremendous depths below it will be portrayed in this exhibit. The visitor will learn whether he would care to be able to swim down to a depth of three miles, provided he had to make the same adjustments as the fishy inhabitants of these regions have made.
June By Ella J. Coulam
Oh! Month of brides and roses, Most favored of the year, No wonder you're so happy For the glorious Summer's here.
Your wealth of flowers and sunshine Awaken love and art, And Cupid in his hiding place Sends out his piercing dart.
You rouse the sleeping butterflies With perfume laden air, And humming birds and honey bees Are flitting everywhere.
Your gentle zephyr breezes Keep nature all atune. We are thankful for the harmony Of the merry month of June.
PRESIDENT SAMUEL O. BENNION
THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XX JUNE, 1933 No. 6
President Samuel O. Bennion By Spencer Kimball
In the elevation of Samuel O. Bennion to become one of the General Authorities of the Church, there is wide spread satisfaction and joy. There are few men in the church better known or more loved than the new President of Seventy who was sustained April 6, 1933, to the place made vacant October 24, 1932, by the passing of President Joseph W. McMurrin. In every city, town and cross road in the Intermountain West including those in the Colonies of Mexico, and the Provinces of Canada—everywhere are men and women who know him personally, have sung and preached with him and labored in Missionary work under his wise direction. His picture is in thousands of homes, his memory in thousands of hearts, and his influence has enriched the lives of these Missionaries who now preside in Priesthood and Auxiliary work and in wards and stakes throughout the Church. In his years of missionary work, he has seen great numbers made happy by the light of the Gospel brought to them by the young missionaries. His voice has been heard by hundreds of thousands; countless miles has he traveled in this great work. In his presidency over the Central States Mission, he has directed the work in about one fifth of the area of the U. S. and among about one seventh of the people of the nation. His interest in his numerous family of missionaries has not waned when their releases were signed and sent from the office. Instead, he has been concerned constantly in their further activity and progress.
Born in Taylorsville, Utah, June 9, 1874, to pioneer parents, he grew up in a frontier environment. The varied experiences thus gained enriched his life and with the liberal education acquired by him, gave him those splendid qualities of versatility, firmness, yet human kindness, perseverance and ability to meet every emergency and to succeed in his righteous desires. He was ordained a Deacon when a youth and later was sustained as president of the quorum when his grandfather, Samuel Bennion, was bishop. He was later ordained an Elder and afterwards a Seventy, which last ordination made him eligible for the high trust now imposed upon him. His early life was spent on the farm and in the livestock and sheep business; these lines have held his interest even to the present time.
328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
MRS. CHARLOTTE T. BENNION
His twenty-nine years of missionary work began in March, 1904, when he was called to fill a mission in the Central States. Arriving in Kansas City, Missouri, the mission headquarters, about November 12, he was assigned to labor as a traveling Elder. His outstanding work and leadership brought him to the front, and in July, 1905, he was appointed President of the South Texas District in which capacity he served until November of that year when he was selected by President James G. Duffin to be Secretary of the Mission. In these various positions Elder Bennion displayed in rich abundance the rare qualities of leadership, and the Church authorities, recognizing his ability and worth, in October, 1906, called him to be President of the Central States Mission, which important post he still holds. A few months after his appointment in March, 1907, and under the direction of President Joseph F. Smith, he moved mission headquarters to Independence, from which place the Saints were driven by mob violence a hundred years ago. Under his direction a beautiful mission chapel and mission home have been built. Zion's Printing and Publishing Co. was established and housed in an attractive building constructed near, and of the same material as the chapel. Here has been published the "Liahona" and mission tracts and books in great numbers. Many people of the church have been furnished employment. Many splendid chapels have also been built under his direction in the various branches of the mission. His leadership has also been appreciated in his community where he is now vice-president of the Independence Chamber of Commerce, vice-president of the Independence Boy Scout Council, and an honorary life member of the Independence Kiwanis club.
His beautiful and talented wife, Sister Charlotte T. Bennion, has worked side by side with her husband and has made a liberal contribution to the success of this great missionary. They were married August 25th, 1898. Their two children, Dr. B. D. Bennion and Miss Donnetta Bennion, live in Salt Lake. Sister Bennion was perhaps the first woman Mission President of Relief Societies, being appointed in the Fall of 1908. She has served faithfully in that capacity nearly a quarter of a century working her way into the hearts of the women members throughout the mission, as well as winning the love of the hundreds of lady missionaries to whom she has been a real mother.
President Bennion has attended Semi-annual Conferences at Salt Lake and kept in constant touch with the fountain head, thus being able to carry to his missionaries enthusiasm and inspiration in the work. During these years of service, he has visited them quarterly, also meeting with the branches very often. All his missionaries have thrilled with the announcement of his coming to visit. Each will cherish the fond memory of the Priesthood Meeting lasting hours wherein each bore testimony, then sat in rapt attention as the beloved president sat among them or stood in the pulpit expounding doctrine, giving advice of a personal nature, or explaining mission work. Each has gone forth from his presence built up in his faith and fired with enthusiasm to carry the Glad Tidings another quarter with increased force and power.
In his humility is his greatness. He acknowledges he has absorbed and received much from his missionaries. He says: "It has been my pleasure and privilege to have serve with me some of the choicest men and women that have lived in the world. A great part of my joy has been the privilege of witnessing the spiritual growth and development that has come to these young missionaries through their service in the vineyard of our Lord and Savior. Their testimonies have enriched the spiritual atmosphere that has come to me and has greatly enriched and strengthened me in this great work which I have had the joy of doing for the past twenty-nine and a half years."
And when the name of this "Our beloved president" is read in the list of Church Authorities to be sustained in stake and ward throughout the Church, his many saints and missionaries will raise their hands high in joy and pride and satisfaction to know that much deserved and merited advancement has come to this mighty man of valor.
Guests By Ivy Williams Stone
Henry Marshall filled the triple role of recorder, clerk and assessor in and for the county of Luma. At five minutes to five he put away his records, gave the safe dial a vigorous twirl, and hurried out of the office. It had been only another dull, uneventful day. Already his crony Asa Drew occupied one of the two chairs on the court house stoop. Asa was sheriff, treasurer and surveyor, and his duties had been as negligible as his friend's.
"Well," queried Asa, as Henry settled himself in the remaining chair, "any news?"
"Business is terrible," answered Henry dolefully. "Ain't been no recording since Grandma Leek's death deed to Agnes. The assessment notices is all out, and here 'tis the tenth of June, and nary a marriage license have I issued. Time was, when folks stayed home to get married and give parties with lemonade and rice. We live too close to that fancy new court house in Dumas county. Now folks just jump into a little bug, sneak off to some other place without telling nobody, and get back to work for the next day." Henry emphasized his disgust for modern matrimony with a vigorous stamp on the cement floor.
"I figured Agnes Leek and Robert Nash would be getting married this month, but with them old folks hanging round her place like a couple of millstones, 'taint likely that poor girl can ever celebrate her wedding."
"Something's got to be done," Asa's brow drew together with a frown of deep concern. "We all felt it was fitting and proper that Agnes and Robert should wait till old Grandma Leek passed on. She'd been so good to Agnes, only mother the child ever knew. As far as this town was concerned, Agnes could a married the day after Grandma was buried. Grandma would a liked it that way herself. What right's Daniel Leek got, moving into Agnes' house, taking up the spare room, eating her victuals, and making her wait on him? I heard," here Asa leaned toward his friend and spoke in a confidential whisper, "I heard he even rings a bell at midnight, and Agnes has to take him up a cup of hot milk! He takes a pink pill at seven in the morning, a black one at eleven and a white one at three in the afternoon.
"He ain't no worse than Henrietta Morris is," Henry's voice added fuel to the fire of indignation which the entire village shared with the two old men. "She moved right into Grandma's room and has to have her back rubbed with arnica twice every night. They ain't poor and dependent. She's got a son and he's got a daughter. They got to be told they're in the way. They got to get out."
"Who's going to do the telling?" Asa stared belligerently at Henry—Henry stared defiantly at Asa. Their faces softened, their anger died before the dread possibility of being the messenger on this unpleasant errand.
"I'd rather storm San Juan Hill again," muttered Henry and Asa who had shared that glorious battle with him, nodded a grave assent.
Down the street came Robert Nash, the young man who had GUESTS waited patiently to marry Agnes Leek. He was supper bound and his mouth should have been puckered into a whistle and his step should have been buoyant. But his evening meal would not be served in a vine covered cottage, where he had visioned Agnes would be waiting for him, with the delicious dishes she knew how to concoct. He would be served warmed over potatoes and tough steak at the dreary little restaurant. With this certainty ahead of him, Robert's step was almost a shuffle and he hardly looked up as Henry Marshall called and beckoned to him.
"Hey, come here," called Henry with sudden inspiration. "Young man," he demanded with mock severity as Robert looked at him inquiringly but with little interest, "do you know how cave men got their wives?"
"Marriage by force was not uncommon among the peons," began Robert, but Henry interrupted.
"Cave men stole their wives," announced Henry solemnly. "Might was right, and any young man with red blood a-coursing through his veins oughtn't to let anything or anybody interfere with the course of true love."
"Amen!" added Asa fervently.
Henry beckoned to Robert again and whispered into his ear. Robert brightened perceptibly, his eyes gleamed with sudden resolve and he laughed outright.
"No wonder the Spanish-American War didn't last long," he answered. "If all the soldiers had had your daring, Henry, it wouldn't have lasted a month."
Daniel Leek, who was the youngest brother of Grandma's husband had come from Chicago for her funeral. It had been so thoughtful of him, all the village agreed, to show such respect for his sister-in-law. And Mrs. Henrietta Morris, youngest sister of Grandma, had come all the way from San Francisco to attend the funeral of her sister. This had been family respect too.
But when they both stayed on, when Daniel had moved his two trunks into the spare room, and Henrietta's three trunks, and two suitcases had been unpacked into Grandma's closet and bureau, and her parrot had arrived by express, the villagers had become suspicious.
Grandma Leek had trained the young Agnes to be hospitable to every guest who ever crossed the threshold. The wish of a guest must be law, and Agnes, who had patiently cared for her frail old grandmother, took up the care of a dyspeptic old man and a rheumatic old woman without open complaint. Surely Aunt Henrietta's son would soon send for her to return to him in San Francisco. It couldn't be so very long before Uncle Daniel would hear from his daughter in Chicago, demanding his return.
But the weeks had drifted into months. Now it was June and the infrequent letters from the absent children had never suggested the return of their parents.
On the infrequent occasions when he had a chance to see Agnes alone, the impatient lover Robert had spoken volumes about leeches and hangers-on and millstones. But like old Henry and Asa and all the other villagers, he was loath to face the piteous look in the eyes of two old people, and tell them they were not wanted.
"I tell you, Aggie," he exploded, "it isn't fair. I didn't mind waiting until Grandma had lived out her days. You owed it to her, but what is this old man to you?"
"He said he would include me in his will," remembering her manners Agnes tried to smile. "He tells me that many times each day."
"What does Aunt Henrietta mean to us?" demanded Robert.
"I don't intend to let you wear yourself out rubbing liniment into her old joints."
"She says she intends to tell her son to come here and see what a wonderful wife I would make."
"I know that already," whispered Robert Nash, and if Agnes had had powder on her cheek it would have been rubbed into a blue serge coat. "Her son can come and take his mother back to 'Frisco, but that's all he can do," whispered Robert.
While old Henry Marshall was whispering suggestions to young Robert, Agnes was preparing supper for her two guests down in the little vine covered cottage. There was spinach water, hot milk and strained peaches for Uncle Daniel, whose delicate stomach could not digest ordinary fare. There was steak, hot biscuits and strawberry jam for Aunt Henrietta, who felt that in her remaining years she should gratify all reasonable desires. While Agnes laid Uncle Daniel's meal at the south end of the dining table and Aunt Henrietta's at the north end, her two guests sat on the shaded east porch and watched for the evening paper.
"You'd better go in and help Agnes with your supper," suggested Daniel Leek pointedly. "I'll get the paper."
"Agnes is young and strong and does not need help," replied Aunt Henrietta caustically. "I'm reading a serial in that paper and I intend to get it when it comes. When one is old and crippled with rheumatism they should be permitted little indulgences," she finished plaintively.
"When a man's stomach is wrecked he should be given a little peace before eating. My doctor said so."
"When are you returning to your daughter in Chicago?" queried Aunt Henrietta with subtle sarcasm.
"The day after you return to your son in 'Frisco," retorted Uncle Daniel with emphasis.
Further amenities were cut short by the arrival of the paper boy. Instead of throwing a twisted wad against the screen door, he got off his bicycle, came decorously up the walk and presented each of the two with a smooth, new paper.
"Compliments of Bob Nash," he grinned. "He said he wanted you both to read the paper at the same time—just for once!"
"That was a wonderful meal, Agnes," beamed Uncle Henry an hour later. "The next time I go to town I shall visit my lawyer and have him remake my will. A girl who can cook like you, shall be generously rewarded."
"Those biscuits and jam were perfection," added Aunt Henrietta. "The next time I answer a letter from my son, I shall emphasize what a wonderful wife you would make. If anything could lessen the pangs of rheumatism, your cooking certainly can."
"My doctor says," Uncle Daniel looked pointedly at the empty biscuit plate, "that rheumatism can be controlled by diet. Starches and sweets are the worst possible foods you could eat."
"When I want your advice, Daniel Leek, I'll ask for it," Aunt Henrietta stalked majestically from the room, but stopped at the door. "If that young man is coming here again tonight, Agnes, please leave him long enough to come and rub my back when I ring. The last time he came, I rang three times before you heard me."
"She's getting heavier and heavier," muttered Uncle Daniel with no regard for chivalry. "The sea air would do her good."
Aunt Henrietta remembered later that her nine o'clock glass of water had tasted a little sweet, but Agnes had rubbed her shoulder extra long, so she forgot to complain. Uncle Daniel also remembered that his midnight milk, left by his bed in a thermos bottle, was off flavor, but when a girl has a beau on the brain she couldn't always be depended upon.
"This burning of the candle at both ends has got to stop," he muttered. "House keeping and courting can't go hand in hand."
Then he became suddenly sleepy, that warm milk was bringing blessed oblivion. Strange he had not thought of a thermos bottle before. He drifted into such a heavy slumber that he did not hear the creaking of auto brakes, nor stealthy steps on the basement stairs.
Aunt Henrietta wakened with a start. The late sunshine was streaming into her room. There was no sound of Agnes in the kitchen. In fact an ominous silence pervaded the whole house—almost like the day they had buried Grandma.
"Agnes!" she called, and again with more emphasis, "AGNES! We've over slept."
Getting no response, Aunt Henrietta sighed and reluctantly got out of bed. Her shoulder should be rubbed before she dressed. Strange that Agnes should have forgotten this courtesy due a guest. She went into Agnes' room. The bed was unoccupied, had never even been turned down! She turned aghast. The open closet door revealed bare hangers, the dresser drawers were empty—Agnes was gone!
As she dressed hurriedly, Uncle Daniel's voice boomed down from 333 the spare room. "Agnes," he called, "If you're going to sleep this late mornings, I'll send that young man about his business! I should have had my pink pill and hot water an hour ago!"
"Perhaps," said Henrietta to herself with a touch of wicked satisfaction, "perhaps if he has to heat his water and find his pill, his stomach won't be so calm!"
They met in the kitchen shortly and glared at each other with venom.
"Agnes is gone," announced Aunt Henrietta. "Her bed wasn't even slept in. Her closet is empty and you drove her away. Drove her out of her own house with your pills and your gruels and your hot milk. The child couldn't stand it any longer."
"Of course you had nothing to do with her departure," Uncle Daniel's answer could never be called the retort courteous. "I suppose she enjoyed cooking biscuits and steaks for you, and that your liniments smelled like perfume to her."
"This was the home of my beloved sister, and I had the right to come here. Agnes needed a chaperon."
"And this was the home of my loved brother, and I had the right to come here, too," retorted Uncle Daniel. "I am sure that the heating of a little water and milk did not add greatly to the duties of a healthy young woman. But it is long past the time I should have taken my twelve ounces of hot water. If you will kindly stand aside, and let me turn a switch on the stove, I will heat my own water."
With the air of a martyr Uncle Daniel measured out his allotted portion of water, placed the pan on the stove, and turned on the switch. He went to the medicine shelf and took down the box of pink pills. He 334 dropped one into the glass and turned to inspect his water. It was still cold.
"Strange," he muttered, "this stove does not heat." Then with sudden inspiration he snapped on the wall switch. The ceiling globe did not even flicker.
"The electricity has been turned off," he announced in cold, hard tones.
Aunt Henrietta's mouth gaped open. With terrible fear gripping at her heart, she pulled open the bread box. There was not even one biscuit left. The sugar bin was empty. The flour bin was empty. There was no butter nor eggs in the refrigerator. Even Uncle Daniel's grade A pasteurized milk was not there.
With more speed than she had ever shown before, Aunt Henrietta hurried to the basement. Only the night before she had gloated over the forty-eight pints of sun preserved strawberries which stood in neat rows on the fruit room shelf. Now those shelves were glaring with emptiness! This was the last straw. She returned to the kitchen, ashen faced.
"There isn't one ounce of food left in this whole house," her voice was half frightened, half indignant. "I cannot imagine a granddaughter of my lamented sister being so discourteous to a guest!"
"I could kindle a fire in the coal part of the stove," suggested Uncle Daniel in a mollified tone. A mutual need made them more amenable to each other than they had been since their arrival. "I'll get some kindling and coal from the woodhouse."
He returned in a minute empty handed, wearing much the same expression Aunt Henrietta had worn when she discovered her cherished jam was missing.
"That coal house is as bare of fuel as a dance floor. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE There's nothing there except a lawn mower and a watering can."
"We'll phone the grocery store to send us an order of prepared foods," being urged by hunger Aunt Henrietta was resourceful. But the telephone gave no answering hum as she impatiently moved the hook up and down.
"We're marooned—like Robinson Crusoe," she wailed. "I'd as soon go hungry as eat in that restaurant—'taint clean."
"I got an alcohol lamp in my trunk," volunteered Uncle Daniel. "I could heat my water on that, and you could have some too," he added generously.
"And I got a box of soda crackers," added Aunt Henrietta. "If you soak them good in your hot water, maybe your stomach won't object."
Uncle Daniel sat at the south end of the little kitchen table; Aunt Henrietta at the north end. Between them the odorous alcohol lamp sputtered its blue flame until the water steamed. The box of stale crackers lay open between them.
"It's a lucky thing I never really included that girl in my will," muttered Uncle Daniel. "It saves me the expense of making a new one. I won't leave her a penny."
"And I won't tell my son what a wonderful cook she is either," added Aunt Henrietta. "I don't think he'd be interested in her for a wife."
"Why don't you go to your daughter in Chicago?" she flared with sudden anger. "You ought to know by now that you ain't wanted here."
"And why don't you go to your son in 'Frisco?" taunted Uncle Daniel. "The sea breeze might be hard on rheumatism, but it would be warmer than the reception you're getting here."
The lonely old man at the south GUESTS end of the table leaned suddenly toward the lonely old woman at the north end of the table.
"I don't go because I ain't wanted!" they cried in unison.
As soon as the bald truth was confessed each felt better.
"My daughter has three children and her husband only works part time and the house is too small, and the place is never quiet."
"And my son is married already!" wailed Aunt Henrietta with confidence. "They live in a little apartment with only a kitchenette and a built-in bed in the living room. There isn't room for me. I don't know where on earth to go now. I've got money enough to live on, but it's terrible lonesome in boarding houses and hotels. I—I—"
"You ain't the only one that's lonesome," added Uncle Daniel. "I've got money enough to care for me, plenty, but I can't stand the quarreling, arguing children. I say, Henrietta, I know I'm a cranky old man, and I ain't been very nice spoken to you, but suppose you and me, 335 suppose we do what Robert and Agnes seem to have done—suppose we elope?"
The lean, veined old hand at the south end of the table reached out and patted the fat, flaccid hand at the north end.
"I got money enough to subscribe for two papers—morning and evening both."
"And I can make good spinach water, too," whispered Aunt Henrietta.
At five minutes to five Asa Drew, surveyor, treasurer and sheriff of Luma county twirled the dial on his safe and hurried out to the stoop. Henry Marshall, veteran of San Juan Hill, was just coming down the stairs. He wore a look of smug complacency and selected the better of the two chairs, as though it were his by virtue of superior accomplishment.
"You almost beat me again, Asa," he smiled and rubbed his hands jovially, "but I've been a busy man today. I've issued two marriage licenses. Who says Luma County isn't on the map?"
Bending the Twig By Estelle Webb Thomas
"There are so many lectures, books and theories on Child Culture, Behaviorism of Children, etc., so many conflicting ideas upon this important subject, that the average parent, attempting to profit by all he reads is left in a sad state of bewilderment as to the best course to pursue regarding this important subject. It seems to me that if we would only remember that a child's plastic mind is a perfect blank at birth, and that it cannot register that which it does not see or hear, the task would be simpler. Would a child be so apt to fly into a rage who has never witnessed an exhibition of temper? Can he repeat profanity which he has never heard? Will he feel fear if he has never known occasion for fear? Example is everything, and precept very little unless backed up by example. It is not an occasional lecture, but, what we are, our every act and reaction, that is moulding the character of our children.
MRS. LUACINE SAVAGE CLARK Wife of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.
My Wealth By H. H. Ramsay
My wealth consists not of silver and gold, But in a truer and finer expression of soul. Day by day I store the precious gems, Filling life's great coffers o'er their brims.
With the passing of the fleeting hours, My wealth brings to me unbounded powers, For I am sure to invest the increasing toll, With the better elements of a living soul.
My wealth I would not selfishly hide away, But give it back freely in work or play. It's the saving of the spirit of humankind, Beckoning men the better things of life to find.
My priceless wealth none can defile, For it is the sacred smile of a child, Given so freely and with ardor so fine, For one that a moment before was mine.
Spring By M. C. Stephens
Can you feel the caress of the soft Spring air As it falls on your cheek, your neck and hair? Does a gladsome melody wake in your heart As the chilling winter days depart?
There is hope and new faith in the sweet Spring rain As it whispers to you through the window pane. And the poignant triumph of growing things Enters your soul; gives your spirit wings.
There is love and sweet joy in the clear bird calls, Serenely the peace of evening falls, There's new life in every joyous breath. Ah, Spring doth prove there's life after death!
The Importance of Standardization in County Welfare Work By Joseph A. Geddes Professor Sociology Utah State Agricultural College (Address delivered at Relief Society Conference, April 4, 1933)
Through its volunteer service the L. D. S. Relief Society is performing an important service to the intermountain area by developing wide-spread interest, information and practical experience in welfare work. The Relief Society magazine also provides a medium through which a continuous program of education is maintained. The semi-annual conference as contrasted with the annual gatherings of the State and National Conferences further provides an opportunity for improving standards and for the maintenance of that solidarity of spirit on which fruitful group effort depends so much. The development of a satisfactory relationship between volunteer and professional social work is one of the genuinely important problems which the no distant future seems ready to require of our leadership. It is the purpose of this paper to indicate why further standardization is imperative.
Meaning of Standardization
Standardization is to social work what machinery is to production. In the welfare field it means the acceptance and use of evolving social work standards in the fields of (1) research (2) personnel (3) administrative machinery (4) methods of work (5) system of record-keeping and (6) use and development of community resources. It will be of profit to observe the process of standardization in the productive field where it has been carried further than anywhere else. Here according to the National Encyclopedia it means "the making of each commodity in units of absolute uniformity in so far as it can be mechanically attained and the reduction of manufacturing processes to a uniformity as nearly perfect as tools, working conditions and men will permit. This has been accomplished by drawing exact specifications, measurements and descriptions of the goods to be produced and by defining exactly the processes and often the motions in production." Standardization in industry is criticized on the ground that without adequate leisure it kills initiative and induces monotony.
Technical Production has Outstripped Other Fields
In only one great field of living has the methods of science and science's god-son, standardization, been taken in, adopted into the family and made extensive use of. This field is technological or machine production. Many times more money and more brains are employed in research in this field than in all the other fields combined." Every large business concern has its technical staff of well paid experts who are cutting down costs and improving processes. Please bear in mind that standardization in machine production took giant strides forward when the three great inventions—the spinning jenny, the power loom and the steam engine made their appearance during the latter half of the 18th century. But while these great inventions opened up the way and started production along a different trail, the process of standardization has gone on steadily since. We are still in the industrial revolution. Effort has been moved from the large to the small. Thousands, tens of thousands, of small parts of the productive process have come under control. As a result an entire floor of a factory can now be operated by a very few people. Standardization in some fields has meant an increase in productive power of a thousand fold. Progress has been faster during the past 15 years than ever before. Today production per capita is represented in the United States by 30 units, China 1 unit, British India 1¼, Italy 2¾, Japan 3¼, Poland 6, Holland 7, France 8¼, Russia 2½, Austria 8¼, Czecho-Slovakia 9, Germany 12, Belgium 16, Great Britain 18, and Canada 20. In America where standardization has progressed farthest production has increased fastest. It is the acceptance and use of standardization as a continuous growth that has meant so great an increase in efficiency in this country.
The Social Fields are Far Behind
What is the social result of this extraordinary development in industry? The result is that the other fields, namely politics and government, religion, recreation, economic organization, education, urban and rural planning, family life, community organization, etc., have fallen very much in the rear in developing the great possibilities that lie inherent and unworked and largely unknown within them. STANDARDIZATION OF WELFARE WORK The result also is social maladjustment and strain between the mores of the different fields which are moving along at greatly different rates of progress. What Happens Without Standards WITHOUT standards everything happens. Good, bad, indifferent, all woven together. Let us consider a few situations. Situation No. 1. Ina certain local area in our state R. F. C. Funds are limited almost entirely to work relief—concerning which of it is adequate I have only words of praise. But in this local district, there were 31 families on the approved list. The amount of work provided during February was so limited that one turn around only was possible. This turn consisted of 3 days work, the pay being $2.00 per day and the total earned for the month being $6.00 for each family. Now if social work means no more than work relief and if work relief means no' more than $6.00 per family for a month, intense suffering is the inevitable result. Comment: Modern life is complex. The maladjustments which are interfering with success may be different in each of the 31 homes. Work relief even if there were enough of it could not bring success to many of these families. Social work must be as varied as the maladjustments which make social work necessary. If R. I'. C. Funds are to be limited to work relief in a locality it is incumbent on that locality to develop a local program of sufficient variety to handle reasonably well the problems encountered in the locality. In this same community is a widow with a boy 15 years old. The boy who should begin to be a support is now out of control. He runs away and has begun to steal. The mother 340 it seems treats him as a baby. -Unable to realize the great changes that have come about in her boy she has failed to adjust to the emerging man. Thwarted and humiliated he runs away. This mother needs help, but it is not primarily money. Situation No. 2. Contrast this with the condition in one of our large counties where it has been discovered during the past month that many have been getting R. F. C. Relief through the county who have had jobs all winter. This serious diffculty appears to arise out of a lack of standards at three points. (1) Untrained workers have been given welfare jobs in considerable numbers, (2) Political appointees have been given jobs as social workers, and (3) Trained case workers have been given such large case loads that it has been utterly impossible to do the work right. Situation No. 3. In a county where the County Commissioners RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE are elected for two or four years without welfare or social work training what happens to the making up of the roll or relief list? Chart No. 1 This chart shows an unwarranted discrimination between towns. While it is true that the poor tend to congregate in particular localities or neighborhoods, most Utah Counties are relatively homogeneous and some of the poor are found in all of them. In this county 8 towns had none of their people on the county roll in 1931, whereas some of the towns were very much over represented. Factors which commonly bring about a mal-distribution on the county poor roll where unstandardized conditions prevail are: (1) home area of county commissioner or county clerk is likely to be favored (2) political hanger-ons get on the list (3) family relatives receive undue consideration (4) a persistent demanding Chart No. 1 County Welfare Expenditures by Towns in ----- County 1951 Towns Receiving aid STANDARDIZATION OF WELFARE WORK voice obtains a place (5) groups who can command votes are often listened to whether their recommendations would bear investigation or not. Now if tabulation were made in this county of the variation of practices with regard to (1) Keeping records of cases (2) Cooperating with other agencies (3) Making use of existing community resources for the benefit of clients or other important practices of good workers, it is the opinion of the writer that probably as wide a variation in practices would be found as is indicated in this chart with respect to number assisted. Situation No. 4. That the bishops are not as yet well enough trained in Social Work to bring about a well standardized roll is obvious from a tabulation based on the number per 100 aided in each ward in the county. Chart No. 2 L. D. S. Bishops do a tremendous amount of unpaid altruistic work. OF WELFARE WORK 341 They therefore have good reason for being the least willing to inform themselves about social work of any of the groups who have major responsibilities in this field. Chart No. 2 indicates the number of families per 1000 population receiving church aid in each of the wards in the county studied. The astonishing extent of variability is evident at once. The range of difference lies between 2.5 families per 1000 and 97.8 per 1000 of population. In the lavish ward 53 families out of a population of 542 were given aid. This means nearly one-half of the people of the ward. In the frugal ward one family only out of a ward population of 406 was given assistance. If the county commissioners are going to rely on the bishops for a satisfactory relief list the information contained in this chart, is not encouraging. Situation No. 5. But that the combined effort of the Relief Societies and of the bishops is nevertheless leavening the social work lump in the localities is clear when we check Chart No. @ Number of Families alded by L. D. S. Ghurch per Ward: in —--- County 1931 ted 2 2 8 Per Thousand — gicet rf Number Families ) & - o 9 i 1 WardsReceiwing Aid 23.24 25 2627 28.09 80 31 3236-34 36 3539 BAY. 342 on the presence of a standardized procedure in adapting efforts to the business cycle. Chart No. 3 This line chart covers the period 1915-1930 and shows total church and total county relief  expenditures for each year. During most of this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE strongly suggests the philosophy that the poor fund is a sort of a residual receptical into which, when times are good and tax receipts large, money flows, and when times are bad and tax receipts small, the stream dries up and help is withheld. Note the sharp decline in 1920 and the relatively low expenditures between Chart No. 3 A Comparison of County and L. D. S. Church Welfare Expenditures in County 1915-1931 35,000 34,000 33,000 32,000 31,000 30, 0007 29,000 L 28,000 27,009 / 26,000 L 25,000  24,000 / County 23,000 / 22,000 VA 21,000 y, 20,000 VA 19,000 18,000 WA 17,000 16,000 15,000 14,000 L. B.3. Church "xpendipure VA NX 13,000 12,000: | 11,000 10,000 LO 9,000 LZ 8,000 | A 7,000 Va 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 |. 1,000 o! I 1915 16 617 "20 "CY time the county appropriation was more than twice as large as that of the church. The church expenditures, however, were much more consistent. When times were bad, expenditures rose to meet the need, when good times came relief declined. The upper, or county line, 1920-24, all through the depression when the need for assistance was greatest. Note also the astonishing climb upward during the good times between 1924-30. In the absence of developed agencies to do rehabilitation work, this kind of expenditure cannot but promote pauperization. STANDARDIZATION OF WELFARE WORK It would be possible to go on for a long time and point out socially harmful things which result from unstandardized procedure. But I cannot use the important time at my disposal to do this further. Standardised Developments Needed in County Welfare Work wat I want principally to attempt to do is to direct your attention to a few of the major standardized developments — the spinning wheel, the power loom and the steam engine—if you will, of social work standardization which are necessary to a real development of social and community organization within the counties. I shall discuss this matter under the headings: (1) Relationship with politics, (2) Use of research (3) Accessibility of information (4) Acquirement of a case-working agency (5) Sustaining community organizations and (6) Keeping systematic records. 1. Separation from politics. In county welfare work a welfare personnel should be developed which is separated from politics in the narrow sense. The social work field can no more afford to accept of political appointees than can the probation service of the Juvenile Courts. Both probation workers and social workers should have training and skill. I have taken some time in the introductory part of this paper to attempt to tell you why "politics" or the older political methodology was a relatively low grade method of handling social and economic problems. Since our welfare is increasingly dependent on wise solutions of these larger problems, it is more and more important that we minimize politics and strengthen the forces that underly standardization. I helieve we are doing this more 343 rapidly right now in our national government than we have ever done in our history, but in the main our progress is slow. Social work in the counties should be relieved from the painful and discouraging and thwarting experiences which dominance by politicians brings. This release is not an idle dream. In quite a number of places where public interest is enlightened and public spirited men have found their way into responsible positions in the government, social work has been taken out of politics. Cook County made great strides in this direction before the depression. Denver social work has been emancipated for many years. Where the menace of politics is removed and responsibility is centralized, standardization moves along at a rapid pace and the people receive that great blessing—efficient public service—so much needed and yet so infrequently found in our struggling democracy. 2. Research is important. Research is necessary to standardized practice and it must be a continuous process. The Utah Agricultural College has done some work in this field during the past few years. For a great organization like the church it is possible that this work could be done to advantage from within. With enlargement of the work, the Relief Society is doing, a research department of highly trained people with adequate equipment, could perhaps be developed as a part of the work of the Central Relief Society Welfare Department, or as a division of the Presiding Bishop's Office, or perhaps through a close integration with the Church, University, or the Sociology departments of the three Utah colleges. Through research it is possible to integrate the church in its various departments with advancing knowledge 344 in such a way that the people are served adequately in the hour of their need through a growing structure of social organization adapted to 20th century conditions. Strange as it may seem to some of us who have been looking backward so long, it is nevertheless a fact that we are living in the 20th Century even though we are attempting to do so through 18th Century slogans, attitudes, stereotypes and methods. Well developed research —respected, honored, and adequately rewarded—is necessary in a well functioning regime. A central research staff could serve the research needs of the localities. 3. Ready accessibility to information is needed. Standardization requires that machinery be devised so that knowledge of the local situation—essential welfare facts—be made available to those who are doing welfare work in the county. Two lines of development are possible. 1st, If a half-dozen or more local relief organizations are going to carry on relief programs, an exchange for clearing names is necessary. Such an exchange does not need to cost much in a county seat where a welfare department is established or a case worker is employed. A little clerical help and considerable cooperation by the agencies is all that is needed. With clearing machinery available it becomes possible for the different agencies to cooperate by supplying each other with basic information, so that they can operate intelligently themselves and can avoid the grave mistakes that people make who attempt to work at night without a light. It is not too much to say that where a considerable number of agencies are operating an exchange is as important to standardized practice as a head light is to night driving with an automobile.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
A social worker cannot afford to work in the dark. The second possibility in the rural counties where the people are exclusively L. D. S. is for all of the agencies including the county itself to go out of the business of handling welfare work and turn it over entirely to the Relief Societies. This does not mean that the several agencies could not continue to raise funds, but having raised them good results can come only if they are turned over to one organization to plan their expenditure and to formulate a unified program. If one agency does all the work it is not necessary to clear names. If this development were followed it would be necessary for the county to go out of the welfare field much more fully than it has done up to date in any of the counties where the so-called combination plan has been adopted. Let me cite an example. In a combination county the commissioners rule that they will not place anyone on the county roll who has not been recommended by the bishop. In this way they hope to get a good county relief list. Do they get it? Several obstacles stand in the way. 1. Bishops differ, some want a large number of people from their ward on the County list. Other bishops want only a few or none. Again the County Commissioners retain final control for they do not put everyone on who is recommended by a bishop. While on the surface it looks as though the bishops would have considerable say-so as to who goes on, they really have very little control. As a matter of fact, the County roll in the counties where the combination plan is in effect is a very much unstandardized, unsatisfactory roll. The making up of the relief roll whether it be by the County, the ward bishop, or the Relief Society President is a most important thing and should be based on adequate knowledge. This knowledge should include satisfactory information on: (1) income (2) ownership of property including particularly house, garden space and farm (3) indebtedness (unsecured, mortgaged, interest rate and time due, payment obligation, etc.) (4) size of family (number now at work and number available for employment, number of dependents, etc.) (5) location and financial situation of relatives. So if the development takes the form of withdrawal so that all agencies withdraw from administration and direct their financial support to the Relief Societies, it will be necessary for the counties, the bishops, the Elks, the Rotary, Lions, Kiwanis, B. P. W., etc., to withdraw in a much more complete sense than they have yet conceived of, if a unified, standardized program is to be developed. If this is not done there is only one other answer. A county case worker must be employed and some clearing machinery developed if the "spinning jenny" of social work is to be started. 4. Local divisions need a trained case working agency. If we call the social service or confidential exchange the "spinning jenny" of standardized social work, I am going to designate the trained case-working agency the steam engine. Should a rural county have a trained case-worker? I do not see how a rural county is going to get very far with social work standardization if it has no one in it who is adequately trained in this profession. In the older professions of medicine, law and teaching, the state does not allow one to practice without adequate training and an examination to attest minimum knowledge. Now although social work is one of the newer professions and
WELFARE WORK 345
the state has not yet prohibited practice to those who are without minimum training, it is nevertheless true that a profession has arisen and a considerable portion of those who are in it are as highly trained as any in the older professions. The extent to which these trained workers have come into possession of knowledge that is helpful to rural people represents the measure of their desirability. No standardization is possible without knowledge. If trained people are brought in, then we appropriate the developments that have been made elsewhere. When America was settled we brought the civilization of Europe with us and began not at the bottom but on the pinnacle to which the most advanced nations had slowly climbed. If rural people want to hold their own it seems reasonable to say that they must learn to so shape their social organization that the stores of knowledge on which progress depends is open to them. In some lines such as the consolidated school this is being done.
If there are in a county 100 volunteer workers who are spending from 1/10 to ¼ of their time in welfare work; if there is being spent in this county, through all sources from $50,000 to $75,000 a year, it looks reasonable that such a rural county should employ a qualified case worker to join with the volunteer workers in setting up necessary machinery. 5. Community service institutions are necessary. Among the dominant developments which standardization is dependent upon and one which I shall liken to the power loom of the Industrial Revolution, is the development in the local area (in most cases the county) of welfare service institutions on which the social worker relies for help to carry out her program. Among these are hospitals where those who cannot pay may 346 be served—clinics, prenatal, well-baby, pre-school, child-guidance, venereal and tubercular, which carry at minimum expense, to those who stand in need, preventive and curative knowledge—classes for the handicapped—access to institutions for orphaned and dependent children—welfare work in the schools through the school physician, the school nurse and the physical education departments. Some cities have made a great development in this field. Rochester, New York, for instance, employs 20 full time doctors, 40 full time nurses, 31 visiting teachers. In addition special classes for the handicapped are provided and an employment service aids older children who must leave school for work. A local area needs further an efficient Juvenile Court system with a well trained and well developed probation department—a visiting teacher service to assist parents and teachers with problem children—a well managed Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A., Y. M. M. I. A. and the Y. L. M. I. A.—a Boy Scouts unit, 4H Clubs, Future Farmers, all representing community organizations which the well trained social worker can use. But they are also tremendously important to the social worker who must draw heavily on them to assist the family that is sinking down into a financial morass. You see good social work is pretty closely associated with healthy community life. 6. Systematic Record Keeping. Now I want to mention one more item that needs badly to be standardized and that is an adequate system of keeping records of essential data. Record keeping is the waterloo of the volunteer social worker and of the average probation officer and yet adequacy in record keeping is one of the greatest needs in welfare work today. Everywhere planning is dependent on records, and it is in planning that our great hopes for the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
future lie. A 4H Club boy knows that he must keep a record of every item of cost in his project. A competent housewife knows the value of her budget. To a welfare worker, the essential facts about a case represents the foundation on which she begins to build. These facts must be written down. A volunteer worker needs a simpler system than the professional worker. A decided improvement here is greatly needed in rural areas right now. The development requires an increase in efficiency and training on the part of those who keep the records as well as an improvement in the recording system. It is interesting and encouraging to note that the Relief Societies are working hard on this problem and are making commendable progress.
Conclusion
Progress in the counties in welfare work then is dependent on a standardization of the principal basis on which the profession of welfare work has developed. These are: (1) Separation from entangling alliances with politics. (2) Acceptance of and encouragement of research. (3) The development of a satisfactory case working agency. (4) The devising of a uniform system of records and (6) the keeping alive and healthy of community organizations and agencies through which the case worker can supply her clients with the sustenance spiritual and recreational as well as material on which their health as citizens depends. For it is her task and her joy to keep alive and healthy the action springs and the drives, the ideals, and the ambitions, the hopes and the faith which enable one to say in his heart, as he faces the opportunities and the demands of the fast fleeting days—I shall not fail.
"The Minichoor" To My Mother By Ruth Partridge Richan
Mid-way between Salt Lake City and Beaver, the long low touring car came to a stop, limping off the road into the shade of a lone service station. A young man crawled out and looked ruefully at a defunct rear tire, removing his sun glasses and digging the sand out of his ears.
"It's no go dear, the tire is flatter than the instep of a goose. Might as well have it fixed right here. Lucky too, this might have happened out in the sticks."
There was a small sound of fury from the car. "The sticks—and what would you call this pray?"
"Oh it might be worse, with a garage right here. The house back there has a big porch covered with vines. You can wait there it will be much nicer than sitting in the sun in some of the country we have just come through. It won't be long anyhow—"
"It won't be long! I can't remember when I haven't been in this dust and heat."
"Only three hours! Dear—"
"Don't 'dear' me—nothing would do, I had to come. Three hours of —this—and why? Don't ask me. No man with any sense would have business in this wilderness to start with, let alone bringing me down here on a jaunt like this—it's disgusting. And when I get down there, we'll have the drive back again, and all this over—"
"Are you going to sit here in the sun, or are you going up on that porch in the shade—no one wishes any more devoutly than I do that you were at home. However there's no use in having a scene for the benefit of the public."
The girl in the blue coat shot a quick look at her husband. His mouth had a queer tight look around it, so she turned the handle and stepped thoughtfully out of the car. The dust slopped up over her slippers, and seeped into her sheer hose in a hot wave. As if to add the proverbial "last straw," a scarf on her dress caught a loop on the car handle and tore loose, breaking the clasp on her brooch and dropping it into the red dirt. Down on her silken knees the girl hunted frantically for her treasure.
"Oh! Is there anything left for me to do on this trip to make it more unbearable? If I have lost it, I'll never forgive you— never—I hate this dirt, and this heat, and this awful monotony—I almost hate you—I—I—here it is— but if—"
"Having trouble, folks?"
"Well, yes. My wife thought she had lost a pin—and it's rather hot—"
"Um huh. I see," there was a twinkle of blue eyes in a sunburned old face.
The girl in the blue coat walked away without a word, up the path to the old stone house vine covered and cool that looked out on to the rolling sand hills. In the green depths of the porch she heard the creak of a laboring rocking chair, and a tremulous old voice singing "Come, come ye Saints."
"Pardon me, can I sit here while our car is being repaired?"
The creaking and singing stopped abruptly and a thin, gray little old 348 lady came to the edge of the steps, and resting her hands on the shoulders of the girl in the blue coat, she peered into her face.
"Sakes alive, you're covered with dirt. Come in the house a spell. Take off your coat and shake out the dust. Hot ain't it? Here's a pail of fresh water—wait I'll get a clean cup. Take off those glasses—nice to travel in ain't they? Beats all what folks thinks up for comfort these days—would you care for some fruit?"
"No really, it is too much bother— well maybe just a little. I'll just leave my coat here, and you must come out and finish shelling your peas."
Soon the rocking chair was busy again. "Where do you hail from?"
"Salt Lake City."
"You don't say—going to California?"
"Oh no. Around Beaver somewhere. My husband is interested in a farm in that vicinity."
"Aim to settle there?"
"Oh no—no—"
The little old lady chuckled at the vehemence in the city girl's voice. "Take off that hat and rest your head. My sakes, child, what hair! And you never cut it? Most young women cut their hair now-a-days. Never saw nicer hair but once. That was years ago. She was bound for Beaver too."
"Who was?"
"The girl with the beautiful hair. I always think of her that way. It was the color of honey, even through the red dust."
"Dust—ugh—did they have it then too?"
"Land-a-livin', there was no pavement and surfaced roads in them days. The dust came half way up to the hubs."
"Oh pioneer times you mean."
"Well, yes—and no. There's pioneers in every time, but this was only about eighteen ninety-eight. These people were coming from Provo. The husband was going to teach school at the old Academy at the Fort. Since then the school has been given up."
"Did you say they were from Provo about thirty years ago?"
"Yess'm. Why?"
"Oh—nothing. How—how did you find out?"
"Ask'em. I declare I've forgot the name they give."
"Would you tell me about them? I'd like to hear the story and it will help pass the time—"
"Why yes, I'll tell you. There's nothing I'd rather do than spin yarns, if I can get anyone to listen. Now let's see. It was the early summer of ninety-eight when they pulled into our place. (My husband was a blacksmith in them days.) There was quite a little settlement here, a farm or two. Well, they were a sorry looking outfit I can tell you. A hay-rack was first, hitched to two tired horses, then tied on back was an open buggy—and tied on back of the buggy was a cow. Yess'm. Quite a little parade in all. The hay-rack was full of furniture. The girl with the honey colored hair was in the buggy—and what else do you think? Well sir, there was plants! As sure as I'm sittin' here, she had that buggy full of plants. There was a little covered glass jar of mossy looking stuff she had brought from the East—"
"From the East?" said the girl in the blue coat faintly—
"Yes, she wasn't a Western girl I learned later. Then she had a cala lily, and a big rubber plant and a marguerite—well in all she had a buggy full. There was no top on
THE "MINICHOOR"
the buggy and she sat in the middle of it all, holding a blue and white striped parasol over her head. Her big hat was tied on with a scarf, and fastened with a picture pin—a 'minichoor' she called it."
"A picture pin—"
"Yes ma'am. Her eyes were the color of the stripes in the parasol, and through all the dust and dirt, she was the most beautiful girl that ever I saw. When she took down her hair that night, it came to her knees. And she was so tired. The second day out from home they broke the standard on the wagon. Then south of Washboard Valley they stuck in the sand, and had to unload everything to get out, and she was so sick—"
"Sick?" faintly—
"Yes. Baby sick. Her little girl was born at Christmas time. She told me that when she couldn't stand it any longer, her husband would stop the outfit and milk the cow tied on behind. The warm milk stayed down better than anything. They couldn't travel very fast on account 349 of the critter on back. It took them eight days to go to Beaver."
"Eight days!"
"And such a time as they had. They spent one night at Cove Fort, and one night they slept in the sulphur caves—the road don't go there now. And one night—I declare it seems like yesterday—they put up for the night at a squatter's down the road a-piece. The hut had only two rooms in it, and these folks got the floor of one of the rooms. They were there for breakfast. I don't know how they managed, these squatters were a shiftless outfit. No forks to eat with, and mighty few knives and everybody dipping out of the same pot. Come to think of it, the squatter outfit left the country mighty sudden after a man that stayed there one night came up missing. The general opinion was that he was murdered for his money. Never could prove nothin' for we never found hide nor hair of him after."
"Horrors!"
"Of course folks had to carry
COVE FORT
350 water in them days for their horses. I recollect they filled their barrels at Smith's. Old Meg Smith told me later that they were full up in the house and so the teacher and his wife slept out by the hay stack, and during the night an old mother pig and her babies rooted them out of bed."
"Why didn't my f—I mean why didn't her husband send her on the train to Milford and then by stage to Beaver—there was a train wasn't there?"
"Yes there was a train, but no money. He was in debt for his schooling back East where he met her, and teachers here in those days got paid mostly in scrip and produce—and by produce I mean mostly sow-belly and potatoes."
There was silence on the shady porch except for the squeak of the rocking-chair and the cheerful sound of peas rattling into the pan.
"Imagine a man taking a sick wife on a jaunt like that—it's—it's awful. Things are bad enough the way I— the way it is now with cars and doctors—"
"Well yes, but look, she would have had to travel all alone without him, her being a stranger in the country. In those days people took hardship as it came, expectin' it. And, honey, it was no picnic for him either, and after all, she was his wife. I've often wondered how the little baby got along. I only saw it once. Guess I'd have heard if it hadn't done well. I mostly heard everything. People used to neighbor in
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
those days and tell the news instead of whizzing by like a cyclone the modern way. Well here comes your husband. Yes, yes, come right up. I've been spinning yarns for your wife."
"That was nice of you," said the man in the sun glasses but his eyes were troubled. "I was thinking dear, if you would rather stay here, I could go on down alone. The old gentleman says they could put you up for the night. It is rather a hard trip and I know you feel rocky—"
"Why—why no—I, that is—it won't be so bad from now on, and Dr. Benton said there was no danger —it's just a few hours—"
"Well if you really want to come, but we won't take any more trips like this until—well, for a while at least. Thanks to you folks for the nice rest and the fruit, we'll stop in on our way back to rest and get a drink of that nice cold water. Goodbye."
"Good-bye to you, take care of yourselves."
There was silence for several miles in the long low car. "Comfy?"
"Yes—and I'm sorry I was cross, I was so tired—"
"I know. I never should have brought you but you're so precious to me now I can't bear to leave you."
Eight days, eight days, sang the tires on the pavement. "Oh, I'm much better now. I've been taking a sort of cure. And dear, when we get back will you get my miniature fixed? You know I think a lot of it, it was my mother's."
There is no unbelief. Whoever plants a seed beneath the sod And waits to see it push away the clod Trusts in God. —Bulwer-Lytton.
Be Genuine—Be Yourself —Recognize Worth of Others Given over KSL, Dec. 9, 1932 By Elise B. Alder
Ralph Waldo Trine says, "To be one's self is the only worthy, and by all means the only satisfactory thing to be." "May it not be good policy to be governed sometimes by one's surroundings? What is good policy? To be yourself first, last and always." No man is genuine who is forever trying to pattern his life after the lives of other people. We should be ourselves. Our foundation is made up of high ideals and standards. The art of being human begins with the practice of being genuine and following standards of conduct which the world has tested. One author says, "Forget effects and be yourself. Have a good time with all your heart and mind and strength. Show that you're having it. Take as many others in on it as you can. And you'll find people gravitating in your direction." We must just be ourselves and make the most of what we are by all means, and be sure we glorify the things we have. Marden says, "There is no fate or destiny which puts one man down and another up. It is not in our stars but in ourselves that we are underlings. He only is beaten who admits it. The world belongs to him who can conquer it." We are responsible for the right use of our talents and must use and enjoy those we now possess and be grateful for our present opportunities and blessings and trust our ability and the future to bring what is good and best for us. We should spend our time in being what we are, not in trying to appear what we are not. Simplicity and sincerity are divine qualities leading to fineness and beauty of life. Let us apply the truth which we now possess and still greater truth will be revealed to us. It would be well to take Polonius' advice to his son: "This above all to thine own self be true, and it will follow as the night the day thou canst not then be false to any man." One of the most marked tests of character is the manner in which we conduct ourselves toward others. A graceful behavior toward superiors, inferiors, and equals is a constant source of pleasure to ourselves. Every person may, to a large extent, be a self educator in good behavior, as in every thing else; he can be civil and kind, if he will, though he has not a penny in his purse. Courtesy is necessary even if it were not profitable in business affairs, the consciousness of having borne one's self like a gentleman or lady in all circumstances is worth much more than any temporal prosperity it may help to secure. One author says, "The good mannered can do without riches. All doors fly open to them and they enter everywhere without money and without price." The courteous person is courteous to the poor and humble and unfortunate as well as to the fortunate. Courtesy shows in the outward actions, but it lives in the heart and he who wishes to give pleasure to others and also produce happy impressions of himself must be courteous. It is simply the doing and saying of the appropriate and suitable things at the right moment and in a gracious and suitable way, or in simpler words: "It is the doing and saying the kindest things in the kindest way." Every person has something of worth and we should recognize it. The habit of recognizing the worth of others will be worth a great deal to any one before his or her life is over. Let us think highly of those about us and give them the benefit and encouragement of our most generous thoughts and appreciation. Marian M. Hudson says in her "Appreciation Delayed." "Somewhere in the future, God knows where These tired hands will lie at rest— and then The friends and loved ones will recall with tears Some kindly deed they wrought in bygone years. Will ponder o'er those little acts again And register them all on heart and brain. My precious ones, why wait? Tell me today If ever hands of mine have soothed your way."
We should cultivate a spirit of appreciation and gratitude for others and what they have done for us and mean to our life and with Ella Wheeler Wilcox we say:
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Love thyself last. Look near, behold thy duty To those who walk beside thee down life's road. Make glad their day by little acts of beauty And help them bear the burden of earth's load.
"Love thyself last. And oh, such joy shall thrill thee, As never yet to selfish souls was given Whate'er thy lot, a perfect peace will fill thee And earth shall seem the ante-room of Heaven.
"Love thyself last, and thou shall grow in spirit To see, to hear, to know, and understand The message of the stars, lo, thou shall hear it, And all God's joys shall be at thy command."
"Happiness does not consist of what we have but what we are; not in our possessions but in our attitude towards them. It is the serenity of the soul in the presence of a present joy."
"The smallest pool of water can mirror the sun, it does not require the ocean."
Let us live to our possibilities for a single day, and we will not have to die to get to Heaven; we will be making Heaven for ourselves and for others right here today on this little earth of ours.
"As a man thinketh so he is Health walks where pain has trod As a man thinketh, so he is Rise then, and think with God."
MORMON LAKE FRINGED WITH YELLOW PINE TIMBER The largest body of fresh water in Arizona. It is located in the Coconino National Forest of Arizona.
Prohibitionists, Fight On! Address of Senator Morris Sheppard Before Women's National Committee for Law Enforcement, Thursday Evening, April 13, 1933, in Washington, D. C.
The return of beer and the submission to the states of the question of repealing the 18th Amendment make it necessary to press with added energy and determination the fight on beverage alcohol. A new generation has come upon the scene since the advent of national prohibition, a generation unfamiliar from the standpoint of experience with the evils of legalized liquor. The most extensive campaign of false insinuation and assertion any nation ever knew has been constantly under way against prohibition. We must resist the return of this traffic with all the fervor and the power at our command and the best way to resist is to attack. We must not permit this nation to forget that a legalized liquor trade means a lower form of civilization. We must not permit this nation to forget that beverage alcohol is one of the most prolific sources of impoverishment, misery, disease and crime. We must not permit this nation to forget that alcoholic liquors spread and multiply these evils to such an extent as to prevent for vast numbers of people the proper enjoyment of the fundamental rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. I know that we may boast of material assets surpassing those of the remainder of the globe—of an imperial sweep of mountain, forest, river, valley, lake and plain—of fields and mines and factories with outputs exceeding those of any other realm, of railroads, highways, mechanical contrivances, structures of steel and stone and wealth of every type on a scale never before observed in history. But above and beyond all these in true and lasting value are the men, the women and children of this republic. In helping to place the returns for human toil on a substantial and hopeful basis by diverting earnings from beer dispensaries and other saloons to savings, in helping to save American motherhood from the menace of drinking and drunken husbands, in helping to banish the terror from the souls of children cowering beneath the frowns and blows of intoxicated parents, in helping to abolish the use as a beverage of that powerful and alluring narcotic poison, alcohol, a poison destructive of the human organism and of the foundations of society and free institutions, prohibition conserves and protects humanity's most vital values. One of the causes which brought about national prohibition was the inborn lawlessness of the liquor traffic—its ruthless and continuous violation of every law enacted for its regulation. The day after beer was again authorized Washington newspapers began to report violations of the provision in the Congressional act restoring beer in the District of Columbia forbidding sales to minors and also to report threats of prosecution by the authorities. The resubmission of the 18th Amendment and the restoration of beer in defiance of the Constitution were precipitated mainly by propaganda as truthless as it was persistent. It was said that drinking and drunkenness increased under prohibition when the reverse was true. A careful survey by a statistical agency of the United States government in 1931 showed that if every source of the illegal production and sale of liquor had been fully utilized in 1930 and the quantity thus produced and sold had been entirely consumed the volume consumed would not have been more than a third as great as that consumed in the peak wet year of 1914. It was by no means certain, however, that even this possible third had been actually produced or consumed. At the rate of decrease shown by this governmental survey consumption of intoxicating liquor would have been reduced to unimportant proportions in this country within a generation. It is true that arrests for drunkenness increased under prohibition, but this does not mean that drinking increased. Arrests for drunkenness were made on a far stricter basis after the enactment of national prohibition. Before prohibition an intoxicated person would not be arrested if not actually disturbing the peace or if not endangering his own safety or the safety of others. After prohibition far stricter standards governed arrests for intoxication and many police departments issued instructions for the arrest of anyone involved in traffic law violation who had the odor of liquor on his breath. It has been said by police chiefs that if the same rules governing arrests for intoxication had been followed before the enactment of prohibition there would have been ten times more arrests before prohibition than during prohibition. It was said that there were more speakeasies during prohibition than 355 there were saloons before prohibition. And yet a government survey in two of the wettest cities in America, New York and Detroit, showed this charge, so far as these cities, where there would probably have been more speakeasies than anywhere else, were concerned, to be an exaggeration bordering upon the ludicrous. For instance the number of speakeasies in the city of New York was asserted to be all the way from 32,000 to 60,000. The government survey showed 3,934 places where liquor might have been sold— of which 2,182 were reported speakeasies—927 were restaurants—286 were cordial shops, and 119 were night clubs. It was claimed that there were 28,000 open illegal saloons in Detroit. The government survey showed 1,561 suspected premises. It was argued that increase in crime was due to prohibition whereas noted and established criminologists took the opposite position after studying the situation from a purely scientific viewpoint. It was asserted that the penitentiaries were overcrowded on account of convicted breakers of prohibition laws. The truth is that taking both state and federal penitentiaries into account dry law violators constituted about 5 percent of the prison population of America. It was contended that prohibition suppressed personal liberty. The wets have never seemed to grasp the basic truth that liberty must be defined in terms of human welfare, that the right of a family to a decent and comfortable existence is superior to the right of individuals to drink intoxicating beverages, that frequently by repressing the liberty to do one thing we release and facilitate the liberty to do a better thing —that those who will not subordinate physical appetite to the general good do not exhibit the best conception of citizenship. It was claimed that the 18th Amendment was adopted without due consideration. Let us see. That amendment was ratified by legislatures elected mainly in 1916 and 1918. National prohibition amendments had been pending in Congress since December, 1913, and the whole nation was on notice that both Congress and the states might be called upon to act upon the question at any time. Both in Congress and the states the issue of nationwide prohibition was actively, earnestly and continuously debated and considered from December, 1913, until submission by Congress in 1917 and from that time until ratification by all the states but two. It was said that prohibition sent forth an army of federal spies and meddlers. Outside of those doing clerical and legal work there were about 1,700 federal officials engaged in prohibition enforcement, a mere handful scattered among 123 million people and over an area of about 3 million square miles. And yet the wet propagandists called that little group an army threatening the home, menacing privacy, and imperiling the liberty of the American people. It was asserted that the return of legalized liquor would promote temperance and moderation. As if there could be temperance in evil, or moderation in wrong. The supreme call of this mechanical age, an age in which the operation of machine power constitutes the basis of existence and of progress, is for the absolute prohibition of intoxicating liquor—for the steady nerve, the unwavering hand,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the unclouded brain. Who wants to ride upon a railroad train with a moderate drinker for an engineer? Who desires to become a passenger in an automobile with a moderate drinker for a driver, or in an airplane with a moderate drinker for a pilot? Who would feel secure on an ocean liner charging the darkness and the storm with a moderate drinker at the wheel, or a so-called temperate indulger on the bridge? Who would willingly submit to the knife of a surgeon moderately under the influence of drink? Science has shown that a single glass of beer will slow up for four hours the muscular reactions and nerve reflexes rendering it difficult, if not impossible, for the imbiber to make the quick decision and take the rapid action necessary in emergencies for the preservation of life and limb. Repeal the 18th Amendment, continue beer and wine or any other form of beverage alcohol, and such action would be interpreted as an invitation to the use of intoxicants, an approval of the liquor trade, especially when the government shares its profits as a source of revenue— a trade that takes terrific toll in broken hearts, in shattered bodies and in wasted lives. Such action would signify a reversal of form which would make this country the jest and sport of all mankind and would extinguish as pure a light as any nation ever lifted for the leadership and guidance of humanity. Prohibitionists, fight on!
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
June—Now is the commencement of life's great adventures, when blue skies and fragrant roses give promise of a rich fruition.
ISHBEL MacDONALD was again the recipient of many attentions while visiting in Washington this spring with her distinguished father.
MRS. NELLIE TAYLOR ROSS was in April appointed Director of the mint. She is now Madam Director, and takes place with Madam Minister Owen and Madam Secretary Perkins in official Washington.
VICTORIA CLAFLIN WOODHULL in 1873 and Belva Lockwood in 1884 were nominated at an Equal Rights Convention for president of the United States. The pioneer suffragists had vision, what then seemed impossible, in 1933 as one reads the names of women holding responsible positions does not appear so improbable.
HELEN ROGERS REID of New York received the degree of Doctor of Humanities from Rollins College for her philanthropic and sympathetic understanding of the poor.
MRS. FORD CARTER has been appointed director of fashions for the World's Fair. She hopes by their exhibits to raise the standards of taste and culture of American women.
MISS ELIZABETH FITZGERALD of Salt Lake's West High School has been selected by the National Federation of Business and Professional Women to be one of a group to study economic and social conditions in Europe this summer.
MRS. KATE KENTLING who came to America with Maximilian when Napoleon 3rd sent him to Mexico to become emperor, died last month in St. Louis. She was lady in waiting to the Empress Carlotta.
AMELIA EARHART PUTNAM has recently been awarded the Harmon International trophy for her solo flight across the Atlantic. This trophy adds another distinct honor to the young aviatrix.
MARYSE HILZ, French aviatrix, has made the hop from Paris to Tokyo just to see Japan's cherry trees in bloom.
MRS. EMMA A. REYNOLDS, of Stotts City, Mo., has delivered rural mail over a district of thirty miles for the last 15 years without missing a single day. No wonder she is proud of her record.
MARTHA McKENNA'S "I was a Spy," called the greatest spy story of the World War, is placed in the Imperial War Museum, Kensington.
ZONA GALE'S new novel, "Papa La Fleur," has the action of a tragedy in a setting of rare beauty. It might almost be called a poem.
ATEEL FARNHAM, author of the $10,000 prize novel, "Rebellion," has just published a new novel, "Lost Daughter."
"NEVER Ask The End," by Anne Green; "The Home of Exile," by Nora Waln; "Human Nature," by Edith Wharton; "A Modern Pilgrimage," by Mary Berenson, are some of the latest books by women.
Convention of the Woman's National Committee for Law Enforcement By President Louise Y. Robison
Washington, D. C., at Easter time, when cherry and magnolia blossoms are in their glory, the air fragrant with springing grass and budding tree— could there be a lovelier setting for a Convention? Fortunate indeed were the delegates from thirty-eight states, who were permitted to attend the Convention of the Woman's National Committee for Law Enforcement, April 12-14, 1933. The President, Mrs. Henry W. Peabody, was an inspiration—gracious, spiritual, efficient. The women who represented many affiliated organizations were most earnest in the support of the Constitution of the United States and the protection of the home and the children of our nation. Executive sessions of the Convention were held in the beautiful Sun Room, Hotel Washington; the General Assemblies were in the Hall of Nations, in the same building. It is difficult to select any outstanding feature of the Convention. Every moment was full of interest. Stirring addresses and earnest appeals for citizens to uphold the Constitution, including the Eighteenth Amendment, were made by United States Senator Arthur Capper, from Kansas, and Senator Morris Sheppard, from Texas. Talks and reports were made by women representing such organizations as the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, Federation of Women's Clubs, National Woman's Democratic Law Enforcement League, National Council Federated Church Women, the Women's Christian Temperance Union, and many others, each pledging themselves and their organizations to support the Volstead Act and the Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Women were urged to use their franchise, not to form a new political party, not merely to vote on election day, but in each voting district to organize, and have women at the primaries with a list of men and women for office, who would represent the interests of the whole group —men, women and thirty million children. Mrs. Joy Elmer Morgan, wife of the head of the National Association for Education by Radio, declared that "at least 1,000,000 students now in school would not be there, if liquor had been allowed to mortgage their parents' salary." Women in some localities had pledged themselves not to patronize any grocery store where beer was sold. Telegrams of appreciation were sent from the Convention to many prominent officials, including Governor Eugene Talmadge of Georgia, for the stand they had taken in preventing return of beer. Senator Capper declared the new Beer Bill breaks the Constitution. On the third and closing day of the Convention—Good Friday—the women met in the early morning for prayer. It was the anniversary of the assassination of President Lincoln by a drink-crazed man. The morning was perfect. At ten-thirty
CONVENTION FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT 359
the women gathered at the Lincoln Memorial. On the steps of this impressive monument, overlooking the beautiful City of Washington, a "Petition to the Government for Redress of Grievances" was read by Mrs. A. Haines Lippincott, and approved by the hundreds of people present. Copies of the petition were sent to the President of the United States, and to both Houses of Congress. The spirit of this group of women found expression in the words of the late Calvin Coolidge: "Laws must be justified by something more than the will of the majority. They must rest on the eternal foundations of righteousness."
Happy Mothers By Marba C. Josephson
Home, health and happiness are the just heritage of every child. But we busy mothers of small children often overlook home and happiness in our anxiety concerning health. Recent tabulations show that the depression has been really beneficial to health conditions. Reduced pay has meant simpler, more wholesome food. This means that there is less time spent in the preparation of meals. More time should be available for home and happiness. But I wonder whether we are making the most of these two factors during this time when we need particularly to emphasize them. We are well aware of the fact that we must enjoy our children while they are young. It is only in their youth that they are wholly ours— later they rightly begin to belong to themselves and to others. Happy children make happy mothers; and it is equally true that it takes happy mothers to make happy children. The home is the keystone of the happiness arch. By home I do not mean the bare essentials which make any house; rather I mean that pulsing, vibrant something which is felt by the stranger who happens to enter the door. Home, in order to
be really a home, must harbor the spirit of comradeship that assures freedom, safety, and proper usage of authority. Home is not made by elegant furnishings. In fact, a home for small children should be very simply but sturdily furnished. All true homes have to be lived in; they can't be mere show windows. Living in a home means that tired little feet must at times be braced against the furniture. If you have lovely upholstered suites, you will have a hard time to resist an alarming shout when you see dusty little heads pillowed on the cushions. One of the first rules of home should be an avoidance of that paralyzing word "Don't." Therefore, if your household goods are an inheritance, as mine are, "rejoice and be exceeding glad," for they will undoubtedly hold together under rigorous children's activities better than the more up-to-date but frequently tawdry furniture of our own period. With these simple, easily cared-for furnishings, the children will feel free to develop naturally and live contentedly in the home. Mothers will be happier while the children are romping. Here we should note also that simplicity of food and home furnishings should be extended to simplicity of dress. Avoid as much washing and ironing as possible. See that the children's bodies and underwear are clean each day. Then let them enjoy themselves. I can't be grateful enough for the sun movement. Each summer I put my brood in cheap bathing suits and let nature take her course. It's comparatively easy to tub children and suits every evening. Both dry during the night and are ready for another day of happy, carefree play. As Edgar A. Guest said, "It takes a heap o' livin' in a house to make a home." Each member will have to contribute to that living. No one can be interested permanently in anything unless it helps to reflect his personality. So each should be encouraged to aid in the development of the spirit of the home. But how? A fireplace in a certain home is made entirely of family curios which have been cemented together. Interesting stones from national parks, fossils, samples of ores, mementoes of trips were all cemented into the front of the fireplace and truly made a hearthstone (heart stone) for the unity of that family. Let your children begin their collection now. I know too well the reflex action of most of us when we see Jenny, John, and Martin running in with their pebbles, bits of glass, and broken crockery. Curb that tendency and encourage them in their seeking for new and attractive things. It will help them develop "the seeing eye." Provide each child with a box (your grocer will be only too glad to let you have some of his empty cardboard cartons). Then you can say heartily, "Fine, Jenny. Take it to your box;" or, "Splendid, Martin. That's surely a pretty rock. Where'd you find it?" Every week or so the children will go through their boxes and weed
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
out the less desirable articles; so the supply will be constantly diminished —to make room for more. This eliminating process will help the child develop the discriminating eye. The individual box has another feature, besides preventing jagged nerves for mother, to recommend it: it helps the children learn the lesson of neatness. This properly placing of treasures helps the home tremendously and will point the way toward the habit of putting away all things. The lesson of tidiness is one which can't be started too early in youngsters' lives. Living in the home means also the responsibility of caring for the home. Each member of the family should have some particular tasks to do from the time when he can first toddle. Even the twenty-month old child can do his mite by getting the potatoes or carrots and by putting the garbage, cans, and papers where they belong. The three-year-old can do some of the dusting—if you are wise enough to keep your house free from bric-abrac that acts as dust accumulators. The five-year-old can do most of the sweeping on porches and walks. The older ones can do their bits of the necessary work, boy and girl alike, unless the boy has outside chores to tend to. This dividing of work will relieve mother somewhat and will give her more time to help in the development of the mental and moral satisfactions "of her little ones. In addition to helping with the general work, each child should be taught to care for his own things. This training takes considerable time at the start. Mother often thinks, "Gracious, I can hang things up more quickly than Junior and without half the fuss." But if she insists on Junior's picking his things HAPPY MOTHERS up, she is helping him invaluably and is saving herself work in the long run. Of course, hooks and shelves must be placed low enough for tiny hands to reach. The schoolroom method for caring for pairs of things, such as rubbers, galoshes, mittens, is worth. Following in the home. Get a box of-clip clothespins. Select a bright color for each child: green for one, orange for another, red, etc., and dip several of the pins for each child. Keep these clips in a little box in a convenient place. When the children take off bedroom slippers (the loss of which caused much trouble in our home until we adopted this method), let them clip them together and put them away immediately. When they come romping in from their rainy day excursions, they will soon get the habit of pinning their rubbers together—and how that will help mother the next time they have to be donned. One other very simple way of helping the home atmosphere is the naming of the place. Let the chil- 361 dren help select the name. My urchins (impelled by a book we've been reading) are calling our dwelling "Rockabye Cottage," very appropriately. The naming of the home adds interest and gives it an individuality which will lend charm not only to the members of the family but also to those who are fortunate enough to come within its walls. My plea is for a simple home and a wholesome manner of living—a home than can be easily and happily kept clean. I should like everyone to have a home that can be lived in comfortably by all members of the family; a home wherein the children can express their growing personalities. We mothers of these growing children need to plan to cut housework to a minimum in order that we may increase homework to - a maximum. If the foundation of companionship and co-operation is well-laid during the early life of our children, we as parents can confidently await the completion of the structure when they are mature. Wait By Bertha A. Kleinman Sodden with the winter's raining, Has the summer found decay? Wait—beneath the rust and staining Time is spinning buds for May. Thwarted amid doubt's disaster, Blinded are the ways you go? Wait—Time is the only master And Truth is his ultimo. Are the battle trenches gory, Stretching on beneath the stars? Wait—Time turns it all to glory, Poppies heal the battle scars. Are there mounds where memory hovers— Blinding out the hope beyond— Wait—a lichen veil he covers Where the deepest grave has yawned. Never feud or grudge or grievance, Never mystery or doubt, But awaiting Time's allegiance Shall at last be blotted out. Your House Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke V FLOORS AND FLOOR COVERINGS THE study of floors is an important as well as fascinating field of interior decoration. The floor not only forms a part of the background of the room, but it is the structural foundation as well. It is the base on which the rest of the room scheme is built, and as such demands the most careful attention so that it will give a feeling of firmness just as does the earth in nature's landscape. It needs to be strong, comfortable to walk upon, as. Well as attractive in appearance. The floor is much more important than merely a surface on which rugs are laid, but is a part of the scheme of the room, and if suitable and artistic helps convey an impression of beauty, richness and refinement, but if dull and unattractive it can easily spoil a successful effect. It is not only necessary that the floor does support the room and its furnishings, but it must appear to do so as well. The eye must be convinced of the fact. If it is not the room will seem top heavy and without sufficient foundation. This result can be achieved by the use of three properties—color, texture and material. Dark colors suggest stability, strength and support and give an impression of greater weight. They also suggest nearness while light colors give an effect of distance. All these factors make one feel instinctively the appropriateness of darker tones for the base. The balance of the room depends in a large measure on the floor being darker than the walls and ceiling. It should also key in or harmonize with the scheme of the room so that no conflicts will result. A sense of support may also be conveyed by the texture, that is the density of a material. A heavy weave, or deep pile will give the effect of greater weight than a material of the same color in a flat, fine weave. Keeping this fact in mind one may use a rug lighter in color than the walls of the room if it is of heavy texture so that it has the appearance of weight and bulk. This same thing applies in the field of structural floors as woods in natural finish, marbles, stone, tile, etc. Such floors as these are often seen in very light colors, even white, with walls of a deeper tone. But the sense of foundation and balance is kept because the material is so obviously structural that we instinctively know it is firm and capable of supporting weight. In old houses, especially of the early colonial period wide plank floors were common. Such floors even though light in color have a structural quality so evident in the narrow boards. However, as a general and almost always applicable rule it is better to keep the floor darker than the walls so it will stay down as it is advisable to keep the ceiling light so it will stay up. N a room with a light floor it is sometimes possible to adjust the color values by using darker rugs. However, this brings up another problem—be careful that you do not get a spotty effect which is very possible especially with many small rugs. YOUR HOUSE BEAUTIFUL There must not be too great a contrast of values so that undue attention is called to the floor which should be inconspicuous and quiet in effect. To achieve this result it is necessary also that judgment be used in choosing patterned floor coverings. It is well to remember the principle of movement. Often the lines of a pattern form diagonal or zig-zag lines on the floor which are very annoying, and, being opposed to the lines of the room, are upsetting to the principle of structural unity. Large patterns should not be used in small rooms nor on small rugs. A plain floor besides being a perfect background adds to the apparent size of the room. A carpet to the baseboard also gives this effect, while a number of small rugs appears to decrease its size. A too large room may be made to appear smaller if two medium size rugs instead of one large one are used. If your room is long and narrow and you wish it to appear wider lay long rugs across its width. One large rug or carpet unites the room and its furnishings. Pattern is often very useful in achieving interesting results and is not to be despised, but it should be of conventional design, evenly covered over the surface, with no spots or medallions. Do not choose any pattern in which the movement is distracting or harassing. Another important point which cannot be emphasized and repeated too many times is this: If the walls, drapery, or upholstery have conspicuous pattern the floor must be plain. Nothing is more distracting than an excess of pattern. Not only is the sense of repose destroyed, but the conflicting patterns ruin the effect of each other. Nor are all plain surfaces much better. A happy me- 363 dium is best. Plain walls and floor allow much freedom in the choice of drapery and upholstery. Or with plain walls pattern may be used in the floor covering. To have no more than two surfaces with pattern (and these two must not include both the wall and floor) is a fairly safe guide in decorating a room. UGS and floor coverings should be purchased to harmonize with the general shapé of the room, and be large enough so as to appear adequate. Do not pay for a floor covering until you see how it looks in place in your home. It may be very attractive in the shop, but utterly unsuited to your room, its furnishings and use. There is a tendency to throw small rugs down at angles, creating lines in opposition to those of the room. When placing furniture in such a room it would have to be placed to harmonize either with the rugs or the room and there is more conflict. To avoid this condition there is a simple rule to follow—rugs must be laid parallel to the lines of the room and there is never an excuse to deviate from this principle. The first floors were of dirt, later covered with rushes, then stones and finally wood. Today there are so many kinds of floors and finishes the question is—which shall it be? Shall it be of wood? Or is the house of Spanish or Italian style in which marble, stone or tiles would be suitable? If of wood, what kind and how shall it be finished? If covered, shall it be carpet, rugs or linoleum, and what kind. Of pattern, if any? The way you answer these questions may mean success or failure in your decoration scheme. In the United States wood is the material most commonly used for floors, either of soft or hard wood, 364 in natural finish, painted or stained. Floors of wood are warm and dry and grow mellow with the years, giving an effect of richness and charm. Hardwoods make the best floors, wearing more evenly and are more attractive. The woods most used are oak and maple. Softwoods of pine, fir and spruce are often used for floors, especially when they are to be covered or painted. If the surface is good a natural finish is usually most satisfactory. Hardwoods are finished by sanding. Then applying a coat of filler, one of shellac and finally two or three coats of paste wax. If it is desirable to make the floor darker, stain may be applied. A varnished surface is very good, although it will show wear in spots and must be refinished frequently. Wax may be applied over varnish and will preserve and protect it. Softwoods may be treated in the same way, and although not as durable as hardwood make very nice floors. If the floor surface is not good painting would be advisable, using deck paint or a good grade of floor enamel. It may then be waxed as any other floor, giving it an excellent finish. It may be mentioned in passing, that a floor painted black and waxed makes a most beautiful and distinctive floor and is especially suitable for modern decoration. Waxed surfaces are especially lovely as they have a rich, subdued luster which adds cheerful warmth to the room, and enhances the beauty of the whole interior. The finish is lustrous without being glossy, which is the chief fault with varnish unless it is rubbed down. Wax. Has the advantage of not wearing off as does paint and varnish, and it protects the surface. Waxed floors are easily kept in good condition, wiping with a dry mop daily and cleaning occasionally with liquid wax. It will be necessary to rewax once or twice a year, removing the old wax with steel wool and turpentine. Do not use water on waxed floors, nor on any floors unless absolutely necessary, and then only mild suds, and dry quickly. Water penetrates the pores, rots and warps the finish and discolors the woods. Care must be exercised when applying wax that too much is not used and that it is thoroughly polished to prevent the slipperiness and accidents that may result. Parquetry floors made of hardwood laid in designs are very lovely, dignified in appearance and suitable to many decoration schemes of the more formal type. In addition to the beauty of the wood they have the added charm of the shapes and lines of the patterns. They are treated in the same manner as hardwood floors. Other structural floors are the mosaics, marble, composition, stone, tile and cement. If correctly handled they can fit into many decoration schemes in an interesting manner. Although these materials are nearly always light in color we get an effect of adequate weight because of the structural quality. Such floors insure a solid, permanent foundation. Stone floors are appropriate in country house or with furnishings of rugged character. Marble, mosaic and terrazzo floors may be used with more refined furnishings. Tile, cement and brick are suitable in hallways, sunrooms, etc. All these floors are sanitary, fireproof and easily cleaned. They are, however, hard to walk on as they are not resilient. In using any of these materials in decorative schemes it is necessary to keep them in scale with the room and its furnishings. Tiles are especially suitable in Spanish and Italian rooms. Also bathrooms, sunrooms and kitchens, as well as in vestibules and halls. They may be kept in good condition by going over them with a woolen rag dipped in milk, or on a large area with sawdust and linseed oil. Brick floors may be painted, varnished and waxed. Cement floors may be painted or the cement colored. Interest may be provided by insets of tiles or polychrome. They may be cleaned in the same manner as tile floors. Cement floors are often used in the basements of modern homes and may be made most attractive if given some thought in the decoration scheme. There are in addition to these structural floors some composition materials that make excellent floors. Examples of these are rubber and cork tiles. They resemble tiles in shape and appearance but are resilient, elastic and are not noisy. They would be used in the same type of room tile is and are especially suitable in kitchen, bath, halls and libraries because of their qualities.
SOME of the principles involved in choosing rugs and carpets have already been discussed. A few other points may be mentioned here. The question is often asked—Which is better to use, rugs or carpets? This is largely a matter of personal preference. The rugs are more sanitary, and rooms having rugs are easier to clean than those with carpets. However, in this day of vacuum cleaners this may be only a minor consideration. If your room is very small a carpet will make it appear larger. Carpets over the floors of all the intersecting rooms will give a feeling of unity and increase the apparent size. This is especially important in apartment decoration. Plain floor covering is always safe and beautiful. There is on the market a deep pile material which may be cut in any design you or your decorator may desire, the pieces being fitted together with tape on the reverse side giving a seamless effect. Plain surfaces have the disadvantage of showing every mark and footprint. In rooms that are used a great deal or where there are children the wisest choice is a rug or carpet with an all-over design, flat in effect, conventionalized in pattern which compactly covers the surface and has little contrast in values. There are many splendid patterns on the market. The most important requirement in a floor covering is that it must be inconspicuous in pattern so that it will keep its place on the floor, and not seem to fly up to meet you when you enter a room. Some patterns seen in floor coverings certainly clamor for attention. The materials mostly used in rugs are worsted, woolens, linens, cotton, hemp and jute. Worsted has the best wearing qualities. The main weaves are a plain weave as ingrain, or pile weave as velvets, Wiltons, etc. In choosing a rug the practical side must be considered also. Choose a rug suitable in weave and texture for the place in which it is to be used. Do not, for example, put a valuable rug of fine weave and materials in a front hall. Rugs that get a great deal of wear should have good cleaning qualities. Many Oriental rugs are very lovely but they are not suitable for any and all schemes. Be sure the predominating color is in accord with the room. The people of the East have a wonderful faculty for handling color, and in some of the best Oriental rugs the colors are so blended that one gets the appearance of texture rather than pattern. If it has perceptible design use care with other pattern in the furnishings of the room. Before investing in an Oriental rug make a study of them, read about them, and visit rug stores and dealers to get acquainted with them at first hand. A trade name is no guarantee of its quality. Hooked, cross-stitch, braided, woven and rag rugs are very suitable in informal rooms as well as those of early American type and are most attractive. Padding under rugs or carpets lengthens their life, improves the appearance and helps to deaden sound.
LINOLEUM is a comparatively new material that is gaining a larger place in decorative schemes every year. It comes in a variety of patterns and colors from which a choice may be made to suit almost any scheme. Linoleum is always suitable in kitchens, laundries and bath. For these rooms which are usually small it is best to choose the smaller tiles and patterns. But this is not the only place in which they are suitable. They are correct in any room in the house. However, decoratively speaking they must be considered in the same category their patterns represent. That is, if their design represents marble they are suitable for hall or large rooms of formal character. If tile or slate pattern they may be used where that material would be. There is an excellent linoleum made in imitation of Colonial wide-plank floors which is very suitable in early American rooms. Some patterns are made in imitation of carpets and rugs and would be used where the fabrics would be. Inlaid linoleum is much more durable than printed and is usually more economical in the end. It should be cemented down by expert workman and you will have a permanent floor, over which, if you desire, you may put rugs as on any other floor. Linoleum is resilient. It is the easiest of all floors to keep clean. Printed linoleum should be varnished once or twice a year. Inlaid linoleum may be kept in good condition by waxing two to four times a year. It may be cleaned by dusting with a floor brush. When it becomes necessary to wash linoleum a mild soap suds should be used and only a small amount washed at a time. Caustic washing powders and alkaline soaps are harmful to linoleum.
IN choosing a floor or floor covering the type of room in which it is to be used, and the furnishings in the room must be considered. For example a dining room should have a rug without a deep pile for food particles to lodge in, and a texture not easily crushed. A living room needs a refined design yet substantial enough to give good wear. Caution must be exercised in the treatment of the bedroom floor that it is not too light for the walls. Dainty colors seem to belong in bedrooms and nurseries, but they should not be weak. Hooked, woven or braided rugs are especially suitable for these rooms. The ideal kitchen floor is durable, comfortable to walk and stand on, smooth but not slippery, attractive, and easily cleaned. A painted wooden floor, linoleum or rubber tile seems to meet most of these requirements. Tile or slate makes an attractive floor, easy to clean, but is very tiring and more or less noisy. They are more desirable in bathrooms. Perhaps the problem confronting one is what to do with floors that are old and worn. In many houses we find floors of wide boards. Often staining and shellacing will help, or if full of cracks and crevices putty or crack filler may need to be used and the floor painted or varnished. If very bad the best idea is to cover entirely with padding and carpet or linoleum. If a varnished floor is badly worn it is best to remove the old finish and start anew. An idea that is frequently used with good results is to tack a worn rug or carpet face downward, and paint and varnish it. Old rugs and carpets may be made into new. If the design on your printed linoleum has been worn off it can be made to give further service by painting or enameling a desirable color. Floor enamel may now be purchased in white to which desired coloring may be added, thus eliminating the necessity of using the rather drab floor paints usually found on the market. Give two or three coats. It may be either left plain or stippled, stenciled or marked off into squares. If a stencil pattern is used care should be taken to avoid a spotty effect, an all-over design is good. A final coat of varnish may be applied if desired, however this will give a yellowish effect as there is no varnish entirely colorless. With this discussion of floors we have completed the study of the fixed background. We are now ready to consider the movables which go into the room. Next month we will take up the question of drapery and curtains.
A NORTH TEXAS DESERT SCENE Glen E. Perrins.
Choosing a Dessert By Lucy Rose Meddleton
NO matter how substantial the rest of the meal, there are few who do not look forward with anticipation to the dessert. It affords something of a surprise party—not only because it is delectable, but also because it permits the widest opportunity for variety and inventive genius. There is a certain sameness about the body of most meals. Soups, potatoes, meat, bread and butter are almost inescapable; but when it comes to desserts, restrictions dissolve and the imagination has free sweep. The only requirement is that the result shall be delicious. It is advisable to choose a light dessert for the finale of a heavy meal.
Marshmallow Pudding 1 lb. Marshmallows 1 cup pineapple 3 oranges 3 lemons 1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons gelatine 1 pint whipping cream ½ cup water 1 small bottle maraschino cherries
Cook slightly the diced oranges and pineapple with the lemon juice and sugar, then pour over the marshmallow, which have been cut in small pieces. Add the gelatine, soaked in the half cup of cold water. Let this mixture stand in refrigerator until partially set, then fold in the whipped cream. Replace in refrigerator and leave until frozen, or thoroughly chilled. This pudding can be made in either the ice box or the mechanical refrigerator. More time is required when made in the ice box.
Cream Puffs ? cup butter 1 cup bread flour 1 cup boiling water 4 eggs, unbeaten
Add butter to water, heat until butter melts. Add flour all at once and stir vigorously until ball forms in center of pan. Cool slightly, then add eggs one at a time, beating after each egg. The mixture should be very stiff. Shape on buttered cookie sheet by dropping from a spoon. Bake until free from moisture (40-45 minutes), in moderately hot oven, 375 deg. If in doubt as to whether they are done, remove one from the oven to test. Let cool then cut off top and remove the doughy substance from center. Fill with sweetened whipped cream. Replace top pieces. The cream puff shells may also be filled with ice cream and served with chocolate sauce.
Chocolate Sauce ? cup sugar 4 teaspoons cocoa ¼ cup water ½ teaspoon vanilla
Mix cocoa and sugar well together then add the water. Bring to the boiling point, stir constantly to keep it from scorching. Remove from fire and let stand until cool, then add vanilla. If a thinner sauce is required add more water. A thicker sauce may be made by increasing the dry ingredients or decreasing the amount of water.
Strawberry Ice Cream 1 pint fresh strawberries ¾ cup sugar 2 teaspoons gelatine ¼ cup cold water 1 cup thin cream or top milk 1 cup whipping cream
Wash and hull the strawberries, mash, sprinkle with sugar. Bring this mixture to the boiling point then add the gelatine, which has been soaked in cold water. Rub through a fine sieve. Let stand in refrigerator tray until chilled then add the thin cream. Replace, and when partially frozen add the whipped cream. Other fruits may be substituted for the strawberries. This dessert is made in the mechanical refrigerator or the ice cream freezer.
Chocolate Roll 5 egg yolks 1 cup powdered sugar 3 tablespoons cocoa 5 egg whites Whipping cream Thin chocolate sauce
Beat yolks until thick. Then add sugar, and beat thoroughly. Add cocoa, fold in egg whites beaten until stiff. Spread in buttered and floured dripping pan and bake about 10 minutes in moderately hot oven, 350 degrees. Turn out on floured cloth. Cover with damp cloth. When cool spread with whipped cream and roll. Serve at once with chocolate sauce.
Orange Sherbet 2 cups sugar 4 cups water 1¼ cup orange juice Juice of 2 lemons 1 tablespoon gelatine
Boil the sugar and water together rapidly for 5 minutes, then add the gelatine, soaked in ¼ cup cold water. Cool, add the juice, strained, and the grated rind of one orange. Freeze. Allow 1 part salt to 8 parts ice. This dessert may be made in the mechanical refrigerator if beaten often, very vigorously, during the freezing process.
Short Cake 2 cups flour 4 teaspoons baking powder ¼ teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon sugar ? cup milk 4-¼ cup butter
Mix dry ingredients, sift twice, work in butter with pastry mixer fork, or finger tips, and add milk gradually. Toss mixture on floured board and divide in two parts. Pat, roll out, and put half in round tin. Spread lightly with melted butter and place other half on top; or cut out with large biscuit cutter and bake on buttered cookie sheet. Bake 12 minutes in hot oven, 450 degrees. Split with fork and spread with butter. Spread fruit between layers and on top. Cover with whipped cream, using pastry bag and tube if desired. For fruit, use any of the following:
Warm apple sauce Sliced bananas, sprinkled with sugar and lemon juice Strawberries, slightly sweetened to taste Raspberries, prepared like strawberries Peaches or apricots, sliced and sweetened, fresh or canned
Butterscotch Pie Filling: ¾ cup brown sugar 4 tablespoons butter ? cup bread flour ½ teaspoon salt 2 eggs, slightly beaten 2 cups milk ½ teaspoon vanilla
Mix butter and sugar. Cook 2 minutes or until syrup is brown. Add 1½ cups cold milk and scald over hot water. Mix flour and salt with remaining milk, add to hot mixture, and cook 15 minutes. Add eggs, cook 2 minutes. Cool and flavor. Fill baked pie shell. Cover with meringue or garnish with whipped cream. For pie shell, use plain pastry.
"Try Me, Saith the Lord" By Joseph H. Dean
THE year 1893 will long be remembered by many of the older generation, on account of the terrible financial panic that swept the country. Everybody suffered. Many of the rich went bankrupt, and hundreds of working men walked the streets vainly looking for employment. Among the latter was Richard Davis, a carpenter of Salt Lake City. He had not had a day's work for three months. He and his wife had attended evening ward meeting. The speaker had delivered a very convincing discourse upon the law of tithing. Walking home the following conversation occurred between them:
"Well, Jane, what do you think of the sermon on tithing?" "I think it a fine discourse. I believe every word of it." "I haven't paid anything this year. I have earned $200.00 and have just a $20.00 gold piece left." "Go and pay it to the Lord. It is his." "But Jane, didn't you say this morning that the flour was nearly gone, and that Mary would have to stay home from school for want of new shoes?" "Yes, non tithe payers are generally poor like that." "Jane, the Church doesn't need this money as badly as we do. I haven't the heart to pay in my last twenty dollars for tithing when we are destitute, and I have no prospect of work." "You say pay in your last twenty dollars. It isn't yours. It belongs to the Lord." "If the Lord wants me to pay tithing, he had better give me a job." "You did have a job the first months of the year, and you didn't pay the Lord his tenth. You have it there in your pocket now. If you had paid it when you earned it, you might never have been out of employment."
Richard Davis didn't get to sleep for hours after going to bed; two influences seemed to be working on him. One would say, "Don't be a fool. A man of brains wouldn't pay his last dollar for tithing when his family is in need, and he is out of work. Doesn't the scriptures say that a man that will not provide for his family has denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel?" The other voice would say, "Try me, saith the Lord." Without coming to a decision he finally fell asleep.
Next morning at breakfast the subject came up again. "Well, Jane, how do you vote this morning. You know I can't find work, and winter is coming on. Do you still advise that I turn in all we have in cash, for tithing?"
"I don't see how you can hesitate, Richard. As a Church member you know that twenty dollars isn't yours. I feel that this is a crisis in our lives, and a test of our faith. Please, dear, have the courage to do what you know to be right."
Richard Davis put on his hat and started up town. In those days the general tithing office was on the corner where the hotel Utah now stands. He hadn't decided whether he was going to pay his tithing, or buy the much needed supplies for his family. The non-tithe-paying argument seemed to be getting stronger and stronger the nearer he approached the tithing office. He reached the opening in the high stone wall that used to surround the block and stopped. "Now don't be a fool!" "Try me saith the Lord." With a mighty effort he ran into the tithing office, and handed in his twenty dollars. "My tithing," he said, "Please put it where I can't reach it. I have been changing my mind every few minutes all the way from home." The clerk dropped the gold piece in his drawer, and gave him his receipt. Richard walked out to the street, glad that the struggle was over. He knew in his heart that he had done the right thing. A sweet peace seemed to take possession of him. He hesitated a few moments whether he should go down town, or return home. He decided to go home. A little way down the street a man was tying his buggy horse to a hitching post. He called out:
"Hello there, Dick Davis!" "Well, if it isn't Joe Holland." "How are you, Dick? I haven't seen you for years. Say, I have something strange to tell you. I want to add two rooms to my house. As I got out here just now, I was wondering in my mind whom I should get to do the job, and something said to me, 'Get Dick Davis,' and here you walked out of the tithing office right before my eyes. Now what do you think of that?" "I think that's mighty fine," said Dick with a lump in his throat. "But the funny thing about it is I wasn't thinking about you, and haven't seen you for years. Do you want the job?" "Do I want the job! Joe, I haven't had a day's work for three months!" "Well, then you will take it. When can you start?" "I'll be on hand tomorrow morning at seven o'clock." "Well, so long then, Dick. See you in the morning. Remember me to the wife." "Goodbye, Joe, and thank you very much."
Richard was quite a way up the street when Holland called him back. "Say Dick, the thought just struck me that if you have been three months without a job, you might be hard up. Let me advance you something on account," and he handed him a twenty dollar gold piece.
Richard Davis hurried home. His wife looked up at him anxiously as he came in. Had he lost or won! His countenance was all lit up, and his eyes were red. She jumped up and went to him. "Why Richard dear, you look happy, but you have been crying. What has happened?" He took her hand, turned the palm up and put the twenty dollar gold piece in it. "O Richard! So you failed, and I have been praying all the time you have been gone that you might win. Don't give me the money. It belongs to the Lord." She was so disappointed, she wanted to cry and turned from him to go into the next room. As she passed him he stuffed a piece of paper down her neck. She impatiently fished it out and threw it into the coal scuttle. It bounced off a lump of coal and flattened out on the carpet. She picked it up and read: "Received of Richard Davis twenty dollars cash for tithing." With a puzzled look she turned to her husband. "O Dick dear, what does it mean? You have a receipt for twenty dollars and also have twenty dollars. Now tell me what it all means."
He sat down and told her. They sat there a long time, too happy for words. Finally Richard said: "Jane, do you remember the Bible story of the widow in the time of sore famine, that had just a little meal left, and she made a cake of it, and gave it to the prophet Elijah to eat?" "Yes, and he blessed her and promised her the meal should never fail, and it didn't." "Well, she has nothing the best of me. I gave my last money to the Lord and in five minutes my old empty pocket had another gold piece in it. And Joe Holland is going to keep putting other gold pieces there all winter. Isn't it wonderful? And Jane, the credit belongs to you. For if you had thrown your influence on the other side I wouldn't have paid my tithing, and would still be miserable and out of work!" "It is the devil, Jane. The two influences are as distinct as heat and cold. One is full of light and peace and hope. The other filled with darkness, discouragement, and unbelief. The aggravating part of it is that his arguments look 'reasonable' and he has a way of making one feel ridiculous. Well, to show him he was wasting his time on me, I stopped under a tree, and taking off my hat, I solemnly covenanted with the Lord that henceforth, every dollar I spend shall be money that has been tithed."
The city of Salt Lake hadn't a happier couple in it that day, than Richard and Jane Davis, and the first check Richard draws every pay day is a check for his tithing.
The Resurrection of Iskabog (A Parable) By Ina G. Johnson
ISKABOG stood by the gate of the Great Walled City, not knowing whither to go. His heart was as heavy as the iron pendulum that swung in the large hall of the cathedral; his head was bowed in sorrow and despair; his clothing was threadbare, ragged and torn; his feet were calloused and sore. The throngs of pedestrians passing by in attractive garments made him shudder. He sank on his knees; desperation shadowed his countenance: he was homeless, penniless, and hungry. Had he not asked for help and every time received a stone? Had he not sought work, and been rejected? There was no use, he could not go on. He felt as if he were penned in, between gigantic walls of a precipice, and there was no possible way of escape. There was nothing to do, but wait for the destroying angel. He prayed for freedom and begged that his spirit be taken away. The noise of the crowd grew fainter and fainter until all was quiet. Darkness seemed to enwrap the crouched form. Suddenly he heard foot steps; on looking up he saw a personage dressed in a beautiful robe. There was a stern expression on his face, not unlike that, he thought, of the officer who had driven him hither. Iskabog crouched closer to the wall; again he could hear that harsh, cold voice commanding, "Move on! Beggars are not wanted here." Automatically he raised his hand to shield his face from the cruel sting of the whip. Iskabog waited, but instead of the harsh command, he heard a voice in tones of kindness, yet firmness say, "Arise! Come! Follow me!" Slowly they wended their way into a beautiful garden. They stopped in front of a bench on which stood three flower pots. The personage remained silent, folded his arms for a moment, then stepped forward and placed a seed in each of the pots half filled with earth. He then fitted a flat rock snugly over the top of each; stepping back, he folded his arms and again stood in silence. Iskabog was amazed at the power this man possessed; he was more than an officer. He was the Master. Presently he turned to Iskabog and pointing to the pots, said, "Remove the rocks!" Iskabog lifted the rock from the first pot, there lay a green shoot, withered and dead. It had started to grow but feeling the pressure of the rock, fell back and died. The Master spoke, "Behold, that plant had the desire, but with the least resistance gave up." Then Iskabog removed the rock from the second pot; here the plant had grown pressing against the rock; not being able to get through, turned and tried to find a crack or crevice along the edge by which it might escape, but not finding one, it too gave up. Again the Master spoke, "Behold, the plant in the second pot had the desire and determination." Iskabog leaned over the third pot, he paused in amazement, for he beheld a strong sturdy green shoot coming through. The rock had cracked with the steady pressure of the plant against it. Iskabog raised his head; he looked at the Master. This plant had given him strength. The Master stood erect; smiled and spoke slowly, but with great force. "Behold! The plant in the third pot had the Desire; the Determination; and the Diligence." Then placing his hand on Iskabog's shoulder continued, "With these three D's you can accomplish anything." Iskabog's eyes were opened. His countenance radiated with a new light. A new life, and a new world lay before him. He walked off with a strength he had never known, and as he walked he repeated. "Desire! Determination! Diligence!"
MRS. GRACE MORRISON POOLE, President of the General Federation of Women's Clubs says: "Right here may I enter a plea for clear, straight thinking on the question of Prohibition? Never to my knowledge has an officer of the General Federation of Women's Clubs claimed that its entire membership was in sympathy with the Eighteenth Amendment and the Volstead Act, but our vote record down through the years justifies us in saying that the large majority of our membership favors it.
"No one for one moment questions the right of individual club women to think and act as they please upon this social question, but we do expect officers of clubs and Federations to give the stand of the General Federation when the subject is up for discussion."
The New Jerusalem By Frank C. Steele
ELDER ORSON HYDE, one of the twelve apostles of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, journeyed to the Holy Land under authority of the priesthood and on October 24, 1841, dedicated by prayer the land for the gathering of the Jews, long scattered among the nations. This was an inspired prayer and to a remarkable degree has been fulfilled. "Grant, therefore, O Lord," prayed Elder Hyde, "in the name of thy well-beloved Son, Jesus Christ, to remove the barrenness and sterility of this land, and let springs of living water break forth to water the thirsty soil. Let the vine and olive produce in their strength, and the fig tree bloom and flourish. Let the land become abundantly fruitful and possessed by its rightful heirs; let it again flow with plenty to feed the returning prodigals who come home with a spirit of grace and supplication. Upon it let the clouds distill virtue and richness, and let the fields smile with plenty. Let the flocks and the herds greatly increase and multiply upon the mountains and the hills; and let thy great kindness conquer and subdue the unbelief of thy people. Do thou take from them their stony heart, and give them a heart of flesh; and may the sun of thy favor dispel the cold mists of darkness which have beclouded the atmosphere. Incline them to gather in upon this land according to thy word. Let them come like clouds and like doves to their windows. Let the large ships of the nations bring them from the distant isles; and let kings become their nursing fathers, and queens with motherly fondness wipe the tear of sorrow from their eyes."
THE awakening of Palestine and the gathering of Judah in the land of their inheritance since that memorable occasion offers one of the most inspiring chapters of modern history. The Holy Land of today under the British Mandate invoked when Britain took over the control of that ancient country from the Turks some fifteen years ago, is a land of intense industry and cultural development. Through the Zionist movement the passion for a Jewish Homeland has fired the imagination of the House of Judah the world over and this significant trend is reflected in the New Jerusalem that is arising. Jerusalem today has a population of 90,000, nearly double what it was when the British took control of affairs transforming it from a backward, primitive city to a progressive metropolis. Outside the old walls have been built imposing residential sections, public buildings, hotels and commercial edifices. New areas are constantly being opened as the city spreads out. Today Greater Jerusalem has spread half way to Bethlehem, birthplace of our Lord, on the south, the greater part of the way to Ain Karim on the west, and on the north to the foot of Mount Scopus where is located the British War Cemetery. The Y. M. C. A. Through the generosity of a humanitarian American of wealth has a magnificent branch in Jerusalem whither men of all races may gather on common ground for recreational, cultural and spiritual growth.
This New Jerusalem reflects the development that is taking place throughout the whole land of Palestine for surely the blessings pronounced by the prophets of God back in 1841 are being realized in a dramatic and far-reaching way. Haifa, the great seaport, is forging ahead and it is expected that the Prince of Wales will open the new port with its extensive facilities for shipping during the coming summer. It is the terminal of the Mosul petroleum pipeline. The waters of Jordan have been harnessed to supply the land with electric light and power. Twice a week airplanes carry mail to and from London. Hard-surfaced roads link the towns with Jerusalem while on the Sea of Galilee a health resort with every modern appointment is being established. Palestine moreover has its own coinage and postage stamps, an official recognition of the growing national status. It uses three official languages, English, Hebrew and Arabic. On the coast above Jaffa the Jews have built a new city, Tell-Aviv, the first purely Jewish city built since the days of the Romans. With a population of some 36,000 it has modern streets, electric illumination and power, hotels, restaurants, synagogue, hospital, schools and its industrial areas have more than 70 factories. Textiles, shoes, hats, thread, stoves, mirrors, leather goods and numerous other commodities are manufactured. The agricultural settlements are thriving and the development is fast transforming the country and making it once more a place where "The vine and olive produce in their strength" and "springs of living water break forth to water the thirsty soil." Palestine has gone into business in a big way and the prayers of the prophets ancient and modern are being fulfilled in a manner that would doubtless amaze them should they return and behold the Palestine scene of today.
BUT there is another aspect of life in the new Holy Land that is of special interest to readers of this magazine. This relates to the work among the women. Mrs. Rachel Katznelson-Rubashov, secretary of the Women's Workers Council of Palestine, has been touring North America acquainting audiences with the welfare work being carried on in that ancient land. Maintenance of convalescent homes, sanitariums, rest homes for workers, children's homes and nurseries comprise only a part of that program. The Girl's Agricultural School at Mahalal, only institution of its kind in Palestine, is turning out girls scientifically equipped for home-making and work on the farms and in the orchards. "The smallest infant mortality in the world is in Palestine. Our women in Palestine work hard but there is no feeling of sacrifice among them. They make their work a pleasure. There is no monotony, every day brings something new. Nowhere have I seen such hearty laughter as in Palestine. Each person feels himself necessary and knows there is a place to be filled. Each one is important because he is doing important work," says the visiting leader.
The Chicago Congress
UTAH women were well represented at the International Congress of Women in connection with the Columbia Exposition in 1893. It is expected that many Utahns will attend the International Congress under the auspices of the National Council of Women which will be held in Chicago July 16-27 in connection with the latest World's Fair, A Century of Progress. The brilliance of the program announced makes it plain that outstanding women from this country and many parts of the world will be flocking to Chicago for the event. Able speakers from America, Europe and the Orient have been secured. Dame Rachel Crowdy of England, Baroness Ishimoto of Japan; a leading femininist from China; Mary R. Bear, the historian; Dr. Lillian M. Gilbreth, industrial engineer; Jane Addams, peace advocate; Prof. Paul Douglas, Prof. Mollie Ray Carroll and Prof. Hazel Kyrk, economists; Mary Anderson and Grace Abbott, heads of government bureaus, are among them. The topics of discussion include "The Philosophy of a New Day," "When Nations Cooperate," "A New Concept of Government," "Citizenship," "The Goose Step of Commercial Recreation," "The War Racket" and others equally vital. Six round tables in progress during the week will deal with such subjects as "Security Against Destructive Forces," "Opportunity Through Education" and "Opportunity Through Leisure." Among the general sessions which will awaken most widespread interest are one devoted to, "Economic Security Through Government" in which an Italian Fascist, a Russian Communist and a citizen of the United States will describe the degree to which each of those forms of government guarantees security, and a youth meeting at which undergraduates from the leading women's colleges will express their views on modern civilization. Registration for the Congress will be $3.00, entitling the registrant to admission to all general meetings and round tables. Excellent rates have been obtained at the headquarters hotel, the Palmer House. Single room with bath will be $3.50; double room with bath, $3.00; three in a room, $2.50 each; and four in a room, $2.00 each. Reduced travel rates have been secured from all transportation lines converging at Chicago. For rail information write Mrs. William Gary Brown, Room 1324, 105 W. Adams St., Chicago; for airplane rates, Miss Ruth Nichols, The Dover, 687 Lexington Avenue, New York City. The exhibit of the National Council of Women in the Hall of Social Sciences at Chicago's Century of Progress will be a mecca for visitors from our organization to the world's fair, for in it the achievements of the National Women's Relief Society will be recorded. A series of handsomely bound volumes will carry the composite story of the work of the 31 member organizations of the Council in a setting superlatively appropriate for such a display. A 60-foot mural painted by Hildreth Meiere of New York will constitute the background. This depicts in a series of episodes major factors which have been responsible for women's emancipation from the drudgery of the home. They include the opening up of educational opportunities to women, the temperance crusade, abolition activities, the founding of the American Red Cross, the beginning of the suffrage movement, the club movement, the suffrage campaign and the campaign for peace. A narrow band below the main canvas, which is carried out in the semblance of a base relief, presents in miniature 20 historic incidents in the woman movement and 30 noted women.
Friendliness
A TINY mite of a girl huddled against a lamp post in the poorest district of the large city. The narrow streets, black alleys, dark dirty buildings, the foul smells of unclean human beings living too closely together, the shrill voice of an angry woman screaming to her children, a drunken man staggering into an open doorway, made a picture of the unfriendly atmosphere in which the youngster lived. With her hair hanging in disorderly strings on her moist forehead, her clothes ragged and grimy, her skinny arms and legs showing signs of recent beatings, the product of this environment was a most forlorn little person. Her face was wan and frightened, as though she expected at any moment to be yelled at, or kicked, or driven to a task much too difficult for her young body. At the sound of a kind voice, the child raised her troubled grey eyes to look into the smiling face of a clean-appearing boy about six years her senior. "What's the matter, kid? Somebody been mean to you?" Fearing that anything she might do or say would occasion a sharp rebuke or even a beating, the child made no sound. The boy took her tiny hand gently in his, saying, "Ah, don't be afraid. I won't hurt you." With a sparkle in his eye, he joyfully added, "Say! How'd you like to play with Spotty here?" The grey eyes, moving in the direction indicated by the boy's free hand, saw a small stubby-tailed dog frisking in the street. "Hi! Spot! Come 'ere!" As the dog bounded toward his young playfellow, a faint smile began to play in the grey eyes of the tiny girl. "Come on, kid. Don't be scared. See, pat him like this." Under the boy's kind encouragement and careful guidance the child's tiny hand went back and forth in little pats on the dog's head and back. Becoming more and more happy and less and less frightened every moment, the tot finally picked up the small dog, holding it tightly in her skinny arms. The happy laugh of the wee girl and the delighted wiggle of the dog's tail would have pleased the heart of the most calloused observer.
Notes from the Field Eastern States Mission
(Jamestown Branch): MEMBERS of the Jamestown Branch of the Eastern States Mission Relief Society gave a very successful social at Maccabee's Hall, March 18, 1933, in celebration of the birthday of the organization. A bountiful and delicious dinner was served from 5:30 to 7 p. m., to 110 people. At 7:30 a program was given, one of the first numbers being a two act drama, "The Organization of the Relief Society in Nauvoo." The characters were taken by members of the Relief Society. Following were several very good readings and musical numbers, also a play, written by one of the Jamestown missionaries, was given by the missionaries of the Jamestown Branch. After the program the floor was cleared for dancing, which was enjoyed by young and old. Everyone present pronounced the social a success in every way. The Jamestown Branch of the Relief Society has eleven members, who work together in love and harmony for the advancement of the Kingdom of God, in the entertainments and in the charity work of the organization. Tahitian Mission: SISTER MARGUERITE S&S. BURBIDGE, president of the Tahitian Mission Relief Societies, writes: "I desire to report that we held our Relief Society Conference here in Papeete on Thursday, April 6, 1933. We had a very enjoyable meeting. There were representatives from eight districts and they all made reports of their various branches and the work being done JAMESTOWN RELIEF SOCIETY CELEBRATES WITH DRAMA NOTES FROM THE FIELD by the sisters, which is very commendable. We had a program, which was given by the sisters of the Papeete Branch, and everyone seemed pleased and happy. After the meeting, the sisters were served with lunch. They were all seated at a long table which was very prettily decorated in pink and green, with little pink baskets as favors. In the evening the Papeete Relief Society presented a little play, "The Miracle,' to a crowded house. Everyone who saw it thought it was very good, and we felt very much satisfied with our part of the Conference. The sisters are doing a good work here, although they are. Handicapped in many ways." 379 the spirits of the sisters in the arduous experiences of the present day. The Roseville Society is but a small branch in the California Mission, but its officers are imbued with the real Relief Society spirit. St. Joseph Stake: FROM St. Joseph Stake comes the sad news of the passing of another one of the beloved Relief Society sisters. In the language of her co-workers: A death that has caused deep regret and sorrow throughout the valley was that of Mrs. Inez H. Lee, who passed away at her home in Thatcher, Arizona, March 4, 1933. Well known in ROSEVILLE BRANCII, CALIFORNIA MISSION California Mission (Roseville Branch): AN interesting account of a celebration held in the Roseville Branch of the California Mission, came to the Relief Society office. The above picture shows the cast. The account of these activities shows the interest of our Relief Society women everywhere, and the social spirit does much to keep alive religious, educational, civic and political circles throughout the state, she had a host of friends to whom her death came as a great shock. Funeral services were held in the L. D. S. Chapel in Thatcher. The large auditorium was filled to capacity with relatives and friends who had gathered to pay a last tribute to one, who through her kindly deeds and splendid character had 380 endeared herself to them to the extent that they lovingly called her Aunt Inez." At the time of her death she was the librarian of the Gila Junior College at Thatcher, a position she had held for six years, also Literary Class Leader of the Thatcher Ward Relief Society." San Francisco Stake (Diamond Ward): MARCH 17, 1933, was fittingly observed by the San |*rancisco Stake. The happy event was held in the Diamond Ward Chapel, at 8 p. M. The great diversity of the program offered showed the extent of the talent which comes to the support of Relief Society in all its projects. Following the address of welcome an orchestral number was presented by twelve of the Relief Society sisters in pantomume. An interesting feature was a reading by Sister Pamela RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the Diamond Ward Relief Society. She is 78 years old. This was followed by community singing, a skit, "Two Knights of the Road," and the singing of a Scotch song, a ne " was presented in pantomime. A Kangaroo Court, conducted with all the formality of a real session, was the source of much amusement. Dancing of old-time dances concluded the program, after which refreshments were served. The party, in which the spirit of merriment prevailed, the fancy dresses and the other elements of comedy did much to heighten the spirits of the group. Not a little amusement was created by the exchange of packages. Fach person was supposed to present a_ parcel and receive one in exchange, the contents of which created much fun. The Society felt that the party had been a most successful one, and had done much to dissipate the gloom Bassett, who is the oldest member of the past Winter. Magazine Day SISTER LUCY H. ADAMS of Lovell, Wyoming sends in word that they set aside one day for magazine day and that a special program was given during work meeting consisting of an original play, song, and stunt. On that day 26 subscriptions were handed in. The song written by Elder John C. Hawston and which they sing occasionally is: The Relief Society Magazine Onward gentle messenger—full of helpful cheer. Onward gentle messenger—full of helpful cheer, In a cause that's sacred, in a work _ that's dear. Every month there's comfort in your pages found, As we help the needy; Encourage the home bound, helpful cheer In a cause that's sacred; that's dear. As you enter sick rooms; By the discouraged read New hope thus is kindled, hungry spirits fed. In a work Onward gentle messenger—full of helpful cheer. In a cause that's sacred; that's dear. Everywhere there's sorrow; You must do your part Lift the overburdened—A balm to every heart. In a work The first two lines repeated for chorus. To be sung to the tune of "Onward, Christian Soldiers." Notes to WE are delighted to hear from Sister La Rene King Bleecker how much the sisters of the Ogden Second Ward are enjoying our magazine. She says "A new appreciation of literature seems to be prevthe Field alent in our association. Many have expressed the thought that we are acquiring our belated college educations through the medium of our magazine and the unusually fine lessons in all departments. Annual Day QuR annual, March 17, was most fittingly observed throughout the Church and happy celebrations seemed to be the order of the day. We attended one ward where every care was forgotten, although that very day the dead had been prepared for burial and nursing had been done in a number of distressed homes by these women. We commend the faith and buoyant spirits of the sisters for maintaining a wholesome attitude ieee all the difficult scenes of ife.. Ward Conferences OUR ward conferences are drawing to a close and we feel a great deal of good has been accomplished by getting our work before the people. The bishops tells us the Relief Society Conference is one of the best attended and most pleasing meetings of the year and great admiration is shown for the ability of the presiding officers. The singing done entirely by the members of the society is a very pleasing feature, and we feel a generous attitude is taken by the choir leader and the members to allow us this privilege once a year. In most conferences the stake officers have outlined a most commendable outline in connection with the outline of the General Board which shows thought and ability. Looking Hopefully Forward OD has not given us fore-knowledge but something far beter, hope," Pres. Anthon H. Lund. Our Happiness depends to a great extent on whether we look hopefully forward or whether we let despondency or foreboding depress us. While some, like Wilkins Micawber, carry this hopefulness too far and expect something to turn up without self effort, yet even such people radiate a better influence than do those who are always forecasting disasters, more trouble, worse conditions. There is a great difference between facing the facts, looking forward hopefully, working with a cheerful face, and an optimistic heart and drifting good naturedly with the tide, letting it bear one where it will. "God governs man through tae regency of hope." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES BI MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD President F irst Counselor Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mry, Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H, Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs, Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Manager - - Assistant Manager - - -: Mary Connelly KIMBALL Louise Y. Rosison Amy Brown Lyman VOL. XX JUNE, 1933 No. 6 EDITORIAL Founder's Day in Europe WE deeply appreciate the kind thoughtfulness of Sister Leah D. Widtsoe in sending us copies of the Anniversary Numbers of the "Star" for each mission in Europe, which the Relief Societies printed in honor of Founder's Day. These were in English, German, French, Dutch, Scandinavian and Norwegian.. Never before in our history have the European Relief Societies taken completely the lessons as provided for our organizations in the United States. This marks a great stride forward in the unity of our work. Sister Widtsoe writes that for five years she has urged most strongly that the Missions organize auxilliary presidencies instead of having all the organizations work under the direction of the Mission President's wife. She has realized and has tried to convince the Mission Presidents that the work cannot grow constantly until the local people are trained to manage their own affairs as they do in the Stakes of Zion. She now sees the result of her efforts, for practically all of the Missions have complete Relief Society executive officers. Sister Widtsoe has worked untiringly to strengthen the auxiliary organizations throughout the European Mission and to have them carry on the work as provided by the General Boards. We congratulate her on her success and are sure that the women who are now holding office and carrying responsibility will develop greatly and that the work will make rapid strides forward. EDITORIAL 383 Family Relationships "THE normal lot of the average boy is to grow to manhood, marry and assume the duties of being the head of a family. The normal lot of the average girl is to grow to womanhood, assume the duties of home-making and motherhood. Knowing this it is strange that with the multiplicity of subjects offered in the colleges and universities it is seldom that they include in their curricula courses that will directly fit young people for parenthood and home-making. We are delighted to-note that the Brigham Young University at Provo will offer in their spring quarter a course on family relationships. Preparation for marriage, the structure of the modern family, modern social conditions affecting its stability and pattern; characteristics of a well-adjusted family; desirable traits of family members; responsibilities and contributions of members of the family group to the family life in economic, social, moral and spiritual fields will be studied. Professor Effie Warnick, home economist of the institution says: "Families of the future will be judged less on elaborate meals and stiffly starched curtains than on the type of young men and women they produce." Think on These Things my Urte a number of years ago Alfred Russel Wallace on his ninety-second birthday was asked "What is wrong with the world?' He replied, "This is the fundamental weakness; our knowledge, our science has outstripped our moral. Development. We have become possessed of greater forces than we are morally fit to use. We have not sufficient self-control or good will to use these gigantic physical energies for the well being of mankind and are daily turning them into weapons of self-destruction." Later the New York Times asked 'a number of scientists the same question and their replies embodied the same thought. Today a great engineer says "Man is epochly unprepared for the bounty which the cornucopia of the engineers has shaken over the earth. He surveys ~'a scene of plenty and yet sees many 'going hungry. He hopes the prodigal: at the. Wheel can learn to manage himself, lest he be crushed by the machinery of material progress." A. Philosopher-historian, sorrowing over the inoral slump into which we have fallen tells us that it is of no avail to "lift our curses against the sky because we can only raise the common level as each citizen raises his own." Sir Alfred Ewing, president of the British Association for the Advancement of Science confronted by a series of preplexities and frustrations feels now at the age of 77 as "one who has come a long way and taken the wrong turning." Long an exponent of applied sciences he is now disillusioned by "the sweeping pageant of discovery and invention in which he used to take unbounded delight." He says: "It is impossible not to ask, whither does this tremendous procession tend? What, after all is its goal? What is the probable influence on the future of the human race? The engineers have dowered 384 us with 'previously unpossest and unimagined capacities and powers. Beyond question many of these gifts are benefits to man, making life fuller, wider, healthier, richer in comforts and interests and in such happiness as material things can promote.' "' Every man desires for such spiritual betterment as will qualify him to use the leisure he has won through the machine age. In order to do this Sir Alfred says he must first learn "to command himself." James Truslow Adams thinks two of the chief causes of moral collapse which has accompanied our economic debacle are lack of knowledge and lack of character. He says: "As part of the development of character we have got to place a higher value on other things in life than money and standards of living. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In countless homes in America today there must be going on a serious questioning of what it is that makes life worth while, and what is reallv worth striving for. My own opinion is that there are plenty of us who are getting fed up with the philosophy of life of the past decade and with the position which our country occupies, with its crime, its lawlessness, its disgraceful politics, its abandonment of ideals, its loss of prestige and honor abroad and at home. * ok OK "There is no use in railing at America, or expecting her to take her proper position in the world, unless each of us as citizens makes an effort to make his own life worth while on the basis of values which are not wholly material. The nation can not transcend the level of its citizens." President Robison Attends Conventions in East WE are glad to report that President Robison attended the Conference of the Women's National Council for Law Enforcement held in Washington, April 14-15, 1933, and also participated in the session in the National Council of Women that was called to plan for the women's exhibit at the Century of Progress Exposition. At this time she made arrangements for our Relief Society exhibit. Sister Robison visited the Exposition Buildings and comes back enthusiastic, feeling that a new era for women is dawning. She hopes many of our members will be able to go to Chicago this summer and enjoy the wonderful opportunities offered by the Century of Progress Exposition. It means much to have our President attend these conferences of representative women. While in New York, on invitation of President Moyle, she attended the conference of the Eastern States Mission, speaking at two sessions. Sympathy OUR hearts go out in deepest sympathy to Elder Richard R. And Amy Brown Lyman in the sudden death of their son, Wendell. Sister Lyman has been a tender, loving, devoted mother. During Wendell's boyhood he passed through a long, critical illness. His mother's whole thought centered in his welfare and it was due to her constant ministration that his life was preserved. May our Father give them fortitude to bear this great trial. May the spirit of peace abide in their home and may time heal their broken hearts. Wedding Announcements The observance of the correct social forms is never more important than in the matter of wedding invitations or announcements. Here you are certain of the newest and smartest. Priced at 7.00 The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah  Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 29 Richards Street Telephone Wasatch 3286 Salt Lake City 29 Bishop's Building INSURANCE 1. RALPH THE MEN WHO DIRECT THE AFFAIRS OF THE BENEFICIAL LIFE HEBER J. GRANT, President The Nation has come to realize that Life Insurance is one investment structure built on a foundation sufficiently solid to withstand the acid test. Life Insurance has demonstrated that it is the greatest medium of public service in existence. J REUBEN CLARK, Jr., Director National recognition has been given the Beneficial, as the Leader in this region, for its remarkable progress, fair dealings and net low cost of insurance. Exceptional stability is emphasized in the fact that 98.5 % of our total assets is set aside for the benefit and protection of Policyholders. Premium payments made to the Beneficial revert back to your community and do double duty by aiding in its development. During 1932 the Beneficial placed in circulation for the benefit of people in its field of operation MORE THAN TWO MILLION TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS COMPANY BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY There Is No Better Foundation To Build Upon Than A Beneficial Life Insurance Contract AZAZINE Volume XX JULY, 1933 No. 7 - Our true interest is, IN domestic Manufacturing of its region. Telephone and. Telegraph Orders 10c each Main St. AMERICA'S FINEST The Celebrated ROUND OAK RANGE We are exclusive agents. Beauty and Utility Combined in this new Range FREE $16. With Every DEXTER WASHER Above $49.95 Call us for Free Demonstration We are big dealers in the much-talked-of Grunow and Norge REFRIGERATORS We Sell the New GRUNOW REFRIGERATOR A new principle of refrigeration The same refrigeration. As is used in large office vertines and at the White couse. LIVING ROOM SUITES And everything to furnish the home. THE GRANITE FURNITURE Co. 1050 E. 21st SOUTH SAVE TIME! SAVE MONEY! By Wearing MOUNTAINEER Overalls and Auto Suits Equipped With Stop-Loss Pockets Join the ranks of enthusiastic workmen who have found Stop-Loss Pockets to fill a long-felt need. No more loss of tools, valuables, money, from your pockets while working, no matter what your position. No more precious time spent in hunting for lost articles. They Cost No More! ASK YOUR DEALER FOR MOUNTAINEER Overalls and Auto Suits Made in Salt Lake City by Z. C. M. I. Clothing Factory
RANGES Enjoy the conveniences, comfort and economy of Natural Gas cooking... This summer and through the years to come. NEW LIBERAL TRADE-IN ALLOWANCE • NEW LOW PRICES • NEW BEAUTY AND CONVENIENCE • NEW EASY TERMS Come in and see the handsome new models. UTAH GAS & COKE CO. OGDEN GAS CO. WASATCH GAS CO.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
VOL. XX JULY, 1933 No. 7
CONTENTS
Portrait of Susa Young Gates................................................Frontispiece Aunt Susa................................................................Lula Greene Richards 385 Shall I Send My Daughter to College?....................................Vesta P. Crawford 387 The Utah Pioneers........................................................Isabelle B. McKenzie 392 Relief Society Exhibit of Handwork..........................................Amy W. Evans 393 A Parsee Wedding......................................................Marcia K. Howells 398 Susa Young Gates........................................................Mary Grant Judd 400 Your Home Beautiful...................................................Mabel Margaret Luke 405 America Resplendent........................................................Ruth May Fox 410 A Log Cabin Monument..................................................Rose Brown Hayes 411 A Pioneer Trousseau..............................................Elizabeth Cannon Porter 415 Pioneer Ladies........................................................Claire S. Boyer 418 Alice Fielding Butterworth..........................................Annie Wells Cannon 419 A Land of Promise....................................................Cora Carver Richie 422 Even as the Arabs....................................................Lorene Pearson 426 Gypsy Blood.....................................................Elzada C. Brinkerhoff 430 ............................................................................ 430 Happenings......................................................Annie Wells Cannon 431 Leadership............................................................Elise B. Alder 432 Meat and Meat Substitutes...........................................Lucy Rose Middleton 435 Indestructibility of Matter.............................................Helen Minckley 437 Notes from the Field................................................................. 439 Notes to the Field.................................................................. 442 Editorial—Patriotism................................................................ 443 Susa Young Gates................................................................... 444
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3123
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear:
No. 1 New style, ribbed lgt. wt. No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Combed Cotton. An excel- Our best selling wool num- lent Ladies' number............$1.05 ber. Men's new or old style....$2.50
No. 2 Old style, ribbed lgt. wt. No. 6 Light weight garment, cotton, Our standard garment..........1.10 Ladies' new style or old style...95
No. 3 Ribbed med. wt. Cotton, No. 7 Light weight Spring and bleached. Our all season num- Autumn garment. Men only....85 ber. Men's new or old style....1.25
No. 4 Ribbed heavy wt. Un- No. 8 Light weight silk for ladies bleached cotton. Our double only, new style only.............1.00 back number. Men's new or old style...................1.50 No. 9 Medium wt. Silk for men and women, new style only. Non-Run..................1.50
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, short legs and sleeves or ankle length legs, are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit.
Postage prepaid on orders accompanied by money order in United States. Special discount to missionaries.
Our Jack Frost Blankets are made of Utah Wool and Utah Labor Write for Prices
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates
L. D. S. GARMENTS, CUTLER VALUES
No. 68 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Cotton..................$.75 No. 74 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Fine Cotton............95 No. 64 Light Med. Wt. Bleached...............1.19 No. 62 Med. Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back................................1.29 No. 56 Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back........1.49 Super Non-Run Rayon Short Sleeve and Knee Length.........................1.00
In ordering garments please state if for men or women, and if old or new styles are wanted, also state bust, height and weight of person. Marking 15c. Postage prepaid.
Special—When you order three pairs of garments at one time we allow you a 15% discount on third pair only.
Cutler's SALT LAKE CITY 36 So. Main UTAH
L.D.S. GARMENTS
Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy. When ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid.
OLD OR NEW STYLE MAN OR LADY
178 Light Ribbed............................$.75 200 Light Ribbed............................1.00 204 Ribbed, Med. Wt........................95 205 Rib Knit, Lt. Weight...................1.15 92 Lt. Wt. Rayon Stripe....................1.00 88 Fine Knit, Lt. Weight...................1.25 228 Lt. Wt. Rayon Stripe...................1.35 256 Double Carded, Med. Wt.................1.35 406 Double Carded, Hvy. Wt.................1.65 405 Non-run Viscose Rayon..................1.35 758 Med. Hvy. Cot., Ecru or White..........1.45 806 Non-run Viscose Rayon..................1.75
BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Beyond Comparison!
If you do not have an ELECTRIC REFRIGERATOR try one in your home for a week, or month—enjoy its convenience, its economy—cool drinks and delicious desserts—and you, too, will say it is beyond comparison!
BUY YOURS NOW WHILE PRICES ARE DOWN
UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Efficient Public Service
RELIEF SOCIETY Literary Text Book
"The Story of World Literature" BY JOHN MACY For 1933-34 Lessons
Is Now For Sale at Room 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Price $1.00 Postpaid.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
BY LULA GREENE RICHARDS
AUNT SUSA
We chronicled the date in sunny May For dear Aunt Susa as she passed away. She doubtless registered "May Twenty-seven, Nineteen Thirty-three," on entering Heaven.
Surely her seventy-seven years on earth have been Given to Truth's great cause, combatting sin. Nobly life's battle she has fought and won, Promotion gained, a higher course begun.
She still may help her loved ones carry on— Tho' called away she is not far withdrawn. Those who have known and labored with her here May often sense her earnest presence near.
It may be now her spirit strong and free, With angel guides will flit o'er land and sea To old Jerusalem, or somewhere there, Where Jesus walked and taught and knelt in prayer.
There she may find her first devoted child, And help her Leah, to be reconciled When she shall learn her mother's new estate, With her no more here to "collaborate."
What joy and peace the Gospel light reveals To those who heed it! How it soothes and heals The wounded heart which can confess God's hand, And by His grace His goodness understand.
Aunt Susa knows, and all her loved ones too, The Holy Spirit's gifts divine and true. Let us praise God and feel with humble trust His ways are wise, beneficent and just.
Aunt Susa: May your gifted loved ones all Like you be ready for the final call. With you rejoice when they again shall hear Your friendly voice of welcome and good cheer.
SUSA YOUNG GATES
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. XX JULY, 1933 No. 7
Shall I Send My Daughter to College? By Vesta P. Crawford
WITH the coming of each September, this question returns: "Shall I send my children to college?" Preparation for life involves many problems, and the girl's training is even today somewhat different from the curriculum outlined for her brother. For many years there has rather generally prevailed a vague idea that college education is a good thing. However, even this guide post is falling before the onslaught of much criticism of the results of college education and much complaining on the part of taxpayers. Already it seems to be a well established principle that college training is not for everyone. Because parents must direct their children in this most important decision, they should themselves gather all available information and weigh it carefully. They must measure their sons and daughters to see if they are of college caliber.
DEAN MAX McCONN of Lehigh University has suggested a series of helpful tests. He says that, in the first place, the prospective college entrant should have displayed in high school a decided tendency toward bookish aptitude. The I. Q. (intelligence quotient) should be above 120, which is much more than average, and the student should rank in the top one-third of his high school class. Other authorities maintain that an average grade of at least "B" is necessary for college entrance. Dr. McConn lists as the second requirement a real interest in acquiring knowledge. This interest may be measured by observing the student's attitude toward the world of nature, towards books, libraries, lectures, laboratories, and other facilities for acquiring information. The third stipulation is that the college entrant should have developed a capacity for self-direction in such essentials as getting up in the morning without being called, managing an allowance sensibly, choosing friends wisely, doing home work well, and displaying initiative.
If your daughter can successfully pass muster in these prerequisites, then you may reasonably proceed to further considerations. Can you afford to send the girl to college? It would be well to secure catalogues from several universities and see for yourself what the expenses are. Many girls complete a year of college work on $300.00 or less of actual cash outlay. Many spend twice or three times that much. At present the opportunities for earning part of the expenses are more limited than in times of greater prosperity. However, the expenses are not so high now either. Many parents, thinking of the difficulties which college students now have in securing positions, wonder if the training will be worth while economically.
Certainly we are passing through a crisis at the present time, but it appears that we are now climbing the hill back to better times. Now is the time to prepare for the opportunities of the future. To many high school graduates the doors to employment are temporarily closed and money for early marriages is hard to get. But the college doors are wide open, and there is no depression in materials to train and develop the mind.
Let us remember that college should be regarded as a preparation for the whole span of life. Not long ago I heard a father say that he wished his daughters to pass directly from his control to the control of their husbands without any intermediate period of financial or any other kind of independence. When asked if he did not wish his daughters to learn vocations, he replied that if their husbands couldn't support them and their children he could. That was rather a broad statement since no man nowadays can guarantee the continuance of his financial solvency, and even if that were possible, few parents are wealthy enough to assume the support of even one additional family. It is not wise, either, to overlook the fact that, for various reasons, large numbers of women must be self supporting. Thousands never marry; thousands more are widows; and frequently married women must aid in the support of the family. No father can, by his own will, see that his daughter marries well, nor can he prevent the tragedies of death and disease. However, parents can equip their daughters with tools to meet bravely the problems of life.
Not long ago a writer suggested that in many cases it would be wiser for parents to give their children money for "settling down" instead of sending them to college. Undoubtedly this would be helpful, but money is a temporary gift, quick to disappear and never to be recovered, while education is a tool that even time cannot take away. It is true that some of our colleges offer little work that is practical enough to train young women in the professions. But it is equally true that often students and their parents do not plan to take advantage of the work given in these lines. Fortunately our local institutions do present valuable courses that prepare for many vocations besides teaching.
Sometimes we fail to realize how wide is the work of the world. Among the numerous professions for which college helps to prepare may be mentioned the following: the various fields of business, including stenography and secretarial positions, librarian, recreational director, home economics expert, journalist, interior decorator, advertisement writer, the various fields of research, in addition to the many professions that women are pioneering, such as medicine, law, science, statesmanship, etc. It is much better to direct the college course toward the achievement of some worthy occupation, but even if your daughter is not successful in accomplishing this aim, she is even then better prepared to more quickly acquire the information necessary for making a living. The greatest tool of all is a "furnished" mind—a mind capable of weighing facts without prejudice or superstition, a mind capable of adjustment to new ideas.
ALTHOUGH many of us would consider the economic aspects of college education as of first importance, there are others who believe in different purposes. I recall that a friend of my school days was married at the end of her first year of college. Her mother remarked triumphantly to mine: "Well, it's too bad your daughter didn't get a man the first year. Now you'll have to send her back to college." At the time I was astonished to think that any mother would send her daughter to college for the purpose of making a match. But eventually being able to do the same thing myself, the advantages of a college marriage became immediately apparent.
It is interesting in this regard to examine the work of authorities who have assembled statistics tabulating the results of marriages made in college. Rita S. Halle, who made for Good Housekeeping Magazine a detailed and careful study of the alumni of colleges throughout the country, reported an average of one divorce in every seventy-five marriages. Dr. Paul Popenoe of the Los Angeles Institute of Family Relations, in a more recent investigation, arrived at the same ratio—one divorce to seventy-five college marriages. No doubt our local institutions could discover an even better average. When we consider that some of the States offer such astounding records as one divorce to every five or six marriages, the college divorce ratio is more than significant.
Miss Halle, in explaining her results, reasoned that most college marriages are the result of tried and true friendships, not immature, emotional affairs of being in love with love. College wives have interests of their own, Miss Halle maintained, and they are not, as a rule, jealous of the husband's work for they understand more about professional demands. They help the husband to get ahead by sharing ambitions and lifting more of the load than an untrained woman, however willing, could lift. The long list of happy college marriages is topped by the names of Ex-President and Mrs. Hoover, whose romance is one of the stories still told on the Stanford University campus.
"PROFOUND ignorance of any important byway of civilization may be found a definite impediment to personal progress." The woman in her home and the mother among her children find a deep well of help in the things they have learned in college. Of course they forget many facts, but they acquire an eagerness to know and an ability to find the information they want. These attributes may be found in women who have not had the advantages of much formal education, but such cases are not so common.
A busy young matron summarized somewhat haphazardly a few of the elements she found of practical use. "The other day I had to work out a diet rich in iron for the baby," she said, "and I could do it. Another occasion came up. In college I learned about the reproduction of flowers and my James adores the story. It prepares him for a proper knowledge of the life forces. Yes, and Margaret needed to know about the Idylls of the King for English class, and I was a regular encyclopedia on the subject. She's been extra proud of me since then. And only the other day my husband wanted a list of the newest aniline dyes and I found it for him. I may have forgotten most of what I learned in college but what remains is worth all the time and money."
Children are severe critics. They expect perfection in their parents and it is difficult for them to understand why father and mother can't answer all their questions. The social and cultural values of college education are not easy to measure but they are none the less evident. Students are exposed to cultural forces, although the "absorbing" abilities of young people are extremely varied. A love for culture in general is fostered in the college—the speaking of correct English, an ease and confidence in conversation, an appreciation of music and the fine arts, a pleasing manner in meeting people. All these matters may be labeled "useless veneer," but she who lacks them is always at a disadvantage whatever her station in life. However, a determined and ambitious woman may build for herself outside of college her own house of culture.
IN the field of Church activity, also, the trained individual is better prepared for leadership. If we should make a list of the scout leaders, recreational directors, dancing and athletic teachers, and seminary principals, to say nothing of the long role of active and efficient teachers who help to do the work of the wards, we would find that college training has contributed immeasurably to the effectiveness of Church work. There is, however, some truth in the charge that college leads many away from religion. It cannot be denied that college, particularly the scientific courses, change the attitude toward religion. But if parents have laid a deep and wide foundation of faith, the college does not take it away. Many of our apostles and other Church leaders are college trained men. It is not what the college teaches, but the material it works with that causes chaos in religious ideals.
IT is safe to say that our colleges are sending out large numbers of students equipped with high ideals and a knowledge of the needs of the world. And not only to men but also to women is the maintenance of the lamp of civilization given. Whether or not we regard women's participation in civil life as the ideal situation, such participation is undoubtedly here to stay. Professor Anthony F. Blanks of the University of California is perhaps too radical when he says: "If women continue their progress, which seems likely now, it is no more than logical to assume that within the next two generations they will be in control of affairs." Colonel House, who has had opportunity to become an authority on the subject, in a recent statement remarked: "It is doubtful whether we shall ever reach that goal dreamed of by seers and saints, but when government is measurably directed by women we shall come nearer to it than we have in the past.... Grant them the power and they will give the world peace, or come as near to it as is humanly possible." Colonel House discusses a number of women prominent in civic affairs and gives the opinion that he regards it as quite possible for women to be expert wives and mothers and still be of service in other ways. He cites the wife of President Roosevelt as an outstanding example. A glance at Utah's "legislative" women would no doubt substantiate the view of Colonel House.
IF, then, women are to play an important part in the direction of world affairs, they need training for these duties. Some women are brilliant enough to acquire much necessary information outside of college, but even such unusual minds could be even more adequately "furnished" by youthful participation in debating, student government, courses in history, law, and public speaking.
Let us say again that college should prepare for the whole span of life, its contingencies and emergencies. The problem of the woman beyond middle age requires much wisdom to solve. Look about you and note the number of women who are "alone," that is, their children are married and have (or ought to have) homes of their own. Of course they come to mother for visits or for help, but such irregular and fleeting interests do not fill the lives of women who have been accustomed to the unceasing work of raising a family. Before the children leave the home nest mothers are often so much occupied with physical work that they have not had time to consider "self development" in other ways. Then comes the "let down." It may be true that some women are glad to "just rest," but they are certainly not numerous. We all of us know tragic examples of women who are trying late in life to acquire "interests" and even professions. But the time of ready adjustment is long past. It is far better to acquire the saving "hobbies" in our youth, for then they are likely to last forever, submerged, perhaps, in the busy days of young motherhood, but there, nevertheless to be brought out and polished up at need.
A WOMAN once addressed a group of girl graduates in this way: "I congratulate you upon one priceless possession which nothing can take away from you, one real asset which no economic or intellectual changes can make less valuable: ten or twenty or thirty years from now you will be the youngest group of women for your age in the country." The lecturer went on to explain that the four added years of youth which college gives yield compound interest for they secure an everlasting "teachable" attitude of mind. And the "hobbies" and interests acquired in college days, whether they be botany, art, music, or writing, are the gates to activities that free the older woman from the great loneliness that so many fear.
Dr. Lillien J. Martin, who, fifteen years ago, was retired from the faculty of Stanford University, is now at the age of eighty-two still a consulting psychologist, working especially with old people who have lost their interest in life. "What I particularly want to emphasize," she says, "is that the old person must have a goal." For most women, and it is becoming increasingly true, the occasional sight of a grandchild or the visits of one's children, are by no means sufficient interests to fill the long days of the downward slope of the hill. Neither can housekeeping for two make a full life for many women. There must be other activities that are interesting to the individuals, and in most cases these activities cannot be put on like new clothes. For real service they should be like seeds planted long ago and now become sturdy trees of great support. The college girl of today may acquire interests that will make the latter part of her life a "glowing" period of activity instead of merely "marking time" until the end, as seems to be the lot of some old people.
In conclusion it may be said that "colleges are not super-kindergartens where parents can send their children to be nursemaided, nor corrective institutions where their characters can be made over on a model preferable to that which they themselves have built. Nor can parents expect colleges to act as police forces devoting themselves to the enforcement of a discipline that they themselves were unable to maintain."
The Utah Pioneers By Isabelle B. McKenzie
Far from their friends they had wandered, Weary and longing for rest, As they stood in a group on the hillside Their leader gazed to the west,
Where before them stretched a valley,— And a light came o'er his face,— With prophetic gesture pointing He said, "This is the place!
Through this valley now so barren A good sized river flows, We will plough and plant and cultivate 'Til it blossoms like a rose;
We must all be brave and cheerful As we turn the virgin sod,— Encourage arts of every kind, And give all praise to God."
So they came down into the valley, This brave, God-fearing band; Determined here to build their homes And for their rights to stand.
The stars and stripes were soon unfurled Upon a lofty hill, To signify through all their trials They loved their country still.
The leader planned a temple Of beauty, strength and grace, In vision saw its every line, Each stone in proper place;
And though to Heaven he was called E'er the dream was all fulfilled His mission here was finished He had done the work God willed.
Our Utah—the land once so barren A desert of sagebrush and sand, Is now the tourists' Mecca They come from every land;
They marvel at our sunsets Of brilliant pink and gold, While tales of pioneer success Throughout the world are told.
The spirit of those early Saints Lives still in latter days,— In helping sick and needy poor And many other ways;
In music, art and drama Fair Utah has no peer And through the land is tribute paid, To the Mormon pioneer.
Relief Society Exhibit of Handwork By Amy W. Evans
SINCE the days of Nauvoo needle work has had a place in the Relief Society. At first all the sewing done was for the needy. Later in the pioneer days of Utah when the homes and meeting houses depended largely upon the work of the woman for their furnishings much rag carpet was made at the Work Meeting as well as quilts and clothing. As times became more prosperous and the need for sewing to clothe the poor decreased, there developed an avenue for self expression through finer needle work, embroideries and laces. Quilt making reached a high degree of excellence. Then came flower making, painting and decorating of various sorts. Rug making has become a fine art among many of our societies. At the same time the useful arts of home making, such as home nursing, home hygiene, the study of foods and their relationship to health and growth and child studies of various kinds have been introduced on the work day. Our women have become masters at turning odds and ends and cast off clothing into useful and beautiful articles. In these difficult days unique ways of raising funds to help the needy have evolved. The canning and conserving of all kinds of foods has had its place on the work program. Yet during all this the original purpose has not been lost sight of and sewing and remodeling of clothing, the making of quilts for those in need has gone steadily on.
MANY stakes and wards have held bazaars and exhibits of their work which have proved to be very attractive and successful. At the request of the General Board different stakes have at various times placed their work on display during the General Relief Society Conference in Salt Lake City. These displays have been so thoroughly enjoyed and appreciated by all who attended that finally it was decided to extend an invitation to all the stakes to participate in a great Church wide exhibition of the hand work and other activities accomplished through the Work and Business program. The time set for the opening was April 3, 1933.
ONE member of the committee in charge of the display says, "What could better demonstrate the efficiency of the Relief Society organization and the dependability of Relief Society workers than the following: A brief circular letter sent to 104 stake presidents carried the message that an exhibition of the hand craft and needle work resulting from the Work and Business program would be held and that each stake was invited to send not more than 10 articles to show for the event. The results of this invitation were amazing, practically every stake in the Church responded as well as several missions, and the wholesome attitude of every one concerned in the great endeavor showed high co-operative ability."
The building on Main Street so long occupied by the business firm of W. N. Williams, husband of Clarissa S. Williams, our beloved past president, was secured for the exhibit. The committee were very fearful that it was too large, but before the articles were all unpacked they began to wonder where space could be found to place all that was sent in.
QUILTS covered the entire wall and a double row was hung as compactly as possible for display, down the center of the building. The greatest admiration was expressed by all who saw them for the workmanship, coloring, designs. Many of the designs were original. They were indeed outstanding and deserved all the praise they received.
ANOTHER member of the committee speaks of the rugs as follows: "One of the most interesting sections of the exhibit was the rug department. Day after day as we were drawn back by its beauty and utility, we discovered new devices of thrift and ingenuity. The corner was so homey, so suggestive of comfort and warmth and easy chairs placed so invitingly near by, induced many men and women to enjoy the comfort afforded. There were braided rugs made from old cast off materials that would last almost a life time so skillfully had they been woven together by deft and willing hands. Hooked rugs made from new material, soft of texture and beautiful in design and execution, vied for first place with rugs made from discarded stockings and underwear.
"One rug of special interest had attached to it a history of the events leading up to its creation. The sheep had been raised on a small farm, the wool had been clipped from them by the woman who washed, carded, dyed, spun and finally wove it into a rug of rare beauty. A braided rug in course of construction showing a unique method of binding together with a strong cord as it was braided instead of the former way of sewing, was greatly appreciated by rug enthusiasts.
"Rugs made from the finest texture of wool, some made from silk unexcelled in workmanship and design, deserve a place in palaces of art. Every rug was a credit to the maker, every rug was a thing of beauty.
"If you remember the coziness at the hearth of your pioneer home and long for a touch of its soothing spirit again, adorn your modern home with the touch of comfort and warmth that can be brought only by the beauty of a home made rug."
WARMTH and color was added by the afghans and cushions of which there were a great number. Delicate touches of beauty were the dainty bedspreads and boudoir pillows. Many baskets and vases of flowers so cleverly made that they could all but deceive the bee added to the festive appearance of the scene.
THE table on which the baby clothes were spread was one of the most popular spots. The finest of hand embroidery and hand made lace adorned the dainty articles. The blankets and quilts of pale tints of blue and pink, the vase of apple blossoms for a center, all these accounted for its popularity.
LONG tables around the entire building were covered with fine net work, cut work, crochet and embroideries of all kinds.
USEFUL articles for kitchen, living room and bed room, such as curtains, utility bags, pads and holders, decorated cans and boxes for spices, etc., and aprons gave new ideas to many as to what they themselves might do. Old bricks tastefully decorated and with a band of felt on them made fine book ends, lamps and shades, clocks, candles and holders, decorated china vases, umbrella holders, sewing baskets, door stops, fire screens, foot stools and many other fine articles showed the ingenuity and skill of the makers. There were a few samples of fine modeling, as statuettes, book ends and portrait busts.
THE remodeled clothing was a prominent feature. One saw such things as a finely tailored suit for a young girl which her mother made for her from her father's wedding suit. The workmanship on the made-overs was excellent. Boys' trousers, coats and overcoats looked like new. A dainty party dress was made at the expense of only 10c. Even warm woolen gloves were made from old material. This display was very creditable and showed the resourcefulness of the Relief Society women in making use of clothing which otherwise would have been cast aside.
THE eyes of the children visitors beamed with delight at the sight of dolls, dogs, cats and other toys and the chairs and cradles made from small barrels which were covered with gay cretonne.
A TABLE which attracted a great deal of comment contained cans of fruits, meats and vegetables with a card telling how much this stake had done in food conservation. An enormous amount of this work is done at the work meetings. It contained also a cheese sent from a stake which made cheese making a feature, and a large bottle of noodles and the photograph of the women who had made and sold almost $300.00 worth to raise funds for Relief Society work.
SOAP making has come into vogue again and soaps of all kinds were on display—white scented soap, soap flakes and laundry soap. Recipes for making them were on the table and the demand for them greatly exceeded the supply.
A WORD must be said about the picture gallery. The black silhouettes with the delicate background predominated. There were oil paintings of various subjects all showing artistic ability.
ONE of the front display windows contained the actual foods and amount of water needed for a month's supply for one person, also a week's supply. The costs and relative food values were concretely illustrated. This represented the studies in foods in the Work and Business meetings of two stakes. It proved very educational in this field and many people could be seen taking notes for future reference. These same stakes demonstrated in the exhibit school lunches, milk testing, how to store vegetables and many useful facts about food. One had a balanced ration of toys for children of various ages. Character building clothing for children was displayed by another stake with large posters explaining. This was helpful and educational to mothers of young children.
THE first stake to establish a Relief Society baby clinic had a clever and charming exhibit of layettes and all sorts of baby clothes including shoes, which they had taught the women to make. The attendant in her white nurse's costume was kept busy explaining the work of the clinic and the patterns for the clothing.
THE extent of the Relief Society work was demonstrated by the display from the foreign missions. Articles from many parts of the world made up this part of the exhibit. The European mission was represented by hand woven linens and wool work from Scandinavia, laces and embroidery and needle point from England, France, Germany and the Netherlands, Czecho Slovakia with characteristic embroidery. There was a beautiful rug from Assyria made by the Relief Society women of that land. A large sacrament cloth decorated with drawn work and graceful flowers was made at the Work and Business meeting of the Armenian women. There were also many pieces of exquisite hand work from that country. The South Sea Islands and Hawaiian display with a setting of palms and ferns was realistic. Woven bridal gowns, dancing costumes and mats, with the beautiful quilts of Hawaii made it unusual and attractive. Graceful birds of many colored real feathers made on linen and cards came from Old Mexico. Baskets designed and woven by the Indian Relief Society women of Arizona, with beaded belts, purses and jackets made by the Washakee Indians from southern Idaho represented the Lamanite sisters.
A REGISTER was kept of visitors and at least 20,000 people saw the exhibit. Of these there were people from all the Intermountain and Pacific states. The middle west was well represented. There were visitors from Canada, Portland, Ore., San Francisco, Los Angeles on the west coast, from New York and Boston on the east and New Orleans on the south. One visitor was from London, England, another from the Fiji Islands and another from Oslo, Norway. All were favorably impressed with the work of the Latter-day Saint women. Its beauty, usefulness and educational value was recognized by these people as they expressed themselves. Words of praise came from all sides. Many women, not of our faith dropped in time and again. A prominent woman teacher in one of our colleges said, "A tremendous undertaking wonderfully done. The saving grace in a depression period is industry and achievement." A lady, 91 years of age, after looking about shook her head and said, "No, they are not all playing bridge." Another teacher said "This is the most cheering thing I have seen for sometime." The first presidency and many of the apostles attended. President Grant asked that the doors be kept open on the closing night in order that the men attending the Priesthood meeting might see the display.
He wrote the following letter to the General Board:
"April 10th, 1933.
"Presidents Louise Y. Robison, Amy B. Lyman, and Julia A. Child.
"My dear sisters:
"I was literally dumbfounded with the magnificent exhibit of the Relief Society, and I wish that I had attended it the first day of our conference so that I could have called special attention to it earlier.
"I suppose you occasionally send out circular letters to the different Relief Societies throughout the Church and when you do be sure to express my sincere gratitude for the labors they performed in sending such a splendid display of the handiwork of our good sisters in the Societies.
"Ever praying the Lord to bless you and all those associated with you in your labors, I am, as ever,
"Sincerely your friend and brother,
"HEBER J. GRANT."
A Parsee Wedding By Marcia K. Howells
THE Parsees are a remarkable community. There are only about 60,000 of them in Bombay and only about half as many as that in the rest of India. They make up in importance what they lack in numbers. They are highly educated, energetic, enterprising, progressive and rich. They build and endow hospitals for both men and animals. They have a pure and lofty religion, and they order their lives by it.'—Mark Twain. I FIRST saw the bride at the altar. His majesty, the groom, had not yet appeared. She was tall, lovely and graceful. Her eyes were dark with the mystery of the orient, yet her skin was fair as that of a northern girl. Brides are interesting in any land, but this Parsee bride was pleasing to the eye with her dignity, supple grace and rare beauty. She furnished a picture never to be forgotten. Her flowing white robes, trimmed with gold and intricately draped, clung to her well-moulded form. The only ear I could see held a large diamond, and a rare string of pearls hung from her beautiful neck. A PARSEE WEDDING Her arms were heavy with presents for the groom. With the first appraising glance I thought surely she must be the prize for some wealthy rajah—but no—a Parsee bride waiting for the groom. The Parsees have never intermarried. He was just a scared young man, dressed in white silk, with a funny little black cap on the back of his head. His arms were heaped with presents for the bride —silk, silver and a couple of drinking bowls. The Parsees came from Persia, to India, many hundreds of years ago, the finest race of Orientals in all the East. They are called the Jews of India, they freely share their vast wealth with needy Hindoo neighbors. It was an open-air wedding, with a temporary altar erected in the court-yard. Rich rugs were thrown around on the grass while silken flags formed a canopy above. Sweet perfume of tropical flowers made pleasant the air. It was a beautiful scene with the rich costumes, vivid colors and jewels in evidence, like an opening night at the Metropolitan. The wedding ceremony began just at sunset, for the Parsees observe all rules and laws of a very exacting religion. The native orchestra struck up the familiar strains of "Hindustan," then popular in America WEDDING 399. The young couple exchanged presents. The marriage service was long, the priests chanting, throwing rice, and reading in monotone. They were brave, that bride and groom, for during all that long service, they were constantly bombarded with handfuls of rice, but not once did I see them lift a hand to protect their faces. Rice is still the main diet of the East, and the throwing of rice symbolizes a wish for plenty. The wedding ceremony over, the reception began, but this bride remained unkissed. The Hindoos were served first—coconuts and cornucopias of sweets, which they took home to eat. You cannot with propriety open a coconut at a party. I was led up near the altar and the groom placed a beautiful garland of flowers around my neck. Then T was escorted to a long table laden with rare tropical fruits, dainty sandwiches and rich pastry. The refreshments were so good. Guests moved about in a gracious manner —the music soft and low—a big tropical moon came out from above the heat-laden city of Bombay. This Parsee wedding stands out in my memory as a most vivid picture of rare experiences in a strange country—a country where women wear rings in their noses and cows are considered sacred. May heaven bless and keep happy that fair bride and boyish groom. Susa Young Gates By Mary Grant Judd N May twenty-seventh, 1933, in the early morning hours, the Angel of Death softly, gently, closed the "life-book of Susa Young Gates. The pages of the book were many and each one filled to overflowing. For here was the record of a life of ceaseless activity—nearly four score years of tireless energy well used. Before he sealed the book, the angel scanned its contents o'er. And on the final page he wrote: "WELL DONE." SUSA YOUNG GATES, a daughter of Brigham Young and Lucy Bigelow Young, was born in Salt Lake City, March 18th, 1856. She was the first child born in the historic old Lion House, which, for many years was the residence of President Young and his family. Here Susa 'lived until she was fourteen years of age, when her father decided to move Lucy and her family to St. George. In later years, Sister Gates loved to come back to the Lion House which was always home to her. Here recently she often entertained her friends, "cafeteria style,” for she liked wholesome, plainly cooked food but cared nothing at all about formality. And here, on her birthdays, her family and associates met socially, enjoying evenings characteristic of "Aunt Susie," as we all loved to call her. These parties she gave in her own unique fashion for she never imitated anyone else. She was at home in any society and numbered among her friends some of them intimately, many people of note. But whether being entertained at court, as she was in London in 1899 when delegate to the International Women's Congress, or quietly encouraging some humble temple worker, which she loved to do, Aunt Susie was just herself, WE owe to Sister Gates many interesting reminiscences of life in the Lion House as it existed in early days. One might suppose that to house fifty or more people and feed them three times a day would be so great a task that little time would be left for the amenities of life. But such was not the case. Brigham Young was a thorough convert to the idea of communal family life. He taught his family order and obedience and from them received willing co-operation. As long as it was consistent with the pioneer mode of life, nothing for the comfort, happiness, and education of the children was forgotten. They were allowed to attend the Salt Lake Theatre frequently for, in those days, worthwhile drama was acted and understood. The children even planned their own amusing stage productions which their father sometimes humored them by attending. And if he found these efforts lacking in any particular, they were unaware of the fact. So anxious for their welfare was Brigham Young, that he provided them with such modern equipment as a private gymnasium and out-of-door sleeping porch. Showing aptitude for dancing, Susa was trained in this art, as well as that of music. In the book-cases of the Lion House parlor were many lovely volumes to be carefully taken out on Sunday afternoons and read with delight. Sister SUSA YOUNG GATES Gates tells us that she canot remember the time when she could not read fluently and intelligently. Her interest in books increased with the years, until during her lifetime she read literally hundreds of volumes. She was an indefatigable student of the scriptures and was also well versed in church history. Her literary labors have been voluminous. Stories, plays, poetry, editorials and essays have flowed steadily from her pen for over fifty years. ACROSS the road from the BeeHive house, the official residence of Brigham Young, a private school was established. Here the brilliant mind of young Susa received its first training. Later she attended the Brigham Young University at Provo, the University of Utah, and for one Summer was enrolled 2 Harvard University. Her chief means of education, however, came from her contacts with men and women. N later years her achievements were recognized in many ways. She was at one time a member of the board of regents of the State Agricultural College at Logan and for over forty years held a similiar position at the Brigham Young University at Provo. She was a member of the board at the time of her death. On numerous occasions she went as a delegate to both national and international councils of women and twice was assigned to speak before the. Assembled delegates, first, in Copenhagen in 1902, when she represented the international president and next, in Rome in 1914. GISTER GATES felt that it was the duty of women to understand what was going on in the world, to be interested in public affairs. She 401 took an active part in politics, believing that women should exercise their right of franchise intelligently. But it was in church work that she was most deeply interested and in which her greatest achievements were made. She had a faculty for far-sightedness with respect to the spiritual and intellectual needs of her sisters in the church. Having sensed the need, she lost no time in providing for it. Thus, in 1889 we find her founding the Young Woman's Journal (since combined with the Improvement Era and published under that name.) Its purpose was to give the young women of our church an oportunity to publish their compositions and to instruct them in church history and methods. For eleven years Sister Gates was editor of the Journal and besides carrying this responsibility, she shouldered some of the financial burden of the paper as well. If others failed, she would furnish many of the contributions under a variety of names, '"Homespun," being her best known nom-de-plume. In 1914 she became the editor of the Relief Society Magazine. She wrote the very first guide lessons for the Mutual Improvement Association and later wrote many of the Relief Society lessons. There is probably no woman in the church who understood more about genealogy or who did more to further its interests than did Susa Young Gates. She was an authority upon this subject. And she has set the example to all of us by doing the actual work for the dead in our temples. Right up to the time of her death at the age of 77, Sister Gates could be found five mornings out of seven at the 8:30 meetings of the temple workers. And when you stop to consider that before attending them she had left her small home in order, one begins to understand the irrepressible nature of her activities. 402 N connection with her genealogical work, Sister Gates becan: e much interested in biogiraphy writing. Her contribution to this field is the wonderful book, "The Life Story of Brigham Young." Besides being history interestingly told, this book portrays the affection given to an illustrious father by an illustrious daughter. Sister Gates gave her father credit, through his early teachings, for her successful home life. Olive Woolley Burt gives us this interesting side-light; "One of her father's favorite sayings was, 'Never humiliate a child.' So, when any reproof had to be administered, or any fault corrected, the mother was careful not to shame or ridicule the offender, but to talk to him as if he were a man grown with an intelligent understanding and whose sensibilities were sacred. Nor did she ever correct the children before others. Another saying of Brigham Young's was, 'Praise before blame.' This was incorporated into Mrs. Gates' policy in a very practical manner. Ifa child had done wrong, his mother began the correction with a word of praise for something fine and worthy. Tactfully the misdemeanor would be mentioned and disposed of, and the fine thing mentioned again, so that the child was left with a feeling that he was really good, and that his mistake was not irretrievable." For her mother, Lucy Bigelow Young, Sister Gates entertained a deep and reverent love. An extensive life of the mother has also been written by the daughter but is unpublished as is also a comprehensive treatise upon the history and activities of women in general and those of our church in particular. Thus Sister Gates set the example for the final inspirational move which she inaugurated, i. E., the women's biography division of the genealogical society. Here she instituted RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE classes to help those who wanted to write up their family histories but who perhaps felt that their training had been inadequate for such a task. This work was close to her heart and if she could give a parting message to the women of the church, no doubt it would be. "Sisters, do not delay. Gather up the interesting historical facts concerning your ancestors and set them down that they may be preserved for the benefit of those who come after. Write your own history as well for what may seem of little importance to you today may be of great historical significance in the future. This class was her last helpful gesture of a public nature of which so many had gone before. Sister Gates was too engrossed in the tasks she set herself to do to have a desire for many social contacts. Her associates and friends were largely those whom she felt that she could help or who sought her out, for encouragement or counsel. That her life had touched for good the life of many, many others was proved on the occasion of her funeral services when the Assembly Hall was filled with sorrowing people. Of confidential friends she had but few. One little group was especially dear to her heart. This comprised, with herself, six women, the others being, Elizabeth C. McCune, Alice K. Smith, Ann D. Groesbeck, Elizabeth S. Ivins and Augusta W. Grant. Often they met together at one another's homes for informal afternoons. One especially delightful occasion might prove interesting to the reader. Sister McCune, in 1917, lived in the spacious home since donated by herself and husband to the church and now occupied by the McCune school of music and art. In July of this year she invited "The Clique," as the little group called themselves, to spend a week with her. SUSA YOUNG GATES The husbands were not invited except to dinner on the Fourth of July. When the guests entered each one was presented with a simple gingham gown, which was to be the week's badge or uniform. Not even the married children of the hostess were allowed to enter the doors; one came to take a few snapshots of the party, but was not allowed over the threshold. Such a good time as these congenial friends had. "Aunt Susie's" great affection for her chosen friends was reciprocated by them. Both Sisters McCune and Groesbeck, before they died, evidenced their love for their companion. And the other three friends pay the following tributes. A Tribute to Our Beloved Friend and Sister Susa Young Gates. "Tn bidding you goodbye, dear Susa, my heart is touched. A feeling of loneliness and a spirit of reminiscence comes over me. I recall with pleasure the many M. I. A. Conventions we attended together. And, how fondly I remember our wonderful trip over the ocean and through Europe to Rome, where we attended the International Council of Women I recount with deep emotion the happy ten days spent in the Mansion on the Hill, the home of dear Elizabeth (McCune), where we ate, slept, visited and rode out together. Each day we were drawn more closely to each other in the everlasting bonds of friendship, and more solidly were we cemented together by the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We arranged ourselves according to age, and, thus far, according to age, we have been released from our mortal mission to return home to rest. However, not to rest in idleness, but to continue in the wonderful work begun here, where you, dear Susa, were never idle but ever in search 403 of truth, a devout teacher and leader in the cause of rightousness. "Your life is an inspiration to us all, and we look forward to a joyous reunion and a continuation of our labors of love throughout the ages of eternity. "Alice K. Smith." "Since the death of my dear friend Susa, I have gone back, in memory, many times over the sixty-three years of my acquaintance with her. So much has been said of her literary achievements and her unusual ability as an organizer, that it has almost crowded out other characteristics that were inherently hers and that stood out prominently even in her girlhood. Her success as a social leader, her keen sense of humor, and her general versality, stamped her personality on all who knew her particularly during her early life. "My acquaintance with her began when she came, at the age of 14 years, with her mother and sisters, to make her home in St. George. She was from Salt Lake City, the daughter of President Brigham Young who was my ideal and we young people stood, somewhat, in awe of her. Soon, however, we discovered that she was very approachable and anxious to join in our religious and social gatherings. Perhaps I could more properly say lead out in these things for that is what she did, even at that early date. If we needed someone to accompany a song on the organ, she was there to do it; if we wanted someone to read, she could do that. She acted as leading lady many times, with our amateur dramatic company, headed by Miles P. Romney, in such plays as "The Bottle and 'Rough Diamond.' "The thing she seemed to enjoy 404 most was to sing. 'Barbara Fritchie' seemed to give vent to her fine feeling of patriotism, which she always possessed. Her sense of humor led her to choose numerous songs such as "Tassels on Her Boots' and 'Lords of Creation' which ran like this: "The Lords of creation, men we call, "They think they rule the whole. World, But they're much mistaken after all, For they're under woman's control," etc., etc. "The sense of justice which she felt so early in life, grew with her until she became one of the most ardent advocates of woman's suffrage the state has produced, and which led to her personal acquaintance with such women as Susan B. Anthony, Anna Howard Shaw, May Wright Sewell, Clara Barton and others. Susa's early girlhood gave promise of just the type of womanhood into which she grew—forceful capable, dependable, and above all a staunch friend. In her death I have lost one of my oldest and choicest friends. "Elizabeth S. Ivins." "T appreciate the privilege of writing this tribute to my friend of many years. She singled me out as a friend and led the way for me to accomplish many things which I perhaps would not have started myself. I have her to thank for the publication of my mother's life, which, but for her, might still be lying just as mother wrote it. Now it is in book form and highly prized by all our family. This is but one example of inspirational suggestions made to me by Sister Gates. I am one of many others whom she has benefited and in whom she has taken a personal interest. She accomplished a wonderful work among the women of her church and I am sure her great qualRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ities will be better known and appreciated as time goes on. "I cannot refrain from saying a word about Sister Gates' two daughters.—Leah, brilliant and gifted, has willingly aided her mother in many of her literary efforts. She now stands by the side of her distinguished husband who presides over the European mission. Our hearts go out to her in sympathy at this time hoping that the lack of home and loved ones may be made up to her by the Father of all: and Emma-Lucy whom most of us know only as a prima-donna, with her fine character and devotion to her dear ones. She would give herseirt and everything she has to her family, especially when there is sickness. 'Wonderful' is the only word to describe her and what she does. "T have become well acquainted with Sister Gates' husband, 'Uncle Jacob,' a man loved by all who know him. Modest and kind hearted, he yet takes his place as head of his family. Not caring for public life, he has always been content to sit back and let his much appreciated and honored companion do the things which she enjoyed and which he did not care so much about. 'Uncle Jacob' loves the society of his fine sons and daughters, and on the occasion of his birthday celebrations which took place at Brighton, in Big Cottonwood Canyon, enjoyed having them with him. I was always included in these intimate groups, a courtesy which I appreciated very much. "As I think of Sister Gates, my thoughts turn naturally to lovely Brighton, for here perhaps, I knew and loved 'Susie' best. Here thirty years ago, we planned and built upon a hill, our log cabins, which still stand side by side. Here our families have spent their summers and in all the years no hint of unpleas- SOUSA YOUNG GATES antness has ever come to mar our happy friendship. As time sped on, and our families grew up and married, these places were more than we cared to keep up, so we have turned them over to our daughters and chosen smaller cottages farther down the hill. And between those houses a well-worn path has come. 'Susie' has always seemed to me to be part of Brighton and the place will never be the same without my friend. "Augusta W. Grant." 405 If the great purpose of life on earth is to gain experience then truly has Susa Young Gates lived richly and well. Thirteen children will call her mother in the world to come. Eight of these preceded her in death. After the sorrow of parting what joy of reunion must have been hers to meet these "Whom she had loved long since and lost awhile." May we all live so that we shall enjoy her companionship in the life to come. ' Your Home Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke VI—THE WINbDow TREATMENT FTER the completion of the A fixed background the next most important thing to consider is the treatment of the windows. The window is the connecting link between the home life within and the outside world. The window hangings are the link which relate the background of a room to its furnishings. The window is primarily to admit light and air, and this purpose should never be overlooked nor interfered with in its decoration. Windows are draped to temper light, insure privacy, shut out draughts and to lend artistic charm. A room without curtains is bare and unattractive. Curtains lend the finishing touch, soften hard lines, break the monotony of flat surfaces, and the rays of sunlight are more delightful and harmonious when filtered through dainty mesh. Four fundamental principles to keep in mind always in connection with designing curtains are: First: They must conform to the architectural features of the window. Remember the window is the important thing—not the drapes. If the window casing is very lovely it should not be covered, but the curtains set inside the frame. This will also give the window a recessed effect which is more desirable than projecting it out into the room. Second: Keep them suitable to the need of the room in which they are used. For instance a bedroom would demand more simple and dainty curtains than would a library. A drawing room would necessarily call for formal and elaborate window treatment. Third: They must be harmonious in scale, texture, color and material to the room and its furniture. To illustrate: In a room in which only rough textures were used it would be decoratively disastrous to put drapes of brocade or taffeta and curtains of fine net or celenese which suggest that they be used with mahogany and enamel. Fourth: Keep them as simple as possible. Overloaded, excessively trimmed, draped, frilled and beaed curtains are never successful. By the clever handling of curtains bad proportions may be ap- 406 parently overcome. If the window is too narrow for the room it can be made to appear wider by hanging the drapes over on the wall at each side of the window, showing the full expanse of glass between. If the room is high it can be lowered in appearance by a deep valance, and by curtains which come only a little below the sill. If the room is too low height may be given by drapes that come to the floor or by the use of striped drapes, or by setting the valance above the window itself. Light curtains make the room appear larger; dark or patterned drapes decrease the apparent size. CURTAINS may be divided into three classes: | First: The glass curtain which is usually of sheer texture and hangs close to the glass. Second: The over-curtains or drapes—the decorative side hanging, with or without a valance. Third: The under-curtains which are sometimes used between the drapes and glass curtains. The glass curtains are often the only kind needed, especially in small homes or informal rooms. Overdrapes, for instance, if used in bathrooms would suggest lack of restraint in decoration. There are very many lovely materials which may be used for glass curtains such as dotted swiss, net, batiste, voile, organdy, chiffon, georgette, etc. In the sheers or casement cloth, theatrical gauze, and pongee in the more or less opaque materials to be used where extreme privacy is needed or it is desirable to shut out the view from the window. Turkish toweling or rubberized taffeta make very serviceable yet attractive curtains for the bathroom. White glass curtains are very suitable in a home where the woodwork is white inside RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and out. As a general rule, however, creams, beige, ivory, oyster white and pastel colors are more desirable as the light coming through them is not so harsh and the colors are in harmony with the furnishings. In order to give a uniform appearance to the outside of the house it is not only necessary that they harmonize in color, but that the glass curtains of all windows be of the same material, especially those fronting the same street. Or a satisfactory effect may be secured by having the curtains on the upper floor of one material such as dotted swiss and the lower of net or marquisette. Glass curtains hung inside the window casing should hang to the sill, also where there is an extended sill. Curtains hung on the outside of the frame—whether there are drapes or not—should hang to the edge of the apron or three or four inches below the sill. To make tailored glass curtains use material one and one-half or two times the width of the window and long enough to come to the sill or below, then allow at least four inches for hems. Cut off the selvage along the edge. To leave it on does not give a well-tailored curtain as it will not shrink with the rest of the curtain and so will not hang properly. Use a double one inch hem on each side. Have a two inch hem at bottom and top. Stitch through the center at the top for heading. All glass curtains should have a heading whether they are covered with a valance or not or they will look like amateur work. Sheer curtains should be hemmed by hand. Organdy is very attractive hemstitched and georgette picoted. Ruffles on swiss or voile curtains are pretty. Plain glass curtains are in most YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL instances more attractive than those containing considerable pattern. Especially is this so when drapes are used. If there is pattern in the drapes the glass curtains must be plain. The two must not conflict in scale, or texture, and the over-curtains must also be kept in mind when introducing color into the glass curtains or their trim. The glass curtains are primarily to temper light and to secure privacy, but the drapes do this and more. They are important decoratively as they are practically the only vertical mass of color—a connecting line between floor and ceiling—and if properly planned they will hold the scheme of a room together. It is a safe rule to not have them the strongest note in the color scheme unless the room is wholly without character except for the window. It may then become a center of interest and treated in an exceptional manner. N choosing material for drapes there are many points to consider. First, perhaps, is the color, which should be in harmony with the room and its exposure. The next problem is whether it should be plain or patterned. If the walls have pattern in them the drapes must be plain. If the walls are plain figured design in the drapes provides interest. If pattern is chosen it should be in scale with the size of the room. The personality expressed in the material must also be considered. For instance, if it has dainty colors, flowers, and ribbon knots it would suggest a girl's room. Study the type of design. Know the suitability of certain fabrics for every room. Next it must be harmonious in texture. Many people use silks where cotton would be much more appropriate. Even if money doesn't matter use the correct material for 407 the room. And always use a good grade of cotton rather than cheap silk. Never buy any material for drapes until you try it in the place where it is to be used, and in folds as it will hang as the pattern often appears different than when hanging straight. Some materials that are suitable for drapes in formal rooms are brocade, damask, brocatelle, velvet and taffeta in silks or silk and wool. Chintz, toile de Jouy, rep, poplin, faille, taffeta and upholsterers or antique satin as well as simple brocades would be suitable in Colonial rooms or those furnished in a similar manner. The Spanish type of room or those with rough plaster walls and heavy oak furniture would demand linens, brocatelles, trie, Shantung, cretonnes, moire or crewel embroideries. The latter would be most suitable also in a room panelled in oak. Checked gingham, prints, and calicos may be used in rooms of informal character as the nursery or kitchen or in rooms with peasant furniture. Always the character of the room and its furnishings must be considered. Drapes should be wide enough to completely cover the windows when drawn together. Strips of material hung at each side are meaningless. Even if they are to stay pulled back they should be full enough to draw across if desired and should look as if they were. Over-curtains are loveliest and give an air of charm and dignity to a room if they hang to the floor and they should do so in all rooms of a general nature. In sunrooms, breakfast room and small bedrooms, and on windows of unusual height they should come to the lower edge of the apron. In some of the very ornate decorative schemes and particularly in Spanish or French period rooms they should spread out 408 on the floor, but in all other rooms for sanitary reasons it is best that they clear the floor by an inch. Nearly all drapery material should be lined. The only exceptions are in cases of materials as glazed chintz and taffeta whose greatest charm is in their translucent quality. Brocades must always be lined, and linens and cretonnes nearly always as the light shining through them shows the uneven weaves and blurs the pattern. Cream sateen is the most desirable lining fabric. Glass curtains should never be hung on the same rod. Drapes may be hung in different ways, either with or without a valance or cornice board. The simplest and most suitable for the average room is to have a plain boxpleated heading, fastened to the rod by means of rings at the back. This is dignified and graceful. They may then be looped back with a cord, tie-back of the same material or an ornamental hold-back to match the rods. HERE is a question as to whether or not draping the curtains back is good decoration. Curtains very much draped create lines in conflict with those of the window. Therefore, as a general thing, those draperies which follow the opening in broken lines to the bottom of the hem or to the floor are best. However, curtains that are draped back gracefully form transitional lines that show pleasing variety. The arched opening calls for simple drapery because here the curved line of the window or door suggests and is congenial with a curved line in the hangings. In small informal homes and bedrooms ruffled curtains looped back are pretty if the tie-backs are not so short that they compress it too tightly. Ribbon make simple yet attractive tie backs, and draperies. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE or they may be of ruffles or ornamental glass. Under curtains are used where a third set of curtains is needed or desired to soften the light. If of rich material they may be drawn at night and the over-draperies left open. They are especially suitable in bedrooms, libraries, and drawing rooms. Taffetas, casement cloth, gauze, etc., are some of the fabrics used for under curtains. The valance is not used as much now as formerly. If used it is better made very simply with few scallops and erratic lines. Valances may be of the same material as the drapes, or of plain color to harmonize with printed material, or vice versa. The valance may be draped across the window; often the over curtains and the valance are in one piece, draped across the top and caught up at each upper corner and the ends hanging in graceful folds at each side. Valance boards may be made on which the material is stretched and tacked or they may be painted to match the woodwork of the room. The valance should not be wider than one-sixth the length of the window. Cornices are very lovely too, and they may be had to suit any scheme: of brass and pewter for Colonial rooms; of glass and white metal for modern rooms; or very expensive carved and painted cornices for conventional period rooms. Ornamental rods and curtain poles may also be had either very simply made or in elaborate designs. In Spanish or Italian rooms they are especially elegant. The purpose of any of these de- 'vices is to tie the over curtains together at the top. Plain or ivory white curtains with light woodwork do not need a valance, although a simple pleated or ruffled one may YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL be used with good results. Valances, etc., are not necessary either where the drapes come together at the top of the window and are draped back, but a valance board or cornice always gives a delightful finish. HE window shade is often the most difficult feature of the decorative scheme of a room and to a large extent it is being done away with entirely and draw curtains used instead. In informal rooms and cottages it is still used but care must be exercised in the colors selected that they blend with the furnishings and that the light coming through them is not too strong. The shade chosen may be two-toned, one color that will look well from the outside, the other from the inside. Sometimes two shades are used to obtain pleasing color effects. Shades should be hung on the inside of the window casing as near to the glass as possible. In kitchen, breakfast nook, bathroom and in small bedrooms shades may be made of unbleached muslin, glazed chintz or even of oilcloth, and are very gay. But they should not be used on windows fronting a street as the uniform appearance of the house from the outside will be destroyed. Very attractive results may be secured by the use of Venetian blinds. They may be used in sun parlor, library or bedroom, in fact, in any room in the house. They may be left natural or painted to match the woodwork and are very effective. With them it is not necessary nor desirable to use glass curtains. Drapes may be used. S windows differ architecturally so they demand different treatment and present different problems. A few suggestions as to the treat- 409 ment of some of these types might be of value. Perhaps the most common type of window is the double sash. Curtains. May be either hung straight from a rod at the top, or ruffled tiebacks used, or they may be hung in two tiers, one at each sash. This method is very practical as either section may be opened to admit light and the other left closed. Triple sash windows found in some homes may have three tiers. Casement windows may have the curtains either shirred on to the window next the glass with a rod at both top and bottom or at top only. Or the curtains may be fastened' on rings and drawn completely back when the windows are open. Open-in casements are most difficult of all windows to decorate successfully. If they are fitted with Parliament hinges so they do not turn back completely against the frame the problem is partly solved. The arched top window may have a fitted frame on which the glass curtain is fastened, or from which curtains are hung by means of rings. With fan-shaped transoms the curtains may either hang loose as a valance or the edges neatly tacked under the frame. To draw the edges to the center and_cover with a rosette is too conspicuous. Glass curtains on French doors are shirred at top and usually at the bottom as well. For French doors between rooms the top lights may be exposed and the curtain rod put just below the top panes. The transom on French doors should have the same kind of curtain as the door and be hung on two rods. If overdraperies are used at French doors the rod should be mounted on the door frame and as far to the side as possible so the drapes may be drawn back out of the way of the door. Glass curtains on both doors and 410 windows in the same room should be alike. It is not necessary that there be over-curtains at the door. Portieres matching the drapes in design, or of a harmonizing color add the finishing touch to open doorways. They should be hung by means of rings on an overhead track and drawn back. In archways they may be fitted to the arch and tied back. Dormer windows look best when hung with simple sash curtains, divided in the center, either ruffled or hemmed. The bay window offers a difficult problem. It may have a valance hung across the front of the alcove with long drapes on either side and glass curtains at each window. Or the valance may follow the tops of the window. For a group of windows set close together it is best to treat them as a unit with drapes on each side and glass curtains between. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE If a valance is used it should be continuous. If not a rod or cornice should be used to tie the whole into one attractive effect. Leaded glass windows do not need curtains, nor should a window with a magnificent view be covered with glass curtains. They may be left off entirely or drawn completely to the side so that the vista from the window will not be lost. Our windows today are one of the most fascinating details of home decoration, and there are many new and delightful ways of treating them. There are so many beautiful fabrics on the market for curtains and drapes, so many kinds of rods and drapery hardware, that it is a joy to choose materials for window decoration. We are limited only by our ability to choose the right thing for the right place. Next month: Furniture—Its Selection and Arrangement. America Resplendent By Ruth May Fox There is a land of marvelous beauty Where mountains and valleys God's goodness proclaim, *Twixt two oceans it lies where the proud Eagle flies. O there is the land of beauty The land that I love The land that is mine Forever and ever resplendent to shine. There is a land most gracious and mighty, Whose arm is protection, whose sceptre is peace On Columbia's breast in the golden-sheaved west. O there is the land most mighty The land that I love The land that is mine Forever and ever resplendent to shine. There is a land made sacred and glor'ous By the Pilgrim's far cry, the patriot's tomb Where the stars and stripes wave o'er the free and the brave. O there is the land most glorious The land that I love The land that is mine lorever and ever resplendent to shine. A Log Cabin Monument By Rose Brown Hayes N the City Park, Pleasant Grove, Utah, located on the state highway, stands the Memorial Log Cabin which was erected as a monument to the Pioneers and early settlers of Pleasant Grove and vicinity. This little cabin contains many rare and interesting relics left by early sor wards met and decided that their memorial to the early settlers would be a pioneer home, equipped with furnishings used by them in the early days of Utah. It would also serve as a place to store their relics and as a meeting place for the Camps. Plans were immediately THE LOG CABIN MONUMENT OF PLEASANT GROVE, UTAH residents of the town who were prominent in the early activities of the church in Kirtland, Missouri, and Nauvoo, and in the settlement of Utah. Among these early settlers were many interesting and historic characters. There were four of the original pioneers of 1847, four members of the Mormon Battalion, eight members of the Nauvoo Legion, twenty handcart pioneers, and several families who were at the Haun's Mill Massacre. On February 7, 1929, the Daughters of the Pioneers of Pleasant Grove, Lindon, Manilla and Windeffected to raise the necessary means and to secure a location. The funds were gathered by giving dances, socials, conducting food sales, and by house to house canvassing. Contributions were also made by the City Council, Lion's Club, the Pleasant Grove Bank and all the business houses; also by some of the former residents of Pleasant Grove. The City Council granted a beautiful site in the City Park with a lease of the ground for 99 years. The breaking of the ground for the foundation occurred on the 17th of 412 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Pleasant Grove moved into a Fort as a protection against the Indians. Relics HE walls are decorated with relics and also 126 photos of - those hardy men and women who helped to found the settlement and those who later assisted in its development. The room contains in all 203 relics of pioneer days— each one bearing inscriptions listing the name of the owner and the donor, thus making interesting history. Mention might be made of some of these. There is a coat with epaulets worn by Lewis Rob ison, a member of the Nauvoo Legion; the sword of Hensen Walker, one of the body guard;,: of the Prophet Joseph Smith; ec Ce Teh sed PY the sword of Samuel S. White of the Mormon Battalion; relics from March, 1930, and the building was the civil war, Johnston's army, Black dedicated on September 13, 1931, Hawk, and the Spanish American The contributions up to the time George Sutherland of the supreme of dedication were: cash $618.20, court of the United States, given by material $44.00, and labor $225.00, tis cousin, Mrs. Mary Maxfield; a total $887.20. The daughters of these four Camps with Mrs. Anna R. Holman, Mrs. Rose B. Hayes, Mrs. Mae C. Grua and Mrs. Millie R. Poulson in charge, organized and directed the work. Some humorous stories might be related of the experience of putting up a building in pioneer fashion, by donations of spare time, promiscuous day's labor and a multiplicity of workers. The house a one room structure 20x32 feet, built of new logs from the nearby mountains, has a concrete floor and a slab ceiling covered with concrete for the roof. Some of the rocks placed in the chimney were once used in the old Fort wall | Pleasant Grove's 81st birthday. Of 1853, built when the citizens of War; a baby dress worn by Justice Nauvoo Legion Uniform A LOG CABIN MONUMENT preserve jar over 200 years old from Norway and carried across the plains by the Andrew Thompson family; a churn used in the Haun's Mill colony by Mrs. Margaret Foutz and brought by her to Utah in September, 1847; an ox yoke and wagon wheel used in crossing the plains; corded bedstead, cradle, chairs, organ, spinning wheels, dishes, clothing; beautiful hand work by the pioneer women consisting of woven woolen bed spreads, layettes, and fine French embroidery done on linen and cotton cloth; books including scrap books with interesting clippings and uniforms of the first town brass band. Among these: unique relics are dishes and cooking utensils used by Johnston's army. These include a large earthen vegetable dish or tureen, cups, plates, a pewter pitcher, a huge brass kettle and an ice cream freezer, probably the first freezer used in Utah. These were presented by Miss Amy Rosza, daughter of Patience Rosza Archer who as a beautiful and charming young woman met and married Sergeant Jonn Rosza of Johnston's Army while the soldiers were stationed at Camp Floyd. Sergeant Rosza, an educated Hungarian and fine character, joined the church and was faithful to the end. When the army left Utah Mrs. Rosza accompanied her husband to Washington, D. C. At the expiration of his enlistment the family, now consisting of the parents and three children, turned their faces toward Utah. Sergeant Rosza died on the way, however, and the widow returned without him to Pleasant Grove, where she lies buried. During the suminer months the Daughters of the district hold their meetings in the Cabin which to them is a hallowed place, engendering feelings of reverence and appreciation. 413 Biographies; ONE of the chief activities of the - Daughters of Utah Pioneer camps is to gather biographies of the Pioneers, thousands of whom gave their life's best efforts to this commonwealth and died comparatively unknown. In these life sketches, prepared by their descendants much faith promoting material is found. They are rich in historic matter, heroic achievement and interesting narratives of life, love, and romance. The joys and sorrows experienced by them reveals their deepest emotions, how they met and overcame difficulties, how their ties of friendship grew stronger and how their hardships and struggles were made lighter by their wonderful faith and vision. The Pleasant Grove district camp historians have gathered over 200 of these biographies of pioneer men and women, copies of which are filed in the local Camp, in the County Chapter and in the State Capitol. They are type written on uniform paper and will be bound into books. First Settlement N accordance with Brigham Young's policy of colonizing the valleys of Utah, a group of people drove their covered wagons into a beautiful little grove of cottonwood trees, on the banks of a mountain stream to make a permanent home. The day was September 13, 1850. The town site was the future Pleasant Grove. This group consisted of the following: Mr. And Mrs. Richara Clark, Mr. And Mrs. George S. Clark, Mr. And Mrs. Lewis Harvey, Mr. And Mrs. John G. Holman. Mt. And Mrs. Henry Jolley, Mr. And Mts. Charles Price and child, Mrs. Harriet Marler, Mr. Ezekiel Holman and Mr. Wilson, teamsters. 414 The valley had already been used as a range for cattle since 1847 and on the 19th of July, 1850, two months previous to the town settlement, William H. Adams, John Mercer, and Philo T. Farnsworth came and staked off claims upon which they moved in October. Other home seekers followed and by the end of the year there was a thriving little colony, comfortably situated in log houses, with George S. Clark as bishop. When writing to Brigham Young, telling of their activities, Bishop Clark headed his letter "Pleasant Grove'—hence the name. The Stevens home, the largest in the town, was the community center for all meetings and gatherings, and a day school whose pupils were mostly young married people. With the proverbial '"Mormon industry" and with Mormon ideals and culture this little town was at once placed in line for progress. The pioneers of Pleasant Grove like those of Utah generally were people from all walks of life, from every country where the restored gospel had been preached. There were professional people as well as tradesmen and pastoral folk. One characteristic of the people in early days was their wonderful community spirit, public service coming always before private interests. Service and endurance was stamped on every brow. Each home was a miniature factory, where the clothing was manufactured and made up, the food products harvested and prepared for use; and there was time for study and visiting. Early Pleasant Grove was not without its culture and amusement. There was a martial band, dance orchestra, a literary society, a dramatic association, and the day and night schools. The outstanding activity of the town has ever been the fostering of education. School was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE held the first winter, and ever after. Today her boys and girls are teachers of note in the colleges and universities of Utah and other states. Prominent Church People ig is interesting to note that among the first settlers of Pleasant Grove were the following people connected with the Church from the beginning in Kirtland and Nauvoo. Hyrum Winters was a member of Zion's Camp who went on that memorable journey from Kirtland to Missouri and was the husband of Rebecca Winters who died and was buried on the plains near what is now Scotts Bluff, Nebraska, and whose grave has been marked by a monument erected by the Daughters of the American Revolution; Mary Ann Frost Pratt, wife of apostle Parley P. Pratt, and her sister Olive Frost who accompanied Apostle Pratt to England in 1840 at which time he established the Millennial Star, were the first Mormon women to go abroad into the British mission field; Jacob Foutz who was severely wounded at Haun's Mill Massacre, once Bishop of a ward in Nauvoo and chief mechanic in building the home of Heber C. Kimball in Nauvoo which is still standing; Bishop John Brown, John S. Gleason; John G. Holman and Henson Walker were members of Brigham Young's company of pioneers who arrived in Salt Lake valley on July 24, 1847; George S. Clark; Samuel S. White; Thorit Peck and Ephraim Pearson were members of the famous Mormon Battalion; George S. Clark and Mr. Oakley, another member of the Battalion, returning from California met Brigham Young's company of pioneers and entered the valley with them on July 24th; Lewis Robison who had charge of the ferry at Fort Bridger; Andrew Jenson, Assistant Church Historian. The first eight men mentioned were A PIONEER TROUSSEAU also members of the Nauvoo Legion. Pleasant Grove also had a goodly share, 20 of those courageous and unwavering pioneers, who not only walked the whole distance across the hot and dusty plains, but pushed hand carts containing their entire belongings and often their sick and feeble comrades. Hundreds of other 415 good and faithful men and women, though not especially mentioned, made their homes here. All honor to the faithful Daughters of the Pioneers who are keeping green the memories of the men and women who blazed the trails across the plains and established a commonwealth in the Western Desert! Spinning Wheel and Cradle from the Log Cabin Monument of Pleasant Grove A Pioneer Trousseau By Elizabeth Cannon Porter his home,—a log house plastered with mud,—with a flourish. "Gwen!" he called excitedly. His daughter, a slim, vivacious girl came to the door. "See what I've got for you. Hastily alighting he pulled out a bolt of white sheeting from his wagon, followed by one of unbleached muslin, another of turkey red, a parcel of gray linsy-woolsy, some flannel and a roll of gay-colored calico. His wife, who had now come out, exclaimed in wonder. R OGER HUGHES drove up to "Gee, Daddy, where did you get them?" queried his small son Harty. "Traded the span of mules for them. That Jack and Jill were getting so ornery that I was afraid of them. Was glad to get rid of the critters. The goods is mostly for Gwen for that trousseau that she gave away on the plains. Remember I told her that the Lord would make it up to her?" "Oh, Dad, what will I do with a trousseau when I haven't even a lover? Nevertheless she was touched and tears welled in her eyes. "How about Charles Johnson? He seems to be hanging around here 416 a good deal." He spoke of a young Scandinavian who had helped them on the trip across the continent and who had still worked for them after their arrival in the Salt Lake Valley. "Charles is a fine fellow. I like him but I don't love him," said Gwen slowly. Though no one mentioned him they all knew that she was thinking of Jim Murphy, the man who had gone away. "Flow on earth did you come to get so much cloth?" asked Mrs. Hughes practically. While the father ate his meager supper, for the people were on rations in the bleak year of 1849, he told dramatically the story. Freighters from the East, enroute to California, had heard of the discovery of gold on the coast, and anxious to be the first to arrive and reap the rich harvest, had unloaded their heavy vehicles, traded them for lighter and swifter equipages, and started on the mad rush westward. After the man had finished his meal his daughter went back of his chair and put her soft arms around his neck. "Thanks, father. The cloth is lovely. We'll make good use of it, won't we, mother? Whether I find a husband or not," she added mischievously. WHEN the Hughes family, not long over from Wales, had left Missouri for Utah in the second year of the westward migration, they had brought with them two wagons and several yoke of oxen. The first wagon was literally a house on wheels (for this old country family was well fixed.) A wide projection supported its canvas cover. A frame was laid across the back part of the vehicle. This was corded as a bedstead and made sleep comfortable. Under the bed was the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE iron trunk with Gwen's linen to be used when she was a bride. There was a door on one side of the wagon cover and on the opposite side a window. The door which was between the wheels was reached by a step-ladder. The floor of this traveling house was carpeted. The furniture consisted of four chairs and a dresser adorned with looking-glass, candlestick and pin cushion. The second wagon was heavily laden with carpenter tools (Roger had been a cabinet maker in his native Wales), a plow, musket, tub, bucket and culinary utensils. Some of the latter Mrs. Hughes thriftily traded off to the Indians for buffalo robes. Besides these there were the needful supplies,—seeds, flour, bacon. Drippings from the latter had been diverted to grease the axles. Father Hughes drove one wagon, Jim Murphy, a young Irishman, the other, with his saddle horse bringing up the rear. Although not a Latter-day Saint he had joined the refugees in their trek westward. Gwen wondered whether he had joined the cavalcade on account of her or for the spirit of adventure. She suspected that it was both. A strong attachment had sprung up between them, but when she urged him to join the church he said, "'Not till I learn more about it, colleen." "A poor 'Mormon' I'd be." Nevertheless he lent his deep rich voice to the singing of hymns around the campfire at night when they were safe within the circle of the wagons. He helped manfully in ferrying the wagons over flooded streams, shot buffalo for meat and helped fight the flames when the Indians set fire to the prairie. He also kept watch at night when squaws pilfered stew kettles from the pioneer stores. One night Jim drew Gwen into the shadows far from the light of A PIONEER the campfire. He put his arms around her. "Do you think that you could learn to love me?" he asked. "T love you now," she replied. "Enough to marry me?" "Yes, if you join the Church. My people have sacrificed everything for their religion and I shall always believe in it." In the long, lingering kiss that he planted on her lips she read his acquiescence. That night a great happiness filled her and she lay long awake looking up at the stars. 'THE next morning he was gone. At first she could not believe it. But his horse, saddle, pack,—everything, had disappeared. Several of the other young men of the camp had deserted with him. The time was approaching for the cavalcade to start. "Who will drive the wagon?" asked her father in consternation. "I will," replied Gwen. "Vou 1" "Yes. I'll take the deserter's place." She curled her lip. But her Welsh compatriots did not know how to put the heavy yokes on the dumb oxen. Then young Johnson came and harnessed them and gave her an admiring glance. Gwen, who had never driven an ox in her life, placed herself doggedly by the side of the leading yoke of oxen. She wore a capacious sunbonnet and carried a parasol in one hand and an ox whip in the other. Soon it began to rain. As the parasol was entirely inadequate, Gwen, in disgust, threw it in the wagon. Then her sunbonnet got wet and caved in. It obscured her sight and she took that off. By TROUSSEAU second © 417 night she was draggled, muddy, and forlorn. That night a woman was confined and Gwen, with Celtish impetuosity dragged out her iron box and supplied fresh linen for mother and babe from her stores. After that the Welsh girl took a savage delight in distributing her trousseau among the camp. Some of her lace adorned the body of a year and a half old girl who died. It seemed to. Comfort the mother's heart to see her child beautifully arrayed. Afterwards she was buried on the prairie and the grave heaped with rocks so the wolves could not dig up the corpse. A sheet formed the shroud of an aged man. A fire was built over his grave and the wagons were driven through the ashes so Indians would not know that a death had occurred in the band. Bandages were available from Gwen's store and 'ere the hundred-day journey was completed her cloth was used to wrap the bloody feet of the marchers who had worn out all their shoes en route. When her father remonstrated with her she replied stolidly: "I shall never marry and I do not want the linen." Many were the conjectures as to what had become of the young men and some scouting parties were sent out to look for them, in case they had gone after game and been overtaken by Indians. But the general consensus of opinion was that they had turned back. Hurt pride was added to the heartache of lost love. Jim had not thought enough of her to stick! Every day Gwen scanned the horizon for horsemen and paid little heed to young Johnson who drove by her side, for while they were in the Indian country the covered wagons rode two abreast. 418 So tonight here in the valley by the light of a witch lamp (a button wrapped in a rag, burning in a dish of grease),—the two women examined the cloth that so miraculously replaced the lost trousseau. They tore off sheets, measured pillowslips, felt the quality of the flannel. A knock came at the door. Gwen's young brother answered it. "Tt's Jim," he announced. "Jim!" The girl turned white. "Yes, Jim Murphy." A tall figure strode into the room. Gwen was in his arms, her head against his breast, her breath coming in little gasps. "Oh, Jim, you've come back." She patted his bronzed cheek. He held her at arms length and looked at her. "Why, you're prettier than ever!" Her face had flushed to the pink of peach blossoms. "Where you been, son?' asked Father Hughes. "California. One of the fellows got a secret tip of the gold find in the streams. We daren't divulge it. What did you think of me sneaking off like that, Gwen?" "T always felt that you loved me," she replied bravely. "You bet I did, and it was to get RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE wealth for you that I went. Had good luck, too." He flung a heavy leather bag upon the table. While the others gathered around and examined the heavy yellow nuggets, Jim told Gwen his story. "One day when I was sitting under a hot sun panning the gold— doing pretty well, too,—it suddenly occurred to me that it was just a pile of rocks." "What if Gwen is sick? What if she is dead. Perhaps some other fellow has married her! What good will this do me?" "The thought gave me such a turn that I gathered up what I had, made preparations to leave, and started for Salt Lake the next morning." "You're still mine?" suddenly. "Of course. See all this cloth we can make the wedding things out of." "Make nothing. We'll get married first. You can send te New York for your things, if you like. We've plenty of money." "What about becoming a Latterday Saint?" she asked. "T''ll be baptized as soon as they'll let me. In the evenings out there I read the Book of Mormon through," he said fervently. He asked Pioneer Ladies By Claire S. Boyer Ladies linked with a pictured past, In your silver hair we see disappointment, suffering, _ grief and long anxiety. In your eyes we read again, hope and courage— Sparkly beams of the faith your heart created When you planned your fairest dreams. You are hallowed with the glory And the strength of vibrant years, And we joyously salute you, Valiant, noble pioneers. Alice Fielding Butterworth A Pioneer Business Woman By Annie Wells Cannon "She looketh well to the ways of her household and eateth not the bread of idleness." HE above proverb is most applicable to the subject of this sketch, for she spent her days in useful and diligent pursuits. Unlike many women of her generation she had the happy faculty of combining successfully a business career with the art of homemaking. Alice Fielding Butterworth was born December 10, 1840 in the town of Oldham, Lancashire, England. Her parents, James Fielding and Anne Henthorn Fielding were among the early converts to the Mormon faith in England. One of Alice's first recollections was the sorrow the Saints felt when the word reached them in England of the cruel death of the Prophet Joseph Smith. She was crying about it in the street, when a stranger passing by stopped and said, "Why are you crying little girl? And she answered, "Because they have killed that good man in America." She was then just four years old. Her parents dealt in merchandise and sold coal and other supplies, and this little girl used to deliver these products, going along the way with the bags loaded on the back of a donkey. Sometimes the load would fall off, then little Alice would wait by the roadside for some kind soul to come along and offer help. She never felt to give up or turn back. This trait so early manifested was characteristic of her through life. As a child she also worked in a velvet factory so her schooling was mostly in life's hard road of work and experience. AMES FIELDING emigrated to America with his family in 1854. They were seven weeks on the Atlantic in a sailing vessel, arriving in the Salt Lake valley 3 months later, October 24, 1854. They crossed the plains in William Empey's company and Alice, now a girl of 14, walked all the way. In the same company was her sister Betty and husband Edmund Butterworth and their little son John. Her sister gave birth to a second baby on the way and she and the little one died and were buried in an unmarked grave on the wayside. This was a sorrow hard for the family to endure, especially so under the conditions of hardship. Sustained only by their unfaltering faith they traveled on towards the Zion they expected to find. FTER reaching the valley the struggle to make a home and livelihood continued under many adverse circumstances for a long time. The humble fare consisted of pigweeds and Indian potatoes. During this period Alice made every effort to help her family at any task she could find to do. She wore the simplest clothing, her best dress, a calico print, while other times she wore denim, but she was always scrupulously clean and neat. She earned 75 cents a week when calico was 75 cents a yard; sugar a dollar 420 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ALICE FIELDING BUTTERWORTH a pound, and flour a luxury hard to obtain at any price. ANUARY 3rd, 1857, Alice was married to Edmund Butterworth and took to her care the little motherless boy of her dead sister Betty. Their first home a one room house with a floor of broad boards laid about an inch and a half apart, and furniture of the simplest kind consisting mostly of packing boxes, one of which served for a wardrobe and table combined; one tin pan always shining like silver served many uses. And industrious in the extreme, she made all her own candles and soap; did her own sewing, laundry, and cleaning and was proud of her shining kitchenware which shone with She was thrifty, economical - the luster of her silver of later years. Her table had its center piece of flowers and was as dainty as she could make it at all times. N this humble home Alice started a store and thus began a business career which culminated finally in her being known far and wide as one of the cleverest and shrewdest business women in the west. She was a very excellent cook and supplied her store with her own freshbaked bread for which she made her own yeast. This bread was in such demand that it became quite a lucrative part of the business, so she taught her oldest daughter, Sarah, this fine art and while the mother tended the business of the little store, the daughter brewed the yeast ALICE FIELDING BUTTERWORTH and baked the famous "Butterworth Bread." HE business grew and became sO prosperous that a new store was built on an advantageous corner some distance from the home. Mrs. Butterworth with her store well established made other investments. She was among the early subscribers to Z. C. M. I. Stock: A very interesting story is connected with this purchase. She had always taken care of her profits at home, not providing a safe or depositing in any bank or other security place so when she was asked to subscribe to this stock, she went over to her home, secured five hundred dollars from a tin can and made her first investment in this prosperous institution. She later increased her stock very materially from which she received yearly dividends with much satisfaction. In the same way she saved the money for her first piano which she purchased as soon as_ her daughter Sarah was old enough to take lessons.; She also increased her real estate holdings and built a number of houses to rent in a place named Butterworth Court. RS. BUTTERWORTH had very decided opinions, both religious and civic, mingled largely with sentiment. When it looked as though the "Old Fort" square in the 6th Ward was about to become the site of a railroad station, and pass from city ownership to the Salt Lake & Los Angeles Railroad Company, she made several visits to the City Council to protest. She invited the citizens of the west side to hold indignation meetings and prepare petitions of protest. Her efforts, combined with others finally triumphed, and now this spot where stood the 421 first rude homes of the Pioneers, where the first school was taught, has become a beauty spot with its lawns and flower beds, its welcome shade, its playgrounds and tennis courts known as Pioneer Park. A® her wealth increased she was not tnmindful of her obligations as a good citizen and a Latterday Saint. She furnished a room in the Groves L. D. S. Hospital when that institution was established. She donated liberally to the Temple and was an honest tithepayer and conscientious contributor to her ward and the Relief Society. Though much engaged in her various business affairs she found time to work in the Relief Society and was a member of the presidency in the capacity of both second and first counselor for many years. She was proud to bear testimony to the truth of the Gospel, especially when meeting strangers who sometimes looked with disfavor on her people, and she spent much time explaining the principles of the Gospel and describing the early struggles of the pioneers with which she was only too familiar. She very much enjoyed conversational contests, calling forth her wit and quick response and was not averse to an occasional political argument for she was an earnest supporter of 'the people's party in old Territorial days, later after statehood, becoming an ardent Democrat. N 1893 Mrs. Butterworth was a member of President Wilford Woodruff's party which accompanied the Tabernacle Choir to the World's Fair in Chicago. A trip she very much enjoyed and loved to talk about in later years. Notwithstanding these many public duties Mrs. Butterworth was not neglectful of the comforts of home 422 life, and as her means allowed, provided the home with modern conveniences and rich and comfortable furnishings. She possessed a pleasing personality, frank, good natured, and kindly and naturally made many friends. ROM the above writing, one might think she accomplished all these things alone, but such is not the case. Hers was the aggressive, business disposition to put over big things, but her dear husband, Edmund Butterworth and her dutiful children upheld and helped her in all her undertakings. Edmund Butterworth was a most worthy man, an Elder in the Church, whom she dearly loved and counseled with in all things, but in his more retiring nature, his part while equally important was less conspicuous, The home life in which father, mother, and children all shared was pleasant. There were born to this worthy couple 18 living children, but only four grew to maturity. FL, DMUN D BUTTERWORTH was a member of the state militia known in early days as the Nauvoo Legion and was engaged in the winter of 1857 in the Echo Canyon War, the campaign which prevented Johnston's Army from entering the valley until negotiations for peace could be made with the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE government. He engaged in the making of adobies for the pioneer homes and most of the adobies used in the walls of the old Salt Lake Theatre were from his yard. An interesting story is connected with his building activities. One day in company with Jimmie Watson, an uncle of Bishop James Watson of the 6th Ward, they were building a road up City Creek Canyon. When Mr. Butterworth moved one of the large stones, two great boulders became loosened and started to roll down the mountain side. He barely escaped from its path with his life, and the huge rock finally landed in the center of the creek thus forming that picturesque feature of City Creek Canyon, known as Natural Bridge. Edmund Butterworth died August 10, 1904. N her widowhood Mrs. Butterworth gave more time to Church duties and social association, having passed some of the burdens of her extensive business affairs to her children. She died August 25, 1916. This worthy couple left 5 children, the oldest son John, whose mother died on the plains, and Sarah, wife of Ranch Kimball, Margaret, wife of Ernest Wright, Robert F. Butterworth and Edwin F. Butterworth, 15 grandchildren, 28 great grandchildren, 3 great great grandchildren. A Land of Promise By Cora Carver Ritchte UD, mud, rain, rain! The horses' backs dripped, the wagon tongue and wheels were twice their thickness with mud. One wheel was pulled out of the mud to the hub and another one sunk in. Would he ever reach home? It seemed a long day since John left home that morning. It had looked like rain then but he had only four miles to go and he must get that cellar done. So he had been digging all day and now he must try to get back to Mary he- A LAND OF PROMISE fore night. He coaxed his faithful horses on. They jolted over a trackless plain and soon came to a rough log cabin. A dim light shone through the cracks in the walls. The only window was on the opposite side of the house. John was glad to see the smoke coming from the chimney. He whistled; then listened. No answer came, so he opened the door softly and called tenderly, "Mary Ann, Mary Ann." <A sob came from the bed. 'Are you all right, Mary?" "No, John; go as fast as you can for Mrs. Weaver." RS. WEAVER and John were soon giving all the aid they could to the woman on the way to meet death and life. It was well they had a warm fire and boiling water, the only antiseptic in that leaky, windswept log room. Quilts were hung on the walls around the woman to keep out the cold, damp wind. Pans were placed where they could catch the rain water as it leaked through the muddy roof. Two candles shed the only light. As the woman went farther into the valley of the shadow of death, the man and the neighbor worked faster and prayed harder. Hour after hour the woman fought on and on. If things were wrong no one knew it; if all was well, thanks be to the Father, for he was the only physician present. The man felt he could not endure this much longer. Was there nothing else to do? Did God want him to bring this lovely woman out on these plains to suffer, so far from all earthly help? Who was he to ask this sacrifice of her? He paced the floor in pain and anguish, the more terrible because he was so helpless. After ages, it seemed to him, 423 a faint cry told of a new life that -had come to them. Later, as Mary opened her eyes, she smiled and her lips formed the words, "How good God is." John bowed his head, kissing Mary's hand; his tears trickled unheeded down her callous fingers. Outside the rain seemed to beat more softly on mud and logs. The wind seemed to cry with less vengeance. Again woman's trust in God had conquered pain and death. AS the days passed and, the night of horror gradually faded into memory, the courage that brought this man and woman out to this desert land was born anew. Fresh hope came each day, for they were planning to go to their new home, the home that was to be the journey's end. "Are you sure, Mary, you want to goon? It is not too late to go back if you think it is to be too much for you," said John. He realized what a trial this pioneering was for his frail, beautiful wife. "No, no, John. I do not want to go back. We will go West. Do you think I have forgotten the promises we have received? We shall have a home for our children in this land of promise." She held her head high and looked bravely into the future. At last all their earthly possessions were loaded into the wagon and hauled to the new home. They were to reach their goal at last. The day was clear and cold. Her new home—a dugout, nothing but a hole in the ground with rough boards overhead. Cold, damp floors, no fire, no stove, no furniture, no light, no beds. Tin dishes, bundles of clothes. No friends, no one to welcome them. Could she go on? What about the baby? Could he live here? 424 She must fight back the tears. John must not know how she revolted. Yes, she must go on. Was not this the end of the journey over boundless sea and endless desert? She would go on; they would find a better way., John went over to the neighbor's to borrow some fire. He had carried a supply of sage from below the hill, and found spring water. Soon the crude fireplace was aglow. After a supper of milk and potatoes, husband and wife were ready to thank God for his protecting care. For had he not led them to this far West where they could worship God as they chose? And had he not kept them from sickness and persecution and the ever present Indian? Surely a better future was near. "THE next spring, logs were hauled from the canyon and a new log cabin was reared with a real fireplace, solid homemade tables, chairs, stools, chests, benches, and even beds were built, Spring was near! Soon they could plant a garden and have real food once more. One day while Mary was unpacking old clothes, she found some squash seed. What a garden they would have with wheat, corn, and potatoes! They had even planned to send to Salt Lake City and get some apple trees to set out. In the spring of 1869 they planted their first fruit trees. The large ditch was nearly finished. They carried water from the streams to water the trees and squash. The wheat came up with a promise of a wonderful crop. Thirty-five bushels had been saved over for the next year. That precaution would not be necessary now, with water in the ditch and the wheat fields so green. With 1870 came the grasshoppers to Mary's garden and John's farm. They came in hordes, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE so thick at times the sun was hidden as by a cloud. John and all the children and neighbors spent many weary hours trying to drive the grasshoppers off their crops. They fought them with sage brush, old sacks, willows and fire, but all to no avail. The ground was covered with grasshopper eggs, and as the summer wore on the pests seemed to be worse than ever. Mary tried to save some of her pretty clothes which she had carried from her home in England, but one day she discovered that the grasshoppers had been eating them. This was the final blow. The children were crying with the grasshopper bites. There were only a few leaves on the shade trees, and it looked like the young trees were ruined. This _must be the end. John came in as Mary was trying to hide her dresses. She wiped the tears from her eyes and tried to smile. John sought to comfort her. "That is too bad; not even a dress left for you. Why didn't they eat my homespun jeans? What a shame to take your only decent dress! Mary, do you want to go back home for a trip? It will help your cold and may cure you." Her cold had clung to her for two years now, and her health worried the husband. "No, no, John. I came here of my own free will. These children will some day thank me for all I am doing now. I can't help being angry at the hoppers eating up our apple trees and garden and now my dresses, but I'd rather stay here with you through all this, than go back to all the wealth in England." So they watched the pests eat up their sweet apple trees, the apples she loved so much. They saw the wheat mowed down in the fields. They could not save the feed for their cattle and before the summer was over they saw their favorite A LAND OF PROMISE cows and horses die in the pastures. The Indians ate the dead cattle to keep themselves alive. What was to be the end? Surely Mary had better go back, John thought. She was only a frail woman. Child-bearing, cold winters and hot summers had at last left their indelible imprint on her. She was now a consumptive beyond human help. She coughed day and night. She could not rest now seeing the grasshoppers eat up everything. But her spirit never said, "Turn back." John pleaded with Mary once more to go back East for her health where she could get better doctors. The neighbors would lend her the money. ARY looked out of the cabin window at the barren fields where countless grasshoppers were not leaving one green blade. Mary shook her head slowly; a new light came in her eyes. No she would still stay. God would not let her sacrifices be in vain. He would come to their aid as he had done so many times before. God was still in his heaven and would not forget them. Starvation might be at their doors but God could find a way. Suddenly they heard a roaring, rumbling noise coming from just below the hill. "Oh, John, go see what it is," cried Mary. The children were frightened and tried to hide behind their mother. What a sight met John's eyes! Great white birds coming right towards them— flocks and flocks of them. What a calling of bird to bird! What flapping of wings! How quickly they flew to the fields! What were they for? Fear gripped John's heart. What else was in store for them? It did not take many minutes to see the gulls were after the grasshoppers. John's. Farm was only 425 fifteen miles from the Great Salt Lake. All day long John and Mary watched these strange birds fill up on grasshoppers and then fly in the direction of the lake. Then back again for more pests. Mary, watching the gulls, spoke softly. "Surely, John, God is always good. What a miracle! Do you not see we are saved by these beautiful birds? This is surely to be our home. God has sent the gulls to save this land for our children." John was still the doubting Thomas and must see for himself if this queer prank of the birds was really true. He decided to go to the little mountain to get a load of sage, as it was near the lake. ~The shores of the lake were lined with gulls, disgorging the grasshoppers into the salty water. Then back they flew toward the settlement where the land had been cultivated and the grasshoppers were the thickest. The grasshoppers were washed upon the lake shore in piles as high as John's waist. But the gulls wouldn't even look at them, and no wonder—the stench was terrible. When John told of his discovery at the lake, the wonder soon spread. Many trips were made to the lake the next day. Surely this was a miracle! Dead pests piled on the shores of the lake four and five feet high for miles and miles! The birds worked diligently; the grasshoppers were fast being exterminated. Mary realized with thanksgiving in her heart that God had sent the gulls just in time. Her husband and children and neighbors could not have lived much longer. They had already shared with each other and the Indians until there was nothing left to divide. But now she had lived to see their home saved for her children. She had seen a mighty miracle. Even as the Arabs By Lorene Pearson Why not make it a camping trip in preference to staying at home this lean year? ITH cut budgets, or prac- \ \ tically no budgets at all the very idea of planning a trip seems to bring on consternation. Travel seems to be one of the luxuries that can be gone without. But since this is essentially an age of going back and re-discovering, a very interesting fact has been brought to light. First, that camping can be enjoyed, even after the subject or subjects have been accustomed to luxurious resorts. It is a different type of enjoyment to be sure, but a re-discovery that will amaze the most blase. Second, that camping can be done for about the cost of remaining at home and mooning over the depression. Why not be pioneers again in the great out-of-doors? Sleep under the stars, cook over an open fire and conquer anew the pleasures that are ours for the taking. Every frontiersman, of course, gathered all the information possible about his trip. During the winter months he sat by his fire making plans, looking at maps and dreaming of summer months. The vacationer may take a hint from him. And he will find that once organized and understood, the camping trip is superior to others, particularly for vacations spent in National Forests and Parks, or, if he happens to have a flair for desert camping, he can spend a night or two on a picturesque, desolate, brilliantly starlit sand dune where no hotel would think of alighting. HERE are several essentials that make for a good camping trip. | The prospective camper should first of all have a definite knowledge of the country into which he is going. Secondly, he should know the capacity of his car for the carrying of The camper pitches his tent where his whim takes him by lovely lake, by crystal stream, or by lonely sanddunes of the desert. EVEN AS THE ARABS passengers and sufficient equipment for comfortable camping. Thirdly, everyone should know what can be expected in the way of enjoyment on a camping trip and then set about enjoying themselves. Last, but not unimportant therefore, the good camper should distrust the promiscuous information offered so freely by other tourists as to the desirability of this Park and that road. The chances are his experiences, standards and tastes are very unlike those of the listener. As to planning the trip and learning the country, these come first in the winter or spring months. The intelligent use of maps and books will help here. With the family gathered around a map it should not take long to have a list of travel possibilities that will take years to carry out. Here is the first caution—try not to plan all the suggestions for one trip, spread them out over a period of years. Travel, particularly that by camping, is more enjoyable when a little country is learned well, rather than a large country just passed over. The following winter must be taken into account, when there will either be the memory of a country well explored, or just a vague impression. Of a great number of places. Decide the number of days you will have to spend, then allow a reasonable amount of mileage per day for not more than three-fourths of the days. It is possible to cut down somewhat on the number of days to be spent in camp, but these are advisable if you are to rest up, do the laundry, read a little, hike or take some nature study notes, or do any of the number of things that the hasty traveler overlooks altogether. Now that the route has been planned find out what type of country you may expect—desert, National Forest, or a country where 427 commercial camps must be depended upon. These facts may often be ascertained from maps, or from bulletins and books that your librarian will be glad to show you. Figure out just about where you will spend each night. The essentials of a camp are good water and wood (if you do not carry a gasoline stove). These two things will very likely be found in abundance in the forests and parks. In the desert you can usually find something to burn in the form of greasewood, sagebrush or other woody desert plants, but water is a precarious matter. It is possible to make a so-called "dry" camp. And enjoy it, using a three gallon water can of the necessary liquid. But for the most part, it is well to plan a good camp for the night. Know, then, where streams are to be found along your route. OW that the trip is planned, the next thing is to check over your equipment. Two people with a coupe can easily carry all the luggage necessary for a camping trip inside the car and this is an ideal arrangement since the hazard of dust and rain do not have to be - taken into consideration as when equipment is tied on the outside. If three people go in the coupe the tent, (which is better than the bedroll for obvious reasons) can be tied on the outside and if necessary, old suitcases. With a sedan or coach, two or three people can travel as easily as with a coupe, using the back seat for storage, but if more than three go along, it is almost necessary to comfort and enjoyment to take a trailer. It is a mistake to take five or six people and then try to crowd the camping equipment in around them and all over the outside of the car. Nothing but disenchantment can come of such an arrangement. 428 The camping equipment for two people is approximately the same as for more people with the exception that more of each article is required in the latter case. First of all no more should be taken than can be packed away conveniently in an hour or less if possible. For two people a folding springs, or two air mattresses should come first. Sleeping comfortably is an essential. The bed roll should consist of wool blankets sufficient for cold mountain nights and either sheets or a cotton blanket that can be washed and small pillows. One large pillow divided and made into two is ideal. The roll is better rolled up in canvas which keeps out dust and which may be put on the ground without soiling the blankets. A small wooden box is about the most convenient container for the food, which you buy on the road as you go. The amount of food and the kind will vary, so that the arrangement won't remain the same. It is well to carry with you from the start the staples, such as salt, flour, lard, a can or two of beans and soup for emergency and sugar, coffee and tea. Butter is best kept in a glass jar so that if it melts it will not get on other things. Bacon also is best kept in a jar. The dishes, a set that will go inside a kettle or bucket, are very satisfactory. A frying pan should complete the table equipment. Two suitcases should be enough. In one may be carried the clothing necessary to dress up when in town, or ina Park hotel for dinner and dancing. Also in this case should be extra room for clean camp shirts, underwear, socks and towels. In the other case are the things being used every day, such as pajamas, towels, toilet equipment, etc. This case is the only one, then, that needs to be opened every night, a good time - siphon in. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE saver, because packing suitcases is a task. It is convenient to take along an inexpensive little gasoline stove for cooking. This does away with blackened dishes that are hard to handle. The romance of the campfire need not be dispensed with; it can be kept burning nearby. A word here about keeping this little stove filled with gasoline. Some tourists will carry the tank of their stove down to the gasoline pump to be filled, which it needs about every other night. It is more convenient to take along a rubber tube several feet long, with a glass pipe on one end. There are now on the market little pumps that start the gasoline siphoning from the tank of your car into the stove, but these are not necessary. The rubber end of the tube can be put in the gas tank of the car and by sucking on the other end the gasoline can be brought up to the glass. You can watch for the rise of the liquid so that you need not get it in your mouth. However, a little gasoline will not hurt you beyond a little disagreeableness of taste unless it is ethyl. The glass end can then be inserted in the opening of the stove's tank and the gasoline will A tent should be taken. For two people with air mattresses, the teepee type is excellent. With springs the wall tent or umbrella type are excellent. In most Parks, now, table and chairs are available, but if it is desired a small folding table and chairs that fit inside may be part of the camp equipment. Depending on the trip a brief case of books, a portable typewriter, cameras and gasoline lantern may be tucked in. A good set of tires all around and at least a fairly good spare and you should be ready for the time of your life. These camping articles may be purchased for less than one hundred dollars and they last for years with care. One EVEN AS THE ARABS 429 The open fire is the hearth stone of the camper. Here he comes for comfort after the explorations of the day. Camping trip will surely mean another.. HE organization and management of the trip are no less important than the planning and equipment. Distribution of camp duties comes first. If there are five in the party and only one member to pack, cook, etc., the caravan cannot help being slow to start in the morning and late at getting into camp. Cheerfulness and good will lead to enjoyment and these come most easily when each person has a duty to perform. One person may have charge of the dishes. He or she should know how many plates, knives, forks and spoons there are so that he may count them as they are packed, thus avoiding delay in repacking if another dish is found. Thus _ each member should have a specific duty. Bodily functions must be kept in good condition if everyone is to remain happy. The fewest departures from the habits. You are accustomed to is the best way to accomplish this. Camp so that supper may be on time is not as inconsequential as it may seem, If it isa gloomy day stop at Making an early noon and cook a good hot lunch. If it seems you will not be able to make the camp you planned until late in the evening it is wise either to stop and eat on time and then go on, or to make camp at some closer point. Needless to say, early rising and early starting is also important. OW, you may ask, what are the especial enjoyments of a camping trip? First of all, there is joy in "performing the very duties of the camp—the smell of the wood fire burning, which you have built and kindled, the smell of bacon frying which has a special odor when mixed with the scent of pine and there is the special joy of rolling out the nice clean bed when you are so tired that the hard ground would even feel heavenly. But besides these everyday occurrences there are always conditions that can be capitalized as they arise. If the camp chances to be near a good trout stream or a good lake do some fishing. Even if you are an indifferent angler fishing has many compensations in exercise and the discovery of lovely spots. There are always pictures to be taken, botany 430 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE specimens to be gathered or sketching to be done. The point is to do something, to make the most of whatever is at hand. If it is a rainy day and you do not enjoy hiking in the rain, get out your book, get into the car, roll up the windows and read. Or maybe get that delicious feast ready for those who will be returning hungry. By all means take a camping trip if the amount of money to be spent is limited. There is little or no charge for camps on a trip that will include National Forests, Parks, or deserts of the West. Gasoline and Park entrance fees, which are small, will constitute the chief cost of the trip. Food has to be eaten at home. This summer why not fold your tent "like the Arabs and silently steal away." Gypsy Blood By Elzada C. Brinkerhoff I want— To hear the lilting breeze, That roving vagabond,. Go whisp'ring through the trees; To hear him set a-quiver The loving, list'ning leaves. I long— To get away; to go And wander through the hills: To travel long and slow; To journey forth as free As summer breezes blow. I know— That I shall never heed The aching gypsy urge Within, my heart may bleed; But duty calls and I Must stay where there is need. Pluck I've paid close heed to the ways of men, I've observed what the world calls luck— I have silently marveled now and then At the potent power of pluck. | And this is a bit of truth I hail, A sentence that's worth one's heed, "The man who's always afraid he'll fail Doesn't stand much show to succeed." —Selected. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon ULY—month of color and rejoicing when the fullness of bloom mingles its gorgeous colors with the emblems of the nation. MBE:: SUSA YOUNG GATES, brilliant daughter of Brigham Young, the pioneer, who recently died was generally recognized as one of the leading genealogists of America. She was also a_ wellknown writer of history and fiction. HE British sovereigns held five courts this spring. Forty American women were presented, the two daughters of Ambassador Bingham among them. UTH BRYAN OWEN'S reception by King Christian and his court at Copenhagen was colorful and marked by dignified ceremonies. After presenting her credentials, Mrs. Owen was received in special audience by the Queen. RS. LUCILLE F. McMILLEN of Tennessee has been appointed civil service commissioner. RS. D. B. DYER is mayor of Grover, Colo. This town has had a woman mayor and women members of the town board for the past two years and likes the woman rule. ELEN WILLS MOODY, America's tennis queen has a close rival in Helen Jacobs, another American star who has been a winner at the French singles. She as well as Mrs. Moody will play in the British championships. BABE DIDRIKSON, the Texas athlete, is out for more laurels, this time in the golf championship. ADY CYNTHIA MOSLEY died recently. She was the beautiful and wealthy wife of the English Fascist chief, Sir Oswald Mosley and was a forceful political colleague of her husband. UANA DE IBARBOUSON, poetess of Montevideo has been given a seat in the new national assembly of Uruguay. Her poems mark a new note in South American verse. BF UIZABETH CAMBRIDGE'S novel, ''Hostages to Fortune," was the June choice for the English Book Society. LADYS HASTY CARROLL in her new novel "As the Earth Turns," gives an intimate glimpse of New England farm life. The story was the book of the month for May. ALICE LEON MOATS has published a book entitled, ""No Nice Girl Swears," which contains other do's and dont's well worth bringing to the attention of the young daughter. HONORABLE DOROTHY BRETTS' story of her years in America called "Lawrence and Brett: A Friendship" is as charming as her popular novels. MARY BARTELIN, only woman. Judge in Chicago's juvenile court, served 12 years. For her excellent service over 2,000 people, high in judicial and political circles paid tribute to her on her retirement. RS. FLORENCE FARN SWORTH RICHARDS, the beautiful and accomplished wife of Dr. Gill Richards, whose tragic death is so deeply mourned, was the first woman to receive a master's degree from the University of Utah. Leadership By Elise B. Alder HE responsibility of being a leader is so great and the opportunities for helpfulness to our fellow men, and developments for ourselves so many that the task of leadership is one that is worthy of the finest and best women. So great is the undertaking that many of us shrink from it fearing we can not measure up to the requirements. But in our Church we are often called by inspiration and a true Latter-day Saint with a strong testimony, (although she realizes she does not possess all the qualifications) will not waver, as she knows if she is humble and steadfast in her purpose, is conscientious in the discharge of her work and will study out her duty and prepare her mind, seeking in true humility the blessings and guidance of her Heavenly Father she will succeed. Alice Ames Winter says, "Leadership may be developed like any other spiritual or intellectual faculty. It begins with seeing that some great thing needs doing, and throwing oneself fervidly into the doing of it, with forgetfulness of self. She must believe in herself and believe in other people and believe in the thing for which she is working and believe in them so hard that she does not question or hesitate. She must be lavish with the best that is in her." As attributes for leadership she gives: Spiritual: 1. Ambition for accomplishment rather than position.. Courage.. Genuineness.. Real love for human beings.. Personal magnetism.. Clear thinking. NAmb WhY) Executive: 1. Power to get people to work together harmoniously. 2. Knowledge of methods. 3. Fair play. 4. Understanding of community needs. 5. Ability to convince others. The power of example is very useful in establishing loyalty. The most important for her to give is one of earnestness of purpose and interest in the work. To this end she may do much by the power of her own example in cheerfully carrying out the instructions from higher authority. She should accept the full responsibility of her superior officers and take her co-workers loyally and unquestioningly through the work. Any questioning before her workers of the wisdom of instructions given her from the General Board would injure the fine spirit of loyalty and cooperation that makes for successful auxiliary work. The nature of her work will determine the amount of dignity which must go with the office but in every case there is a certain dignity which all must find in their leaders to which they will instinctively give their respect. To attain the confidence and respect of her sisters she must acquire understanding and knowledge, therefore, she should never appear before her sisters unprepared. She should plan her work and then work her plan. In other words she must work out clearly in her own mind and life the fundamental things that have to be learned. She will probably make a few interesting discoveries as to her own nature, before she learns to organization LEADERSHIP practice what she preaches and become what she wants her sisters to become. - She must know herself that it is the mark of a small selfcentered nature to be exclusive. One who is able to include many people in her interests possesses nobility of character and shows a measure of sympathetic understanding such as only a great nature can express. Tact (the ability to deal with others without offending) is one of the greatest aids that a leader can acquire if based upon correct sympathy and understanding. She should avoid cliques or sets, if she does not the unity will be destroyed and where there is no unity the strength that is so necessary for good work will be gone. This lesson was taught me in my youth by my father. When I was eleven years old my father took his family to the country for the summer season, and while there was called to be Counselor to the Bishop of the Ward. Later he was called to be Bishop of a newly made Ward, purchased a home and immediately set about beautifying the surroundings. He planted trees and a large lawn in front of the home and while doing so he said to my sister and me, "When the lawn comes up you may have a 'lawn party.' My sister and I began planning from that time and when the lawn was ready we went forward with our plans, made out our list of guests, etc., and father asked what they were and when we told him and handed him the list of names of those we were going to invite he read it over and immediately exclaimed what about so and so and so and so, we said 'Oh father we don't want them." He replied, "My girls I am the Bishop and the father of this Ward and unless you are willing to invite all the children of your ages (which by the way was possible as the Ward was 433 small) I fear you will have to give up the idea of having your party." Suffice it to say, we went on with our party. All those of our age were invited and a very enjoyable time was had.: Do not be too serious, a smile, a little humor and praise will go a long way and often change the whole course of events. A word of cheer and encouragement lifts one up and helps more than we realize. It is the spirit that makes the soldier do and dare. "A military leader took his regiment out one morning on the field to drill, some of the boys were feeling discouraged and blue, they went about only half hearted. Right in the hardest part of their drill the leader called out 'Good.' The boys' spirits rose immediately with the praise of their leader, and their work was made lighter." The leader who truly appreciates this phase of human nature and intelligently uses it in her work has taken a long step toward success. The average leader does not always know how great are the possibilities open to her for enriching the lives of her sisters through wise instructions. If she is skillful she tries to make suggestions that will cause her sisters to work out problems with some degree of originality whenever possible always allowing them the credit. Avoid personal criticism especially in public, rather praise all the good leaving the corrections to be made on the side. _ Decision arrived at without due consideration oft times proves detrimental to the work in hand. She should be patient, never lose heart no matter how trying the work may seem. If she is firm and strong and absolutely fair those under her will usually respond loyally to her suggestions. Many so-called leaders make the mistake of doing too much of the work themselves. Naturally 434 it takes time to instruct and show what is expected, but let the question be thoroughly understood and the practical application of the principle be individually worked out. The more she can get to work the bigger the interest and the stronger will her organization become. A man who visited President Coolidge at the White House reported this in favor of leadership. He said, "I had commented on how well he was looking" and he replied, "I am feeling well and the reason is that I am taking care of myself. That doesn't mean taking any particular exercise, but using my energy in the manner which will make it most effective. Whenever a problem comes before me the first thing I say to myself is, Isn't there some one who can do this as well as I can? And you would be surprised how often I find some one else who can do it better. That saves me for problems which only I can decide." Obviously one can achieve skill in leading only by doing it, not by reading about it or seeing it done and his interest and pleasure in the work will increase if the natural desire for self-expression is encouraged. Attention should be given to those who need it most and gradually get all to grow together and form one big union. The leader should inspire those she leads to big and noble things. Her sisters know that what she requires is reasonable. They feel that she is regarding their welfare in every move making their work as easy as possible. It is often good to forget one's self, but when difficulties or indifferences come, strange as it may seem, the first thing for a leader to do in a case of this kind concerns herself alone. She must fill herself with a strong desire to understand, to get the sister's point of view, to show nothing but a kind and loving spirit and try to bridge RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE over the estrangement. Keep her heart full of love and an earnest desire to overcome evil with good, being just, remembering there is always two sides to every question, and keeping the golden rule as her guide and she need never fear the outcome. But if she can not control her own spirit and has no standards to follow how can she expect to calm and sooth and direct her sisters who may never have learned the first thing about personal discipline and self-control. Every leader probably has to deal with lack of reliability in some of her sisters, as officers or committee members. They fail to attend to what is assigned them. How to cultivate in them a sense of responsibility and spirit of faithfulness is a problem which calls for all the wisdom that a leader can acquire. Here it is easy to fall into the mistake of nagging and faultfinding. Make her feel that she is being absolutely counted upon, show love and interest for her, praising the good which is always found in all God's children and the day is won. Faith in co-workers is the secret of power and influence as a leader. Use judgment in choosing committees, study dispositions and assign them to what they are best adapted. Often backward members develop into splendid members of Boards and oft time make good leaders through the encouragement given by a tactful president. A little hint from the leader some times, only a shake of the head, a smile, or a nod of encouragement, will help oh so much, and put new life into her workers. She should not allow any of her meetings to become dull and dragging or careless or disorderly. Everything being planned before will avoid all this, but should little things come up to disturb the meeting—for instance a baby crying—say "the LEADERSHIP dear babies how we love them,"' do not spoil the spirit of the meeting or make the poor mother feel worse by looking cross. Learn to grasp the situation and quickly and quietly get things back to normal. When a speaker fails to meet his or her appointment, here if ever, there is a challenge to the leader's resourcefulness. If she is wise she will anticipate such an emergency and will always keep something ready ahead of time as a housekeeper does on her emergency shelf so as not to be caught unprepared. She should not spend time talking about the disappointment. Her sisters feel it as keenly as she and if there is no one present who can intelligently handle the subject, she should get busy have the understanding with her chorister so complete that with just a look or nod of the head she will have her choir or the congregation sing one of our inspiring hymns which will prepare for the best meeting we have—Testimony. In conclusion, I would like to bring to your minds one of the most 435 remarkable incidents of leadership the world has ever known, that of the simple peasant maiden who is called Joan of Arc. To her while but a young girl dwelling in her native village, there came voices and visions bidding her arise and save France. After a time she became so very sure that this was indeed no silly fancy but the very bidding of God, that she began to persuade those about her to believe it. She went to the place where the King was, and though men mocked at her at first, yet soon they were convinced by her purity and her earnestness that she had indeed been raised up to deliver the land, and the King sent her clothed in white armor, at the head of a troop of horsemen to the town of Orleans, which the English were besieging. She drove them back from the walls. The rude soldiers with that selfless and stainless maid for their captain learned to feel shame for all foul speech and foul thought and followed her as a leader sent from Heaven on to victory.
Meat and Meat Substitutes By Lucy Rose Middleton
EVERYONE knows the old, worn story of the marketman who advertised three grades of eggs: strictly fresh, fresh, and eggs. A parallel is found in the grading of meats. A wise buyer knows in an instant which grade she is getting, but to many, meat is meat. For those whose budget is greatly limited the cuts of meat which have the most waste in form of fat and bone should be avoided. T-bone steak is an example. Although it is one of the choicest cuts, it does not feed the family to the same advantage as, say, the same amount in pounds of round steak.
Meat is a protein food and is easily and quickly assimilated by the body, which it builds and repairs. Other foods which perform this function are milk, eggs, fish, and cheese. These are called meat substitutes, for they can supply the protein requirement of the body with proteins of high biologic value. Other foods such as Jello, dried peas and beans contain proteins but not of the kind or amount to substitute for meats.
During the warm months our appetites call for food of much less nutritious nature than those served in the winter. Therefore, meat substitutes, or dishes containing only small amounts of meat in combination with other foods, may well play an important part in the summer dietary.
Scalloped Eggs 4 hard-cooked eggs. 2 cups white sauce. ¾ cup chopped cooked ham, chicken, veal, or fish. ¾ cup buttered crumbs.
Chop eggs finely. Sprinkle bottom of a buttered baking dish with crumbs, cover with half of eggs; cover eggs with sauce, and sauce with meat; repeat. Cover with remaining crumbs. Bake in moderately hot oven until crumbs are well browned.
Baked Macaroni and Cheese ¾ cup macaroni. 2 quarts boiling water. 1 teaspoon salt. 2 eggs. ½ cup grated mild cheese. 2 cups rich milk.
Cook macaroni in boiling salt water 20 minutes or until soft; drain in strainer, pour over it cold water to rinse thoroughly. Put macaroni in a baking dish then add the milk, grated cheese, and slightly beaten eggs. Season well with salt and pepper. Bake in a pan of hot water in a moderately hot oven 20 minutes, or until the custard is set.
Spanish Rice 1 cup rice. 4 slices of bacon. ½ green pepper. 1 cup thick tomato juice. ½ cup grated cheese.
Wash the rice thoroughly and cook in boiling salt water until tender. Grind the bacon and cook with the shredded green pepper until crisp, then mix bacon, pepper and bacon fat with the rice. Add the thick tomato juice and grated cheese. Mix well. Bake in a slow oven until the mixture is well heated, then serve.
Chicken Noodle Ring
Noodle ring: 1 package noodles. 3 eggs. 2 cups milk. 2 tablespoons butter. Salt and pepper.
Cook the noodles until tender. Drain off the water. Add the beaten egg yolks, milk and butter. Season well with salt and pepper. Beat the egg whites until stiff then add to the mixture. Bake in a ring pan for 1 hour at 350 degrees F. When cooked turn out on a platter and fill center with the chicken filling. Serve hot.
Chicken filling: 1 stewing hen. 5-6 tablespoons flour. 2 hard-cooked eggs. ½ cup mushrooms. ¼ cup pimentos. ¼-½ cup rich milk or canned milk. Salt and pepper.
Cook the chicken until it is tender. Let cool, then cut in cubes. Remove the fat from the stock. (There should be about 2 cups of the chicken stock.) Add the milk. Thicken with a flour and water mixture. Add the mushrooms which have been simmered well in butter, the pimentos, sliced hard-cooked eggs, and season well. Bring to a boil then pour into the noodle ring.
Tomatoes Stuffed with Crab Meat
Select 6 small well-shaped tomatoes. Cut the top off carefully. Scoop out enough of the pulp to leave a firm wall of tomato. Salt the inside and invert on a platter. Set in refrigerator. Flake a large can of crab meat and add to it one tablespoon of finely chopped green pepper or pimento. Mix with enough mayonnaise dressing to make filling moist. Stuff the tomatoes with the mixture and replace the tops. Serve on a lettuce leaf with french dressing.
Noodles with Hamburg ½ pound hamburg. 1 medium sized onion. 1 green pepper. Salt and pepper. 1 package noodles. 2 cups tomato sauce. 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce.
Simmer the chopped onion and green pepper in butter. When tender add the tomato sauce, cooked noodles, and the hamburg which has been well browned in frying pan. Season with salt and pepper and Worcestershire sauce. Put in a baking dish, bake in a medium oven for one hour.
Indestructibility of Matter By Helen Minckley
YOU remember, of course, that a falling apple introduced the theory of gravity, and that a dancing tea-kettle lid was the father of the steam engine. I only mention this to show how very ordinary things bring about the discovery of the greatest scientific truths. Although no text book mentions her name, my Mother was, I am sure, one of the pioneers in the field of the Indestructibility of Matter.
Mother bought that blue serge suit way back in 1912. "It looks durable," she commented as she ran a practiced finger across the twill. "It looks as if it would hold up." For two years she wore the suit with diminishing pride. The box pleated peplum and the elaborately braided coat tail had lost their style after two springs and two falls. I was rather disappointed when she decided to make it over for my older sister. Of course I knew that someday I would have my turn at it, but I had hoped to get it in the first reincarnation.
Mary was in the sixth grade and felt very smart in a real suit with a frilled and tucked voile shirt waist. After two years the suit had not changed at all, but Mary had. Her hands dropped a surprising distance below the coat sleeves, and her legs were out at the bottom almost up to the knees. I began to look through the fashion sheets. Surely my winter wardrobe would be constructed of blue serge—but no! Mary was to go to High School now and she must not go without plenty of "changes". The advisability of a strip of velveteen on the bottom to cover up knobby knees was discussed but mother rejected it as being a too apparent revival. Instead she dropped the skirt to the bottom of the jacket, finished the sleeves with long fitted cuffs salvaged from the superfluous coat tail, and bought a patent leather belt. The belt was, I believe, the most beautiful thing that I have ever seen: It was at least four inches wide, bright green in color, and marvelously shiny. It and the swanky green tie would be salvation for any frock.
TWO years more I waited before I came into my inheritance. I had grown outward, not upward, and the waist of the blue dress would not stretch over my bulgy form. The cloth was still sound as new, and initiative soon found a way. The pleated peplum was taken from a moth proof chest. This was elongated with strips from skirt number one, and a yoke was made from the former waist. Mother called the result a Mary Pickford dress. She could have truthfully called it a Mother Hubbard but I wouldn't have worn it with that name. A shiny belt was denied me because it would make me look "like a pudding bag, tied in the middle," but a beautiful collar of eyelet embroidery satisfied my craving for the artistic.
When I entered High School Mother folded the serge regretfully and put it away. It was rather glistening now, but only the back panel was threadbare. A few weeks went by and I "made" the girl's baseball team. We were far too modest to run around in bloomers or shorts so we decided on blue skirts and white middies. My middy was new—my skirt was constructed from the everlasting serge, neatly washed, pressed, turned and repleated.
The last time I remember seeing the suit in actual use was in combination with some flannel that Mother had bought from a remnant counter and found inadequate to cover my younger sister. The red really looked very smart with its wide bands of good serge. A visit from my grandmother saved the pieces from the ragman, for Grandma was an expert on quilts and rugs. "My dear," she would say as we turned before her for admiration of a new dress, "how very pretty!" We always had the uncomfortable feeling that she did not see us inside the dress at all, but that her busy mind had already placed the material in quilt blocks or colorful patches in a hand made rug.
It fell to the lot of the blue serge to become a rug. Many a time as I rested in bed with a cold or headache I would trace the blue lines around the bedside rug and relive the days of glory when that strip was with me in the flesh. This spring Mother decided to replace the rugs with some of a less ancient vintage. I wondered if that would mean the passing of the blue serge. "We need a new mattress for the porch bed," Mother declared one day. "Daddy, you might as well take some old clothes and these rag rugs up to the mattress factory." Now the eternal life of the serge is assured. When mattresses grow lumpy they can be put through the grinder again, and thus last for ever. Mother was, I am sure, one of the pioneers in the field of the Indestructibility of Matter. She couldn't be bothered with such terms as indestructible. She merely said "durable." And she worked with blue serge instead of with equations.
Notes from the Field Big Horn Stake.
THE following word comes from Big Horn Stake: "In Big Horn Stake Union Meetings are held the last Sunday in each month, and Stake Board meetings every Thursday, at the home of the various board members. Instructions and suggestions are given by the presidency, visits to wards reported, programs for Union Meeting arranged, department problems discussed, singing practice where memorizing the words is emphasized. The sisters are encouraged to express the message of the song in their own words. Lessons for the following Tuesday Relief Society meeting are presented and leading points brought to mind. Forty-five minutes is then devoted to book reviews, new words defined, scriptural quotations and miscellaneous current events are given.
"We meet in Union Meeting as a group where general instructions and comments are made by our president, Hazel N. Boyack, and a talk 'How to Teach' by supervisor counselor, Annie J. Carlton; singing practice and separation for department work into seven groups. Counselor Ella Neilson has charge of the work and business group. They discuss problems and plans to make these meetings more profitable and interesting than any other. Demonstrations of the tie and dye work have been given in each of the wards, also waste paper baskets, vases and many beautiful and useful presents were made for Christmas; not forgetting dainty cookies and candy. Our project in beautifying home surroundings was planting more roses, shrubs and grasses. During the growing season 1,568 bouquets were carried to public meetings and from there taken to the sick and homebound.
The social service group devote five minutes to the discussion of health. Every Relief Society member in the stake is supplied with a Government pamphlet on prenatal care. Five demonstrations have been given and pre-school clinics held where possible, sponsored by the health supervisor, Zitelle Shumway.
"On March 17, our Annual Day was fittingly observed in each of the wards and branches.
"During the spring months, Relief Society conferences were held in each ward in connection with sacrament meeting. Splendid preparations were made on the part of the sisters, and a fine spirit prevailed.
"In May, conference was held in the Otto ward, where the sisters had planted a lawn in front of their church and 65 trees in the yard. They also sponsored cleaning up the cemetery, and when the task was completed gave the 'men folks' a fine repast.
"Our Annual Conference-Convention was held August 27 and 28. The day previous was Big Horn Stake Achievement Day, where many useful and beautiful articles were displayed. Some of the unusual things were home-made cheese, starch, soap, tiny toys and animals cut out of wood, porch furniture and upholstering. In conjunction with this was a program where most of the wards participated. At the close, members of the stake board gave a banquet in honor of the ward presidents, the General Board member and special guests. Mrs. Amelia Robertson, social service aid, was toast-mistress, and all enjoyed the social hour.
"During September, officers and teachers conventions were held in the various wards. Methods of preparing and presenting lessons were explained and all encouraged to make this a year of better preparation of officers, teachers and members.
"December 1, marked the 60th anniversary of our Stake President, Dr. E. W. Croft. The Relief Society sisters sang 'We Ever Pray for Thee,' after which a biography of the life of President Croft was presented by Joseph S. Fish. Mrs. Helen C. Marchant presented a basket of roses to President Croft in behalf of the auxiliary organizations over which he presides. President Croft responded with a beautiful tribute to his friends and coworkers in the stake."
Panguitch Stake.
"WE have held stake union meeting every month this year, at which Relief Society department work is conducted and supervised by efficient class leaders who are putting the work over in an excellent manner.
"On the 17th of March, the Relief Societies of the Panguitch North and South Wards celebrated conjointly, at 1:30 p. m. A very large crowd assembled at the Social Hall, where a fine program was rendered, after which a banquet was served to the large crowd present. In the evening members from the two wards presented the pageant 'Biblical Mothers,' in the Social Hall as part of the day's program. Relief Society members, all mothers, took part in the pageant, and it was one of the most beautiful sights ever witnessed here. Each mother made her own costume and they were beautiful indeed. Appropriate music was rendered during the entire evening."
"BIBLICAL MOTHERS," PANGUITCH STAKE
DRINK has drained more blood, Hung more crepe, Sold more homes, Plunged more people into bankruptcy, Armed more villains, Slain more children, Snapped more wedding rings, Defiled more innocence, Blinded more eyes, Dethroned more reason, Wrecked more manhood, Dishonored more womanhood, Broken more hearts, Blasted more lives, Driven more to suicide, And dug more graves Than any other poisoned scourge that ever swept its death-dealing waves across the world.
Evangeline Booth, Commander Salvation Army
Notes to the Field
MAGAZINE CAMPAIGN
WE deeply appreciate the loyal support given to the Relief Society Magazine. It is remarkable how many subscriptions we have had during the past few years when dollars were scarce and hard to obtain. At a meeting of the business managers of our Church Magazines, it was decided that each publication should have a specified time for making an intensive drive to get subscriptions; although subscriptions will be taken during the entire year, this will be the time when the most subscriptions will be secured. The Relief Society Magazine has from September 15th to October 15th for its campaign. Previous to this campaign all necessary preparations should be made so that it will be business-like and effective. Agents should be appointed who value the Magazine and who are good saleswomen. They should be women of vision, who know the people and conditions of their wards and who will be energetic in this work. They should look over their lists carefully and see who is already subscribing and when their subscriptions expire. We urge that a short and intensive campaign be undertaken during this period and that a house to house canvas be made. Stake directors should keep in close touch with the campaign in the various wards in their stake and give aid when ever needed.
MAGAZINE AGENTS
IN most of our wards we have been very fortunate in having Magazine agents who have done their work in an enthusiastic and business-like way. We realize that this position is taxing and so we would say to our agents—if you feel after two years service that your enthusiasm is waning, your methods of salesmanship are worn threadbare and that you cannot put the zest into your work that you have done in the past, and if you feel that someone else could get more subscriptions, then we say that you may ask to be honorably released and your places taken by those who will undertake the work with new fervor.
LITERARY TEXT FOR 1933-1934
WE advise our officers and members who are going to purchase the Literary text for 1933-34 to secure it as soon as possible. It is now on sale, price $1, at Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. It will be very advantageous to read this book during the summer. This will give a fine background for the work next season.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Mary Connelly KIMBALL Editor Louise Y. ROBISON Manager Amy Brown LYMAN Assistant Manager
VOL. XX JULY, 1933 No. 7
EDITORIAL
Patriotism
PEOPLE are emotionally swayed when an orator on some patriotic occasion points out the glorious history, the present place of prestige, the future possibilities of this great country and a wave of patriotic fervor sweeps over the listeners. When in danger from an aggressive foe and war stalks over the land, patriotism leads its men to enlist and offer their lives for their country's safety. This is well and good as far as it goes but there is a constant patriotism that is more vital than this spasmodic fervor.
The greatest patriot may say little, his voice may never be raised in a shout, he may never enlist for war service, but in his heart burns an intense devotion to his country and a deep desire to further its interests. Many who have gone to war and have been valiant in the defense of their country show a selfishness in times of peace that is surprising. Their patriotism carried them through a bloody conflict but did not endure through the reconstruction period.
During this depression when the Government has appropriated vast sums to help the distressed and needy, people who have had plenty to live on have accepted flour and money from the Government, probably feeling that since there was something given away they wanted to get all they could for themselves. Surely such people are lacking in patriotism.
Borrowing too, is a colossal evil. Many have been concerned in securing loans. The thought of payment has been a vague, slightly unpleasant thought in the back of their minds. From their conduct one can imagine the attitude they will assume when the loan becomes due. How patriotic will they be then?
Patriotism means not how much can one get from his country, but what can he do to raise and uphold its standards, further its stability and maintain its integrity. Patriotism means facing issues, looking facts squarely in the face. We need a return of old fashioned thrift, integrity, honesty and unselfishness.
Susa Young Gates
IN the death of Susa Young Gates there passed from the earth life a remarkable woman. She lived a long, active life full of achievement. Devoted to the Church and to her sex, she worked assiduously along many lines. Her writings have made her known throughout the Church. The Young Woman's Journal came as a result of her seeing the place it would fill in encouraging young writers and giving good clean reading to women. She was its first editor and continued in this position for years. She was also the first editor of the Relief Society Magazine, the successor to the Woman's Exponent. Her life of her illustrious father, President Brigham Young, is a valuable contribution to Mormon literature. She tried to get people interested as widely as possible in genealogy and in Temple work. During the last years of her life she put forth great energy in getting women to write their own biographies and those of their family. While her loved ones will miss her keenly, they will be grateful that she lived so long and was active to the last year of her unusual life. The results of her activities will continue to lead her people into energetic action.
What About the Woman?
THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR points out that the world has always leaned toward a dramatization of its problems. It has set up figures of the man with the hoe, the man in the street, the unknown soldier and the forgotten man. Sweden calls attention to a group greater in number than any that have yet been represented by a lay figure. This group has had little publicity save for a slight tribute now and then. The General Swedish Electric Company on the occasion of its fiftieth anniversary announces that it has set aside a fund of $100,000 to provide vacations for the wives of small salaried employees of the company. Commenting on this splendid act of the Electric Company the Monitor says: "Someone should outline a figure to represent the woman behind the factory whistle, whose work begins long before the workers take their places at machine or bench, and continues long after the spindle and lathe are silent; whose work year runs into 365 days, who is the first one to feel the pinch when work fails, and the last one to benefit by a pick-up. Should such a figure be drawn in its proper scale, it would perhaps make pygmies of the four already mentioned."
Wedding Announcements
THE observance of the correct social forms is never more important than in the matter of wedding invitations or announcements. Here you are certain of the newest and smartest.
One Hundred $2.50 Priced at
The Deseret News Press
Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices
General Board Relief Society Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M. Salt Lake City, Utah
29 Richards Street Telephone Wasatch 3286 Salt Lake City
29 Bishop's Building
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
VOL. XX AUGUST, 1933 No. 8
CONTENTS
Lake George, California................................................................Frontispiece August.................................................................Ella J. Coulam 445 The Trust Supreme.................................................Judge Nephi Jensen 447 My Star................................................................Helen M. Livingston 451 The Morrell Tribe.......................................................Elsie C. Carroll 452 Your Home Beautiful................................................Mabel Margaret Luke 460 St. Mary's Lake, Glacier National Park.............................................. 465 Memories.........................Nellie O. Parker, Emmaretta G. Brown, Irma Felt Bitner 466 The Greatest Gift...................................................Estelle Webb Thomas 474 The Call of the Land...................................................Agnes Just Reid 475 Your Honor........................................................Arthur James Bowers 477 The Little Lad......................................................Ida Powell Brown 478 A Meandering Stream (Photo)........................................................ 480 Lifting the Veil.......................................................Ann Jarvis 481 Mistakes.........................................................Ida Hansen Steed 481 Susan Beattie......................................................Minnie I. Hodapp 481 A Mother of Men.................................................Florence Fairbanks 482 Living in Memories.................................................Nela Von Spencer 485 The Old Willow Tree.............................................Josephine B. Strange 486 My Forget-me-not.................................................Virginia B. Jacobsen 488 Happenings.....................................................Annie Wells Cannon 489 Fleecy, White Clouds (Photo)........................................................ 490 Joy in the Beautiful................................................Jeanette W. Beers 491 Arch Nullifiers of the Constitution.................................................. 493 Sunday Evening Porch Suppers.........................................Lucy Rose Middleton 494 Notes to the Field................................................................ 496 Notes from the Field............................................................... 497 Editorial—Vacations................................................................ 502 Angels and Amazons................................................................. 503 More Room at Headquarters.......................................................... 504 Hiking With My Son..................................................Ada Hurst Brown 504
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3123
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
August By Ella J. Coulam
Warm, tranquil month of Summer Play day of the year, All nature seems to welcome Your vacation days so dear.
The world is clothed in quietude, The wind breathes notes of peace. It seems content to rest a while And let the mad rush cease.
The lure of lake and canyon, The heat of noon-day sun Then shadows gently creeping And another day is done.
I love to sit and ponder On a moon-light August night— It seems to be a clearing house To set my thoughts aright.
The Trust Supreme By Judge Nephi Jensen
IN the days of Christ's personal ministry, there lived in Capernaum a most extraordinary man. He was a Centurion. This military officer became deeply impressed with the divine power manifested in the ministry of our Lord. The Centurion had a beloved servant who became severely afflicted with palsy. At about this time Jesus of Nazareth came to Capernaum. In his great anxiety the officer approached the Lord appealingly. "My servant lieth at home sick of the palsy, grievously tormented." "I will come and heal him," responded the Savior, before the Centurion could request him to come and administer to the servant. This instant offer of divine assistance gave the officer increased confidence and boldness. Emboldened by his awakened faith he implored, "Speak the word only and my servant shall be healed."
There is unusual power in these simple words. They came from a heart which had been vitalized and transformed by a spiritual energy. The story reveals the deeper meaning of faith. In this simple narrative we see in action the more-than-human trust in the Unseen Power. This Roman officer was so deeply and intensely awakened spiritually that he could believe that just one word, spoken by the Master, would instantly heal the servant who was sorely afflicted. How could a mere spoken word heal a sick person? The Centurion did not know. His ordinary reason could not tell him. For there is no conceivable direct relationship between an uttered word and the removal of disease from a human body. There is nothing about an expressed word which would lead the ordinary reason to conclude that it will restore health. One who can believe implicitly that a few uttered syllables will bring such tremendous results, gives unmistakable evidence of the possession of an endowment higher than ordinary human understanding. He is able to infer and conclude what halting reason cannot lead him to conclude. This power, instantly to infer or conclude, without the slow process of reasoning that tremendous results can, and will come from a simple means, that have not apparent relationship to the results desired is the very essence of faith. It is a sort of divine intuition that outstrips the ordinary understanding. One who possesses this rare gift is in a sense a super-man. He is endowed with a power that transcends the most splendid of all intellectual endowments.
ABRAHAM of old possessed in a high degree this spiritual power. He was so stout-hearted that he could believe that if the life of his beloved son, were taken, God could and would instantly raise him to life again. After receiving the promise that, in Isaac, "all nations of the earth should be blessed," he was commanded to offer this son as a sacrifice. With undaunted confidence in God's power, Abraham made all preparation for the offering. The altar was constructed, the wood for the fire gathered and put in place; the sacrifice was placed upon it and the knife was raised to take the precious life. And his hand was not stayed until he heard the angelic injunction; "Lay not thy hand upon the lad." Abraham unflinchingly met the supreme test of faith. He had the pure soul-strength to believe that God could and would instantly disannul death; and make the lifeless lips speak again. In the language of Paul, the father of the faithful "God was able to raise Isaac from the dead." These are strong words. There is in them the stir and throb of the faith that can triumphantly believe that even death can be turned to life by the edict of Jehovah.
THE faith of Abraham stirred in the heart of the woman of New Testament times who had been afflicted for twelve long years. For twelve years she had suffered untold agony. In her bitter distress she consulted the best doctors of the time in the hope of obtaining relief. She spent her fortune upon physicians but was not healed. Her life was a walking, living, breathing tragedy of pain. One day she stood in the throng as Jesus Christ walked along. She had been told of his beautiful life. She had heard of his tender heart, that throbbed with sympathy for suffering humanity. Moreover, she had been told of the marvelous things he wrought by the power of faith. So when he came just in view of this afflicted woman, her heart was stirred as it had never been stirred before. And in the depths of her awakened soul she cried, "If I may but touch his garment I shall be whole." There is beauty, infinite beauty in these words. There is grandeur and sublimity in them. They came from a heart that was pure enough, deep enough, and strong enough to believe that God could instantly heal her body, which had been distressed with pain for twelve years. Moved by her all-prevailing trust, she reached forth her hand and touched just the apparel of the Christ; and instantly a complete change came over her. Strength took the place of weakness in her body. New life came back into her veins and arteries; and the bloom of health came back to her cheeks. She was instantly and completely healed of an affliction from which she had suffered twelve long years!
JAIRUS of New Testament times belongs to the splendid company of those who have the strong soul-fiber to trust in God to the uttermost. The daughter of this noble ruler died. Even after her eyelids were closed by the icy fingers of death, the loving father heroically trusted that she could be called back to life. In his deep sorrow he went to Jesus and worshipped him saying, "My daughter is even now dead; but come and lay thy hands on her and she shall live." There is the throb of tender pathos and the stir of spiritual power in this trusting appeal. This out-calling for divine help came from a heart that was stout enough to believe that death's cruel sentence can be instantly set aside by the command of sovereign faith. Jesus could not resist this touching appeal of simple trust. He took the girl by the hand, and by faith's all-compelling command cried, "Maid arise." And death obeyed the command of the Master of life and death. The dead instantly came to life again.
MARTHA of Bethany is another of the world's renowned women of real faith. Her beloved brother Lazarus took sick of an incurable fever. As the days and nights came and went the scorching fever burned away the life and strength of Lazarus. His sands of life slowly ebbed away. He died. He was taken by the intimate friends of the family and securely buried in a stone tomb. There he lay in the cold sleep of death for four days and nights. Then Jesus came to the home of Martha to offer her consolation in her great sorrow. When he appeared in the dooryard, Martha saw him. The sight of him awakened her soul as it had never been awakened before. And from the depths of her heroic, trusting soul she cried, "If thou had been here he would not have died." What did she mean? She meant that if Jesus Christ had been in the sick room when Lazarus was dying of the devouring fever, Jesus could have stood there and spoken one word by the power of his faith and Lazarus would have been instantly healed. She had in her heart even a bigger thought. For before Jesus could enter the house, she cried triumphantly, "But I know even now whatsoever thou will ask God will give it thee."
What could she mean now? Lazarus was dead. He had been four days in the tomb. She meant that Jesus Christ could walk to the tomb where Lazarus lay in the marble sleep of death and that he could stand there in the presence of the silent tomb and speak one faith-inspired word and death would stand aside, the tomb would give up its tenant, and the dead would live again. Martha meant all of that; and she could mean all of that because in her heart throbbed and stirred the faith that conquers all things. In obedience to Martha's all-commanding trust, Jesus walked to the tomb where Lazarus lay in the deep slumber of death; and by the power of his imperious faith spoke the death-defying words, "Lazarus, come forth." And death was vanquished. The tomb gave up its tenant; and the dead lived again.
This sublime faith is the radiant energy of the religion Jesus Christ taught. As long as this heart-awakening faith remained in the world, the followers of Christ were impelled by a deep, pure love for God, to live lives of simplicity, beauty, and devotion and power. But this pure faith did not persist in the world. It commenced to wane in less than a century and a half after the first introduction of Christianity. The simple heart-purifying religion of the Christians came into contact with the ostentatious sacerdotalism of the Pagan Romans. These Romans had a multiplicity of gods. They erected splendid images to these deities. Before these dazzling images they performed their acts of devotion with spectacular display and outward circumstance. This gorgeous, noisy expression of devotion was quite in contrast with the quiet, simple faith-inspired worship of the Christians. The sacred acts of these pagans was not only more showy than the Christian prayer of faith; but it was also much more easy to practice than the soul-stirring religion of the Christians. The outward expression of religious ardor is the mere mechanics of worship. It is a very easy thing in comparison with the aroused out-reaching of the soul for intimate fellowship with God.
THE Christians were dazzled by the splendor of paganistic sacerdotalism. They commenced to think that they might add power to their own religion by adopting some of the gorgeous ritualism of the Romans. Moreover, the Pagan Priests accused the Christians of lack of religious ardor because they were so undemonstrative in their expression of devotion. These stinging accusations were effective. They helped to impel the Christians to ape the showy formalism of their neighbors. Gradually the Christians commenced to set up images of Christ, the Virgin Mary, the Apostles, and the distinguished martyrs. In course of time the practice of performing acts of worship before these images was adopted. This practice formalized prayer and worship. The formalization of prayer made it an outward show instead of a deep, intimate affair between the human heart and God. As a result of this paganization of Christianity, simple, heart-stirring faith was undermined. Moreover, the practice of worshipping before images transferred the thought of the supplicants from God to the spirits represented by the images. Out of this transferred thought to spirits in the other world came the practice of praying to these spirits instead of praying to God. In time the belief became established that by praying to spirits of dead martyrs and Apostles, these worthies would intercede with God in behalf of the earthly supplicants. The result was that the idea of God became mystified; and Christians commenced to regard him as a formless spirit, diffused everywhere and nowhere in particular. This mystification of the idea of God finished the deadly work of destroying the simple, vital faith of the first Christians. The destruction of this soul-vitalizing faith marked the end of religion of soul-purifying and transforming power. Mechanical prayer by rote took the place of the spontaneous appeal of the faith-inspired heart. Formalized worship, expressed in gorgeous ritualistic display, supplanted heartfelt worship in spirit and in truth. Soon unnatural asceticism dissipated the energy that could more profitably have been used in socializing enterprises. Superstition took the place of faith; and error displaced the truth.
BUT a new day has dawned. A new dispensation of the gospel has been ushered in. With this gospel restoration has come a revival of the simple all-trusting faith which was the glory of the first age of Christianity. This faith is the throbbing life and power in the religion of the Latter-day Saints. It would require volumes to tell even half of the stories of the modern triumphs of faith. There is only space here for two.
A few years ago two young missionaries of the Church called to see a woman who had been a confirmed, bed-fast invalid for years. With real trusting faith she requested the Elders to administer to her. The senior Elder anointed, and the junior sealed the anointing. It was his first experience and he haltingly stumbled through the ceremony. When he concluded, the senior asked, "Haven't you faith to command her to rise?" "Yes, I have faith," responded the younger with real assurance. He laid his hands upon the afflicted woman a second time, and with the all-conquering faith that stirred within him he commanded her to rise. She was immediately healed; and rose and ministered to the Elders.
In November, 1930, a Sister Shumway was confined in a hospital in Gallup, New Mexico. The child died, and the mother contracted blood poison. The husband was notified by wire to come to the hospital, because the surgeon was about to amputate the wife's leg as a last desperate effort to save her life. The husband requested a prayer meeting to be called in his ward and then hastened to the bedside of his wife. Upon his arrival at the hospital the doctors informed him that there was no hope of saving the woman's life without the amputation. "There is hope," said the husband with astonishing assurance. He asked for permission for the Elders to administer to the afflicted woman. Permission was granted. After the administration the doctor found that the leg was completely healed. The doctors and nurses left the room in amazement. This Brother Shumway met the supreme test of faith. He stood in the presence of a critically afflicted wife and heard the man of science positively aver, "There is no hope." And in spite of the finality of the conclusion of medical science he could heroically say, "There is hope."
In this new dispensation of the gospel, devout souls who have been awakened to the reality of God and His power and goodness, have witnessed all the marvels that characterized the true Faith of the first age of the Christian religion. In our age, diseases that baffled the skill of the best physicians have yielded to the healing power of undoubting faith. The deaf have been made to hear and the blind have been made to see. Even the dead have been restored to life again. Thousands of Saints can bear truthful testimony to these gracious manifestations of divine power, in obedience to the humble prayer of trusting faith. These Saints belong to a distinct and unique class of mortals. Aye, they are more than human. They possess a power that is akin to omnipotence. What is wealth, fame, or even distinguished talents in comparison with this strength of strength, this life of life? Theirs is majesty, grandeur, and glory in the hallowed lives of these trusting souls. No wonder the Apostle concluded that God has chosen the "rich in faith to be heirs of his Kingdom."
My Star By Helen M. Livingston
A star shines in my path so bright It lights my way both day and night. The wisemen will not see it though The shepherds may not ever know.
But all along its lighted way I walk with joy. Then some glad day Within my arms my babe shall rest And nestle sweetly to my breast.
The Morrell Tribe By Elsie C. Carroll
WHEN Marian Janis married Hal Morrell, everybody predicted trouble. Not that Marian and Hal didn't think the world of each other. It was their families: Hal was a Morrell.
Judge Janis, Marian's father, was a paragon of industry and thrift. Pals of his boyhood days sometimes hinted that these characteristics were acquired—through the vigorous encouragement of his wife; but be that as it may, the two chief principles in Henry Janis' religion were Work and Save. Mary Janis, Marian's mother, was conceded to be the best housekeeper in Norton; she could make the best yeast roll, the best sponge cake; she hung out the whitest washing—And thereby hangs this tale.
The Morrells had wheezed into Norton nine years before in a dilapidated Ford. There had been five of them then: Daniel, his wife Kate, Hal, a lad of fourteen, Kitty four and baby Rose. The Community Welfare Organization had carried food and blankets to them, and had arranged for their temporary lodging in the old Drake Place until the November blizzard should have spent itself, and until "Methuselah," the Ford, could be put in running condition once more. And there they were, "still camping," as Mrs. Janis herself had scornfully put it, "nine years afterwards." And now there were nine of them instead of five, the twins, Joy and Joyce, Sunny and Babe having arrived at intervals since that day nine years before when Daniel had announced to the group of loafers on Kirk's Corner that he found Norton a tolerable likable place and as Katie had been coaxing him to settle down for quite a spell, he reckoned as how they had about decided they might make Norton their home.
If the Morrells had ever received an inkling that the citizenry of Norton was not delighted with their decision to become part of it, they did not let such a trifle worry them. They were not the worrying kind. Life was too full of things to enjoy and rejoice over to give time for worrying. Though the Morrells lacked most of the necessities of life, they had a knack of acquiring a few of the luxuries, and they had a capacity for enjoying what they had, and of not worrying about what they didn't have, which furnished the gossips of Norton an unending fund of conversational material.
For instance, the Morrells were musical, and their first purchase in Norton from the small amount they had received from "Methuselah" when they decided to make Norton the end of their wanderings, was a beautiful accordion—"and that" according to Miss Mehitable Jennings, secretary of the Community Welfare, "while we were still carrying food to them; while they were still sleeping in our blankets!" While that accordion may have seemed a foolish extravagance to the sane and sensible inhabitants of Norton, to the Morrells it filled a need of their beings quite as much as did the food and the blankets of the Community Welfare. For as Katie Morrell was wont to recount in their a-little-less-lean years after that first one in Norton, "Sure an' there was many a time we didn't have enough to eat, but Daniel 'ud play us a tune on that beautiful accordion an' we'd go to bed happy."
IN due time as Daniel found odd jobs sharpening scissors and lawn mowers, and tinkering sewing machines, and as the sturdy Hal became a permanent employee of Lowden's Furniture and Music Store, other luxuries found their way into the Drake shack to take their place beside the rickety chairs and beds, the rusty stove, the goods-box cupboard, and the accordion. There were banjos and ukuleles, and in time, a piano—this long before there was an easy chair or a decent mirror—and tennis rackets, and fishing tackle, a canary, two oil paintings—one a fine landscape by the celebrated La Roche, that would have given distinction to any home in Norton—an abundance of magazines, and a radio. Of course Norton had talked each time one of the non-essentials had been added. They talked of the shiftlessness and thriftlessness of Daniel who would leave a job any day to accept a fishing invitation; of Katie who could leave unwashed dishes, and unswept floors any time to go to a musical or a circus parade, who had no regular days for washing, ironing, mending and baking; who never failed during the warm, pleasant days of early spring and summer, when other housewives were submerged in house-cleaning and spring sewing and early canning, to trail off with her brood several times a week to the woods, or river's edge, a magazine under one arm and a paper bag filled with sandwiches under the other, and spend long, precious hours. Norton talked:
And one of the most scathing voices in Norton's talk was that of Mary Janis. "How any woman on earth with a family can do such things," she would remark over her prim, vine-covered back fence to Mehitable Jennings, "beats me. When we were first married, the Judge used to want to always be going places and doing foolish things, but he soon learned that if we were to get ahead and keep the house going as it ought to we had to make a business of business and housekeeping. Why they say that woman will sit right down on the floor and play games with her children, the dirty dishes still on the table, and not a bed in the house made up. The thing that really worries me is the influence such people are bound to have in the community. Other children are going there—Why, the other day my Marian went right into that hovel—that boy Hal wanted to show her a contraption he'd made so he could play the banjo and mouth-organ at the same time—and she actually seems to think the way they live is all right."
Mrs. Janis had so spoken on and off during the first few of the nine years after the coming of the Morrell tribe. If on such occasions it could have been revealed to her through some occult process that her Marian was to marry a Morrell, she would doubtless have succumbed to instant shock. But the community had gradually become accustomed to the Morrells, long before the serious courtship of Marian and Hal commenced. And Hal had won his way with his music and his genial personality into the hearts of the people. Of course the remark, "What a shame he's a Morrell," still passed current along with the really fine things that were continuously being said of him.
From general office boy in Lowden's store, Hal had risen to manager of the Music Department. He had taken on polish and responsibility amazingly, and had tried to polish the other members of his family. He had endeavored to replace the rickety furniture; to remodel and paint the rambling old house; to mend fences and out-buildings. But somehow the improvements he attempted didn't seem to make much difference in the general appearance of the old Drake place. And when it came to making over his happy-go-lucky father and mother—that was even more impossible. And while he was often embarrassed by his family, and sometimes deeply ashamed, he was genuinely loyal, and loved them, perhaps without knowing it, for the very qualities he was trying to change.
TO be sure it had been a profound shock to Judge and Mary Janis, as well as to the whole town, when Marian revealed that she was in love with Hal Morrell and wanted to marry him. Her father and mother had known that he had been admitted to Marian's crowd, and had discussed this fact one night after the crowd had been entertained at their home. They had felt virtuous because of their broad-mindedness. "He is a likable young chap," the Judge had conceded. "Seemed to be the life of the party, didn't he? And Lowden says he's developing into an A-1 business man." "But it's too bad he's a Morrell. Of course," admitted Mary, "we can't very well tell Marian that she can't invite him here when that's all there is against him; but Henry you just ought to see the washings his mother hangs out. Why her sheets and pillow-cases are the color of buckskin—and her towels and dish-towels—" words failed Mary Janis, but her expression proclaimed the hanging out of dingy towels and dish-towels to be the unpardonable sin. "Well, now if that was all—," the Judge had remonstrated, "it wouldn't be so much to worry about; you always have put too much stock in little things like that. It's his father's shiftlessness that gets me. Only last week we had him up adjusting the typewriters in the offices and by George, if he didn't leave us without a machine we could work and go off fishing with Lem Keller."
Finally, after the smoke of the battle following Marian's revelation had cleared; when Judge and Mary Janis, because they wanted their girl's happiness more than anything else in the world, had given with reluctance and a well-defined feeling of martyrdom, their consent to the marriage, and had grudgingly admitted young Hal to the freedom of the house as the fiance of their daughter, there followed, up until the day of the wedding, a series of conscientious efforts on the part of Mary to train her future son-in-law in some of the essential habits that had been so woefully neglected by his own mother. For instance, when Marian and Hal would come in from a game of tennis and he would unceremoniously throw his hat on the library table and drop his racket and balls on the davenette, Mary would make it a point to take the hat immediately to the hall tree, and to place the tennis balls and racket on a shelf provided for such things in the entry. When he would finish singing or playing, and would leave his music scattered promiscuously on the piano and chairs, she would immediately gather it up and put it away. It had taken Hal a little while "to catch on" that he was being watched and trained; but one day the significance of Mary's movements dawned upon him. He had flushed with embarrassment, but as soon as he got hold of himself he had smiled and said with his disarming frankness, "Thanks, Mrs. Janis. I'll learn." Marian in her new joy, had not been cognizant of this little side play of her mother's, and when Hal was gone she had asked the meaning of his remark. "He's really got wits," her mother had responded, "so maybe you can train him. I didn't think at first he would catch on. You'll simply have to keep after him, though, I can see that, to break him of those horrid slipshod Morrell habits. Why he was actually about to put his feet up on the window seat this afternoon; but he caught me looking at him just in time. It's not going to be easy, but you'll have it to do now you've decided to marry him." Marian had flushed with anger. "Mother how could you? What crime would it have been even if he had put his feet on the window seat? You will make him so he will dread to come here. His mother doesn't make them feel that the house is too good to live in." "No, I should say not," scorned Mary Janis. "I'm just trying to help you, Marian. You've no idea what a trial you're going to have civilizing that boy—O, I know he's got a lot of fine qualities. If he didn't have your father and I just couldn't have given our consent to your marrying him. We've always looked forward to your happiness as the biggest thing in our lives, Marian. Hal's a nice boy, as I said, but he's a Morrell and there's a lot of savage in that tribe yet." "Mother, I'll not listen even to you talk about Hal's folks like that. They're different; but they're not savages. They know how to have the best times—I wish—I—love every one of them," and Marian had flounced from the room, while her mother with a sigh and a shake of her head had gone to get the dustpan and whisk broom. There was the unmistakable outline of a dusty footprint on the taupe rug.
MARIAN and Hal were to be married the first week in June. After their honeymoon they would set up housekeeping in a little three-roomed cottage two blocks from the old Drake place. The Judge made them a present of an electric range, and Mary bought and made the window drapes and chose the rugs. Through his connection with the furniture store, Hal received excellent terms on a living room suite and some bed room furniture. The little house would be as cosy and tasteful as any bridal pair could wish. As Marian's mother was helping to hang the last window drape three days before the wedding, she remarked: "I'm afraid you're going to have trouble keeping Hal's folks in their place. His mother was over here while you were gone to the store. She brought some junk of some kind—set it right on top of that polished library table. I could hardly hold my tongue until she had gone." Marian flushed "What was it? Where did you put it? Why didn't she wait?" "O, it was a picture, I believe she said. She thought you'd like it—Made it a point that she was giving it to you particularly. It's wrapped up in a newspaper—I shoved it there in the bedroom closet. She did wait awhile, but when I got the broom and swept up the loose grass she'd tracked in, she said she guessed she'd have to go and come over later." "Mother! You—you didn't do that—to Hal's Mother?" "I swept up that trash after Katie Morrell. I imagine if you give them any encouragement at all, they'll be here messing up the place all the time. You'll have to be strict right from the start—let them know you're a housekeeper—though goodness knows they have never known what that word means." Marian opened her lips to speak, but closed them again and went to the bedroom closet. A moment later a cry of delight issued through the half closed door. "Mother—just see what Hal's Mother brought me—her lovely painting by La Roche. See. Mother—I told you about it—isn't it beautiful! And to think she—gave it to—me," there was a little catch in Marian's voice. "It was the most beautiful—almost the only—beautiful thing she had." "Well, of all the incongruities," Mary Janis exclaimed looking with begrudging admiration at the masterpiece of art. "A picture like that in their old hovel!" "But, Mother, I keep telling you it isn't—a hovel. It's a—home—one of the happiest homes I have ever seen. I tell you Hal's folks—are—why they're wonderful, in spite of all the horrid things folks say of them. I wouldn't hurt them for the world." She was about to say more, but seemed to think better of it. "Now look here, Marian," Mary Janis looked at her daughter severely. "You ought to realize that it was a very hard thing for your father and me to consent to your marrying into a family like the Morrells." Her voice almost broke then. "If it wasn't that you are so dear to us, Marian, and that we have been living always for your happiness—we just couldn't have done it. Now wait a minute—let me finish. We haven't anything against Hal—with right training he'll make a man; but the rest of the tribe—surely you can realize Marian, that you can't take them in and chum with them as you could—other folks. I'm just warning you and trying to help you before it is too late. If you once give them a chance—they'll be like the camel—they'll be in all over. Nobody would expect you to put up with the Morrells. Why even Hal ought to be able to understand the difference between your training and his; your folks and his—and want you to keep up to the standards I've always tried to teach you." Marian bit her lip and winked her dark eyelashes very rapidly as she tried the oil painting in different spaces on the wall.
IT was the second week after Marian and Hal had returned from their honeymoon. It was Monday and mid-forenoon. Mary Janis had finished her washing hours before. The long line of snowy clothes which had gone through the traditional process of being sorted, and soaked, and boiled, and run through the washer, and scrubbed on the board, and boiled again and sudsed, and twice rinsed, and starched,—fluttered arrogantly in the gentle June breeze as if aware of the fact that they represented one of the prides of Mary Janis' heart—the recognized concession that she put out the whitest (and it might be added, the earliest) washing in Norton. They would soon be gathered in and dampened down preparatory to the early Tuesday ironing; but Mary decided that she would have time before gathering in the clothes and starting dinner, to run down to Marian's with a piece of the sponge cake left over from yesterday, and to see how Marian was getting on. She would be washing of course—or through. Her mother wasn't sure she had told her just how to cleanse and settle the water to be used for boiling the clothes. Mary reflected as she walked along the street that she had probably not given her daughter enough responsibility in the home; that she had not emphasized sufficiently the correct way of doing things. She could see that now, and she must try to make up in helpful advice for the things she had failed to do before. It had always been so much easier for her to do things herself—just letting Marian help—then she had known they were done right, and had not had to argue with the girl that thus and so was the only correct way. She wondered if Hal's folks had been over again. It had been terrible when she and the Judge had dropped in a few evenings ago. The whole bunch there, singing and shouting and pulling things about. She was just sure that insufferable little Sunny had scratched the orthophonic with a dirty stick he had brought in. Marian simply must make them know that this was her home and it must be respected as such and regulated in a way they knew nothing about. But her girl puzzled her. Why, she seemed actually to be fond of Hal's fat little frowsy mother—called her "Mom" and laughed at her silly joking with the children. Mary Janis would not admit that she was jealous, but she had been conscious of a queer twinge when Marian had kissed Katie Morrell good bye that night and had urged her to come again. She wondered as she neared the little cottage just how she was going to be able to make Marian realize that she simply could not afford for her future happiness and peace of mind, to treat Hal's folks in such a friendly way.
SHE turned the corner of the last block. Yes, Marian had been washing; her clothes could be seen through the lilac bushes which half screened the cottage. Suddenly Mary Janis stopped. The line of clothes had come into full view. An involuntary groan escaped her, and she clapped her free hand over her eyes to shut out the sickening sight. In the soft June breeze there fluttered Marian's white, embroidered sheets and pillow slips, a nightgown, a snowy table-cloth and half dozen napkins, three bath towels, some hand-hemmed tea towels and then—horrors! Two shirts—the color of—"buckskin" was inadequate (all the white background washed out), a pair of grimy pajamas, a couple of pairs of earth-colored B. V. D's and a string of light tan handkerchiefs. For several seconds Marian's mother stood as if paralyzed. What if someone should pass! However could Marian have done such a thing as to hang those clothes out—for the whole town to see. She should have dried them inside; she should have burned them and made Hal get a new supply. Finally Mary Janis recovered sufficiently to take another step toward the house. Where were the colored clothes? Surely Marian was through washing before this time of day. O, she should have been more thorough in her training. Girls of today just did not seem to take on things as they used to in her day. Her mother had never had to impress her with the fact that the washing should always be done on Monday; that it was best to get up a few hours earlier and get it out of the way. She had seemed to know such things instinctively—But Marian—somehow she couldn't understand the girl's lack of interest in such important things. She opened the gate and started up the walk. What was that noise? The phonograph! People laughing and talking! Heavens, the Morrell tribe! Surely not in the middle of the forenoon and washday. She went around to the kitchen—It was one of Mary Janis' principles not to trapse through the front part of the house unnecessarily, tracking in extra dirt. What did a few extra steps amount to? She opened the door without knocking just as Marian exclaimed, "O, Mom, you're a regular darling to think of it!" On the threshold Mary Janis stood still, that queer twinge clutching at her throat again. Marian's voice had sounded so intimate and happy. At the cabinet Katie Morrell stood spreading thick slices of bread with deviled ham; at the kitchen table Marian was filling a fruit jar with potato salad; at the sink Hal's sister Kitty was cleaning a bunch of green onions. From the other room came the jazz from the phonograph to which the twins, dressed up in a couple of Marian's house dresses and with some of Hal's ties for head decorations, were improvising a dance. In the corner of the kitchen by the stove, stood a tub of cold suds beside which lay a little heap of colored garments. At the look on her Mother's face, Marian's had gone white. The hand that held the spoonful of salad began to tremble. She felt her mouth go hot and dry. There was a pulsing silence. And then a new look leaped into Marian's appealing brown eyes. She laid the spoon back in the dish and took a step forward with a brave effort to smile casually and to keep her guilty look from straying toward the corner where the tub stood. "Why—hello—Mother! You're—through washing—I guess. I'm—I'm—so glad you—came over. Mom Morrell came down a little while ago to tell me that Sunny had come up from the store and said Hal was going in the company car over to Granville. S—so we—we thought it would be nice to fix a lunch and go with him for a—a little—picnic. It's such a lovely day and we'll stop there at Glenn Falls and eat, then play around until Hal comes back this afternoon. I've always—just loved to—I've always thought it—would be such fun—to do things like that. You—see I—I can easy do those few—coloreds out in the morning and get the ironing done too." She had stopped several times to moisten her lips, and she had tried in vain to bring her eyes directly to her mother's agonized face. "Would—wouldn't you—won't you come and go along with us, Mother?" She couldn't look at her mother so she took up the salad spoon again. The seconds that followed seemed an eternity. As Mary Janis read the misery in her daughter's face, the struggle between what she wanted to do and what she thought she should do, as she realized Marian's agony, and interpreted aright that choking twinge in her own breast, something snapped within her and her vision seemed to clear. Like a flash little things Henry had said at different times during the years of their married life seemed to come to her with new significance; things she had said about Katie Morrell's slipshod housekeeping and Marian's hints that there was a difference between housekeeping and homemaking. Like a flash a new set of standards loomed up beside her own traditional ones—and she at least could understand. The misery on Marian's face was too much! She wanted her girl to be happy! Of that one thing she was very sure. She wanted to be happy herself. "Why, yes, Marian," Mary Janis heard herself saying in a voice that didn't sound quite natural. "I—I—believe I would like to go with you. I wish I had brought more of that cake—but—why we can go by the house and get it and some cold veal and tomatoes I have in the refrigerator. I'll telephone your father to go to the cafeteria for his lunch." What did those grimy clothes out on the line—what did anything matter compared to keeping the love of her girl? Marian looked up joyfully, unbelievingly. She tried to speak but couldn't. Mary Janis understood, and rolling up her sleeves she said: "Can't I help you with those sandwiches, Mrs. Morrell?" and she took her place at the other woman's side. For a little bit Marian sat limply on the edge of the kitchen table and stared. She moistened her dry lips and tried to believe. She felt as she had once dreamed she felt when it seemed that the world had come to an end, but mixed with the feeling now was a happiness new and sweet.
LEVI COX, ELEANOR A. COX AND THEIR FAMILY The picture was taken on the day they had been married 46 years.
Your Home Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke
FURNITURE—ITS SELECTION AND ARRANGEMENT
WITH the background correct we are a long way on the road to the creation of a beautiful room, but unless we select the right furniture and arrange it correctly our efforts will have been largely wasted. Furniture has a very vital influence on our lives. Perhaps in no other way do we so definitely express our personality as in the selection of movables which go into our homes. And the sort of things that are chosen will have a tremendous effect on the culture and character of those who must live with them. There are many delightful things to be had today, as well as many which are vulgar and of little real worth or beauty. The great secret of a successful result lies in finding the right thing, which, going into the making of your home will have a true relationship to the whole and to each of its parts. With careful choosing authentic design, delightful furniture, may be yours at moderate cost—yours may be the deep satisfaction of owning things truly fine.
The selection of furniture is at once an enjoyable, yet a difficult task. It is not only necessary that we buy what is beautiful in line and color, and suitable to the room it is to occupy, but it must be durable as well—its beauty must be more than "skin deep." Unless one is an expert in judging quality the safest thing to do is buy of a reliable manufacturer. Good upholstered furniture, for instance, is expensive to make and it therefore cannot be bought at "bargain prices." It is wise economy to spend money for constructive merit as well as for decorative features. If your means are limited and you wish a chair or couch, it is better to have the interior, the springs and the upholstery of the best, and covered with denim or burlap, than to buy a beautifully covered chair of questionable workmanship. It can be used with slip covers of chintz or cretonne until at some future date your budget will permit covering with a really fine fabric.
When buying furniture for your home the first thing to be done is to analyze carefully the room in which it is to be used to determine the dominating lines and the nature of the furniture required. Your background is determined and the wall spaces fixed. These facts influence the type of furniture. The size of the room is the first thing to consider. If the room is small, large tables, huge overstuffed pieces and massive chests do not belong there. If you will refer to article one you will find this subject of scale treated at greater length. The architectural style of your room must be considered if your furniture is to be in harmony. Delicate Sheraton or Louis XVI furniture would be as unsuited to a room with rough texture walls and beamed ceilings as would sturdy oak furniture be in a room with painted panelled walls or dainty Colonial wallpaper. In a room with a high ceiling the major pieces of furniture should be tall, and in a low room use more horizontal articles, chairs, tables, sofas, etc.
There are many types of furniture from which to choose and one may get lost in a maze of uncertainty. These four essentials may be used as guides:—authoritative design, harmonious fabrics, inviting comfort and inner integrity. Furniture for the average home should be simple in design and upholstery. Ornately carved pieces and massive furniture are at home only in rooms that are ornate or impressive. Care must also be taken that the furniture is in scale, not only with the room, as already mentioned, but with other articles to be used in the same room. The general contour of the furniture should be related. That is the majority of the pieces should have the same general shape and size. Furniture of straight lines gives greater emphasis to a room than curved,—it gives a feeling of strength and decisiveness and so is particularly appropriate to a man's room. Curved furniture lacks the appearance of strength, rather it gives an impression of frivolity and is more suited to a boudoir. However, curved furniture needs an accent of straight lines. Care must be exercised in combining straight and curved lines in furniture in the same room. The transition is best made by having one or two pieces containing both curved and straight lines, for example a chair with curved lines in the seat or on the back and straight legs. Or in the furnishings of a room a repetition of a curved or straight line as in a picture frame, rug, stair rail or step may be carried out, giving an admirable result that cannot be achieved in any other way.
PEOPLE are using Period Furniture in their homes now to a greater extent than they have done for many years. They have found that the styles of the past have a beauty that has never been approached by modern designers. It is not necessary nor even desirable that one period be strictly adhered to in a room, but in a harmonious composition of furniture of agreeable styles from different epochs and different countries lies the real art of correct furnishing. Care must be taken though that each piece agrees perfectly in scale, line, color and texture with the others. In an article of this length it would be impossible to go into the fascinating story of Period Furniture, although I may do so at some later date. However, as an illustration of the point just mentioned I will give an example: Sheraton furniture is a delicate, mostly straight line style with slender supports and framing and made of mahogany with inlays of satinwood on some of the pieces. Hepplewhite furniture, also largely made of mahogany is a slender, well-proportioned style, characterized by curves rather than straight lines. The furniture of Duncan Phyfe—the greatest of American furniture designers, influenced by Sheraton and Hepplewhite, as well as the Empire styles—is featured by slenderness, reeding and combines lightness with strength. He used the pedestal leg and adaptations of the scroll. This furniture too was made almost exclusively of mahogany. The furniture of all these designers, (along with some of Chippendale's), of different yet almost contemporary periods would combine to make a perfectly furnished Georgian or Late Colonial room. Queen Anne and William and Mary furniture harmonize when used together. And the rectilinear furniture of the Renaissance—English, French, Italian or Spanish—would not conflict if used in one room. Early Colonial reproductions, French Provincial and other Peasant furniture are very smart and especially suitable to the small home.
IN talking of furniture one is immediately confronted with three terms. To help you in distinguishing between them it might be well to give the following definitions: An antique is a very old piece that may be traced down to its origin. Its chief value is sentimental, not practical. They are very expensive to buy. If you happen to own one you are lucky. A reproduction is an exact copy of some fine old piece. It is the wiser thing to buy a good reproduction than an antique. An adaptation is a piece that has been adapted from the original to fit some modern use. It is not according to period, but sometimes very satisfactory.
ONE of the first things a person must decide when buying furniture is whether to buy sets or to buy a piece at a time. Do not buy sets for in so doing you lose your individuality. I would like to emphasize this point. Buying suites is easier, it is true, and hence used by people of few ideas and no artistic feeling. As a result we find many houses with a standardized appearance, completely lacking in charm. "More and more people of taste and refinement are getting away from the idea of the one-pattern, one-wood, complete matching set." In all but the more expensive suites every piece is of the same design, with the same kind of leg, curves and ornamentation. A varied collection, merged into a harmonious assemblage is more desirable and is often found in the better sets. The chief value a set has is that each piece scales in with the others and agrees in design and color; people who haven't the ability to choose articles that harmonize in style and scale had better choose a set to be safe. Otherwise the only room in which a set is excusable is the dining room and even here to have, for instance, a Duncan Phyfe table with Hepplewhite chairs and sideboard would be more interesting than all of one type. When tempted by a sale, for example, of bedroom suites of eight or ten pieces, remember that most bedrooms are too small to hold so many articles without a crowded appearance. Too, your room will not really express your personality. Better to use the same amount of money and buy one or two really fine articles and makeshift with home products as a flounced dressing table and old chairs painted or covered with chintz. When, finally, it is finished you will be glad it was not done in an ordinary manner at first.
HERE are a few points regarding furniture that may aid you in your choice. 1. Do not buy furniture that has meaningless curves, scrolls, and grill-work. As far as possible ornament should be structural. Buy only pieces that show moderation, temperance and restraint in the use of decorative motifs. 2. A chest of drawers is better looking without an attached mirror. The arms holding it can easily be removed and the mirror hung separately by a wire or cord. 3. The attractiveness of fine furniture lies in the beauty of its soft, subdued luster. Never buy pieces with a shiny finish. 4. The articles should be well-proportioned, every part in perfect scale relationship to every other part. Do not choose an article with any feature unduly prominent. 5. If the household budget does not permit the purchase of good upholstered furniture wicker is an excellent choice. It can be left natural, stained, or painted and will make a most charming room. 6. In choosing overstuffed furniture do not choose the large, clumsy sort. Thin arms and part of the frame exposed usually results in a better looking article. 7. To achieve variety yet unity in your room let the covering of the different articles be of different fabrics in related colors, some plain, some with pattern, according to how much pattern is used in the other furnishings. 8. Do not use golden oak or bright red mahogany furniture which cannot be made to harmonize with anything.
Often one is confronted with the question as to whether or not it is correct to use different woods in the same room. It is very difficult to achieve a really interesting and distinctive result if the furniture is made of only one wood. It is monotonous and smacks too much of a set. Sometimes a piece of painted or lacquer furniture is effective used with walnut or mahogany. Maple pieces may vary in tone and are really more charming. In a room furnished in antique mahogany occasional articles of walnut, satinwood or maple may be used. Never mix red or brown mahogany. Maple, pine and light walnut go well together. Oak and walnut of nearly the same tone harmonize, but never oak and mahogany. Be sure when combining any two woods that there is a kinship in style, that they are of the same dull finish and that there are no extremes in tone value. Finally select furnishings that have been inspired by the most beautiful of the old things, that you too may have in your home that illusive charm of the homes of our forefathers. Of the modern choose the best, the loveliest, and, of course, the convenience and comfort of the new. Combining these two qualities, your home will be delightful. If you are going to buy furniture it is just as easy and no more expensive to choose good lines as to be satisfied with common things. The rule to observe when furnishing a small home is to choose simple articles and have few of them, but select with such care that each is the best of its kind. An excellent plan is to buy a piece at a time and spread the joy of furnishing your home over a longer period.
THE next problem after the furniture is selected is how to arrange it best in your rooms. This arrangement will be controlled by traffic, convenience and comfort. The floors and walls establish the horizontal and vertical boundary lines for the furniture and all the larger pieces should be set parallel with these lines. Chairs may take the position that is comfortable and natural when in use. Furniture should be placed for use. Interesting groups insure an enjoyable room. Furniture is made to be used and a piece alone is of no value. Rooms that have the livable quality so much sought after in decoration observe this rule. Chairs are grouped for conversation, lights placed for use. A chair and lamp are at the desk. Chairs for listeners are near the piano or radio. A table is near the chair to hold a book or magazine. If people cannot use a room without leaving it in confusion, then it has not been arranged for use by proper grouping of furniture. The groups should also be related to each other and be so distributed throughout the room that there is a sensed rhythm in the arrangement.
There are certain focal spots in every room for grouping furniture—the fireplace, in front of a large window or between two windows. The wall space opposite the fireplace or any other large wall space, which should have some center of interest. An excellent arrangement at the fireplace is to have two small couches, one on each side, with perhaps a table at one end. Or a couch may be on one side and a chair and table on the other, or two chairs and a small table. If the room is small an easy chair on either side of the fireplace would be better. A desk or table may be placed between two windows with a chair at each end. A low bookcase with reading chair, table and light form a comfortable group, one which would fit a corner successfully. Never put furniture diagonally across the corner as it violates the principle of structural unity. A tea table and chair, a corner cupboard, a wing or barrel chair or other group of furniture give a decidedly better effect.
THE problem of balance was taken up in the first article. A few points might be repeated. Do not have the heavy pieces of furniture all in one end or side of the room. Opposite sides of any center point must have an equal weight of effect, either by having both sides treated alike, resulting in formal balance, or with different articles so arranged they give a balanced effect. If there is a fireplace and no architectural feature on the opposite wall it will be necessary to use a large piece of furniture there to balance it. Do not have pieces all of one height. Combine the high and low in balanced groups on opposite sides of the room. Or if you do not have high pieces use a built-up group—that is a table, console or desk, with picture, mirror or tapestry above. Do not have a table in the center of the room except in the dining room. A good arrangement for a table is to have one end against the wall, the other projecting out into the room. Chairs may be placed on either side. It is not necessary, however, that all furniture be against the wall except in halls. Furniture may be set in the room as long as it does not interfere with traffic. Chairs and stools should never be set in front of doors, cupboards, bookcases, etc., nor in a position where people must stumble over them or move them out of the way. If the window is one that opens it should not have furniture in front of it. In any case a built-up window is bad practice. A dressing table set in front of a window or in a window recess is allowable. Large articles of furniture set out into the room must follow the lines of the room. For instance a sofa or couch set in front of a fireplace needs to be straight in front or at right angles to the fireplace. A long table may be placed behind the sofa. If you have an especially lovely piece of furniture put it in an important place. "Play it up." YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL AND last, but perhaps the most important of all is do not overcrowd. "Emptiness is a preferable fault." Do not be afraid of empty space. It lends repose and dignity. Be sure you know what you want in a particular place before you buy it. If your rooms do not breathe that gracious atmosphere so much desired try eliminating some of your furniture and other objects and rearranging the others. It may be all that is needed. Do not attempt forced or unnatural effects. Despise the artificial —tolerate only the sincere. Remember always that simplicity is the keynote of all art. The dweller in the small house or apartment has another problem that he must meet—space saving. Dual purpose furniture meets this requirement, davenports or daybeds, (saving an extra bed), or a gateleg or living room table that can be extended for use as a dining table. Use chests, highboys, sideboards, chests of drawers and other furniture for storage. In a small house or apartment it is wise to keep the back- 465 ground neutral throughout to give an effect of space. And above all keep the furniture small in scale or you will feel that either you or the furniture must move out. Is yours a welcoming house? If not, make it so—make it look like a home in which people lived and enjoyed living. Is the furniture in your rooms selected and arranged for beauty and convenience? If so, your home will be one to which people love to come and from which they are loath to go. Next Month: Painted Furniture. (If any reader desires help on personal decorating problems and will write to me at 187 East 7th North, Provo, Utah, I will be happy to help you. If you will send the plan of your room or home and the exposure and tell me what furniture you have on hand and what you are going to buy, if any, I will sketch your room for you, with suggestions as to the placing of furniture, etc. I will also be glad to give personal advice on the selection of furniture. Send stamped, addressed envelope. ) Renovated and ST. MARY'S LAKE, GLACIER NATIONAL PARK Memories By Nellie O. Parker, Assisted by Emmaretta G. Brown and Irma Felt Bitner Directions "Memories" was written and arranged for use with radio or a public address system. The musical backgrounds, preferably organ should syncronize with the accompanying idea and be of about thirty seconds duration, gradually fading in and out. The characters should be selected for the strength of the impersonation. Be careful to have no one double, since that destroys the realism, and is easily detected. In the episode of Emma and Joseph and the Murdock babies, care should be taken to not overdo the arrival of the mob. As Joseph opens the door, the men speak harshly, with Joseph answering, and as door closes noise ceases. Radio technique is used throughout. The organist, the readers and those singing the chorus, "The Spirit of God like a Fire is Burning," should all be in the same room unseen by the audience. A suggested musical prelude is "Memories", with a visible chorus singing, "Onward" as the Finale. Where a public address system is not available, "Memories" may be revamped to suit local conditions. For instance—Grandmother and Molly might be seated in front of a drop curtain, a floor lamp near, and the different episodes take place back of the drop, either visible or otherwise. If visible the scenes would of necessity have to be enacted. If not visible the voices would have to be projected carefully to similate a radio. Announcer: On this the ninety-first anniversary of the Relief Society would you like to take a trip into the land of Memories? Yes! Well come with me to the home of the Barlows where we find Grandmother Barlow, a sweet little gray-haired lady sitting in a comfortable chair in the spacious living room, a "Relief Society Magazine" in her lap, her granddaughter, Molly, breezily enters. Molly: Hello, Grandmother—oh! I'm sorry | disturbed you— Yes, I did—and Grandmother, you've been crying. Grandmother: No, Molly, it's just that I— Molly: There now, don't apologize—you cry if you want to, but what on earth have you been reading that would affect you that way? Did the wicked villain get away with the heroine? Grandmother: Oh Molly girl, it isn't that at all. You see I was reading the "Relief Society Magazine" and— Molly: The "Relief Society Magazine? Why I thought its chief duty is to scatter sunshine. Grandmother: So it is—so it is—and it does, One doesn't always cry from lack of sunshine, often memories bring a touch of sadness, and understanding of past sacrifices, of suffering— (breaks). Molly: There, there, Grandmother, I do wish you'd tell me about it all sometime. Grandmother (laughs): Well that would be a mighty big order, dear, to tell you all about it. You see—I've just been reading this article in the magazine about Emma Smith, the wife of the Prophet Joseph, you know, and it started me thinking about the early days of *See page 498. MEMORIES 467 the Church and how noble and courageous those women were, and how willingly they bore trials and privations, even persecutions. They stood right back of their husbands in everything for their religion's sake. Molly: Religion's sake? Why would they be persecuted for it? ' Grandmother: Because, dear, it was so strange and so very different from the other religions of the world—. Molly: But I don't see—. Grandmother: You know new thoughts and truths have always brought ridicule and persecutions. And these women besides taking care of their own families, making the cloth as well as their clothing, cared for the sick, mothered the orphan children and sheltered the homeless that came among them. They asked the Prophet to organize them into a society so that they could help with the building of the temple. Molly: Which temple, Granny, tell me about it? Grandmother: Sit here, Molly, on this stool and I will. You see the Prophet and his followers had laid out a beautiful city on a semicircle of land, almost surrounded by the Mississippi River. Molly: It was called Nauvoo the Beautiful wasn't it? Grandmother: Yes, dear, and they built fine strong homes, as they expected, at the time, to stay there always. Molly: And then they built the Nauvoo Temple? Grandmother: Yes, on a hill east of the city, they built it. The temple was the first in which ordinance work was done. Molly: Then what? Grandmother: Well, the women wanted to help, so a number got together and asked Eliza R. Snow to write some by-laws for them. These were taken to the Prophet Joseph Smith for his approval. (Musical Interlude) Sister Snow: President Smith, we have a desire as a group of women to be united in an organization that we may be of more help to you brethren and we have brought to you this copy of our by-laws for your approval. President Smith: Sister Snow, I will be glad to have the opportunity of organizing the women of the Church, I have been considering the matter of an organization for some time but my plans are greater than any you have in mind. I will soon call you together for this purpose. (Musical Interlude) Grandmother: It was not long after this that a group of eighteen women was invited to meet in the upper room of the Masonic Hall. President Smith came with his two counselors, Elders Willard Richards and John Taylor. He appointed Brother Taylor, temporary chairman of the meeting, Brother Richards, temporary secretary. They sang the Hymn—. (Chorus—"The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning.") President Smith: Brother Taylor, will you take the chair and offer the opening prayer. 468 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Elder Taylor: Oh God, our Eternal and Heavenly Father, in the name of Thy son Jesus Christ, we, a few of Thy servants and handmaidens, have met on this occasion to organize, under Thy divine approval and will, a society whose purpose is to relieve the distress and want of humanity. We pray Thy divine guidance and influence to attend us in our deliberation. We thank Thee for the presence of Thy servant, the Prophet Joseph Smith, and pray that Thou wilt reveal unto him Thy holy mind and will, that that which may be accomplished today may be in accordance with Thy purpose. We are also grateful for the presence of his wife, Emma Smith, and the other ladies who are present to participate in these proceedings, and pray Thee, Father in Heaven, that whoever may be selected to preside and act as officers of this organization, and the many others who may be called to assist, may have the vision and inspiration to carry on a work that will mean relief and help to suffering humanity. May their hearts be in tune with Thee, the Lord, and may they always have a desire to help and benefit all who need their mercy and kindness. May they indeed become real angels of mercy, tenderness and kindness to all who need their help and blessings, and may this organization that is being perfected today grow, spread and increase until Thy holy name may be glorified in the splendid achievements that will be accomplished and reached out to future generations. To this end we commend this gathering unto Thee, the Lord, and pray that Thou wilt abide with us with Thy favor and blessings. Amen. President Smith: Elder Taylor. Elder Taylor: President Smith. President Smith: I should like to take a vote to see if the Sisters here all are satisfied with one another as fellow members of the proposed group and are willing to acknowledge one another in full. Fellowship with all the privileges of the institution about to be formed. Elder Richards: Elder Taylor. Elder Taylor: Elder Richards. Elder Richards: 1 second the motion. Elder Taylor: Sisters, have you confidence in and are you willing to accept one another as fellow members, and have you a desire to be united in a society for human service? All of those who are willing raise the right hand. 'The vote is unanimous. You who are present are now declared members of this society. President Smith, will you tell us the purpose of this organization. President Smith: I shall be pleased to. Now as I see it, the purpose of this Society is that the sisters may provoke the brethren to good works, in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and administering to their wants; you will assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community and thus save the elders the trouble of rebuking; that they may give their time to other duties. (Musical Interlude) MEMORIES 469 Grandmother: They elected Emma Smith, President; Sarah M. Cleveland, first counselor; and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, second counselor; Eliza R. Snow, secretary; Phoebe M. Wheeler, assistant secretary; Elvira Coles, treasurer. Molly: Grandmother, was Emma Smith appointed president or was she chosen by the members? Grandmother: You might say both, my dear. She had been chosen by the Lord twelve years before. We read in the 25th section of "The Doctrine and Covenants" the revelation given direct to her. The Lord speaks of her there as the Elect Lady whom he had called. (Musical Interlude) President Smith: After the word of the Lord which is contained in the revelation given in July, 1830, Sister Emma was ordained to expound the scriptures to all and to teach the female part of the community: not only she alone, but any of you may attain to the same privileges and blessings if you are true and faithful to your trust. These blessings for women were had anciently, for I read from the 2nd Epistle of John, Ist verse: "The elder unto the elect lady and her children, whom I love in the truth; and not I only, but also all they that have known the truth." This society is restored to women. Sister Emma Smith is the elect lady and is so-called because she is elected to preside. Sister Emma, you and your counselors will now come forward. Sister Emma, you take the chair. You other sisters sit here. Emma Smith: My dear brothers and sisters: I feel very humble in occupying this position and I pray that God will bless me so that I may perform my duties in an acceptable manner to Him and to you. Now the chief object of this society is for charitable purposes, to seek out and relieve the distressed. Each member should be ambitious to do good and deal frankly with one another. Each of you should watch over the morals and be very careful of the character and reputation of the members of this institution. Brother Taylor: Mrs. Chairman, Emma Smith: Brother Taylor. Brother Taylor: I move that we go into an investigation respecting what this society shall be called. President Smith: I second the motion. Emma Smith: It has been moved and seconded that we go into an investigation respecting the name of this society. All those in favor raise the right hand. Those opposed—. The motion is unanimous. Counselor Cleveland: Mrs. Chairman. Emma Smith: Sister Cleveland. - Counselor Cleveland: I move that this society be called the Nauvoo Female Relief Society. Counselor Whitney: I second that motion. Brother Taylor: Mrs. Chairman. Emma Smith: Brother Taylor. Brother Taylor: I offer an amendment that the name be the 470 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Nauvoo Female Benevolent Society, which would give a more definite and extended idea of the institution. I suggest that the word Relief be stricken out and Benevolent be inserted. Counselor Cleveland: Mrs. Chairman. Emma Smith: Sister Cleveland. Counselor Cleveland: I second the amendment. Emma Smith: All those in favor of the amendment make it manifest, contrary by the same sign. The vote is unanimous. But I would like a discussion with Elder Taylor on the words Relief and Benevolent. I like the word Relief better myself. President Smith: Mrs, Chairman, I move that the vote for the amendment be rescinded. Sister Snow: Mrs. Chairman. Emma Smith: Sister Snow. Sister Snow: I second the motion. Emma Smith: It has been moved and seconded that the vote for the amendment be rescinded, those in favor raise the right hand— the motion is carried. President Smith: Mrs. Chairman. Emma Smith: President Smith. President Smith: Now benevolent is a popular term and is used greatly to designate societies of this kind. The word relief is not known among popular societies. Emma Smith: I favor the word relief because it is simple and our society is different from the other societies of the world. We expect to do more than merely extend mercy, our purpose is to relieve the poor from their sufferings. Counselor Cleveland: Mrs. Chairman. Emma Smith: Counselor Cleveland. Counselor Cleveland: I too like the word Relief better. Counselor. Whitney: Mrs. Chairman. Emma Smith: Sister Whitney. Counselor Whitney: I am of the same opinion as the other sisters. President Smith: I have no objection to the word Relief and I feel it would reflect the work of this organization on all questions; that you should deliberate candidly and investigate all subjects just as you have done in the naming of this society. Emma Smith: All those in favor of naming our society the Nauvoo Female Relief Society make it manifest by raising the right hand. Contrary by the same sign. The vote is unanimous. President Smith: Mrs. Chairman. Emma Smith: President Smith. President Smith: This society is now organized with a complete set of officers and according to parliamentary usage, I recommend that all, who are hereafter admitted, be received without censure and by vote. This society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls. And I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. This presidency is ordained to preside over this society just as MEMORIES 471 the Presidency presides over the Church and if you need my instructions, ask of me and I will give them from time to time. Do not injure the character of anyone. If any member of the society shall conduct herself improperly deal with her and keep ali your doings within your own bosoms and hold characters sacred. If you would have God have mercy on you, have mercy on one another. I wish now to give you my contribution. Here is $5.00. What I do hereafter for charity I shall do through this organization. (Musical Interlude) Molly: Oh Grandmother. Dear! Wasn't the Prophet a grand man? I know I should have loved him. Was he as wise as he was good? Grandmother: Yes, indeed, because he was guided by revelation. Do you know that he instructed those women how to conduct their meetings in an orderly way with parliamentary procedure, how to address the chair; how to put motions and amendments; how the chairman should recognize the first one who addressed her; how to transact all business that might come before their meeting; and "Are you ready for the question, etc.? Molly: Just imagine, and it's remarkable when you think that it was so long ago. Doesn't Female sound funny? Grandmother: Well, it does now, but then it seemed alright. Female was always used to designate womens' work in those days. Women generally didn't have an opportunity to do anything outside of their own homes. And so on the 17th of March, 1842, the first Relief Society meeting was organized, and that's why we celebrate the 17th of March. The name was changed later, I believe it was October 15th, 1872. Molly: But Grandmother, tell me, when President Smith gave $5.00 did anyone else give some? _ Grandmother: Yes, they all followed, giving what they could. Sister Cleveland gave all she had, 1214 cents. They collected $10.62%. And at their first meeting they began caring for those in need and arranging for employment for widows who desired it. Molly: Well, they didn't lose any time, did they? Grandmother: No, my dear. Molly: Just how did they go about this relief work? Grandmother: Well it was this way, they made a list of the names of widows and others who desired work so that people who had work might get in touch with them. Sister Smith told them to pay promptly, not to defraud the widow of her wages, but be upright and deal justly." Molly: That was fine. Grandmother: The prophet and his counselors then ordained the sisters and set them apart for their great mission. Later they organized a necessity committee of sixteen women to visit among the people and search out the poor and suffering. This committee was the forerunner of the visiting teachers of today. Molly: What kind of a woman was Emma Smith, Granny? Grandmother: Emma Smith was a beautiful woman with fine 472 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE poise and a forceful personality. She was one year older than the Prophet. Molly: One year older? Grandmother: Yes, she was 22 and he 21 when they were married, She loved him dearly and married him against her parents' wishes. Molly: Against her parents' wishes? Grandmother: She was always loyal to him and helped him in his work. Emma went with Joseph with the horse and wagon when he received the plates. Once when the plates were in danger and Joseph was working, digging a well at Macedon, Emma rode on horseback to warn him. When the manuscript was lost Emma was very ill, but she insisted that Joseph go in search of it. And at the time—. (Musical Interlude) Joseph: Oh! Emma dear, you look so worn and tired. I wonder if we did the right thing taking these Murdock babies, especially after all you've passed through. Emma: Why Joseph, these poor little motherless darlings fill the gap left by the loss of my own twin babies, as nothing else could. And don't you see that even the care and worry helps to heal the pain in my heart. Joseph: And mine, too—but—. Emma: Ifonly they could have been a little older and stronger— this wouldn't have been so hard on them. Joseph: Well, all children get the measles and it's a good thing over, and with your care and attention, I'm. Sure—. Emma: Oh! Joseph, I hope you're right, but I do worry so. Joseph: God, will bless you, Emma, for taking these motherless babes to your bosom. Go, my beloved, and get a little sleep while I watch by their bed. Emma: But Joseph, you are tired, too. Your responsibilities weigh so heavily on you and the constant fear of the mob is so trying, you had better rest while you can. Besides this one little baby is so very sick, I don't believe I had better leave him. Joseph: The child seems to be sleeping now, Emma, you go and lie down, he'll be all right. I can rest here in the quiet by their bed. I'll call you when necessary. Emma: All right then, I'll go for a little while if you'll promise to waken me when they need me. (Door closes.) Joseph (sighs): Now if only she can get a little rest—goodness knows she needs it. What would I do without her. (Noise.) There now (hums) (knock on door) (louder and louder). Sh! Who's there? (Knock.) Just a moment (knock) I'm coming (opens door) '(great noise and confusion—door closes). Emma -(Calling in distance): Joseph? Joseph, what's wrong? (Closer.) -Why Joseph, where are you? He's gone! The mob! The mob's taken him. Oh my husband! I'll go for help—the baby, the baby, oh Joseph, the baby's dying, I can't leave him. Oh God, have mercy |:, (Musical Interlude) MEMORIES 473 Molly: Oh Grandmother, wasn't that awful? How could she stand so much? She must have been a remarkable woman as you said. Grandmother: She was, in the magazine here let me read you what Mother Smith said about Emma, her daughter-in-law: "TI have never seen a woman in my life who could endure every species of fatigue and hardship from month to month and from year to year with that unflinching courage, zeal, patience, which she has ever done; for I know that which she has had to endure. She has been tossed upon the ocean of uncertainty; she has breasted the storms of persecution and buffeted the rage of men and devils which would have borne down almost any other woman.' Molly: Isn't that a wonderful tribute, coming from her motherin-law, too. It just goes to prove that she must have had her full share of virtues. Grandmother: That isn't all, when there was so much sickness around Nauvoo and they were living in a little log house she had the sick brought to her home in such numbers that she and her family were crowded out of doors into a tent. Molly: <A tent! Oh! Grandmother, she must have been wonderful. Grandmother: She was a great comfort to the Prophet, too. She visited him secretly while he was in exile. He wrote in his journal after one of her visits, "My beloved Emma, she that is my wife, even the wife of my youth and the choice of my heart, again she is here undaunted, firm, unwavering, unchangeable, and affectionate Emma." She wrote a masterful letter to Governor Carlin of Illinois pleading against the extradition of her husband to Missouri. Molly: Well, whatever did she do when the Prophet was martyred? Grandmother: They say that for awhile her grief was so great that her iron-like fortitude seemed broken, she went into one faint after another. A friend trying to comfort her said, "Dear Sister Emma, this martyrdom will be your crown of glory,' and Emma replied, "My husband is my crown." Molly: Poor soul, tell me, Grandmother, whatever did she do after the Prophet died? Did she start west with the Saints? Grandmother: No, I suppose Emma's work was finished, like Joan of Arc her mission was fulfilled. She preferred to stay and raise her family in Nauvoo where her husband had lived and struggled. Molly: Were there other women as wonderful as Emma Smith? Grandmother: Yes, many, those pioneer women have been unequalled anywhere in history. And the elect ladies (I like to think of the presidents of the Relief Society as such) all have been fine, capable, courageous, generous women. It has been their great leadership under the guidance of the Lord that has made Relief Society the great organization it is today. I tell you, Molly, I'm proud to belong and work in such an organization, Molly; And it's women like you, Grandmother dear, that put their shoulder te the wheel and carry on, doing their bit to spread sunshine 474 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and care for the needy. I never really understood just how it all came about. Thanks for letting me see these memories with you. There—a kiss right on each cheekthere. Grandmother: Bless ycu, my dear. I only hope you will enjoy this heritage that we—your mother and I, are passing on to you. "To you from falling hands we throw the torch. Be it your's to hold it high." For it is you, Molly, you and your girl friends that must carry on this inspired work, must feel the urge, must sense the necessity to seek out and relieve the distressed. For never before was the need greater than now. Do you see the vision of this work, my dear? Molly: As I never did before, Grandmother. Grandmother: Then, please God, you will pick up the torch and carry on. (Music—Floods in) The Greatest Gift By Estelle Webb Thomas Y mother has lived for sevenM ty-one years. She is not merely seventy-one years old —plenty of people have attained to that dignity—but she has actually lived every day for seventy-one years. And that is a record. And Old Age, searching among the chimney corners and easy chairs and the dozing dreamers of dear-dead-daysbeyond-recall, has never found her. And here is the why of it: When she was born there was the usual consultation of the fairies, gathered to bestow their gifts upon the little stranger, and bounteously they bestowed them. Health, beauty, love, wit—all the lovely graces the fairies can give when they will and the stars are propitious—but alas! As usual, too, there was the wicked, unbidden pixie who turned up at the last end of the party screaming maledictions and making trouble, "She'll have a hard row to hoe!" she shouted, before the eleventh fairy had fairly got the words, "countless friends" out of her mouth. "Her life will be one long series of ups and downs, and work without reward!" "She will—'" But here the thirteenth fairy was discovered, asleep in a corner and routed out to save the day. She stared wildly at the wall for inspiration. The calendar caught her eye. "Since she is Friday's child she'll be loving and giving," she intoned rapidly, "and thus her service will be its own reward!" The fairy paused, she could think of nothing more. But the others still looked at her with silent expectancy. It was not enough. "She shall savor to its last drop, every day of her life!" Still they watched her, and with a deep sigh the thirteenth fairy made the supreme sacrifice. She took from her shoulders her one treasured possession and placed it gently about the sleeping child. And as she did so, she murmured, "To you, dear child, I bequeath this invisible cloak—A sense of humor. Wear it always as a shield against the vicissitudes of life. By its magic, tears will be turned into laughter, hardships into happiness, and Life itself, into a Great Adventure!" The fairies turned away, satisfied. The final gift had taken all the sting from the evil fairy's curse. The Call of the Land By Agnes Just Reid THEN Barbara Wentworth was left alone with four small children, people wondered what she would do. There was no insurance, for never in his life had Nat Wentworth been considered a safe risk for the insurance companies. In war time he had only gone as far as the training camp, to be told, what he already knew, that his heart was likely to play out almost any minute. So. After nine years of anxiety, interspersed with much happiness, the blow had fallen and Barbara was alone. "Poor Babs," everyone said, "will have to go back to teaching school; and who will rear those babies for her?" There was no one who would rear them, and Barbara was not sure that she would be willing to give anyone the chance. These precious babies were all she had left; and, even with the many serious sick spells Nat had had, she had never been away from the children over night. When one of them went any place, they all went;. And she could not bring herself to change that custom. Her father talked to her seriously over what was best, and, while not wishing to influence her, he felt, as everyone did, that teaching was perhaps the most sensible thing for her to attempt. "No, Dad," she said, "I may do it later, but right now I want to try farming. It would take several hundred dollars to put me back in school even for the short time necessary to make it possible for me to teach again. Then besides the rent, the light, the water, the books, the help, the countless things that must be paid for, always there looms before me the things that might happen to the children during even a few weeks. When I have tried to consider it always before me comes a vision—a vision that has become a perfect obsession of little "Snookie” being run over by an automobile. No one but her mother can take care of her for a few years; no one else knows the fleetness of her tiny feet." "Well, tell me my girl, what your plans are; and no matter how unreasonable they may seem to be, I shall do my best to help you carry them out." Barbara cried a little. She well knew that whatever she did, she must be a burden to that wonderful Dad, whose shoulders were already bowed with the loads of other people. "T want you, Dad, to go somewhere in your field where the ditches are all made, far enough away so that my children and my chickens will not be running back to béther you, and there build me a little house on the land that you had intended to be mine. Just a little, little house —a cabin even. The smaller it is, the smaller my coal bill will be; but no matter how small it is, it will be home. "T believe you are right," said her father; "but have you thought of the isolation, the loneliness? There will be no telephone, no mail route, not even a highway where you can see people passing." "Yes," Barbara assured him, "I have been over every foot of the ground. I know, too, that wherever I go there will always be loneliness, loneliness that sometimes seems unendurable; but there are two 476 thoughts that always come to give me courage: one is, I have heard that the percent of children from broken homes, in the reform schools is appalling. I must raise my children in 2 broken home, and I must keep thent on the land or they may go wrong. The other thought is the memory of my grandmother. She lived where there was no telephone, no mail route, no highway; and yet she raised you, Dad." S° the first thing when the spring days came was Barbara's cabin. It had, in truth, but one room and a big porch screened ready for protection from mosquitoes and flies. To it Barbara brought their furniture, their partly worn out machinery, and their team. The car, they had let go to pay a debt, for she felt that a car without a man to take care of it was a needless expense and worry. One of the first things she did was order a thousand day-old chicks of a breed that would make good weight by August. That done, she plowed and harrowed her garden patch. Again and again she leveled and: harrowed it until the soil looked so inviting that it seemed as if no seed could fail to grow; but before she began to plant, she fenced off with sticks and strings four small plots. They were like the beds that are described in the story of the three bears: there was a good sized plot for big sister, a medium sized plot for big brother, one a size smaller for little brother, and a wee, tiny plot for baby "Snookie." Into each little garden, each little member of this new organization put seeds of everything just like those in mother's big garden. Sometimes they had to practice cooperation; and big brother would have to do some of the heavy work for "Snookie," but as far as was possible RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Barbara had each little farmer take care of his own plot. She and Nat had planned to put in a good many potatoes, so she had seed potatoes; but she concluded to try only an acre for the first year and let the rest go to pay for the chickens and the feed they would need. All the planting and plowing and cultivating were old stories to Barbara, for she had always helped Nat with every kind of work. She used to beg him to let her work in the field instead of hiring a man. She loved to work in the field, and she did hate to cook for an extra man; so, after all, she was doing the work she liked best, and there was always a degree of satisfaction as she turned wearily toward the house to know that bread and milk and fruit would be their supper, and they would not even have to light a fire. As the summer wore on, she saw the children growing almost as fast as the garden; and the little cheeks that had been too pale were rosy and sunburned. They hardly ever quarrelled either. They were too busy all day and too tired when the day was over. Few times her father had sent a man to help her a day or two, but nearly everything she and the children had been able to manage. Never a day passed but someone came by to see how she was, but she had a feeling that she was beginning to stand on her own feet. Every two or three weeks she went to town with her father to get what few things they needed. In recognition of the countless favors she received, there were the choicest vegetables picked, often cleaned, and sent to the home folks each day; perhaps a bucket of shelled peas, a sack of corn, or a basket of rosy ripe tomatoes. Barbara was one of those for THE CALL OF THE LAND whom things seemed to take a delight in growing. Many friends came to see her and she always insisted on sharing the fruits of her labors with them; even though the fruits happened to be vegetables, they were none the less acceptable. It was with no little pride that Barbara showed the junior gardens to everyone that came. The small, even rows had been carefully hoed and weeded by small, willing fingers; and there was great family rejoicing when a cucumber entered at the County Fair from one of the vines in little brother's garden, took first prize. Fall came and the two children were starting to school. Barbara was tired, so tired that she was looking forward with pleasure to the time when she could sit all day at her sewing machine and create pretty garments for her little flock. It had been a happy summer. Not one of them had been sick a day, and everything had turned out even better than she had hoped. After gathering in the last of the drying corn, Barbara sat down to do a little figuring. The chickens, she had sold in August because she had no winter quarters for so many had made her $300.00. She realized that weather and all other conditions had 477 favored her or she would not have been able to clear that much. She had not attempted to sell vegetables for she was too far from market, but her cellar was full of vitamines, even to a hundred quarts of tomatoes—all the work of her hands. The potatoes had been an average crop; sold out of the field they brought her $200.00. Then there was the most interesting crop of all, her jelly. About the middle of May she had set out two long rows of Wonder Berries. By the middle of August, after the care of her chickens was ended, she began to make jelly. Before the frost took the berries, she had made and sold to a local merchant six hundred glasses of jelly at 25 cents a glass. When the sugar was paid for that made her another $100.00. She was still toying with her pencil when her father came walking in. She looked up almost joyfully when she heard his step: "Dad, I've made $600.00 this year and it has been only a beginning. I won’t have to teach school now will? Her father smiled a wan sort of a smile; there was a sob in his throat. Putting a hand on her shoulder, he said: "Maybe, after all, I have reared a girl who appreciates what is in this land, which two generations have spent their lives reclaiming." Your Honor By Arthur James Bowers This is your day; To hope, to dream, to build. Stride forth with lances bare, Your heart with courage filled. This is your time; To fashion of the clay The dream, that tomorrow, May fade and pass away. This is your hour; The hour that you can change From just so many minutes Into a work of fame; Your hour—and it is yours— To make your work so true That name and gilded fame May live long after you. The Little Lad By Ida Powell Brown HROUGH the window drifted the murmur of voices, and Ladd, crouched on the back stairs, tried not to listen. Perched precariously on the step just below him, Rosemary, his four year old sister, was singing a wordless lullaby to the sadly dilapidated, but dearly beloved, rag doll in her arms. There, the chair in the living room was creaking now. Mr. Dismore must be getting ready to leave, and mother was laughing again. Ladd thought that her laugh was like the little silvery tinkle of bells. It had been a long time since she had laughed like that, not since daddy died, and the boy loved the sound. He flinched, though, at the gruff rumble that accompanied it. Mr. Dismore didn't laugh like dad at all. Father's had been a clear, high laugh, like a boy's. With a little troubled sigh Ladd turned a page of his book. Almost twelve was quite young for problems, and he hadn't been sleeping so well for the last two nights since mother had told him that Mr. Dismore was to be his new father. He remembered the queer sick feeling that had settled in the pit of his stomach on that morning. He saw again in his mind the two little red spots that had glowed on mother's cheeks. She had told him, faltering a little as she talked, of the plans that she and daddy had had for making a doctor of him. Plans that could be carried out now because Mr. Dismore was so willing to go on with them. She said that Ladd needed a man to help him fight his battles, to see him through college, and, as if it were an after-thought she had added, to take care of her and Rosemary. To take care of her and Rosemary —Ladd had steeled himself with those last words, and had turned a resolutely cheerful face to her which had belied the ache in his heart. He knew how she'd been worrying over the insurance money stretching over all the needs of the little family. But even then he hadn't dared to trust his voice, so he had just kissed her and gone to his room. REBELLIOUSLY that night he had cried into his pillow. Fathers weren't dignified, and middle aged like Mr. Dismore. They were young and straight and laughing like Dad. They had little smile wrinkles at the corner of blue eyes, and hard, yet tender, brown hands. They understood boys so that they loved you when you were noisy. They didn't frown when you rattled chairs in the living room, or jumped at Rosey from behind the kitchen door. But Ladd was old for his years, and father's death had sobered him. There was a new serious look on the little brown face. There was rent to pay, and shoes to buy. Perhaps not having so many worries would bring back mother's smiles for good. Ladd wished he knew. That was what bothered him so. Was mother doing this for him, or for herself? The front door was slamming now. Mr. Dismore must have really decided to go at last. "Ladd, Laddy,' mother's voice, -andLadd lifting the protesting Rosemary in his arms carried her into the house. THE LITTLE LAD Inside, the kitchen was warm and clean. The kettle was singing on the spotless stove, and mother, with a white apron over her best gown, was bustling about the room. She smiled at him as he entered. "Will you wash Rosy's hands and face, son?" she said. It's milk toast night for the Brays, so supper will be ready in a hurry." "And Ladd and I can use our blue bowls," Rosemary said, as Ladd piloted her to the bathroom. "Couldn't have any eats that would suit me better," Ladd called above the noise of the water in the wash bowl. He didn't quite know what made him add: "Daddy used to love it too; milk toast was his favorite supper." Mrs. Bray stopped rattling the dishes in the kitchen, and came to the bathroom door. "Laddy," she asked, in a hesitating voice, "you—you're sure you are happy about—everything?"' "Why—yes, mother," the boy answered after a moment, clearing his throat. Fiercely he thought to himself that he wasn't going to have his mother slaving to make a doctor of him when Mr. Dismore was so anxious to take over the job." With a little dissatisfied look at the boy's bent head the mother turned again to the kitchen. AFTER the supper work was over Mrs. Bray took Rosemary around the corner to Mrs. Ransome's and Ladd was left alone in the fast darkening kitchen. He and Rex usually played until bedtime. But tonight his head ached and he felt so tired.; He wanted-so badly to know that insistent question that kept buzzing away in his head. "Was mother marrying again for him or for herself 2?" 479 Suddenly with a little sobbing sigh Ladd switched on the basement light and hurried down the stairs. Groping in the darkness of the laundry room closet he brought forth an old bundle of clothes— daddy's clothes—the old leather coat with the big patches on the sleeves— the high top boots with their leather lacing—the hat with its band torn away. Tenderly he laid his cheek against the worn out coat, and the hot tears fell upon the fraying collar. "T'm only eleven and a_ half, Daddy," he said softly through his sobs. "And it's—kinda hard for a fellow as little as me to know just w—what to do. There isn't anyone will ever take your place—but it's for her, Dad—you understand, dontcha? It's [pretty hard for mothers to make the grade alone when a feller isn't old enough to help." For a few moments he held the coat in his hands. Then, obeying an impulse that he did not quite understand, he slipped his arms into the sleeves. Carefully, reverently, he pulled on the enormous shoes and laced them to the top. Then, the boots clomping at every step, he sought the stairs, and dropping upon the lowest step he laid his head against the second one. Gradually his sobs subsided. The warm coat was comforting. It seemed strangely to be his father's arms clasped close about him; and with a little contented sigh his head nestled against the heavy collar. T was there that his mother found him when she came to the head of the basement stairs. On the lips that still held a hint of their baby curves a faint smile lingered, and the tear-stained countenance was strangely peaceful and content. She 480 noted the huge coat about his shoulders, the little feet, so lost in the carefully laced boots. "Ralph's coat," she whispered brokenly, "Ralph's shoes, Laddy, my darling!" and her tears fell upon the upturned face so heartbreakingly like another face that she had loved and lost. Laddy, awaking, found his mother's arms around him and her soft, wet cheek pressed close to his. "Why didn't you tell me how you felt, Laddy?" she reproached him tenderly. "I thought that I was so wise and brave, working things out for you, and it wasn't what you wanted at all.' She stroked the brown coat with gentle fingers, "and I wouldn't have known but for this," she said, "that it wasn't what I wanted either; I was so blinded by RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the material things of life." "Then it's just us three, Mother?" the boy stammered, scarcely daring to hope; and as she nodded he went on excitedly, "Pl just grow and grow, Mother; you'll see, so that I can take care of you and Rosy like Daddy did." "Yes, you'll soon be a man," the mother said with a sad little smile; but life isn't going to be easy with just you and Rosemary and me— and the memory of Daddy," she added. "It will take courage, son. You'll have to work hard, and fight every step of the way." Unconsciously the boy's shoulders straightened in his father's coat. "Almost twelve is pretty big, Mother,' he said bravely. 'Don't you worry; it won't be long until I fit this coat, and then I'll be a man." A MEANDERING STREAM Lifting the Veil By Ann Jarvis With stealthy steps on heels of night Fog creeps in from the bay. Low-lying sinister shadows fight The early light of day. The workers to the factory bound, The messengers on the run Bewildered pause, all turned around Until behold the sun! Gray mist hangs o'er this perplexed land And we shall go astray. Lift, lift the veil with Thine great Hand, Oh, Lord, and lead the way. Mistakes By Ida Hansen Steed If you were the one you talked about And she were you, I pray, Would you be so ready to speak aloud The error of her ways? You have made mistakes in your life time, No matter how good you are, They may have been of a different sort, But they're errors just the same. For if you were the one you talked about And she were you, I say, Perhaps you'd make the same mistakes In the same mistaken way. Susan B. Anthony By Minnie I. Hodapp True Seeress of a nation's need Acute in thought, sublime in deed; Her soul's invincible surmise: A starry banner in the skies Vouchsafing truth and liberty And franchise with equality, By grace of God, a boundless good To free, untrammeled womanhood! Behind her footsteps flowers rise In splendor 'neath joy-smiling skies Where barefooted through thistle field She fared to plant their shining yield. Stern years of travail did not tire Her honor-angered valor fire Whose toils bequeath to you and me A wondrous woman legacy! Bright dream incarnate in her blood! Fair boon to slighted sisterhood! Her quenchless zeal to do and dare— Loose ancient fetters, quell despair! Storm-mountain hooded in gray mist Transfigured now and sunset kissed Men deem her fair (though once they hissed) Sister, Seeress, Suffragist! A Mother of Men By Florence Fairbanks N Birmingham, England, in the year 1836 a little boy was left an orphan by the death of his mother. He was early apprenticed to a machinist where he spent his boyhood. Pins at that time were made with a loose head that was screwed on as a bur and bolt are now connected. This little boy, Walter H. Huish, grew up and became an inventor. He invented the solid head pin as it is now used. Other small things were also invented by him. In about the year 1853 he married Ann Smith and later they accepted the Gospel and started for Zion. After landing in America this young couple first settled in St. Louis. The young husband set up a machine shop and for a number of years worked at his trade as a machinist. Here Lillie Annetta Huish, third child of the union, was born. The parents decided to continue their journey to Utah, so in the year 1859 they moved on to Payson, Utah, where a friend was already located. Mr. Huish again set up his shop and went into business. His was the first nail factory in Utah. He made a business of repairing machinery. He was a furniture maker and a dealer in lumber, being part owner in several saw mills. The wife, Ann, was a very fine business woman and did a big part of the business management until the oldest son, John, was old enough to take it over himself. This business ability of the mother was inherited by the daughter, Lillie. She did the family sewing and took her place in the home learning, as most pioneer girls did, to manage a home in all its phases. She went through the grade schools of Payson and for a time was a student under J. L. Townsend, the first high school teacher of Payson. She was a modest, retiring girl, and very. Serious minded. She became friendly with Mary Fairbanks whose brother, John, and she became attached to each other. In the year 1876 William G. Young, a patriarch, stopped at Payson giving blessings to those who desired them. John Fairbanks acted as his scribe. When Lillie Huish came for her blessing and had gone, Brother Young turned to John and said, "Brother Fairbanks, you should try to win her. She would make you a mighty fine wife." "We are going together now, and I mean to do my best, replied young John. They were married the next year by Bishop Joseph S. Tanner at his home, the mothers of both being the only ones at the wedding. In the fall of that year they, in company with three other young couples, went by team and wagon to St. George to go through the temple and be sealed. The trip took three weeks. They loaded their wagons with pipe for Silver Reefe to clear the expenses of the trip. No trouble or inconvenience was too much for these sturdy young people of pioneer times.. The Gospel meant all to them and they wanted all its blessings. They lived with her parents for the first two or three years until just before the birth of their second child, Lillie Annetta (their only girl). The first child, John Leo, was a_ sturdy little fellow early showing ability in art. When he was six years old he drew a picture A MOTHER OF MEN of the baby in a cradle that showed talent, and in which some likeness to the baby could be seen. They moved again into rooms rented from John's brother, Henry. There they lived until the father was called on a mission. As her mother was an invalid her parents wished her to return to their home until he should return from his mission. A new baby was expected within a month after the time set for his departure. The father was sad at leaving her in that delicate condition but both felt that nothing would be lost by obeying the call of those in authority over them, so preparations were carried on for his departure. Another company was to leave in a few weeks but they decided to go when called and trust in their Heavenly Father. The husband before leaving promised his wife, in the name of the Lord, that if she would put her trust in Him and call in the Elders whenever there was sickness, all would be well with them while he was away. She had those womanly qualities, confidence and trust in her husband, so she did not hesitate or question his authority in such a promise, but kept it as a guide and protection. The new baby, a boy, arrived on the 14th of November. She had a letter sent immediately to inform the father that all was well at home. John had taken orders for books before he left but they had not arrived, so she delivered them and made collections. She carried on cheerfully while he was away. As she was with her parents her trials were lessened greatly. One day she stepped on a nail running it into her foot. She was disabled for some time. It looked as if serious measures would have to be taken as it seemed to grow worse and looked so black. Her father gave her no encouragement. 483 But she said, "John told me if I trusted in the Lord and called in the Elders all would be well." So the Elders were called in and they administered to her and before they left, as she sat looking at her foot, she saw a little yellow spot appear and gather to a point. She sterilized a needle, opened it and drained it. It was soon well and she felt to give the Lord the praise. After returning from his mission John set about building a home of their own, and with the help of the wife's father, a comfortable house was soon completed. It was here in this home that the remainder of their family was born except Avard who was born after the family had moved to Provo. The children of this couple are: John Leo, Lillie Annetta, Vernon Walter, Raymond (who died a few hours after birth), Ervin, LeRoy S., Ortho L., Claude, and a pair of twin boys Delamar Rigolet and LeMar, LeMar dying at birth, and Avard Tennison (tenth son). When Claude was a baby the plans were carried out for the father to go to France with Hafen, Pratt, and Evans to study art. The mother was not very anxious for her husband to take up art as a profession as she well knew the trials and struggles an artist must endure. But when she found his heart was set on it she, the brave, true helpmate she was, did not complain but cheerfully did her part to aid him. A splendid example of her character can be gleaned from a letter written to her by her husband while he was in France. — "Lillie, I cannot help comparing you with some women I know: who complain and find fault about the hardships that must be endured by a woman caring for her family alone. "Even though you did not seem 484 anxious for me to come to France, you have stood by me like a true companion, doing all in your power to sustain me and to carry on while I_am away. "Your letters are an inspiration to me and always help me to do my best." In a letter to her husband in Sept. 29, 1890, she showed a courage typical of the women of her time, but rather a marvel in these days. She told how she managed her buying of food and clothes, of what she did with cows and chickens. How she managed the repairs on household furnishings and in many ways showed her ability and industrv. She said: "John, send us more views of the places you visit. Get some souvenirs and make a note of where and when you got them. They will be of interest later. See all the places of interest while you have a chance, you may never get another. True it will cost a little more, but I would rather scrimp a bit more at home to make it up. I can furnish the money for some souvenirs from my own. It will be better spent that way than in shows." She ever had a heart big with understanding, a mind seeking for expression, and an opportunity to broaden under conditions trying to one less brave. She taught the children to honor and respect their father and set the example by doing so herself. While he was away she at several times anointed and administered to her own little ones in the absence of the Elders and she states in her letter to her husband, "T immediately saw a change for the better each time." She was very artistic and helped the children in their efforts at art. If, at Thanksgiving, a cheaper cut of meat must replace a turkey, the children were delighted by the huge turkey molded of creamed potatoes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and browned to a delicate, tempting color. At various times she made framed pictures of seeds and grain, forming them into flowers, and at one time took a prize in the Utah State Fair on one such. She did her own designing and making of the family clothes. Her family was her fortune, and she always said, "My boys must be clothed and cared for with as much pride and love as a girl." She never held the common idea, "Anything is good enough for a boy." After some of the art students had returned home, John stayed on in France another year as they both felt it was best to make the best of such an expensive trip. After John's return from France and when his work in the Salt Lake Temple was finished the family moved from Payson to Provo where the oldest son had already been in the B. Y. U. For two years. Here the last son, Avard, was born. When he was about six or eight months old his mother was carrying him in one arm and a lamp in the other when she caught her toe on the door step and fell. In her efforts to save her baby from harm and the lamp from a dangerous explosion, she hurt her back in such a way that it caused her much suffering, and eventually caused her death. The doctors could not help her and she grew worse and worse until she was little more than a shadow of her former self. Before her death she often told her husband that should she die first she wished him to marry again and to not choose someone else's_ wife, (widow) but to select one who would be-his own here and hereafter. After thirty-five years this splendid family still lives a monument to the mother who has passed on, The daughter, Mrs. Nettie Yates, is a A MOTHER OF MEN girl any mother might be proud to spend her life in rearing. The sons are clean, honest, honorable men of character, all having gone on in their search for education as their parents helped them begin. John Leo and 485 Avard are artists of note along with their father. All the family are artistic and talented. Two sons have filled missions. Can any one measure the good accomplished by such a mother? Living in Memories By LaVon Spencer ELL me, Grandma, what you keep looking at the fire for and are so still and sad. You haven't spoken a word for over an hour, but have just sat watching the flames crackle in the fireplace. Aren't you feeling well?" As these words from my little granddaughter met my ears I quickly brought myself back from the land of memory to look into her wide, curious eyes and answer with a gentle smile. "No my dear, it isn't that I'm not feeling well. Grandma was just playing over some old, old records on her memorygraph. Do you know that you have a memorygraph all your own? You haven't many records to play on yours as yet but when you grow to be an old lady like I am, you will have a great many priceless records stored away and you will love to play them over and over especially when you get so you can't get out and enjoy yourself." "Where do you get the records, Grandma?" "Just by living your life through, my dear. Some of the most beautiful records are made by just living naturally with a happy smile on your face, and the utmost faith that life is just what you make it." "Play me some of your records— some of the prettiest ones." FOR two fast flying hours I played my favorite records to her. Some of them were "School Days", "Pals", "The Old Home”, "Mother", "Sweethearts", and all the things we naturally hold closest to our hearts and love to dream about. As I looked into her young and innocent face I could not help wishing that I had taken more of the opportunities that had come my way so that I would have had a larger supply of beautiful memories upon which I might ponder now that my years are but few to live. If young people could be made to understand that someday they will have plenty of time to think of all the acts and deeds they do in their lifetime they would be more willing to help, more happy in their companionships, and would surely take better advantage of the opportunities that come their way. Young people fail to appreciate the glorious privilege of living. They are too occupied with the worries and vexations of living today to think of building up memories for tomorrow. When they get to be old like I am they are wise enough to see these things. The Old Willow Tree By Josephine B. Strange Since the memory of the oldest inhabitant, the old willow tree had stood by the side of the little rushing river, dipping its branches in the sparkling water. The people of the little hamlet near ly had learned to love the old landmark which sheltered them so often from the heat of the day, and at eventide the old men sat beneath its boughs, and talked over the affairs of the day. Lovers had plighted their troth there, well shrouded from the ever curious by the almost tender embrace of its branches. Little children loved to play in the shade of the old tree; little girls bringing their dolls, and boys daringly swinging out over the little river clinging to its branches. Sorrows were sobbed out in its sympathetic arms; in fact, the life of the old tree was closely interwoven with the life of the little village. It had shared the joys and sorrows of young and old. One old man in particular, dearly loved to come and commune with the old tree. A lonely old fellow was Silas Moore, for although he had lived in the village for many years, he had never become one of the people. There was something mysterious about him, they thought; and one by one little whispered stories crept about, started by the weird imagination of an idle mind, until he was shunned even by the little children, whose love he longed to share, so when the annual community picnic was held, he was about the only one in the village who did not join in the general excitement of the event. 'THE picnic was held in the grove at the entrance of which stood. The old willow tree, assuming almost a motherly air towards them all. Near by was a stately elm, but for some reason it did not inspire the affectionate regard of the people, as did the gnarled old willow. Such a happy day it was, long to be remembered by all. The children played games and joyously scampered about; many of them choosing the shade of their old friend, the willow, for their play, swinging on its branches, climbing in its boughs, and the little girls playing house in the shelter. Poor old Silas Moore, attracted by - 'the happiness and general good cheer, wandered alone on the outskirts of the little grove. Some of the more kindly softened by their own happiness, offered him food, but no one offered him the love for which he hungered. The children saw him and nudged each other, whispering tales about him. Wandering aimlessly about, he spied a little golden curl hanging in the bushes. Some mischievous boy had snipped the lock from Violet Grey's mass of curls, and the old fellow eagerly picked it up and fondled it. "Such a pretty curl,' he thought, so suggestive of love and innocence. What memories did it arouse, that he should wipe the tears from his tired old eyes? Days of happiness glide quickly, and the time for gathering up the things and preparing to go home, came all too soon. They were all ready to start home, when Violet Grey was missed. It seemed only a short time ago that she was there playing, but she could not be found. THE OLD WILLOW They all searched wildly. They thought of the river, but the children had all been playing by the river, and she could not be there. She did not answer to their calls, and sound travels far in a quiet little village. "Yes," and where was old Silas Moore?" cried the children in terror. He had been seen wandering about, and they bet he knew where she was. He was always trying to talk to her, and once he had almost put his hand on the little golden head, but she had run from him in fear. So the excitement ran high, the older ones finally sharing in the fear and condemnation of the old man. They started a search for him, and sure enough they found him sitting by the river gazing away in the distance, and in his hand he held a little golden curl. Evidence enough; he knew where Violet was. Reason fled and they dragged the poor bewildered old fellow back to the tree where Violet was last seen.. Not knowing what the excitement was about, and dumb from fear, he answered nothing in reply to all of their questions and threats, but the tears ran freely down his withered cheeks when he heard that the little girl had disappeared. There was no use for him to deny it, the little curl TREE 487 had condemned him. Then the old tree, swaying at first gently in the light breeze, seemed to be trying to soothe the fury of the people; then joining in the intense excitement of the crowd, the old tree twisted and lashed by the sudden storm which arose, in a last brave effort to guard and protect them all, split asunder, and there securely sheltered in a deep hollow, slept little Violet. Climbing in the branches, she had gently slid into its motherly bosom, and tired from play and soothed by the lullaby of the little zephyrs playing in its branches, she had fallen into a peaceful sleep. Frightened at first by the rude awakening, she started to cry, but seeing the poor old man weeping, she ran to him and patted his withered cheeks and dried his tears. Upon examination, the old tree was found to be entirely hollow, and as like a mother she had cradled little Violet in sleep, so like a mother made desperate in danger, the old tree that had mothered them all, tore itself asunder to save them, and from that day love came into the life of the old man, and the whole community was made sweeter and more gentle and generous by the seeming sacrifice of the old Willow Tree.
My Forget-Me-Not (A Household Hint) By Virginia B. Jacobsen
For weeks I have been going to mend John's golf sweater, and fix the cuff on his work trousers. But, (there's always a 'but') I never seem to remember until he wants to wear them. There they hang, still waiting to be mended. Then, there is the corner of oil cloth on the bathroom wall that needs to be stuck down, and a chip out of that vase that must be glued. Speaking of gluing, there's the page that Junior tore out of the Forsyte Saga, I must not forget to mend that. Thinking of forgetting reminds me that I must buy a new tape measure next time I go to town. Yes, and I must not forget a strainer, some sewing machine needles, and some laces for Sally's shoes. Oh, I didn't make that phone call, yesterday. How could I have forgotten? What will they think of me? As I iron, a dozen thoughts race through my mind: things I must remember to do today, this week, this month; a good menu; something I must remember to tell my husband; a good thought on the lesson I am preparing. BUT, and there's that 'but' again, thinking of all this while I iron, does not mean that I will remember again just when I should. Out of these tangled thoughts an idea came to me, not a new idea, nothing startling, just a good practical idea. Why not catch those flitting thoughts before they are lost in the limbo of forgetfulness? So, I bought a small note book, and tied a short, sharp pencil to it, and I keep "Forget-me-not" right in my pocket, or my purse if I am away from home. Now, when a thought comes, which I want to remember, I write it down where it can not stray away. During the day, when I have a moment to sit down and organize my work, I tabulate these random thoughts under general headings: today, this week, shopping, phone calls, and so on. You have no idea, until you try it, just how much satisfaction you can find in checking off each task as it is accomplished. I find that I am actually getting most of those elusive jobs done. Now, I can go to sleep at night without dreaming that John's pants are chasing me down town crying to be mended; knowing that when he goes for his sweater in the morning, he will find it ready to wear.
P. S.—If your husband is anything like mine, and nine chances out of ten he is on this one point, he hates to be repeatedly reminded of the many little jobs expected of the man of the house. Why not have a "Forget-me-not" for him? But, (here's the most important 'but' of all) don't discourage him by listing such an array of jobs that his enthusiasm is killed before it is born. Make his "Forget-me-not" as inoffensive as the flower for which it is named.
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
AUGUST.—Nothing like a good book and a shady nook to drive dull care away.
MISS E. M. DELAFIELD'S new novel, "A Good Man's Love" is a delightful satire on the marriage market.
MRS. FRANCES WINWAR GREBANIERS' "Poor Splendid Wings" a biographical narrative of the Rossettis and their contemporaries of Victorian England won The Atlantic prize of $5,000 for the best non-fiction book of the year.
REBECCA WEST'S "St. Augustine" is one of the most popular of recent biographies.
MARY JOHNSTON'S new novel, "Miss Delicia Allen" is another charming story of Civil War days.
MINISTER RUTH BRYAN OWEN has adopted a very mannish attire for office and street wear.
THE favorite gowns at the fashion show at the Chicago exposition were made of sheer linen and filmy Swiss.
PRINCESS INGRID, of Sweden, made a great hit in "A Queen for a day," a play given for charity. She was charming in a gown which belonged to her ancestor, Josephine Beauharnais, granddaughter of the Empress Josephine.
MLLE. SANDRA RATTI, Italian movie star, had the consent of her uncle Pope Pius to go on the stage providing she assumed a stage name.
DR. MARY E. WOOLLEY has been elected chairman of the department of international justice and good will of the Federal Council of Churches in America.
EDWINA BOOTH, heroine of "Trader Horn" who is seriously ill from exposure to an African sun is a Salt Lake girl.
BILLIE BURKE in promoting and presenting the Ziegfeld Follies has entered a new venture for women.
RACHEL CROTHERS' new play, "When Ladies Meet" was a brilliant success when presented in London.
MISS CELESTE JEDEL was an interesting figure at the London economic conference. She is legal advisor to Prof. Raymond Moley.
SECRETARY FRANCES PERKINS has been awarded the degree of doctor of laws of Goucher College, Baltimore.
ALAMEDA DAY McCLELLAN, Utah's oldest mother, died this summer. She was 101 years old and left a posterity of 439.
THE Church of Scotland in general assembly gave qualified approval to the admission of women to church offices, removing sex barriers so far as elderships are concerned.
MRS. EVALYN WALSH McLEAN, former owner of the Washington Post, is offering for sale the famous Hope diamond worth $250,000 in order to start another newspaper in Washington for her sons.
MRS. LOUISE Y. ROBISON presided at one of the important sessions of the Woman's Congress held in Chicago and was otherwise signally honored.
MRS. FLORENCE G. GREEN, artist and editor, has had a portrait selected for exhibition at the World's Fair.
FLEECY WHITE CLOUDS AND FLEECY WHITE SHEEP
Joy in the Beautiful By Jeanette W. Beers
Some find joy in service; joy in religion; or joy in friendship, while others find it in attainment, knowledge or truth. I wish to help you find joy in the beautiful. Beauty is so near us that very often we pass it by without recognition. Most fortunately my bedroom has an east front with three large windows. Each night I raise high the window shades that I may see clearly in the early morn that most beautiful, soft, crimson glow as the new day blushes at its dawning. The birds in their love cooing, sing so sweetly their welcome to the newborn morning. Could there be a more beautiful setting than to watch the sun rise and spread its glorious rays over our earth that is just budding into new life? This picture just thrills my soul with gratitude to my Heavenly Father for his many blessings to us. Our eyes are often blind and our souls are not attuned to the thousands of beautiful things God has given us. Is there not beauty in the spoken word, or in a smile enlightening the countenance; in children's laughter or in a mother's tears? Think of the many beauties nature gives to us,the flowers, the trees, a glorious sunset, a babbling brook, the verdure of spring, the vast whiteness of newly fallen snow. Does not a crystal clear lake surrounded by wooded hills fill you with joy and faith in your Creator? Did you ever see beauty in a storm, when the flowers lifted their heads to quaff the moisture sent from heaven, and a glorious rainbow appeared on the horizon to remind us of God's promise? I have seen beauty in a happy home where peace and harmony reign. I have found joy in a beautiful friendship, in a splendid character, in music, a fine picture or a good book. There is beauty in the tiniest, most insignificant thing around us. An incident in the life of Alice Freeman Palmer, gives us the key to happiness. "One July morning I took an early train. It was a day that gave promise of being very, very hot, even in the country, and what in the city! When I reached my destination I found a great many girls in the room, but more babies than girls, it seemed. Each girl was holding one, and there were a few to spare. 'Now,' I said, 'what shall I talk to you about this morning, girls?' 'Talk about life,' said one girl. Imagine! 'I am afraid that is too big a subject for such a short time,' I said. "Then up spoke a small, pale-faced, heavy-eyed child, with a great fat baby on her knee, 'Tell us how to be happy.' The tears rushed to my eyes, and a lump came in my throat. Happy in such surroundings as those in which, no doubt, she lived; perhaps dirty and foul-smelling! Happy, with burdens too heavy to be borne! All this flashed through my mind while the rest took up the word and echoed, 'Yes, tell us how to be happy.' "Well, I said, 'I will give you my three rules for being happy; but mind, you must all promise to keep them for a week, and not skip a single day, for they won't work if you skip one single day.' So they all faithfully and solemnly promised that they wouldn't skip a single day. "The first rule is that you will commit something to memory every day, something good. It needn't be much, three or four words will do, just a pretty bit of a poem, or a Bible verse. Do you understand? I was so afraid they wouldn't, but one little girl with flashing black eyes, jumped up from the corner of the room and cried, 'I know; you want us to learn something we'd be glad enough to remember if we went blind.' "That's it exactly,' I said. 'Something you would like to remember if you went blind.' And they all promised that they would, and not skip a single day. "The second rule is; Look for something pretty every day; and don't skip a day or it won't work. A leaf, a flower, a cloud—you can all find something. Isn't there a park somewhere near here that you can all walk to?' (Yes, there was one.) 'And stop long enough before the pretty thing that you have spied to say, "Isn't it beautiful." Drink in every detail, and see the loveliness all through. Can you do it?' They promised to a girl. "My third rule is—now, mind, don't skip a day.—Do something for somebody every day.' 'Oh, that's easy!' they said, though I thought it would be the hardest thing of all. Just think, that is what those children said, 'Oh, that's easy! Don't we have to tend babies and run errands every day, and isn't that doing something for somebody?' 'Yes,' I answered them, 'it is.' "At the end of the week, the day being hotter than the last, if possible, I was wending my way along a very narrow street, when suddenly I was literally grabbed by the arm, and a little voice said, 'I done it!' 'Did what?' I exclaimed, looking down and seeing at my side a tiny girl with the proverbial fat baby asleep in her arms. Now I will admit that it was awfully stupid of me not to know, but my thoughts were far away, and I actually did not know what she was talking about. "What you told us to, and I never skipped a day, neither,' replied the child in a rather hurt tone. 'Oh,' I said, 'now I know what you mean. Put down the baby and let's talk about it.' So down on the sidewalk she deposited the sleeping infant, and she and I stood over it and talked. " 'Well,' she said, 'I never skipped a day, but it was awful hard. It was all right when I could go to the park, but one day, it rained and rained, and the baby had a cold, and I just couldn't go out, and I thought sure I was going to skip, and I was standin' at the window 'most cryin', and I saw'—her little face brightened up with a radiant smile—'I saw a sparrow takin' a bath in the gutter that goes round the top of the house, and he had on a black necktie, and he was handsome!' It was the first time I had heard an English sparrow called handsome, but I tell you it wasn't laughable a bit—no, not a bit. "And then, there was another day,' she went on, 'and I thought I should have to skip it sure. There wasn't another thing to look at in the house. The baby was sick, and I couldn't go out, and I was feelin' terrible, when'—here she caught me by both hands, and the most radiant look came to her face—'I saw the baby's hair!' 'Saw the baby's hair!' I echoed. 'Yes, a little bit of sun came in the window, and I saw his hair, and I'll never be lonesome any more.' And catching up the baby from the sidewalk, she said, 'See!' and I, too, saw the baby's hair. 'Isn't it beautiful?' she asked. 'Yes, it is beautiful,' I answered. You have heard of artists raving over Titian hair. Well, as the sun played on this baby's hair, there were the browns, the reds, the golds, which make up the Titian hair. Yes, it was truly beautiful. 'Now, shall we go on?' I said, taking the heavy baby from her. "The room was literally packed this time; ten times as many girls and as many babies as your mind will conceive of. I wish you could have listened with me to the experiences of those little ones. Laughter and tears were so commingled that I don't know which had the mastery." We, too, may cultivate happiness if we only look for the beauty around us, in our surroundings, in our friendships and in our work. There is beauty in all things! "Seek and ye shall find," for "Man is that he might have joy."
Arch Nullifiers of the Constitution Message to the Anti-Saloon League Convention From Bishop W. N. Ainsworth, of the Methodist Episcopal Church South
Civilization cannot get away from the fact that science puts opium, cocaine, and beverage alcohol in the same category as narcotic, habit-forming, health-destroying drugs. Enlightened government must protect society from their ravages. The state has no right to maintain itself by the debauchery of its people. To the American mind it is pagan for China to raise revenue by license of opium and Japan to support government by the proceeds of prostitution; it is hardly less pagan for America to balance her national budget by a tax on a criminal, anti-social liquor traffic. The responsible men that dare to do it may make exciting whoopee in the delirium of a momentary triumph; it will not last long.
Sunday Evening Porch Supper By Lucy Rose Middleton
Frequently too much time and thought are spent in preparing the Sunday dinner. In many homes this meal is planned and served with more style and formality than any other. The responsibility and work, of course, fall chiefly on the mother. Instead of being able to relax with the rest of the household, her tasks are greatly increased. There is always the alternative of "eating out," but we all know how dear to the masculine heart is the pleasure of having the Sunday meal at home. During summer, the cooking of hot meals becomes a withering task. At this time the customary Sunday dinner may well be replaced by an occasional porch supper. Formality may be dropped and the preparing and serving shared by all. Another advantage of this type of meal is its elasticity in accommodating unexpected guests. Many a supper planned for five or six has easily served ten or eleven. Buffet service, in which the guests serve themselves, is the best to adopt. A long narrow table covered with a white linen cloth is ideal. Plan the food so that it will go on the plate without crowding. Avoid very moist foods, as they are hard to manage and are likely to spoil the appearance of the plate. Two courses are usually served, a main course and a dessert. The main course generally consists of a substantial salad (such as chicken), sandwiches, cold meats or some hot dish. A beverage may also be included in this course. Short cake, a gelatin dessert or pastries are suitable for the second course. An appetizer (such as tomato juice well seasoned), relishes, cheese and deviled eggs, are optional additions.
Tomato Juice Cocktail 2 cups tomatoes, raw or canned 1/4 cup water 1 onion top 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/8 teaspoon pepper 1 1/2 teaspoons sugar 3 cloves 5 drops Tabasco sauce 1 1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 1 teaspoon lemon juice
Combine all ingredients except the lemon juice and boil slowly for twenty minutes. Press through a sieve, forcing through as much pulp as possible. Add lemon juice and chill thoroughly. Serve very cold. This may be kept in a screw tight jar for several days.
Strawberry Cocktail Strawberries Pineapple cubes Powdered sugar Lemon juice
Wash berries and cut in halves, reserving a few of the finest to use as a garnish. Mix with pineapple, sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice. Chill and serve in cocktail dishes.
A Salad Platter Place diagonally in the center of a large platter two cucumbers that have been sliced very thin and left in their original shape. Around these put a row of sliced tomatoes; overlap the slices so that they form a neat oval of bright red. Next come sections of lettuce that have been cut in wedgelike pieces from the head, as the sections of an orange. Arrange these sections on the long side of the platter. Decorate the platter with rosebud radishes and dill pickles cut in fan-shape pieces. A bowl of French dressing and one of mayonnaise, should be placed by the salad platter to permit a choice of dressing for the salad. Thin slices of cold lamb go well with this salad.
Chicken Salad 3 cups diced, cooked chicken 1 cup fresh cooked peas 3 hard cooked eggs, diced 4 small sweet pickles, chopped 1 teaspoon onion, chopped fine 1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley 1 cup diced celery
Put all ingredients together and mix with mild boiled dressing. Serve on crisp lettuce leaf. A few whole pecans may be added if desired.
Date and Nut Bread 1 cup dates 1/4 cup nuts 1 cup boiling water 1 teaspoon soda 2 cups bread flour 1 egg 1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 1 cup sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla
Wash, stone, and cut dates in small pieces. Pour the boiling water over the dates, salt, sugar, butter, and soda. Sift baking powder with flour and add all at once to the date mixture. Cool. Add beaten egg, vanilla and nuts. (This mixture is rather thin and a light color. When baked it is very dark brown.) Pour into a loaf tin and bake 1 hour at 350 degrees Fah.
Fruit Punch 1 pint grape juice 3 tablespoons lemon juice 1/4 cup orange juice 1 cup fresh pineapple pulp with juice 1/4 cup sugar Grated rind of 1 orange 4 sprigs fresh mint Few gratings nutmeg Crushed ice 1 quart water Grated rind of 1 lemon
Mix all ingredients together except the cream and let stand in the ice box until thoroughly chilled. Pour over cracked ice and serve in tall glasses. (Whipped cream may be served on top if desired.) Garnish with mint leaves.
Orange Cakelets 4 eggs 1 cup sugar 1/4 cup boiling water 1 1/4 cups flour 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking powder Grated rind of 1/2 orange
Beat the eggs with 1/2 cup sugar until the mixture is very thick. Add the boiling water and the other half cup sugar and beat again. Sift the flour, baking powder and salt together and add to the first mixture. Add the grated rind and bake in a shallow, well greased pan for twenty minutes at 375 deg. Fah. When done allow to cool, cut in small squares, and dip in an icing made of confectioner's sugar and orange juice, then dip tops only in chopped nuts.
Notes to the Field
Our Literary Course
We suggest that those who have the time would do well to read the following list to fit them for the Literary Work in our organization this winter:
Reading List Text. The Story of the World's Literature......................Macy Matthew Arnold Sohrab and Rustum. Tennyson Ulysses The Princess Shakespeare Julius Caesar The Tempest Emerson Self-Reliance Compensation Ibsen Brand Peer Gynt Plutarch's "Lives" Julius Caesar Mark Antony Brutus The Bible Book of Ruth Book of Job Book of Proverbs Psalms Songs of Solomon Sappho Poems Keats Ode on a Grecian Urn Plato The Death of Socrates.
Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest Announcement, 1933
The General Board conducts the Eliza R. Snow Relief Society Memorial Poem Contest annually. Two prizes are awarded—a first prize consisting of $20, and a second prize consisting of $10. The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Other poems of merit not winning special awards, receive honorable mention. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, and to pay for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates. The contest opens each year upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Relief Society Magazine, and closes October 15.
Rules of the Contest
1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women.
2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant.
3. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done it should be legibly written.
4. The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature or other identifying marks.
5. Only one side of the paper should be used.
6. Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used.
7. Statement should accompany the poem that it is entered in the contest.
8. The contestant guarantees the poem submitted to be her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided.
9. Members of the General Board, and persons connected with the Relief Society office force are not eligible to enter this contest.
10. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.
11. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers.
12. The poems must be submitted not later than October 15.
13. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Relief Society Song Contest
One hundred and sixty-three songs have been entered in the Relief Society Song Contest. We appreciate the wide interest taken in this activity. Announcement of the winner will be made at the October Relief Society Conference.
Notes from the Field
Alpine Stake
On Tuesday, March 14, 1933, the Alpine Stake Relief Societies conjointly honored the Anniversary Day of our Relief Society organization. The officers and those in charge of the Work and Business Day in each ward under the leadership of Ivy G. Steele of the Stake Board, arranged the demonstration in the Second Ward Church. The many things made by the Alpine Stake Relief Society members were artistically assembled. At one o'clock the exhibit was open for inspection, and throngs of people came to witness the display. There were 100 quilts, beautiful in pattern and design, besides 466 articles consisting of rugs, pillowslips, breakfast and vanity sets, doilies, lamp shades, vases, boudoir and oilcloth pillows, etc. There was also a wonderful display of made-over clothing, coats, dresses, etc. Another feature that attracted attention was the relic department. One of the quilts on exhibition was made in the home of Thomas Jefferson, 130 years ago, and had been handed down from mother to daughter. There were also other beautiful quilts in this department besides pieces of furniture of long ago, handwork brought from England by pioneers, cloth brought from India in 1826, baby dresses of years ago—one 69 years old, in which the mother of President James H. Clarke was christened. An exhibit which created great interest was the work of our boys and girls in the State Training School: 131 articles of beauty, which spoke well for the school and showed very careful training. "At 2 p. m., over 300 gathered in the auditorium, and enjoyed a program under the direction of Maud D. Christensen, president of the Alpine Stake Relief Society. The major part of the program was impersonations made of those called to preside over our Relief Society organization from its beginning to the present time."
Granite Stake:
Granite Stake Relief Society anniversary party was one long to be remembered by those fortunate enough to be in attendance. As one entered the chapel the soft strains of music from the organ were heard. An exact replica of the March Relief Society Magazine cover—a large cake with lighted candles—met the eye. A sister dressed to represent a woman of the first Relief Society and another the Relief Society of the present day, presented each one with programs in blue and gold, also replicas of the March Magazine. Former Stake President Frank Y. Taylor offered the invocation. The Relief Society chorus rendered two beautiful selections, "Spring Time," and "Moonbeams." Out of the silence after the music, came a radio message announcing "Memories." See page 466. There was no loud speaker visible, and it seemed as if the walls were whispering the message of the first organization. "Memories" was written and presented by stake board members with the assistance of members of the Priesthood in the parts where men were needed. The radio program required only about thirty minutes. President Louise Y. Robison was in attendance and gave an address of encouragement and appreciation for Relief Society. Stake President Hugh B. Brown expressed his sincere appreciation of the work of the Relief Society. At the conclusion of this service each ward participated in a grand march. Each of the ten wards presented something significant of its name, for example, five of the wards named for illustrious men were represented by men dressed to represent these men—Abraham Lincoln, Lincoln Ward; Ralph Waldo Emerson, Emerson Ward; Parley P. Pratt, Parley's Ward; Nathaniel Hawthorne, Hawthorne Ward. Willard Richards (in person), Richards Ward; Costumed Scotch Highlanders, Highland Park Ward; Trees to represent a forest, Forest Dale Ward; Nibley Park Golf Links, Nibley Park Ward; a reproduction of Sugar House Chapel in sugar, Sugar House Ward; headbands with Wasatch mountains painted on them, Wasatch Ward. In the amusement hall social dancing was engaged in, and during the evening groups of two hundred at a time were served refreshments in the banquet hall. Ten round tables formed a semi-circle in the end of spacious banquet hall. Each of the ten tables represented a separate color scheme which blended together presented a picture bringing out every rainbow hue. Each of the ten wards had charge of a table representing the several departments of the Relief Society work. Refreshments were served from these various tables. At the first table, depicting the "Magazine" by Wasatch Ward, each one was presented with a program containing the menu—The Necessities, Plate and Napkin, Visiting Teachers; Richards Ward, Theology, Bread of Life—bread and butter; Lincoln Ward; Substantial Service, Salad, Social Service; Parley's Ward, Poetry of Life, cookies, literature; Emerson Ward, Vitamines A, B, and C., Cheese Dainties, Sunshine; Nibley Park Ward, Fountain of Youth, Water, Music; Hawthorne Ward, chips off the old block, potato chips; Forest Dale Ward, Quilts; the olive branch of peace, olives and pickles; Highland Park Ward, sewing, Sweets from Home Sweet Home, Candy; Sugar House Ward, Art.
Liberty Stake:
It is always delightful to find stake and ward officers who, in addition to putting over successfully the regular work outlined, find it possible to develop unique and original projects. In Liberty Stake each month a special song is featured which fits a talk given in the Union Meeting. We are publishing the following suggestive program, as we feel that it may be quite helpful to other stakes who are desirous of following such a plan.
Aim for 1932-33: "Joy is the beginning of Wisdom."
Topics for Union Meeting and which were enlarged on in the Wards are: Sept—"Joy of Learning." Song—"Improve the Shining Moments." Words and music were written by R. B. Baird. Oct.—"Joy of Adversity." Song—"Come, Come Ye Saints." Words were written by William Clayton. In the journey over the plains, trials were many, sometimes almost more than human strength could bear. It required skilled leadership as well as implicit faith to cope with situations that would arise. At Locust Creek, Iowa, food was scarce and the travelers were becoming discouraged. Brigham Young feeling anxious, asked William Clayton to write a hymn for the Saints to sing around the camp fire, to buoy them up and help them to forget their troubles. Clayton went to his wagon and in two hours returned with the Hymn, "Come, Come, Ye Saints." Nov.—"Joy of Appreciation." Song—"Count Your Many Blessings." Words were written by Rev. J. Oatman, Jr., the music by E. O. Excell. Rev. J. Oatman, Jr., a Methodist minister who lived in New Jersey, was born in 1856. He wrote five thousand hymns,—more than any other writer in the "Gospel Song Book." He died in 1930. E. O. Excell was born in Pennsylvania in 1851. When he was twenty years of age he married and moved to the Pacific Coast where he worked as a brick mason, but studied music in his spare hours. He had a way of singing about his work and had a remarkable voice of natural range and power. One day Sam Jones, the evangelist, happened to hear him singing at his work, and was so attracted by his voice that he engaged him as chorister of his church and they worked together for twenty years. He was a man of great sympathy and courtesy and it was said of him that he had never been known to lose his temper before an audience. He had a kind smile and a true faith in God. He died in 1921. Dec.—"Joy in Art of Reaching Out." Song—"Have I Done Any Good in the World Today?" Words and music were written by Will L. Thompson. Will L. Thompson was a choir leader, whose home and birthplace was in East Liverpool, Ohio. He was born in 1849 and died in 1911. Jan.—"Joy of New Resolve." Song—"Come Let Us Anew." Written by Charles Wesley. Charles Wesley was born Dec. 18, 1707, in Epworth, England. He was the eighteenth child of the family and was a younger brother of John Wesley, the founder of the Methodist Church. He was a plucky boy and lived a spotless life. Poetry was like another sense to Charles, and he was busy writing verse from his conversion up to his death-bed when he dictated to his wife his last lines. He wrote sixty-five hundred hymns and he is said to have been the greatest hymn writer of all ages. His song "Come Let Us Anew" has been sung for more than one hundred fifty years in the different churches. He died in London, Mar. 29, 1788. Feb.—"Joy of Idealism." Song—"Oh Say, What Is Truth?" Words were written by John Jaques. John Jaques was born in 1827 in England. He joined the Church when he was twenty-one years old and came to Utah in 1856. He crossed the plains with the Handcart Company that suffered so much in the snow storms on the mountains when so many emigrants lost their lives. His oldest daughter died and his oldest son was born while crossing the plains. He wrote several books and pamphlets dealing with the Gospel, and he also wrote several hymns, among which we find, "O Say, What Is Truth?" He held many important positions and was appointed Assistant Church Historian in 1889, which position he held until his death, June 1, 1900. Mar.—"Joy of Neighborliness." Song—"If There's Sunshine In Your Heart." Words were written by Helen Dungan, the music by J. M. Dungan. Apr.—"Joy in the Beautiful." Song—"The World is Full of Beauty." Words were written by Mrs. M. W. Hackleton, the music by George Careless. George Careless was born in London, England. He was baptized when he was eleven years of age, and came to Utah when he was twenty-five. He was called upon in his young manhood by Pres. Brigham Young to lay the foundation for good music in Utah. He was an early director of the Tabernacle Choir and a pioneer director of the old Salt Lake Theatre orchestra. His hymns, of which there are sixty-two in our present hymn book, constitute our most beautiful contributions to church music, while he, himself, brought choral music to its highest mark in our history. He ranked chief among our local composers, and was known as the dean of Mormon musicians. He lived to be ninety-three years of age, passing away Dec. 16, 1932. He will long be held in loving memory by his people, and generations yet unborn will know him through his music. May—"Joy of Openmindedness." Song—"Truth Reflects Upon Our Senses." Words were written by Eliza R. Snow, the music by Charles D. Tillman of Lyerly, Georgia, who wrote it about 1880. Eliza Roxey Snow, the second president of the Relief Society, was born Jan. 21, 1804, in Mass. She was baptized, April 5, 1835, and soon after with her father's family, moved to Kirtland, Ohio, the gathering place of the Saints. There she boarded with the family of the prophet, and taught a select school for young ladies. Her writings, ever full of the testimony of the truth, have been of inestimable worth in promoting the interests of the gospel wherever it has been preached. When the Prophet Joseph organized the Relief Society at Nauvoo, on the 17th of March, 1842, Sister Eliza R. Snow was chosen as its first secretary. She came to Utah in 1849, and in 1866 became president of the Relief Society of the Church, which position she held for twenty-one years resigning a few months before her death which occurred, Dec. 5, 1887.
Nebo Stake.
During the entire month of January and the first half of February, an attendance campaign was conducted in Nebo Stake which was very successful in spite of the extremely cold weather of that period. The campaign ended with a Valentine party on February 14, in each of the nine wards of the stake. Every sister over sixty years of age residing in a ward was an honored guest, also the visiting teachers who had the best attendance of members from her district during the six preceding weeks. A dainty gift was presented to each guest of honor and well planned programs and refreshments were enjoyed. A stake board member visited each social, and the success of the project as it was reported far exceeded the expectation. The attendance in the nine wards was 715 on that day, or more than 100% of the total enrollment. As all of the parties were so thoroughly enjoyed, the tendency was to revive interest over the entire stake and the result will be for much good.
RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN BRAVING SNOW TO ATTEND THEIR MEETING
Rigby Stake.
The above picture is from Irwin, Idaho, and tells its own story. It is a group of courageous Relief Society women, who brave three and four feet of snow, traveling on hayracks, horseback or in any way to reach the Relief Society meeting place. They report a most enthusiastic organization, enjoy the Magazine very much, and are fully imbued with the real spirit of Relief Society.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN: MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND: Mrs. Emma A. Empey Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine: President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Manager: Assistant Manager Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. XX AUGUST, 1933 No. 8
EDITORIAL
Vacation
"Fit, square and polish thyself for the builders will have need of thee." For most people July and August sees a cessation of many of the activities that usually occupy attention during the other ten months of the year. The summer vacation offers an opportunity for change, rest, travel, reading and other leisure time pursuits. This lull gives a period when one may fit, square and polish herself for the activities that will await her doing after the pause in the routine has passed and the regular activities are resumed. Some need complete rest so strenuous has been their life. Some need only a change to feel rejuvenated. All should get out in the sunshine and let nature rebuild their worn tissues and restore their depleted energy. Fortunate are they who have an outdoor hobby, a garden, golf, tennis or a walking urge. Some are hungry for intellectual food and will find complete enjoyment under a tree, on a shady porch or by a canyon stream reading a loved book. Many of our members at this time read books that will bear on the Relief Society lessons for next season. They will be sources of inspiration because of the background they have for the lesson work. An enriched mind gives new vision and an added charm. Some take summer courses at colleges or universities and find life fuller of interest because of the development received during even this short period of study. The University of Idaho has for years given delightful summer camps where women assemble from far and near for an enjoyable period of rest, recreation, and educational uplift. Calls are constantly sounding. Only those who steadily and persistently think, study and safeguard their health are ready. Through physical and mental change one stores energy that will give added grace to the work that will later demand attention. It is a lovely thing for people during this period of relaxation to realize that resting and playing will fit them for their future activities. Ever before them should be the thought, I must fit, square and polish myself for the builder will have need of me.
In the rush and multiplicity of things that demand our attention we are losing many of the values that a previous generation enjoyed. They had time to be more neighborly than do we. They enjoyed more home recreation—they had to make their own pleasures. They enjoyed more hours of friendly contact. Part of our vacation could profitably be spent in strengthening the ties of friendship, enjoying hours of comradeship with our friends of former years. A friend of mine sets aside an afternoon a week that she devotes to visiting old friends especially those who are ill or in any kind of trouble. "Most luxuries we purchase with money. Fellowship is one of the luxuries we can purchase only with time. Should we not use a generous portion of it for that purpose?"
Angels and Amazons An Epic of American Womanhood
An outstanding book of the year is "Angels and Amazons," by Inez Haynes Irwin, a well known writer of novels who has been a leader among organized women for years. It is gotten out by The National Council of Women and is a comprehensive work "on the most important movement in modern history." It is the Woman's Book of the Year. The book is well written and in a dramatic way recites the history of the rise of the American woman. It portrays her evolution from the time "when she was mortgaged from birth to housekeeping and childbearing" to her present status and points what the future should bring. It tells of those who were pioneers in the professions, in public life, in teaching, in the arts, in the business world. Mrs. Irwin not only points out the achievements won by the struggle of intrepid women—equal suffrage and prohibition being two of the social changes wrought in this evolution, but she also shows the mental changes that have taken place in the brains of the American people due to feminine influence. With the skill of an experienced writer she "paints a realistic picture of the new place of women in a new and fast changing world." The book contains over 500 pages of text, an excellent index that places names, dates, facts, ready for immediate use and also an appendix that lists and classifies women's organizations. The book may be secured from "The National Council of Women of the United States, Inc., 4 Park Avenue, New York City. Price $2.50.
More Room at Headquarters
We are glad to tell our readers that we now have more room at our General Headquarters. The Social Welfare Department has been moved from the Bishop's Building to the Y Building where fine offices have been provided. The Burial Clothes Department has more room than heretofore so that better attention and finer service can be given its patrons. A much needed Committee Room is now available. A room has been prepared for Stake and Mission Relief Society Presidents where they may meet their friends, have their mail sent, and rest while they are in Salt Lake City. We deeply appreciate the courtesy the Church has extended in giving us adequate room for our needs.
Hiking With My Son By Ada Hurst Brown
There's a ten-year-old enthusiasm shining in his eyes, As we climb the winding trail that scales our mountain paradise; Around and underneath us growing life has just begun— It's spring up in the mountains, and I'm hiking with my son.
With a knapsack on his back and a crude staff in his hand, He's prancing like the leader of a dress-parading band Through a bed of giant larkspurs—a blue battalion; It's summer in the mountains, and I'm hiking with my son.
The slopes are brilliant color, red and yellow, emerald green, The sky is glowing azure—nothing somber mars the scene. There's a riot 'mong the maples; how their colors blaze and run! It's autumn in the mountains, and I'm hiking with my son.
The pines are muffled whiteness, and we're both a little awed, The altitude and silence bring us mighty near to God; We draw a little closer as we trail on one by one— It's winter in the mountains, and I'm hiking with my son. University of Utah School of Medicine School of Law School of Business Graduate Work The Extension Division
Utah's largest institution of learning offers a broad Curriculum, presented by a faculty of cultural or a Professional education are invited to attend this outstanding institution, Ample
REGISTRATION DATES
FRESHMEN Applications for entrance and high school credits must be filed with the Recorder, September 1, English and Psychological Examinations, September 20. September 21-23.
FORMER STUDENTS AND OTHERS WITH ADVANCED STANDING New students file transcript of former School with Recorder Registration, September 25. Institutional Classes Special Instructions — Regular class work for all Students
MAKE YOUR PLANS NOW TO REGISTER
For catalog and further information, address the President, UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SALT LAKE CITY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
begins September 26.
A Brighter Outlook on Life For Those Who Eliminate Unnecessary Worries
Carry sufficient insurance on your home, so that you will not lose all should it burn down. If there is a mortgage on the home, have the mortgage covered by a Beneficial Life Insurance Policy so that your wife and children will not have to pay for it, in case you should die. Have sufficient life insurance to assure them an income, to put the children through college should you not be here to do it—
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE—will settle all these questions of the future—provides against want in old age, and provides the one cash estate free from inheritance or income tax.
THE SAFEST, MOST DEPENDABLE INVESTMENT TODAY
See a Beneficial Representative and Learn of the Many Special Features Offered By
—THE BIG HOME COMPANY—
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
DIRECTORS HEBER J. GRANT GEO. J. CANNON E. T. RALPHS A. W. IVINS B. F. GRANT DAVID O. MCKAY J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. JOS. F. SMITH A. B. C. OHLSSON
Volume XX SEPTEMBER, 1933
"WE HEARTILY RECOMMEND
KNIGHT Spring Canyon Coal S100 NOT! For $3 Clean, Hard—Burns Longer
KNIGHT FUEL CO.
ROYAL Coal ROYAL COAL Nothing Clean Quick-starting—Utah's Purest Coal
These coals maintain clean, cheery warm homes at lowest cost.
ASK YOUR FRIEND THE COAL DEALER
ROYAL COAL COMPANY General Offices—5th Floor Newhouse Building—Salt Lake City, Utah Leonard E. Adams, General Sales Agent
Complete Suits for Men and Women — Children's Clothing A Specialty
Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders
Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY
Open Daily—9 A. M. To 5 P. M. Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah
SHIRTS LAUNDERED As "He" likes them!
Royal DeLuxe Semi Starch Full Starch Medium Starch No Starch Styles
Silk Shirts washed and ironed by hand, best of materials used
Offices at 22 E. 2 So., 1 1/2 Main St. And 625 So. State St.
ROYAL LAUNDRY Was. 2624 625 So. State St.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
BUY AND SAVE "America's Finest"
The ROUND OAK RANGE
A life time range. Beautiful in design and color A Wonderful Baker Easy on Fuel It can't be beat Trade in your old range
CONVENIENT TERMS
GRANITE Furniture Co. 1050 East 21st South
SPECIAL BARGAIN OFFER To Relief Society Workers
Your Literary Book— "Story of World Literature"....$1.00
Your Theology Reference Book— "Doctrine and Covenants Commentary"....$4.00
The Two.... A $5.00
Send your order for both books before Oct. 1—and we will send you both books for...$4.00
If you send your money with the order.
Deseret Book Company SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
WINTER LURKS just around the corner!
It's not too early to begin thinking about your heating facilities, for cold weather will be here before we know it.
INVESTIGATE Natural Gas HOUSE HEATING
For cleanliness, convenience and comfort in the home, nothing can equal Natural Gas heating. And its economy has been demonstrated in thousands of homes, through several severe winters in this locality.
Investigate! Just come in and let us explain the most remarkable, most attractive offer we've ever made on Natural Gas house heating.
Remember—winter is lurking just around the corner! Why not come in this week?
UTAH GAS & COKE Co. OGDEN GAS Co. WASATCH GAS CO.
— When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XX SEPTEMBER, 1933 No. 9
CONTENTS
Relief Society Monument at Nauvoo................Frontispiece September..............................Ella J. Coulam 505 Relief Society Monument Unveiled in Nauvoo (Illustrated)....Julia A. F. Lund 507 Dr. James E. Talmage.....................Dr. Joseph F. Merrill 514 Greetings on Wings of Song...................May Anderson 519 School Lunches........................Lucy Rose Middleton 522 Wee Travelers.........................Margaret C. Maloney 523 The International Congress of Women........................ 524 Happiness.........................Josephine Gardner Moench 527 The Evil Spirit.........................Annie Wells Cannon 528 Three Weeks at the Canning Factory...............Eunice I. Gardner 531 Inspiration and Meditation..................Lettie B. H. Rich 532 Happenings...........................Annie Wells Cannon 533 Notes from the Field.................................... 534 Notes to the Field..................................... 535 Editorial—The International Council of Women.................... 537 Dr. James E. Talmage...................................... 539 Support the Eighteenth Amendment........................... 539 A Worthy Example.......................................... 539 President Robison Calls on Relief Society to Support N. R. A........ 540 New Appointments......................................... 540 Lesson Department........................................ 541 The Building of the Organ....................Linda S. Fletcher 572
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3123
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear:
No. 1 New style, ribbed light weight. No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Combed Cotton. An excellent Ladies' number................$1.25 Our best selling wool number. Men's new or old style....$3.00
No. 2 Old style, ribbed light weight. No. 6 Light weight garment, cotton, our standard garment 1.25 Ladies' new style or old style 1.10
                                           No. 7 Light weight Spring and
                                           Autumn garment. Men only    1.00

                                           No. 8 Light weight silk for ladies
No. 3 Ribbed med. weight. Cotton, only, new style only................ 1.15 bleached. Our all season number. Men's new or old style.... 1.45 No. 9 Medium weight. Silk for men and women, new style only. No. 4 Ribbed heavy weight. Unbleached Non-Run 1.76 cotton. Our double back number. Men's new or old style 1.50
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, short legs and sleeves or ankle length legs, are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit.
Postage prepaid on orders accompanied by money order in United States. Special discount to missionaries.
Our Jack Frost Blankets are made of Utah Wool and Utah Labor Write for Prices
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL
Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street. One-Half Block South of Temple Gates
L D. S. GARMENTS, CUTLER VALUES
No. 68 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Cotton..............$.75 No. 74 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Fine Cotton............1.10 No. 64 Light Med. Wt. Bleached.............1.19 No. 62 Med. Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back.....1.39 No. 56 Hvy. Wt. Bleached Double Back..........1.75 No. 500 Super Non-run Rayon Short Sleeve and Knee Length............1.19
In ordering garments please state if for men or women, and if old or new styles are wanted, also state bust, height and weight of person. Marking 15c. Postage prepaid.
Special—When you order three pairs of garments at one time we allow you a 15% discount on third pair only. An additional charge of 20% will be made on orders for persons weighing 210 Pounds or over.
CUTLER BROS. SALT LAKE CITY UTAH
L.D.S. GARMENTS
Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid.
OLD OR NEW STYLE NEW STYLE ONLY, MAN OR LADY
472 Light Rib Cotton........$.75 144 Spring Needle Flat Weave........$1.00 464 Med. Rib Cotton.........1.00 205 Rib Knit, Lt. Weight............1.15 92 Lt. Wt. Rayon Stripe.....1.15 228 Lt. Wt. Rayon Stripe...........1.36 one Fine Knit, Lt. Weight...1.25 84 Rayon Plated...................1.45 56 Double Carded, Med. Wt...1.35 405 Non-run Viscose Rayon..........1.85 758 Med. Hvy. Cot., Ecru or White....1.55 806 Non-run Viscose Rayon..........1.75
BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
BUSINESS LEADERS OF THE FUTURE are starting their Training Sept. 5th
The Business and Secretarial courses at
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
train young men and young women for starting office positions; and give them the broad foundation necessary for rapid advancement in the New Business Era.
Students qualify for positions where they can make practical use of previous high school or college education. Every subject included in our courses has definite practical value. Therefore, only a limited time is required for completion; and the cost of training is reduced.
Free Employment Department assists graduates in securing positions.
PREPARE TO BECOME A SECRETARY ACCOUNTANT STENOGRAPHER BANKER BOOKKEEPER CIVIL SERVICE WORKER
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 80 No. Main (A department of the L. D. S. College)
You Can Still Buy Your GENERAL ELECTRIC REFRIGERATOR at the lowest price in history... If you do it now!
Decide to have the delicious desserts and iced drinks, the savings that come by preventing food spoilage and waste and many other advantages made possible by electric refrigeration.
Our representative will call with complete information regarding our easy terms if you will but phone us.
UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Efficient Public Service
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
September By Ella J. Coulam
There's a chill in the air this morning The breath of a new-born hope. There is ice on the pond in the meadow And a crimson tint on the slope.
The trees are heavily laden With the luscious peach and pear. There's a pungent odor of spices On the crisp September air.
Vacation days are over, The children trip gaily to school. The bull-frog and cricket are calling From their hiding place by the pool.
The flowers are wearing gay colors As the leaves make ready to fall, Soon they will join in a frolic And dance in the great harvest ball.
I wonder, will we be as happy When our hair is turning to gray? Will our hearts be as gay in September As they were in the laughter of May?
MONUMENT RELIEF SOCIETY
THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XX SEPTEMBER, 1933 No. 9
Relief Society Monument Unveiled in Nauvoo By Julia A. F. Lund
NAUVOO—what a world of memories, tragic and heroic, that name suggests! As it appeared on the twenty-sixth of July, 1933, a quiet little country town, about six hours ride from Chicago, nestling in its wealth of green trees on the banks of the Mississippi, it was difficult to visualize it as the scene of events so momentous in the history of our people. One could summon, in imagination, the parade of the Nauvoo Legion, the majesty of the splendid Temple, the stirring appeal of the gatherings in the Grove, as well as the many homes of our early leaders—still standing, all eloquent of the purpose and the power of the founders of Nauvoo. As these stirring scenes of the past unfold before us, the words of Proverbs take on renewed force: "Remove not the ancient landmarks set up by your fathers." These "landmarks" suggest a source of courage and spiritual rebirth whenever they come to our minds.
It has long been the desire of President Robison and her associates, to give concrete form to the great debt of gratitude felt by the Relief Society for its founders—to perpetuate the site of its organization, and to create, as it were, a shrine where a grateful people could take on new faith and hope from a review of the glorious past. Such in a word, was the spirit animating the erection of the monument.
During an address in the General Conference of Relief Society last October, Elder George Albert Smith remarked that a marker of some kind should be placed on the site of the organization of Relief Society, as one of the important events in Church history. That was just the seed dropped in soil already prepared to receive it. The First Presidency were interviewed and gave hearty approval to the plan. As President Robison was returning from an important mission in the East in April of this year, she visited Nauvoo. This confirmed her desire to execute the project. From careful research in the history of the Church, it was learned that the Relief Society was organized in a room over the store operated by Joseph Smith. This room was a most important place, as the Prophet used it for an office, where he did much of his sacred writing and translating. It was also used as a meeting place by the Masonic Lodge of Nauvoo before their hall was completed. This latter fact gave rise to the belief that the Masonic Hall was the scene of the Relief Society's organization. The recent discovery of this error made a very different background for the erection of the monument.
The Joseph Smith store stood upon one of the most sacred pieces of ground, to Latter-day Saints, in all the world. It is a part of the homestead where his first home was built in Nauvoo, and where now rest the bodies of Joseph and Hyrum and Emma. This property belongs to the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. It was necessary to obtain the consent of this church to place the monument upon their ground. This was accomplished through Dr. Frederick M. Smith, President of the Reorganized Church, and grandson of the Prophet Joseph. Dr. Smith was most gracious and cooperative from the standpoint of his Church and of his family, who were deeply appreciative of the spirit of the memorial and of the honor conferred upon Emma Hale Smith, first president of Relief Society.
ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH, who has been an inspiration to the Relief Society in its development of plans for the monument, gave most freely of his time and talents. President Samuel O. Bennion, whose long residence in and near the early scenes of Church history, and whose intimate acquaintance with the places and people necessary to contact in developing the plans, was suggested by the First Presidency as the person best able to handle the proposition from the Nauvoo end. President Bennion threw himself enthusiastically into the work. Here the Relief Society wishes to acknowledge its great debt of gratitude to these two able men, whose service and advice assured the success of the memorial.
The monument was secured through the Elias Morris and Sons Company, Brother George Q. Morris, Manager, who spared no pains in making every detail conform to the wishes of Relief Society. The stone is of Tennessee rose quartzite, said to be harder than granite, and very beautiful. The center stone is four by eight feet. The bronze tablets were made by the Salt Lake Stamp Company, and shipped to Nauvoo. They bear at the top the relief of the store building, and the following inscriptions:
National Woman's Relief Society
This monument marks the site of the building in the upper room of which the Female Relief Society, now the National Woman's Relief Society, was organized March 17, 1842, by the Prophet Joseph Smith, First President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, assisted by John Taylor and Willard Richards.
The charter officers were: Emma Hale Smith, President; Sarah M. Cleveland, First Counselor; Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Second Counselor; Eliza R. Snow, Secretary; Phoebe M. Wheeler, Assistant Secretary; Elvira A. Cowles, Treasurer.
The purposes of the Society were to care for the poor, minister to the sick, comfort the sorrowing, teach righteousness and strengthen the morals of the community.
The original minutes and records were taken by Eliza R. Snow to Utah, where the work of the organization was continued by the Church.
Of the eighteen charter members three became Presidents. The seven women who have presided over the organization are: Emma Hale Smith, Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Emmeline B. Wells, Clarissa Smith Williams and Louise Yates Robison.
The present membership, in 1933, is 67,000.
Keeping pace with the development of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, this Society has become potent for benevolence, education and progress among women.
Louise Yates Robison President Amy Brown Lyman First Counselor Julia Alleman Child Second Counselor Julia A. F. Lund Secretary-Treasurer
This monument, erected by the National Woman's Relief Society, with headquarters at Salt Lake City, Utah, is placed on this site through the courtesy of the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, with headquarters at Independence, Missouri, owner of this property.
The frontispiece is a very good likeness as the monument stands completed, at the side of the store site. The four walls of the basement foundation are in a good state of preservation. The debris has all been cleared away, and the earth floor sodded, from which trees are growing, giving the appearance of a sunken garden. Two expert landscape gardeners were engaged, and the trees, grass and shrubs are a reality, with the placid Mississippi in the background, constituting a perfect shrine of beauty and sacred memories. The two beautiful Relief Society banners and flag had been sent from the office, and were shown to wonderful advantage.
UNVEILING THE MONUMENT
MONUMENT UNVEILED IN NAUVOO
THE unveiling of this Relief Society monument seemed a fitting climax to those who had been in attendance at the International Congress of Women, and we felt with conscious pride that in the story of women's achievements the world over, no group had made a nobler contribution to the Century of Progress than had our own Relief Society women. Glory to their names!
No one fortunate enough to be present will ever forget the services of this day, Wednesday, July 26, 1933. From the standpoint of the weather it was ideal, and every preparation possible for the comfort of the visitors had been made by the hospitable people of Nauvoo, aided by Brother John D. Giles of Salt Lake, who had gone in advance. President Louise Y. Robison and President Samuel O. Bennion arrived a day early to check on final details. The large group taking the tour under the leadership of Mrs. Vida Fox Clawson and Mr. Daniel S. Spencer, arrived on Wednesday, and added much to the enthusiasm of the day.
It was a great honor and pleasure to have in attendance President Ruth May Fox and Miss Clarissa A. Beesley, of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and Superintendent May Anderson and Mrs. Isabelle S. Ross of the Primary Association. The following missions were represented—Northern States, President and Mrs. George S. Romney; Northcentral States, President and Mrs. Arthur Welling; Central States, President and Mrs. Samuel O. Bennion; Texas, President and Mrs. Charles E. Rowan, Jr.; Western States, President Elias S. Woodruff.
A telegram regretting his inability to be in attendance was read from Dr. Howard R. Driggs, President of the Oregon Trail Association, and Dean of the Department of English in the University of New York. Dr. Driggs expressed hearty congratulations to the Relief Society, upon the erection of the monument.
Elder George Albert Smith was appointed by the First Presidency to represent the Church. Dr. Frederick M. Smith, President of the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, and his three sisters, also nine other lineal descendants of the Prophet Joseph and Emma Smith, were present. The people of Nauvoo and neighboring towns were out en masse. The Honorable Henry Horner, Governor of Illinois, could not attend due to another engagement, but he sent a personal representative in Mr. W. D. Chenery, who read a very pleasant message from the Governor.
To quote from the Nauvoo Independent of July 27, 1933—"Mrs. Louise Yates Robison—President of the Relief Society, was chairman of the exercises, and she was indeed wonderful. Her pleasing manner and ready wit caught the crowd."
The following program was carried through:
1. Community Singing: (a) "America." (b) "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning."
2. Invocation—Elder George S. Romney, Chicago, Illinois, President of the Northern States Mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
3. Address of Welcome—The Honorable James L. Ogden, Mayor of Nauvoo, Illinois.
4. Response—Elder Samuel O. Bennion, Independence, Missouri, President of the Central States Mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
5. Address—Dr. Frederick M. Smith, Independence, Missouri, President of the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.
6. Historical Sketch—Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Salt Lake City, Utah, First Counselor in the Presidency of the National Woman's Relief Society.
7. Our Society—Mrs. Julia Alleman Child, Salt Lake City, Utah, Second Counselor in the Presidency of the National Woman's Relief Society.
8. A Tribute to Emma Hale Smith, First President of the Relief Society—Mrs. Julia A. Farnsworth Lund, Salt Lake City, Utah, Secretary-Treasurer of the National Woman's Relief Society.
9. Tenor Solo—Rulon Y. Robison, Boston, Massachusetts.
10. Address—Daniel S. Spencer, Salt Lake City, Utah, Grandson of Daniel Spencer, Former Mayor of Nauvoo.
11. Address—Mrs. Louise Yates Robison, Salt Lake City, Utah, President of the National Woman's Relief Society.
12. Unveiling of the Memorial—Mrs. Bertha A. Hulmes, Grosse Ile, Michigan, Great Granddaughter of Emma Hale Smith, Assisted by Miss Barbara Hulmes, Grosse Ile, Michigan, Great-Great Granddaughter of Emma Hale Smith, and Miss Helen Claire Robison, Boston, Massachusetts, Granddaughter of Louise Yates Robison.
13. Address—The Honorable George Albert Smith, Salt Lake City, Utah, Member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and President of the Utah Pioneer Trails and Landmarks Association.
14. Community Singing—"Now Let Us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation."
15. Benediction—Elder Elias S. Woodruff, Denver, Colorado, President of the Western States Mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
NOTE: The songs, "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning," and "Now Let Us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation," were sung at the meeting in which the Relief Society was organized, March 17, 1842.
One of the most delightful and artistic features of the exercises was the music. Rulon Y. Robison, son of our President, came from Boston to be present. He led the community singing, and gave several tenor solos, among them "The Knight of Bethlehem," in a manner that made one feel that "music is the highest form of expression."
The unveiling of the monument, by charming Mrs. Bertha A. Hulmes, great granddaughter of Emma Smith, was sublime in its simplicity. One of the most beautiful and touching events of the memorable day was the placing of the wreaths upon the graves of the martyrs and Emma Smith. These wreaths were made of lovely "everlasting" leaves of the Magnolia, in shades of bronze, and clusters of fresh roses. As a loving tribute President Robison laid the wreath upon Emma Smith's grave, Counselor Amy Brown Lyman upon the Prophet Joseph's, and Counselor Julia A. Child upon Hyrum Smith's.
Luncheon was served at noon by the ladies of the Reorganized Church in the Nauvoo House and on the banks of the Mississippi River.
DESCENDANTS OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH AND EMMA SMITH Present at the Dedication of the Monument
The Unity Club of Nauvoo sponsored a tour of the historic buildings in Nauvoo, and a visit to Carthage. In the evening a meeting was held upon the site of the morning's activities. Elder George Albert Smith was Master of Ceremonies at this gathering, and made a happy little talk. Mrs. Audentia Smith Anderson spoke on the life and family of Emma Hale Smith. Many speeches were made, and Rulon Robison again led the singing and rendered some lovely old songs. So concluded one of the most eventful days in the history of the Relief Society. The Monument stands upon the sacred spot; symbolizing faith kept, courage sustained, ideals realized; a remarkable blending of a past full of glory, a future full of promise, animated and directed by that "Spirit which giveth light."
VIEW FROM THE TEMPLE LOT, NAUVOO
Dr. James E. Talmage A SKETCH OF HIS EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES By Dr. Joseph F. Merrill, of the Council of the Twelve
JUST after noon, July 27, a rap on the door of our cabin in Logan Canyon led me to open and face a stranger who announced he had just come from a long distance phone over which the statement was made that Dr. Talmage was dead. This was a thunderbolt. "Is it possible?" I asked. "He died at 8:45 this morning," was the answer. And so I turned back and remarked to my companion that "all in all Dr. Talmage was the most brilliant man I ever knew. I shall miss him greatly."
Just before leaving the office for a week's sojourn in Logan Canyon I telephoned to Dr. Talmage and asked if I could have a long talk with him when I returned about the European Mission. He could have given me much valuable information, as he had done relative to various matters many times before, for versatility and wide, accurate information were among his outstanding possessions. Every acquaintance of his can testify to these facts.
SINCE his arrival in Utah from England with his parents, June, 1876, in his fourteenth year, Dr. Talmage has been recognized by all who knew him as an unusual person. In the fall of that year he enrolled in the Brigham Young Academy, Provo, and was graduated from the Normal Course three years later at the head of his class. Though very young he had so impressed himself upon Dr. Maeser, the principal, and his other teachers that a wholly unusual offer for one of his age was made to him—to become a regular teacher in the Academy. This offer is ample proof of the fact that young Talmage was a remarkably gifted person. And so he proved to be. Of the thousands who have been graduated from this Church school perhaps none has been more brilliant in intellect, in speech, in achievement than Dr. Talmage.
Of course his Alma Mater could not retain him long. He was not yet prepared. His goal was the top. He must go to an eastern university, if his ambition was to be satisfied. But here he met discouragements. Had he not emigrated with his parents from England to Utah for the gospel's sake? And to go back into the world to study science, did he not know that this would make shipwreck of his faith? Such was the prevailing opinion among his friends. So the young man now did something characteristic of him. He needed wisdom; he wanted to know what was the best thing to do. Hence he prayed about the matter and sought also the counsel of John Taylor, the president of the Church. He now was satisfied. The President pronounced a wonderful blessing upon his head and sent him forth.
IN the fall of 1882 he entered Lehigh University in Pennsylvania, and a year later he registered at the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, at the time America's foremost graduate school. At both institutions Dr. Talmage was soon recognized as a brilliant student. But he did not stay to graduate at the time from either university. But baccalaureate graduation from Lehigh came in 1891. The call to return to the Brigham Young Academy was so loud that he yielded and during the next four years, 1884-88, Provo was again the center of his activities. From here his fame as a gifted teacher and scientist spread apace. It reached me in northern Utah while I was a student in the grades. A book of his on Domestic Science fell into my hands. I began to read out of curiosity; I was soon spell-bound. The chemistry of baking powder, what yeast does, etc., were described and goaded me on. Then and there I determined I was going to study science, if ever I could go away to school, and emphasize chemistry. This I did. Only recently I told Dr. Talmage his inspiration was responsible for my eight years of scientific study in eastern universities.
AND then came another "call," which found him ready. He was firmly anchored in the faith. His testimony of the divinity guiding the Church had become ingrained in his soul. He was wanted to head the newly established Church school in Salt Lake City—the Latter-day Saints College. To him a declination was unthinkable for the call came from God's servants. And thus in the summer of 1888 Salt Lake City became the home of the Talmages—the newly weds went to the altar in June—the city where his eight children were born, the city he honored the rest of his life by calling it home.
Dr. Talmage continued as the administrative head of this Church college during the five years, 1888-1893. But so rapidly had his fame increased that he was called in 1893 to begin the organization of a new institution, a Church university in Salt Lake City. A science laboratory was erected and equipped and Dr. Talmage gave a course of public lectures on scientific subjects during the winter months. These proved to be very popular, so much so that the Board of Regents of the University of Utah went to him with an offer. Salt Lake City, it was thought, was not big enough for two universities, One maintained by the State and the other by the Church. Why should not all interests and parties unite on the State University and build up an institution that would be worthy of and bring fame to Utah? So negotiations were begun. The result was that in the spring of 1894 Dr. Talmage was called to the presidency of the University of Utah, and his newly erected science laboratory was given by the Church as an endowment to establish the Deseret Professorship of Geology in the State institution.
But this call to the most important university executive position he ever held did not supersede his love for teaching. So Dr. Talmage was given the professorship of geology as well as the presidency of the University of Utah. He therefore continued his activity as a teacher, an activity that in one form or another he maintained vigorously until the gripping hand of death was laid upon him.
DR. TALMAGE'S election as President of the University of Utah signaled a new day in the history of this institution of learning. This was an event of the utmost significance to the University. In one sense its history as a collegiate institution begins with the election of the new president. For this election signaled the burial of the hatchet of warfare on the University from which it had suffered more or less for a long time. One portion of the public looked upon the University as a Mormon institution, run in the interest of the Church, also an institution entirely without real collegiate standards. Another portion of the public regarded the University as anti-religious, as a destroyer of religious faith. Thus the institution had the whole-hearted support of but a very small part of the public, and so was not prospering. But now all of this was changed. Perhaps no new college president was ever received by the public and the school with greater enthusiasm than was Dr. Talmage. His multiform educational activities since his coming to Salt Lake City in 1888 had captivated the public. In him was seen a man of wholly unusual ability, a genius who was master of everything he touched, whether in the class room, the lecture hall, or the executive office. With him and behind him stood a practically united public in support of the University, a support that the University has enjoyed from that day to this.
HOWEVER, able as he was, Dr. Talmage was hardly a superman (and no one else is). With his coming the University entered upon a period of enlarged growth as a collegiate institution and this brought a very serious problem to the vigorous new president. The duties of president grew apace, so did the growth in the department of geology. Here was an exceptionally able young man with two full-time jobs on his hands. What should he do. He chose to stay with the class room and with the laboratory, his first loves. Others could fill the executive chair. No one else available could fill the chair of geology as he could fill it. There was rejoicing among his students at his decision. The executive office was handed back to Dr. Joseph T. Kingsbury, from whom, through the Board of Regents, Dr. Talmage had received it three years before.
But Dr. Talmage's great mission had been accomplished. He had united the public in support of the University. It is questionable if any other man could have done this at the time. Certainly no one else could have done it with the facility and speed with which he did it. He had rendered a super-service to the University. Does any one wonder then why the University in 1922 conferred upon its brilliant former president the highest honorary degree known to the university world—that of LL. D., Doctor of Laws? Already he had three other doctor's degrees—one from the Church in 1890, a Ph. D. From Illinois Wesleyan University, 1896, and D. Sc., Lehigh University, 1912, the latter, an honorary degree, making him especially happy because it was the first one of its kind that Lehigh had given to one of its own sons. Hence the granting of this degree brought him a very unusual honor.
Dr. Talmage was honored not only by American universities and scientific societies but also by several foreign ones. He held the highest rank of membership (that of Fellow) in these societies. (See Who's Who in America.) One of these, the Royal Society of Edinburgh, conferred an unusual honor upon him—jumped the Atlantic and crossed to western America to find an outstanding man whom it appointed as a Delegate to represent the Society at the International Geological Congress, held in St. Petersburg, 1897. Many there are who remember how spellbound they were in seeing Dr. Talmage's lantern pictures and listening to his eloquent lecture on Russia, given in many places on his return.
AGAIN Dr. Talmage was to be confronted with a divided love. The University continued its growth and so did the work in the department of geology. Since 1897, when he began giving full time to his department, the Mining School, a division of the University, required him to emphasize geology in its relation to mining. This necessitated that much time be spent in the laboratory and the mines. This brought Dr. Talmage into intimate contact with mine superintendents and managers, and gave him an expert knowledge of the geology of their mines. But in those days there were many law suits between mines relative to their rights in ore bodies, many of which extended from one mine to another. Nature had not parceled out its ores into isolated bodies convenient to the man-made boundary lines of separate properties. And of course the direction of ore veins could not often be seen from the ground surface. There were many law suits. Where was there an expert witness in Dr. Talmage's class upon whom the litigants could call? The question answers itself. And so Dr. Talmage was again confronted with the perennial question, "What shall I do?" His decision was a wise one, made no doubt, as was his custom, only after much study and fervent prayer. Since he could no longer do the work of both the class room and the laboratory and the field, he chose the latter and resigned his chair of geology in the University in July, 1907. Why was this decision wise? Dr. Talmage had ready a capable successor for the class room in the person of his student, Dr. Frederick J. Pack. But no one was yet ready for his place in the field and court room. But when this was the case the readers of this Magazine all know what happened. Four years later, Dec., 1911, Dr. Talmage was called into the Council of the Twelve. Thus it seems that all his life he was raised up to do special work that at the time none could do as well as he.
THUS I have sketched an outline of some of the educational activities of Dr. Talmage with which I am most familiar. But of course these are a part only of the many activities of this wonderfully gifted and extremely energetic man. The limits of this article do not permit me to sketch others. In any case, perhaps this is unnecessary, for some others are beautifully sketched by President Bryant S. Hinckley in the July, 1932, number of the Improvement Era. Further, those who attended or read the impressive funeral services, held July 30, 1933, are in possession of still additional sketches. Other facts may also be learned from the sketch in the volumes Who's Who in America, American Men of Science, and elsewhere.
Much more should be written to make the sketch adequate but I shall close with these quotations from President Hinckley's Era article, written a year before Dr. Talmage's death:
"James E. Talmage will go into history as one of the ablest and most brilliant advocates of 'Mormonism.'
"Dr. James E. Talmage has a superior intellect, a pure and contrite heart, a radiant faith, a sane and lofty idealism, a clear understanding of the meaning and purpose of life. He has achieved splendidly in the world. His life reflects credit upon his name and his people and has added strength and majesty to the great Church to which he has given a consecrated allegiance."
God bless Dr. Talmage's memory, and inspire his gifted family to emulate his example.
Greetings on Wings of Song By May Anderson
THE HALL OF SCIENCE, the largest and most imposing of all the exhibition buildings in the World's Fair, is set in a Court of Honor. The Court is appropriately named for here are conducted important events which take place from time to time, these emphasize the idea that as the Fair continues from day to day it carries on through programs and demonstrations that the making of history is a part of the Century of Progress.
THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS has a worth-while exhibit in the Hall of Religions which attracts many of the people passing daily through this building. Missionaries, pamphlets and opportunities for speakers in the lecture room all add to the effectiveness of the exhibit. A national broadcast has been used by the women of the Church which permitted them to speak to other women and demonstrate how they are moving forward with the rest of the world towards a higher plane of civilization.
ONE of the special events scheduled to be held in Chicago during the World's Fair was an International Congress of Women. To this congress came many women, representatives of 33 nations. Each nation had sent one or more of its most intelligent and capable women, many were graduates of the great colleges of the world and in nearly every instance, specialists of renown. Numbered amongst this group were general board representatives of the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. And Primary Associations. It was a privilege to be present at the many meetings and to listen to the accounts of the growth and development of the status of women in nearly all of the nations of the world and to be informed of their efforts to reach the ideals of a civilization that might be world wide. The Relief Society has membership in the National Council of Women and is well received and honored as an outstanding organization for women and as such had a part in the programs of the Congress.
During this congress of women, in addition to the educational features there were events that were presented for the purpose of entertainment as well as for instruction, such as luncheons, banquets, pageants, etc. It was an inspirational thought which suggested that the Relief Society present its "Singing Mothers" over a national broadcast as its contribution to an international gathering of women. The offer was graciously accepted and was announced as a part of the program to be presented in the World's Fair in the Court of Honor.
To the group from Utah, the evening of July 21st, 1933 was more than a part of a program, it was a gesture from the women of the Mormon Church to the women of the world. We confess to some nervousness—would it be just the right thing and would it measure up in presentation and artistry to such a discriminating audience?
THE setting and environment for the program seem almost beyond the writer's ability to describe. After a strenuous day of meetings and sightseeing it was so pleasant to sit quietly and restfully in beautiful surroundings. Lake Michigan as the background was sending cool refreshing breezes, before us the Hall of Science, we had wandered through its spacious interior rejoicing in the evidence there of the marvels of nature and science. A great tower rose above this Hall of Science supporting, like a belfry, the amplifier over which we were shortly to hear from our loved mountain home. Sitting by our honored Relief Society President was Miss Lena M. Phillips, the President of the National Council of Women; and we could see that we were being surrounded by many of the members of the International Congress of Women, we recognized, even in the descending darkness, many of the foreign delegates—they had proven themselves to be so intelligent, wide-awake and alert in their understanding and appreciation of the higher ideals, and again we wondered, would they learn anything from our effort?
Slowly the twilight descended, the shadows grew darker and darker. Then as though the shadows themselves became charged with warmth and light, glowing colors of all the sunsets and sunrises ever seen gradually merged and spread until we seemed to be in a land of magical color harmonies.
Out through this beauty came the voice of KSL and the humming voices of our own dear Singing Mothers accompanied by the big organ in the Tabernacle in "Songs My Mother Taught Me." Then! Richard L. Evans, announcing. "The Singing Mothers of the National Woman's Relief Society send greetings on wings of song to the National Council of Women and the International Congress of Women, assembled in the Hall of Science, Chicago.
"This presentation of. Two hundred fifty singing voices emanating from the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City is released through the nationwide facilities of the Columbia network and through the public address system at the Century of Progress Exposition, Chicago.
"One can scarcely credit changes that appear in retrospection. Woman has taken her rightful place. Motherhood is protected and sanctified and revered. The doors of learning have been opened wide and without stint to the mothers of men. The professions have yielded and embraced the cause of woman. Government and the sciences have felt the surge of woman's influence and have been bettered by its presence, Education and Religion have responded to the mighty pulse. A man's world has become a world for men and women, striving for a common goal, with mutual understanding, in united endeavor—thus fulfilling the inspired words of a poet who nearly a century ago wrote better than he knew; "The woman's cause is man's. They rise or sink together. Dwarfed or godlike, bond or free."
"The Century of Progress" may claim forever one achievement of transcending greatness—a man's world has become a world for men and women! "From the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City we salute the National Council of Women and the International Congress of Women assembled in the Hall of Science, Century of Progress Exposition, Chicago. "A voice of profound devotion speaks—eloquently, from the past. David of Old gave the sentiment; Schubert, the music; the Singing Mothers, the interpretation. "The Lord is My Shepherd, I Shall Not Want." "The singing mothers of the National Woman's Relief Society have sent greetings on wings of song to the National Council of Women and the International Congress of Women assembled in the Hall of Science, Chicago. The Singing Mothers directed by Charlotte Sackett, were assisted by William Hardiman and Alta Cassity. Frank Asper was at the great organ." As the program progressed we were thrilled—surely years of devotion 521 to the ideals which may be expressed in music were amply repaid. The voice of Richard L. Evans, with sweet quality of tone and clearness of enunciation was so acceptable, the great organ was great as it pealed in delicacy or force, manipulated by the clever hands and feet of Alexander Schreiner. We thought we could see Sister Sackett, her whole body expressing her love of music and her desire to accomplish one more success. "THE writer shared with the rest of the Utah representatives a happy sense of something beautifully done. It was a success. As the delegates crowded around our little group expressing pleasure and offering praise and thanks we knew that with the blessing of the Lord the women of our Church had touched the hearts of an unusual group of other women and it was with prayers of thanksgiving that we turned away from a place of enchantment feeling sure that, for us at least, one great step in a Century of Progress had gone into history bearing the imprint of the Gospel of Salvation. A book is a friend that never deceives. Fontanelle. It is no use running: to set out betimes is the main point. La Fontaine. When a fool has made up his mind, the market has gone by. Spanish Proverb. The path of a good woman is indeed strewn with flowers, but they rise behind her steps, not before them. Ruskin. Neither is life long enough for friendship. That is a serious and majestic affair, like a royal presence, or a religion, and not a postillion's dinner, to be eaten on the run— Emerson. Blessed is the man who has the gift of making friends, for it is one of God's best gifts. It involves many things, but above all is the power of going out of one's self and-seeing and appreciating whatever is noble and lovable in another man. Thomas Hughes. School Lunches By Lucy Rose Middleton we are confronted with the problem of the noon lunch for school children. There are millions of children in America who live too far from the school house to come home for the mid-day meal. Providing attractive and adequate box lunches for these children is therefore worthy of careful attention by all the mothers of this youthful army. The menu should be varied to S EPTEMBER is here and again avoid monotony and to provide the element of surprise, which appeals so strongly to a child's nature. The foods which supply the body with energy, heat, tissue building material, minerals, and vitamins should appear in correct amounts. The bread in the sandwich acts as starch. Some whole grain bread should be used to furnish needed minerals and _ to guard against an excessively starchy diet. The filling can provide the protein. As much filling should be used as the child would eat of that particular food were it served to him at home on a plate. A small mayonnaise jar filled with bottled fruit, fruited jello set in paper cups, or a cup custard are good additions to the lunch. If a thermos bottle is used, hot soups, milk, fruit juices, and cocoa may be included. Remember also the value of fresh fruit. No lunch is complete without it. SANDWICH FILLINGS 1. Cream cheese, chopped olives, and nuts. 2. Hard-cooked eggs, finely chopped, mixed with salad dressing. 3. Nuts and raisins mixed with salad dressing. 4. Apples, nuts, and mayonnaise dressing. 5. Peanut butter and jelly. 6. Date and cream cheese. 7. Scrambled eggs, bacon, and lettuce. 8. Ground ham and pickles mixed with salad dressing. 9. Dried fruit, cooked and sweetened, and nuts. (1 cup fruit, chopped to 4 cup nuts. 10. Sliced ham and currant jelly. 11. Grated carrots and pineapple. 12. Sea foods, such as tuna, salmon, shrimps, mixed with salad dressing and shredded lettuce. HERMITS 1 cup butter 2 cups brown sugar 2 eggs Y, cup chopped raisins 1 cup walnuts 3 cups flour 1 teaspoon soda in 4 cup boiling water Cream butter and sugar together; add eggs well beaten, then small quantity of flour. Afterwards, add soda in water and the remainder of flour, then nuts and raisins. Drop by spoonsfuls on buttered cookie sheet. Bake in moderately slow oven (325 degrees F.). Nut OATMEAL COOKIES 1/4 cup butter 1/4 cup shortening 1 cup sugar 1 egg, well beaten 5 tablespoons milk 134 cup rolled oats Y, cup seeded raisins % cup chopped nuts SCHOOL LUNCHES, 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon soda 3/4 teaspoon cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon cloves 1/2 teaspoon allspice Cream shortening, and add sugar gradually, then add eggs, milk, rolled oats, raisins cut in pieces, and nuts. Mix and sift flour with remaining ingredients and add to first mixture. Drop from tip of spoon on buttered cookie sheet 1 inch apart and bake 15 minutes in moderately hot oven (350 degrees F.) GINGERBREAD 2 3/4 cups flour 3 teaspoons baking powder, 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ginger 2/3 cup molasses 1/3 cup brown sugar 1 egg l4 cup melted fat, cooled Sift dry ingredients together. Mix molasses, sugar, 1 eggs, and shortening. Add dry ingredients to make a soft dough. Arrange in desired shapes on buttered cookie sheet and bake 12 to 15 minutes at 375 degrees. Gingerbread men may be made and their clothing supplied by icings of various colors. 523 ORANGE Drop COOKIES Ye cup butter 2/3 cup sugar 2 eggs 3 cups pastry flour 3 teaspoons baking powder 1/3 teaspoon salt Grated rind of 1 or 2 oranges Strained juice of 1 large orange Cream butter and sugar well together. Add unbeaten eggs, one at a time and beat with this mixture. Then add grated rind. Add alternately the sifted dry ingredients with the orange juice. Drop on buttered cookie sheet and bake 10 minutes in 375 degree oven. BANBURY TARTS 1 cup seeded raisins, chopped 1 cup sugar 1 egg, slightly beaten 1 tablespoon cracker crumbs Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon Plain pastry Mix raisins, sugar, egg, crumbs, lemon juice and rind together. Roll plain pastry 1/8 inch thick and cut pieces 3 1/2 inches long by 3 inches wide. Put 2 teaspoons of mixture on each. Moisten edge half way around with cold water, fold over, press edges together with 3-tined fork. Bake 20 minutes in "moderate oven (350 degrees. ). Wee Travelers By Margaret C. Maloney DON'T envy you," my friend smiled in that catty way some women are past masters at— men, too for that matter—''as much as I love motor travel through the country. Children always spoil the party." "I looked at my adorable little nephew of four and his sister of six, and since this is a true story—I sighed. But my friend was all wrong. Our little ones didn't spoil the motor party—because they have a sensible mother. I often wonder how it happens that one of a family gets all the good common sense—and another is as stupid as—myself. When we were all ready to climb in—bags all parked where they would be out of the way of our feet, 524 out came sister with two footstools. I gasped with dismay. "Their poor wee legs get so tired, you know," she explained. I had nothing to say because I make it a rule to never interfere when I'm a guest. I have that much sense. We were not many hours out before I saw the wisdom of those stools. The little travelers were so comfy sitting there with their feet on the stools—stools of the right height—that there was no fussing, fidgeting, whining. When we stopped for meals, out came the stools and into the restaurant with us; and how quick the attendants were to understand and place the stools for the swinging feet. IF there is one among you who can still smile try sitting with your feet dangling sometime. You won't RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE need to sit long. If you wish a real demonstration of what it can do to nerves, sit where you will be forcibly bounced here and there, with nary a resting place of any kind for your feet. Footstools are not the only consideration my sister gives her children. She watches their clothes with a wary eye. They must be comfortable—no binding any place— neither too tight—neither too loose. And the reward is gratifying—two angels, yes angels, for they don't know what tantrums are. A comfortable child is a good child, interested in all about it. But, if anyone wants a demonstration of a full-grown tantrum—let her say to me: "Don't you hate traveling with children? They're so fussy." The International Congress of Women HE International Congress of Women called by the National Council of Women of the United States convened July 16 to July 22, 1933, at the Palmer House, Chicago, to discuss "Our Common Cause—Civilization." There were present representatives from thirtythree countries, among them some of the most brilliant, well trained women of the world who have shown by their service that they can face problems and devise ways and means to solve them. Among the distinguished speakers were: Jane Addams, founder of Hull House; Dame Rachel Crowdy; Honorable Margaret Bondfield; Judge Florence E. Allen; Miss Lena M. Phillips; Ruth St. Dennis, and Mrs. Mary R. Beard. THE President of the National Council of Women of the United States, Miss Lena Madesin Phillips showed her clearness of vision, her executive ability and her good leadership. She gave several an opportunity to conduct sessions. The other officers, were ever ready to do all in their power to further the work and see that every detail was seen to. HE first real International Congress met forty years ago at the Columbian Exposition in Chicago. They demanded rights which had been denied to them as women, such as equal education, property rights, equal guardianship of children. Particularly they demanded the vote— tool of participation in an organized democracy. IN looking backward this Congress had great satisfaction in knowing CONGRESS OF WOMEN that in many countries most of these demands have been realized. The officers in their advanced program said, The quest for power wanes. Responsibility quickens. Women, as fully as men, are confronted with the task of shaping the institutions of social control. Civilization is at a crisis. Unemployment and misery—fear and passion— threaten economic collapse and the dire calamity of war. Yet technology has created the promise of a world of plenty. For the first time a civilized world is seen as an attainable goal. From the changes now in process, new lines of progress are projected. We dare not fail to perceive them clearly. To this basic task—to grasp the significance of the present situation and to find the best roads to action—this Congress addresses its discussions." HE President in her Foreword showed the condition of the world and the purpose of the Congress. She said, "Forty years ago, the women of the world held their first real International Congress during the Columbian Exposition at Chicago. It gave impetus to the development of the organized womanhood of the world. By it came the channels through which women pursued their quest for power—social, political and educational. In the Congress of 1933, we will in a realistic fashion do honor to those pioneers of 1893, by emulating their courage and foresight. The feminine quest of power wanes, but before women lie today great opportunities for the right use of that power.. "This assembly takes place at a period of world depression following a world war. So widespread are unemployment and human misery, so varied are the proposals for changes 525 in the political and economic scene that civilization faces grave problems connected with its actual survival. "At previous assemblies of women, minor issues could be discussed with more or less urbanity. For thousands of years, men and women have been struggling with the problem of production. Now this problem is settled. We can produce all that we need. "And yet at this moment much of the world is in want. Economic distress and insecurity are the common lot of vast numbers of people everywhere. We have mastered production: we have not mastered distribution. We have not learned how to make the machine the servant, rather than the master of man. We have not lifted the burden of fear under which parents must bring up their children. We have not lifted black despair from many an aged worker. We have not learned how to attain a settled currency nor how to exchange goods from nation to nation. We have not learned to keep the peace between individuals or between nations. "And yet these problems can and must be solved. We can plan a society which will guarantee to its members minimum security for existence and a maximum opportunity for development. We can plan a society in which there shall be security of work, of income, of health; security against the violence of war and of crime; security of government for the good of all people. We can plan a society in which there shall be opportunity for all—of education, of vocational training, cultural life and a richer use of leisure. "To such endeavor we dedicate this Congress on "Our Common Cause—Civilization." Technology has created for us our House of Plenty. It is a challenge to the wo- 526 men of the world to find the keys through governmental and economic planning which will admit us to that House of Plenty. "That chalenge comes ringing down the century of woman's progress to this very hour. It sounded in the first feeble effort of our pioneers in their quest for power. It is inescapably ours. For the only justification of power is its use to wise and beneficent ends. "It is our purpose and our resolve that their quest shall not have been in vain." F. MINENT speakers, economists, — historians, philosophers, humanitarians, both men and women of nation-wide and world-wide fame discussed the subjects. One session was given to "The World as it is", "The World as it could be." One to "Women In A Changing World", one to "Economic Security Through Government." (The Hon. Margaret Bondfield, former Minister of Labor in the British Cabinet gave a masterful talk on Democracy) one to an International Forum where representatives from Ireland, Finland, Syria, Canada, Germany, France and Rumania discussed "The World as it is" and "The World as it could be." One session was devoted to the subject, "Joy in Living" and one to "Youth Plans for a Civilized World." During four afternoons six Round Tables met simultaneously and discussed "Security through Employment," 'Security through Buying Power," "Security through Government," "Security against Destructive Forces," "Opportunity through Education," and "Opportunity through Leisure." THE last day of the Congress was devoted to a working session where reports of Findings from the Round Tables were presented. A RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE resume of the International Women Writers' Conclave, held July 17-19 at the Palmer House, was given. The following Manifesto was adopted: "Forty years ago the women of the world held their first real International Congress during the Columbian Exposition at Chicago and set in motion a feminist movement, world-wide in sweep and directed towards the winning of sex equality in social, political and economic privilege. During these intervening years enormous power has come to women through their gains in personal privilege. And wherever the rights of citizenship such as free assembly, free speech, political participation and economic self-expression are still denied on account of sex, nationality or creed, that feminist movement must continue to have life and loyalty. It retains our full support and enthusiasm. "At this succeeding great International Congress of Women held at Chicago during the Century of Progress Fair in 1933, a second movement, likewise intended to be world wide in sweep, is launched and directed towards the winning of security and opportunity for all mankind. On the basis of free competition as between the sexes, nations and races of the world, the welfare of humanity has been inadequately accomplished. "We believe that every person, to whatever sex, race, nationality or creed he or she may belong, is entitled to security of life, work, the reward of labor, health and education; to protection against war and crime and to opportunity for selfexpression. Yet even in parts of the world where feminism has made its largest gains, these fundamentals of security and the good life are sadly lacking. Hence it is against social systems, not men, that we launch our CONGRESS second woman movement. We enter now a social-planning era following the harsh experiment with laissez faire and national aggressions, with a world war, and its horrible aftermath in the economic collapse. All civilization is at stake and the condition of society cannot be ignored. "Persuaded that only by intelligent, loyal, courageous, and united action on the part of men and women can government be induced to undertake programs designed for human welfare in the large, we consecrate ourselves to the task of winning their support for enterprises of that nature, frankly accepting the need' of experimentation. "The care and protection of all life is peculiarly in woman's keeping and thus at one of the most tragic hours in the world's history we pledge ourselves to assume this responsibility boldly and whole heartedly. "Where the feminist movement is fundamental in any country, we call upon the women of the world to give it their loyalty. Where the social planning movement is imperative, we call upon the women of the world to join us in carrying it forward. OF WOMEN 527 "Thus we shall not be serving two masters but all mankind, ourselves included." MAXY social functions were planned for foreign guests and all delegates enjoyed a pageant, '"Ethiopia Lifts as She Climbs" which was presented by the National Association of Colored Women and was written by Mrs. Sallie Stewart, fourth vice-president of the Council. The most interesting feature of the banquet was a demonstration of coordinated communication. Telegrams, cablegrams and radiograms were sent direct from the banquet hall to well known people throughout the world. Answers were received before the conclusion of the dinner. In some cases the total distance covered was as great as 28,000 miles. A large map of the world was illuminated, electric lights showing the approximate course of the mesages as they were sent and received. It is expected that definite recommendations will be sent out by the executive officers to the membership of the Council to suggest ways to further "Our Common Cause—Civilization." Happiness By Josephine (Gardner Moench I thought that happiness must be Excluding all that's sad; But now I know it is not so, That gladness must from sadness grow, And happiness from woe. I've traveled far into the depths And I thave reached the heights Of happiness I dreamt not of. I've glimpsed through Christ's redeeming love Immortal joys from Heaven above. The Evil Spirit By Annie Wells Cannon SATURDAY afternoon and four o'clock! Anxiously, almost tremulously, Mrs. Simpson had been watching the clock for the last two hours,; All morning, she and her two young daughters, Eva and Lutie, had been busy with household tasks. The house fairly shone with brightness. The odor of fresh baked bread and cake, spiced ham and other delicacies, testified to the preparation for the Sabbath and the holiday that was to follow. A light lunch had been prepared and eaten. The mother and daughters, neatly and prettily dressed were waiting for Daddy to come with the car to take them to town for a little necessary shopping. While one is busy time passes quickly but to be anxiously waiting and watch the hands of the clock mark the passing hours and note how time is lost, is agony. The mother courageously tried to keep the girls' minds off the clock by discussing plans and making lists of the intended purchases. "First we must have one of those pretty paper luncheon sets with all the accessories, then new shoes for both of you, and I hope silk hose as well." "Oh, mamma," said pretty Lutie, "you must have a new light dress, they are advertised so cheap and we want you to look as nice as any mother there." The sound of a truck driving into the lane, interrupted the list making. The burly driver called out "Simpsons live here?' "Yes, but you surely have the wrong address we are not expecting that kind of a delivery," indignantly replied the mother. "It's the right address, all right, I guess it's a surprise for you. The boss said to put some bottles on the ice for'evening." Mrs. Simpson, too stunned and pained to answer, saw the man place the two large cases of beer on the back porch. Regaining her composure, she signed the delivery check and began to consider how to meet the situation, ""What does it mean?" asked Lutie, "It means, young lady, answered the driver, Common sense and beer have come back and your Dad wants to celebrate." "I will answer my daughter's questions, you attend to your own affairs," said Mrs. Simpson as the man with an ugly shrug and grunt turned and sullenly drove away. Eva, the older and more quiet of the two girls, touched her mother's cheek with a soft kiss and said, "Lutie and I will put this out of sight before Alfred comes home. He will be so shocked to know we have this in the home and he just home from his mission." The first impulse of all three was to empty the containers down the drain pipe but a certain fear of the father's attitude held them back. Afterwards they would have given worlds if they had followed that impulse for a lifetime of sorrow and suffering might have been averted. Thus often a fear or dread of the immediate result thwarts the purpose of our better natures. Just as this task was finished the father drove in, gay, smiling, almost exuberant. There was a faint smell of beer on his breath but otherwise he was natural and full of apologies for keeping them waiting. There was no time for explanations. No, he was not hungry, he had hada THE EVIL SPIRIT sandwich in town and they must hurry to reach the stores before closing time. There might have been a scene, reproaches and a refusal to go but no mention was made of the long wait or the unwelcome delivery as they hurriedly drove away. In the excitement of the purchases even the pretty dress for mother was selected, for Daddy was more than liberal today, the incident of the hour before was forgotten, except in the mind of the mother whose intuition seemed to tell her an evil presence had entered her home to destroy its peace. Silently she prayed on the way home to be directed how to combat this deadly thing, how to persuade her husband, whose gentleness and tenderness she so much appreciated, to realize the seriousness of this matter. Alfred was already waiting as they entered the home. This only son, a tall, handsome youth, with the ascetic look of the thoughtful student, was the particular pride of the family. The mother told the girls to make ready the evening supper while she went out to the garage to speak to their father. She begged him not to mention the beer before Alfred and said they must talk the matter over later. He touched her lightly on the chin and said, 'Look here, mother, that's only a nice refreshing _drink, as harmless as a baby's milk, the new 'three point two' and I surely hope you have some in the cooler now." "I would much prefer you wouldn't have it, dear, and please don't waste our means buying that stuff, there are other finer ways to spend your money." Her pleading had no effect, he laughed at her qualms and insisted it was good for them. She perceived it was useless to argue and feeling powerless to resist she tried to believe that her own 529 teaching, example, and prayers might eventually win out in the struggle she saw facing them. HE subject of conversation during the dinner was prohibition and legalizing the sale of beer, finally Alfred ventured to say, "Surely, father, you do not approve of our having it in the house and drinking it ourselves?" "Certainly, son," he answered, "I sent down two cases today and had your mother done as I wanted you might have had a nice cool drink with your supper." "Thank you, I trust mother will continue not to do as you want, water is cool enough for me," and the boy flushed as he rose from the table and walked outside. "The young prig," the father said as he sent Lutie to bring a bottle just to show them all how harmless it was. For a moment the girl hesitated then did as required but Eva asked to be excused and followed her brother outside. Thus started the first rift in an almost perfect home life, a rift like a dagger at the heart of all. "Harmless," thought the mother, "when even the mention brings discord it must itself be evil." The father poured out a glass for himself, his wife, and Lutie. Neither of the latter touched it, and he drank it all himself and spent the rest of the evening sullen and silent. Alfred had intended asking for the car to go out for the evening but instead telephoned and broke the engagement. The girls after helping their mother put things in order went to their room. There was no singing, no evening prayer in the home this night but silence as though a sorrow had befallen. Shortly Lutie came back and throwing her arms around _her father said, "Thank you, Daddy, 530 for all the new things and please don't be angry with us any more, you know we all love you." Later Alfred came in and apologized for his hasty words and for leaving the table so abruptly. Never before had these children been rude to their father and the thought of hurting him troubled them. SEVERAL days later Lutie said, "I think you were quite right, Daddy, about that new beer, a lot of people carried it to the picnic and most everybody has it.' "This from little Lutie,'' mused the mother, "surely her father will rebuke her." But to the dismay of all Alfred said, "It is quite true, we have it offered to us everywhere and no one thinks it wrong. Don't you think we have all been rather hard on father?" That night the family glasses were filled with the amber liquid, only the mother and Eva refrained from drinking it. It was regularly served after that and freely offered to friends. HE mother saw the family purse grow smaller, in order to keep up the supply of this obnoxious drink. She complained and argued and wept, but to no avail. She realized that the sweetness and peace, even the comfort of the home was being destroyed, and she was helpless. Her idolized son was not keeping up his church duties, her genial husband was becoming taciturn and careless, her beautiful daughter Lutie was keeping company with a very gay crowd. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ONE night the crash came and all her beautiful dreams and hopes lay crushed. The telephone rang about midnight as she sat reading and waiting for the return of Alfred and Lutie. There had been an auto accident and two young women were seriously injured. The girls' were in the general hospital unconscious, and the young men were being held for drunken driving. The wrecked car had Mr. Simpson's number. It was Eva who had the presence of mind to call a taxi and send her mother to the hospital and her father to the station while she waited and prepared things at home for their return. In the silence and quiet of this stricken home she knelt and prayed for guidance. Then she went straight to the basement and removed every trace of the "three point two" by pouring the liquid down the drain pipe, putting the containers in the garbage can and splitting the cases into kindling wood. In the early morning hours the father returned with a bruised and dazed son, while the mother telephoned from the hospital "both girls may live but Lutie's injuries are so severe she will probably be an invalid for life." After this word came, the father upbraided himself and was prostrate with grief. Eva who had attended to her brother's needs came up to him and gently said, "It was bound to come, father, be brave and we will all help each other again, the evil spirit has departed from this house." "On this earth of ours there are but few souls that can withstand the dominion of the soul that has suffered itself to become beautiful." —Maurice Maeterlink. Three Weeks at the Canning Factory By Eunice I. Gardner THE canning factory was in full swing. I had been fortunate in securing work at the pea belt sorting peas at eighteen cents per hour. It was tedious work— tedious and uninteresting to say the least—but a few dollars earned during a summer of no income (my husband being a poor country school teacher) looked very alluring to me. So I joined the group of women and girls, and in uniform and cap I began my work at the belt. Shall I ever forget the first day! I had risen at 4 A. M. In order to get my husband and two sons off to the canyon for wood and to outline the day's activities for my three little girls who were anxious to keep house during mother's absence. When I was assigned my place and the peas came sailing by, I felt quite elated and important to be one of the number doing my bit toward canning peas for the hungry world. However, as time passed by and the stream of green peas seemed unceasing, it was with difficulty that I kept at work, as the motion of the belt combined with my few hours of sleep the previous night caused me to feel very drowsy indeed. However, we ceased work earlier than usual, so I didn't become too discouraged. I made my way to the waiting automobile feeling very much like one just coming out from under the influence of gas.
The following morning we commenced work at 6 A. M. I learned to keep my gaze on the on-coming peas instead of those that had passed me, and in this manner I avoided extreme dizziness. Thus it is in life—if we keep our gaze on the oncoming events we do not allow past mistakes to blind our vision or impair our powers. The employees at the belt weren't allowed to converse with one another, so I beguiled the hours with rehearsing in my mind several poems I had memorized. I found that certain ones fitted exactly with the rhythm of the machinery, and these I repeated many times. Popular songs, and Latter-day Saint hymns and little action songs I used to teach the Kindergarten children—these were all reviewed and renewed with interest. When I discovered that I could think over plans and not neglect my work, I let my mind become engrossed in interior decorating. This pleasant exercise consumed otherwise tedious hours. My mental excursions included plans for picnics and hikes, remodeling dresses, concocting school lunches, devising stunts for 4-H Club work, mapping out P. T. A. Programs, and lingering over happy childhood scenes, and activities of long ago. Each day seemed to bring new ideas and I never lacked for material with which to entertain myself.
Alexander Woolcott, in an article "I'm Glad I'm Absent-Minded," says: "For those of us who are absent-minded a stalled taxi does not a prison make, nor iron bars a cage." My hours spent at the canning factory were not wholly spent sorting peas—I lived in new surroundings and enjoyed strange and lovely experiences.
We are told that responsibility develops capability. My children became more capable in the various household tasks which they assumed during my absence and also appeared much more appreciative of my efforts about the home than formerly. How happily the little girls would run to meet me each evening, and what loving confidences and humorous stories of their day's work they would relate to me! My husband, who fortunately is an excellent cook, kept the household machinery in good order and thus made life happier for all concerned. When I returned home about 2:30 P. M. On the Fourth of July after beginning work at 6 A. M., how grateful I felt to sit down to a delicious hot dinner of summer vegetables and sour-cream biscuits followed with ice cream and birthday cake—it being the twelfth birthday anniversary of our oldest daughter. Grandma and Grandpa, an aunt and two sisters came from Salt Lake to join us in our family celebration. We were all present with the exception of our oldest son who was playing in a band in a nearby town. Our town did not celebrate Independence Day, so most of the citizens were attending celebrations at neighboring towns.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
After dinner we brought out the guitar and harmonica and sat on the lawn, and Daddy and Aunt Sylvia played while Grandma step-danced and Grandpa sang. As we do not own a car we couldn't very well go away for a "talkie" in the evening, so we made a huge bonfire and the children were very happy as they played "Run, Sheep, Run," "Cheese It" and other games. The next afternoon I was at the factory again, and for two more weeks I worked and planned and dreamed and finally was rewarded with a few dollars which were highly acceptable. I had daily met with congenial friends during the lunch hour and had become better acquainted with them, and I have profited by the valuable philosophy of their lives. So truly we know that there is no loss without some gain—and the tedium of the work was overcome with the flights of fancy. I can say with Oliver Goldsmith: "Every situation in life might bring its own peculiar pleasures."
Inspiration and Meditation By Lettie B. H. Rich
Far up in a beautiful canyon By the side of a river fair, Is a wild rose-bush, its blossoms With fragrance perfuming the air.
While resting beside its beauty And dreaming away my care, I studied, pondered, and wondered At such loveliness blooming there.
Towering over this modest rose-bush Waved a tall and stately pine Looking down upon creation, Taking no heed of time.
I saw in this sun-kissed pine tree, The little squirrels at play, Their chirp of gladness sounding Along the mountain way.
The blue sky and the mountains Kept vigil above them all. I sat in silent reverence, My spirit enrapt, enthralled.
The beauty of rose-bush and pine tree The mountains and sky above Were all created by God's hand And given to us with His love.
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
To loiter in the sweet gloom of a September day, when the purple hills throw back the setting sun's soft glow and all the air is filled with fragrance of clover bloom and eglantine, is to forget the worries of the day and to remember God's most precious gifts are given freely to all men.
ANNA ELEANOR ROOSEVELT, first lady of the land, has now added to her versatile career the interesting task of columnist, and for the coming year will edit a question and answer department for the Woman's Home Companion. She will receive the modest sum of $1,000 a month for this service.
MRS. MARIAN GLASS BANNISTER of Virginia has been appointed assistant treasurer of the United States.
Miss CHARLOTTE CARR, Vassar graduate, and prominent social worker, has been appointed Secretary of Labor and Industry for the state of Pennsylvania by Governor Pinchot, and Miss Josephine McGowan has been named director of the minimum wage law in Ohio. Both appointments are in harmony with the wishes of Madam Secretary Perkins.
MRS. MARY TEASDEL, Utah artist, has been honored this summer by having an art collection named for her in Smithfield, Utah. She contributed a number of beautiful water color sketches to the collection.
LOUISE CLOSSER HALE, who died this summer, was equally great in many roles. She was an author of note, a promoter of plays, and a playwright, a popular film actress, and a choice friend in literary and theatrical circles. Perhaps she will be remembered longest as heroine in "The White Sister," "Shanghai Express" and "The Barbarian."
HELEN WILLS MOODY, America's tennis champion, has a close competitor in the youthful Helen Jacobs. Though she won the Wimbledon titles over the English champion, Miss Dorothy Round, she has not yet more than equalled the record of France's favorite, Suzanne Lenglen.
AMY JOHNSON MOLLISON, with her no less daring husband, made a forced landing just as they neared their goal, New York. Nothing daunted, though injured and disappointed, this intrepid couple are now preparing a longer and more dangerous flight to South America.
EDITH WHARTON has issued a book of short stories which the critics pronounce equally as excellent in craftmanship as her longer and earlier novels.
ZONA GALE'S novelette, "Papa La Fleur," is a charming idealization of character rather overpoetized than plausible as a story of reality. It is however delightful reading and characteristic of the author.
MRS. ELIZABETH M. BASS of Chicago has recently been assigned the most difficult task of district chief of the federal narcotic bureau.
Notes from the Field
Hawaiian Mission.
SISTER JANET SCOTT, who returned from a mission to Hawaii during the Summer, has this to say: "It has been my rare privilege to attend over 35 different Relief Societies in the Hawaiian Mission and participate with those faithful sisters in the various activities. The Relief Society Presidents are capable, competent, self-sacrificing mothers. Each Hawaiian Relief Society member speaks at least two languages—English and Hawaiian. The older members who were trained in the Hawaiian speaking schools have learned to read, speak and write English through diligent study of our Church literature. The Relief Society Magazine was introduced into the organization this year as their guide; previous to this time the lessons were translated into Hawaiian. Through constant reading and faithful study of our Magazine these women have learned to read and write and speak English more fluently. The Magazine has improved the home circle, given thought for more expansive learning, developed a keener appreciation for the fine arts, and served as a guide for constructive doctrinal interpretation. Under the loving, sympathetic and capable leadership of Sister Castle H. Murphy, the activities have increased in members and accomplishments. The young girls from the ages of 14 to 25 years have joined with the mothers, thus bringing mother and daughter together in mutual interests and understanding. The sisters afflicted with leprosy in their settlement at Kalaupapa, are most appealing. To hear them sing "Count Your Many Blessings," and in all humility praise our Father for His goodness unto them is a demonstration of great faith. They, the Hawaiian Sisters, likewise are carrying out the lessons as planned, and through their fine efforts others are requesting that they might be affiliated with them. As the birthday anniversaries of the organization roll round, each sister Relief Society invites the Relief Society of the island to a reception. In response to this invitation, birthday gifts are given, luncheon served, testimonies and the spirit of "Aloha" fills the souls of hostesses and guests. Each member has her beautiful white dress which is saved for Relief Society meetings. Our Hawaiian mothers are proud, and where they meet for worship and service, personal appearance is important.
"Quilt making and lauhala weaving is an original and developed art, and through cooperation our sisters use these methods for finance, which means so earned is showered generously on the less fortunate.
"The Relief Society sisters have proven mothers to each Missionary; their homes were our homes. May it be your joy to meet our dear sisters in this land of love, sunshine, flowers and music."
St. Joseph Stake.
JUNE 2, 1933, being the 50th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society in the St. Joseph stake, the Stake Board decided to celebrate with an excursion to the Arizona Temple to do work for the dead. Of the 11 members of the Stake Board, there were 10 present, the absent one being away from home. There were 140 in all, including a good number of our Bishops and Ward Presidents. Before beginning the work a special testimony meeting was called by President David K. Udall, and all were privileged to participate. A good many took advantage of this opportunity, among them the Stake Board, after which our Stake President Harry L. Payne, spoke for a short time. The music was furnished by members of the stake. The first session had to be divided into two companies, so many wished to participate. At 4 p. m., there was a special session called for members of the St. Joseph Stake. Between the morning and afternoon session the Relief Society of the Maricopa Stake served all with excellent refreshments. In the evening there was another session. During the day there were 459 endowments and of these 390 were given by the St. Joseph Stake. There was great rejoicing in the Temple, and we feel that there was on the 'Other Side' also. The Temple officials stated that June 2nd was the largest day that the Temple has had since the dedication.
Notes to the Field
The Magazine Drive
AGAIN we call attention to the time for our Magazine drive, September 15 to October 15 (See July Magazine, page 442). The subscription list depends largely on the ability of the officers and Magazine agents to make people realize they need the Magazine. Many have refrained from making a very intensive drive because they felt times were so hard, but we notice it is not always the stakes that are best off financially that have the largest subscription lists. Members of the Relief Society cannot keep in close touch with the work and be prepared with their lessons without the Magazine. Every effort should be put forth to get it as widely circulated as possible.
As Relief Society Magazine Representatives, in the Ensign Stake, we decided to study our magazine that we might know the contents of it and be able to present it, intelligently, to our public. Each month, in our department in Union Meeting, a Ward Representative would be called on to present something from the Magazine. This called for careful reading and preparation and many interesting things were presented and discussed. This study has created a feeling of friendliness and enthusiasm and our Representatives already feel much better prepared to carry on their work.
Rose H. NEELEY, Magazine Rep., Ensign Stake.
A Unique Feature
THE President of Ensign Stake, Janet Thompson, asked the Stake Magazine Agent, Rose H. Neeley, to prepare something to represent The Relief Society Magazine on the closing program. When requested to write a song, Brother Alan G. Mann gave her the following which was sung by Jackie Barlow—three years old:
(Sung to tune of "Dew, Dew, Dewy Day.")
Verse. Ladies please gather round me, Ladies I'm glad you found me, I'm your magazine—good old magazine, Ladies, you surely need me, Ladies won't you all read me, Always boost for me—Relief Society.
First Chorus. Won't you look inside my cover, There's a million things to see For I am a part, a very big part, of Relief Society. I've some very pretty pictures, and a lot of poetry, For I am a part, a very big part, of Relief Society. Read today—don't delay. Would I do a lot of good, you bet your life I would, Boy I'll say, And I've got some dandy stories, They're as pleasing as can be, For I am a part, a very big part, of Relief Society.
Second Chorus. Now each month I have a lesson, In good theology, For I am a part, a very big part, of Relief Society. And I have Teachers' Topic, It's as good as gold, you see For I am a part, a very big part, of Relief Society. By the way—By the way, Do you know I discuss a book, each month a story book, Boy I'll say, And my Social Service lesson is presented masterly For I am a part, a very big part, of Relief Society.
Third Chorus (Encore.) Oh I'm full of youth and beauty, I'm a pleasant memory, For I am a part, a very big part, of Relief Society. And a lot of thoughts uplifting, You will find inside of me, For I am a part, a very big part, of Relief Society. People say—People say
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Every year I bring more to you, I hope you think so too, Boy I'll say. Mary Kimball is my mama, She is very good to me, For I am a part, a very big part, of Relief Society.
-JACKIE BARLOW
Lesson Helps
MANY are desirous of having the "Commentary on the Doctrine and Covenants." The price is $4.00. The Deseret Book Company makes this offer: "Commentary of Doctrine and Covenants" and "The Story of the World's Literature," by John Macy, both for $4.00 if cash accompanies the order. Those who have already purchased the literary text may secure the Commentary for $3.00.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Mary Connelly KIMBALL Manager Louise Y. ROBISON Assistant Manager Amy Brown LYMAN
VOL. XX SEPTEMBER, 1933 No. 9
EDITORIAL
The International Council of Women
THE International Council of Women had its beginning in Washington, D. C., in 1888 at a jubilee meeting to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the woman's rights movement on this continent. Its impetus came from a group of pioneer suffragists which included Susan B. Anthony, May Wright Sewall, Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Frances E. Willard. The Relief Society and Young Woman's Mutual Improvement Association are listed among its charter members and have ever been deeply interested in its welfare.
THE Council is composed of twenty-eight national and three state and local organizations with a combined membership of 5,000,000. Through its membership with the National Council of Women it is affiliated with thirty-three foreign groups. It disseminates information and interchanges ideas between its member societies through the following committees: Child Welfare, Economics, Education, Industrial Relations, International Relations, Letters, Motion Pictures, Music, Penology, Permanent Peace, Public Health and Social Hygiene.
When it was known that there would be a Century of Progress Exposition held in Chicago this summer, the Council decided to call an International Congress to consider the question of "Our Common Cause—Civilization" and to discuss what contribution women can make towards a new world order in which there shall be security and opportunity for all. The Council published a volume, "Angels and Amazons," written by Inez Haynes Irwin, which in a dramatic way gives a comprehensive story of the work of women's organizations for the past 100 years.
IN the Hall of Social Science at the Exposition the Council has an exhibit showing the achievements of women for the past 100 years. The sixty foot mural showing "Woman's march toward education, temperance, peace and the entry of women in professional and business fields" gives a wonderful story in a beautiful way. The historical mementos of women leaders attracts attention. We are glad to have Amy Brown Lyman serve as third vice-president of the Council and appreciate the courtesy extended to President Robison who had the opportunity to ably preside at one of the sessions of the Congress. We were glad to see the space devoted to the activities of the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. In the three large books that were on display in the Hall of Social Science, showing the part women have played in Education, Social Service and Recreation during the past century.
One of the unique features of the Congress was the contribution the Relief Society made through the Singing Mothers. Their beautiful program was broadcasted from the Salt Lake Tabernacle and was listened to in the Court of Honor at the Exposition. Many compliments were received from the officers of the National Council and foreign guests who enjoyed the lovely numbers.
Each of the member organizations had the opportunity of portraying its work in booths in the large Convention Hall at the Palmer House. The Relief Society showed by posters its four outstanding departments: Social Welfare, Education, Health and Civic Activity.
An unusually large delegation of women from our Church organizations attended this Congress. President Louise Y. Robison, Counselors Amy Brown Lyman, Julia Alleman Child, Secretary Julia A. F. Lund and Mary C. Kimball, Editor of the Relief Society Magazine were there. President Ruth May Fox, Counselor Clarissa A. Beesley, of the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association, attended, as also did Superintendent May Anderson and First Assistant Superintendent Isabella S. Ross of the Primary.
SIXTY FOOT MURAL IN THE HALL OF SOCIAL SCIENCE Showing Woman's March Toward Education, Temperance, Peace, and her Entry in Professional Business Fields
EDITORIAL
Dr. James E. Talmage
IN the passing from the earth life of Doctor James E. Talmage of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, the Church loses one of its most brilliant sons, one of its most able advocates, one of its most fluent writers and one of its most convincing speakers. In the 70 years he tabernacled on earth, judged by achievements, he lived many times three score and ten years for work was with him a passion. From early morn until late at night with almost no intermission he was at his desk writing and going over manuscript submitted for his criticism. He allowed nothing to interfere with his Church duties. Often he was called upon to do scientific work and might have made a great deal of money thereby, but he felt his time, his talents, his every effort must be devoted to the Church and his high calling as an apostle. While he was always willing to do service for others, he sought no favors for himself. He has made some of the finest contributions to Church literature and. For all time he will be remembered through the splendid things he has written. To his devoted wife and children our hearts go out in sympathy. May they rejoice in his achievements and emulate his many virtues. May peace come to them and may time heal their broken hearts.
Support the Eighteenth Amendment
SO much propaganda has gone forth against the 18th Amendment and so many millions have been spent to do away with it that many people who were staunch defenders are wavering in their allegiance. We call upon all of our women to study the question thoroughly before they vote (the Utah date is November 7.) They should meet in groups and weigh the matter carefully and vote their conviction based on fundamental principles. We do not need revenue from sources that will lower our standards. Our ideals and the principles of the Gospel should make us unwavering in our allegiance. President Heber J. Grant and President Anthony W. Ivins have come out most emphatically in favor of the 18th Amendment. People who stand for law and order should take no backward step. If the 18th Amendment is repealed no provision has been made for anything better than the open saloon. Every woman should consider well what the return of the open saloon will mean. We hope that our people will stand united for the 18th Amendment.
A Worthy Example
WE have often wondered why our local people were not more generous in public bequests. In the East wealthy men and women have done much to further education, science, art, but in our inter-mountain States very few have left much in the way of public bequests. Mrs. Mary Priscilla Spencer Carlson who died July 30th at her home in Salt Lake City, after providing legacies for relatives and friends, has left the bulk of her estate to the University of Utah in honor of her husband, to be used as the board of regents may decide. If the money should be used for a new building, the will expressly asks that the edifice be named for her husband, who was at one time a regent of the University. Mrs. Carlson also leaves $5,000.00 to the Latter-day Saint Hospital. $5,000.00 for Latter-day Saint Temple work, $2,000.00 for the indigent and maintenance funds of the Latter-day Saints Nineteenth Ward, and $3,000 for the Latter-day Saints University. We hope her worthy example will be followed by others.
President Robison Calls on Relief Society to Support N. R. A.
WE all remember those tragic periods of long and arduous labor so freely given by our women during the World War; and how we skimped and saved and worked to buy Liberty Bonds! Today our beloved country is facing a far more serious crisis than it met during the War. The best informed public servants, the greatest authorities in economics in the world, do not hesitate to say that the banking system has failed, that industry has failed, even education has failed to save us in the crisis. The only resource left to which we may look for solution is our Government. This can succeed only with the cooperation of the people. The Government can plan and supply the means the people must make these plans a reality by concerted action and whole-hearted support. The past called for one form of expression for love of country—the present demands another—but in spirit it is the same. In 1917-1918 it was patriotic to buy Liberty Bonds—it is just as patriotic today to support the N. R. A. In the name of our Relief Society organization we are calling you to rally to the support of our beloved country. To cooperate with the local committee in the study and enforcement of the provisions of the N. R. A. You have been tried in the past, and never been found wanting. We know we can depend upon your loyal support in the present.
New Appointments
DR. JOHN A. WIDTSOE has been released after six years of service as president of the European Mission, to return home and Dr. Joseph F. Merrill has been appointed to this important position. Elder James H. Moyle has been released from presiding over the Eastern States Mission and Elder Don B. Colton appointed to take his place. It is wonderful how many efficient people there are in the Church able, ready and willing to take positions of responsibility. Wives of Mission presidents play an important part in their success. Sister Widtsoe has done a marvelous work throughout the European Mission and Sister Moyle has done very fine Relief Society work in the Eastern States. We will welcome the returning missionaries and say God speed to those who take their places.
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony (First Week in October)
OBEDIENCE TO LAW THE BASIS OF REWARD
LESSON X
1. Sectarian Conception of Grace. The grace of God as conceived and taught by numerous sectarian organizations is the unmerited love and favor of Deity, especially as shown in the salvation freely provided for mankind. In a word, the doctrine teaches that Deity extends salvation to whomsoever he chooses, irrespective of their works or deserts. Accordingly, the earthly deeds of God's children are not determining factors in the condition of future life. In still other words, rewards of eternal life are not given on the basis of merit, but rather as the result of Divine will. Nor is this interpretation entirely without scriptural support; that is in isolated passages. For example: In his epistle to the saints at Ephesus, Paul the apostle declares, "For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God: not of works, lest any man should boast." (Ephesians 2:8, 9.) Paul conveys essentially the same thought in his second letter to the saints at Corinth, as follows, which are the words of Christ to him: "My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness." (II Corinthians 12:9.) According to the point of view set out at the beginning of this paragraph, the scriptures just quoted are interpreted to mean that the grace of God is sufficient unto salvation irrespective of the deeds of those upon whom it falls.
2. An Application of this Point of View. The writer of this lesson at one time lived in the same neighborhood as an old woman who raised and sold flowers for a living. She loved her flowers; they were almost a part of her, and she was generous in giving them to her friends. I have seen her repeatedly pass my home, knee-deep in snow, with her arms filled with flowers as a gift to a sympathizing friend. In course of time she died. She had not been a member of any church; indeed, it is doubtful that she had even formally acknowledged faith in the saving grace of God. A simple funeral service was arranged at the home and a sectarian minister was invited to officiate. Among other things, he voiced his regret that the woman had not confessed belief in Christ, and expressed fear that because of this any reward for her in the future was gravely uncertain.
3. At about the same time a rollicking school boy of fourteen years returned to his home, in the same neighborhood, for his noon-day luncheon. His mother, a widow, was a school teacher and hence was away from home. The boy opened the front door and went through a long hall to the kitchen, where, greatly to his surprise, he found a thief ransacking the house. The boy ran toward the front door, and while doing so the thief shot him in the back. The momentum of the boy's body carried him through the front door, across the porch, and on to the lawn, where he died before being able to tell what had happened. In course of time, the murderer was apprehended, tried, and adjudged guilty. On the day set for his execution he called in his spiritual adviser and confessed guilt. Whereupon he was assured that all was well with his soul.
4. It is needless to say that circumstances such as these are an offense to good judgment. It is everything but reasonable to assume that Deity would consign the old woman to everlasting punishment, and the murderer to eternal bliss. Such a thing would be abhorrent even to the basest of human beings. It is little wonder, therefore, that sectarianism is unattractive to many people who believe in the justice of God and who therefore deny themselves the advantage of church affiliation, which otherwise they would choose to accept. Christianity, alas, has suffered much because of man's inability properly to interpret it.
5. Necessity of Good Works. It is difficult to understand why the doctrine of unmerited rewards is acceptable to any believer in Christ, unless it is because of the widespread desire among men to obtain something for nothing, since the doctrine is unfair to both God and man. Even Paul's statement to the Ephesians, upon which the "grace" conception of salvation is largely based, does not teach the futility of good works. Indeed, quite to the contrary. After declaring himself with respect to the potency of grace (Ephesians 2:8, 9) he emphatically states that men are the workmanship of God "created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them." (Ephesians 2:10.) This point alone makes the truth perfectly clear that good works are basic to the grace of God and indispensable to those who receive Divine favor.
6. Listen further, however, to the words of this same Paul to his beloved Titus, whom he describes as his "own son after the common faith:" "This is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable unto men." (Titus 3:8.) To the Romans Paul declared that "the judgment of God is according to truth," and that he "will render to every man according to his deeds: to them who, by patient continuance in well doing, seek for glory and honor and immortality, eternal life: but unto them that are contentious, and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation and wrath." (Romans 2:6-8.)
7. James, a disciple of Christ, was even more emphatic. To the scattered tribes of Israel he said: "Be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves." (James 1:22.) Again: "What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit? Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. * * * Wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? * * * For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also." (James 2:14-26.) The unmistakable words of the apostle John are well known to all: "He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God perfected: hereby we know that we are in him." (I John 2:4, 5.) The same disciple further declares: "And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works." (Revelation 20:12.)
8. By Grace Are Ye Saved. On the other hand, perhaps no one would defend the idea that man, unaided by divine power, is able to save himself in the kingdom of God, irrespective of the character of his works. In other words, man alone is wholly impotent to bring himself back into the presence of the Father. Such being the case, it is evident that the necessary help must be freely extended to him from on high. Moreover, it will hardly be argued that Deity is under any obligation whatsoever to give this help. It is evident, therefore, that salvation is a free gift from God to man. Men are thus truly and literally saved by the grace of God, not by their works lest they should boast.
9. But let us hasten to another viewpoint. An illustration may assist to better understanding. In many of the larger educational institutions of the world, so-called fellowships and scholarships have been established for the assistance of deserving students. The purpose behind the launching of these benefits is wholly philanthropic. The founder is under no obligation to those for whom he thus provides; his offering is a free gift. But it being a free gift, the donor is likewise free to name the conditions under which the benefits shall be allowed. High scholastic standing, good moral character, physical fitness, dependability, industry, etc., are usually placed foremost among the stipulated requirements. These rewards are everywhere known to be free gifts from the founder, and it is also known that they cannot be obtained without making the necessary preparation.
10. It need scarcely be said that these coveted scholarships are never awarded to indifferent or unprepared students, but only to those who have equipped themselves to properly benefit by the gift. It cannot be said that even the worthy student has earned the reward, since the donor is in no way obligated to offer it. The benefit is thus a free gift to those who prepare themselves to meet the stipulations.
11. So it is with the blessings of God. Deity is not obligated to save men in his kingdom. Conversely, men have no ability of their own to reach it. Deity, on the other hand, has offered the gift of salvation to all of those who properly prepare themselves. Salvation is thus a free gift from God; it is by his grace that men are saved. But Deity, like the donor of educational scholarships, extends the reward only to those who meet his requirements.
12. Futility of Unmerited Rewards. The uselessness of unmerited rewards should be apparent without comment. No advantage could accrue, for example, to the indifferent and failing student by giving him a scholarship to an educational institution for which he had made no preparation, since the advanced facilities thus offered would have no meaning for him. Likewise, it would be futile to send a man to heaven who had not made requisite preparation; a murderer, for example, would be ill at ease in the presence of the Master. People are able to enjoy only those things for which they are prepared. This matter is made exceptionally clear in the following statement of the Lord relating to the future condition of men's spirits: "He who is not able to abide the law of a celestial kingdom cannot abide a celestial glory. And he who cannot abide the law of a terrestrial kingdom cannot abide a terrestrial glory. And he who cannot abide the law of a telestial kingdom cannot abide a telestial glory; therefore he is not meet for a kingdom of glory. Therefore, he must abide a kingdom which is not a kingdom of glory." (D. & C. 88:22-24.)
13. Obedience a Basic Requirement. Perhaps the most pertinent instruction ever given by Deity to man relative to the necessity of obedience is the following: "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated—And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." (D. & C. 130:21, 22.) This information was given April 2, 1843, at Ramus, Illinois, and repeated three months later at Nauvoo
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in slightly different language, as follows: "All who will have a blessing at my hands shall abide the law which was appointed for that blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were instituted from before the foundation of the world." (D. & C. 132:5.).
Suggestions for Discussion and Review
1. In what sense are men actually saved by the grace of God and not by their own works? Is salvation a gift from God? Why?
2. Why is the sectarian doctrine of unmerited rewards contrary to the wisdom and justice of God?
3. Why is it possible for man to enjoy only those things for which he has made preparation?
4. Why are good works a pre-requisite to salvation? Why would it be impossible for a hardened sinner to enjoy the presence of God?
5. Why do good works prepare one for the enjoyment of God's blessings? Why is it that laggards do not enjoy, say, the reading of good books?
Teachers' Topic
THE GREAT OBJECTIVE OF LIFE
The great objective of life is to obtain exaltation and to become like God.
Scriptural Text: "And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them.
"And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads forever and ever." Abraham 3:25-26.
"Man is that he might have joy." 2 Nephi 2:25.
References: Moses 1:38-39; Matt. 5:48, 6:33; Rev. 21:7.
The pre-existent state was one of preparation and proving for the second estate, to see if the spirits of men would be worthy of this earth-life, or mortality. Spirits were unable to obtain an exaltation without bodies of flesh and bones and the experiences of mortality. The earth-life is of two-fold nature (a) That spirits who kept their first estate might be clothed with tabernacles of flesh and bones in preparation for the resurrection and immortality and eternal life; (b) That all who receive bodies might in this life be proved and found worthy or otherwise.
Our worthiness brings a fulness of joy. Discuss what a fulness of joy means. The great battle of life is the pursuit of happiness, and we should have joy in this life as well as the life to come. Brigham Young said: "Our work is a work of the present. The salvation we are seeking is for the present and sought correctly, it can be obtained, and be continually enjoyed. I am decidedly in favor of practical religion of everyday useful life, and if I today attend to what devolves upon me to do, and then do that which presents itself tomorrow, and so on, when eternity comes I will be prepared to enter in the things of eternity."
Our joy now and in life to come is dependent on progression made here. "Progression is the successfully meeting problems of this life day by day, a harmonious development of all our powers."
We should be thoroughly impressed with the fact that character building is the most important business of this mortal life, for true character brings to the individual joy now, and helps to bring a fulness of joy in the life to come. "Be ye therefore perfect as your Father in heaven is perfect." This is the goal we are seeking.
Literature (Third Week in October)
LIFE AND LITERATURE
LESSON I
"Books without the knowledge of life are useless, for what should books teach us but the art of living." —Dr. Samuel Johnson.
IN the "Book of Literature," Man, the author, has recorded his experiences in the pursuit of the Good, the True, and the Beautiful in Life. The measure of civilization lies in the opportunities provided for man to attain his highest development. History has recorded the material facts of human progress; discovery, conquest, expansion, dominion. Literature has recorded what man has thought and felt as with Ulysses-like courage he has continued through the ages "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield" in his quest for Happiness.
Life and Literature.
THE world in which man found himself was a world of mystery. The external world, the world of Nature, was his first problem. He must live; nutrition and security he must have. The inner world, the world of Self, of appetites, passions, emotions, impulses, provided never-ending conflicts. Then there were the universal mysteries, Life and Death. Man learned first to conquer; then to understand.
In the conquest of the external world, man became a hero. During the dawn of civilization, Man recorded in his "Book of Literature" his heroic experiences. As the ages passed, man sought to understand. Now he dealt in ideas. He made for himself simple explanations of the mysteries that baffled him. These explanations were made in human terms; thus to him, day came when Apollo drove the chariot of the sun across the sky, and when one day the strange phenomenon of an eclipse of the sun occurred, it was because Apollo had allowed his inexperienced son to drive the chariot. These beautiful story-explanations were recorded as myths.
Later the mind of man became dissatisfied with the primitive explanations; his desire for that which is true grew apace. Man's quest for truth has provided the world with that body of information known as scientific fact with all its utilitarian values.
Gradually, there arose in man a new need. He was surrounded by Good and Evil; he became aware of the constructive and destructive forces at work in the world. This was a spiritual need; he needed to know the meaning of honor, virtue, and morality. But most of all he needed an ethical code for his guidance. Out of the early spiritual experiences of man grew the beginnings of the systems of philosophy and ethics which have been refining factors of civilization.
Similarly, man became aware of Beauty. He saw that harmony was beautiful; he felt it also. The desire came first to represent that which was beautiful; later, man desired to create that which was beautiful. This was the origin of Art.
For centuries Man's "Book of Literature" existed in oral form. Out of his desire for a permanent record, the art of writing grew. Only a few of the civilizations that rose, flourished, and died when the world was young enshrined their heroism and their wisdom in the permanent form of literature. Don Marquis, one of today's singers, gives a reason for the oblivion of the others:
"By Tigris o'er the streams of Ind, Ere Colchis rose, or Babylon, Forgotten empires dreamed or sinned, Setting tall towns against the dawn.
They built with gold and bronze and brawn, The inner Vision still denied, Their conquests—Ask oblivion, 'They had no poet, and they died.'"
The Making of Literature.
LITERATURE is an art of expression. Life-experience is the material out of which all great literature is made. It may be made of the experience of a single individual, as Shelley's "Ode to a Skylark;" it may be made of the experience of a nation, as Homer's "Iliad;" it may be made of the experience of a religion, as Milton's "Paradise Lost." As such expression literature becomes the foremost of the great humanities. Also, as such, it is a record, a criticism, a prophecy. As a record it presents life as it appears; as a criticism of life it is an explanation and an interpretation; as a prophecy of life "it reveals the hidden loveliness of the world, it points out the ideal that is ever seeking to push through the husks of things to reveal the inner spiritual reality."
The art of expression is not an accident; the makers of literature have striven first, to follow the Sophoclean example "to see life steadily and see it whole," then, to attain a beauty of form and expression: The Greek genius, zest for life, keen power of analysis, thirst for knowledge, splendid originality, vigorous imagination, fondness for beauty, when applied to literature yielded a product which has remained unexcelled through the ages. Aristotle, at the close of the creative epoch of Greek life, looked at the literary product of his race and recorded the principles which had made for perfection. This first literary lawmaker in the "Poetics" gave to makers of literature the doctrine of art—a work of art is a likeness of the original, or a reproduction as it appears to the individual, or an expression of the universal element in human life, or an idealized representation of human life.
Latin literature followed the classic tradition established by the Greeks. Horace, the great Latin satirist, added the principle that literature was "to instruct and to delight." Longinus (lon ji nus) in the third century, evolved the principle of sublimity "to lift one out of oneself."
The classic pattern of literature lay hidden during the Dark Ages. Early Christian influence in Europe stifled any freedom of expression with its "other worldliness" and its censorial attitude. Medieval Europe recorded its romance in ballad and story through its troubadors and minstrels.
Then came the re-discovery of the Greek and Latin classics. The invention of printing, the Reformation, the discovery of the New World marked the passing of the old order of things and ushered in an intellectual new-birth. The great literary product of the Elizabethan Age was the result in England. In France also there was a period of great literary productivity. The French sought to follow slavishly the classic tradition, allowing no liberality. They denounced the Elizabethans; Shakespeare for too much romance, Sir Philip Sydney for claiming for the poet "that he may teach, that he may delight, that he may move," Dryden for his theory that literature was an organic force which develops with the nation and the age. The battle of the chief makers of literature raged for almost a century. Freedom came with a new school of writers, Lessing and Goethe in Germany, Coleridge and Wordsworth in England. Poetry now became "the blossom and the fragrance of all human knowledge, human thoughts, human passions, emotions, language."
The last century produced two great literary guides, Matthew Arnold and Sainte-Beuve (sant buv). Matthew Arnold, the English poet and critic, wrote that "Poetry is a criticism of life—The true end of art, and of poetry especially is, like religion to strengthen and uphold the heart with high aspirations and consolations." Sainte-Beuve, the greatest of French critics, claimed that a true classic "enriches the human mind, discovers some great truth, reveals some eternal passion—in no matter what literary form only provided it be broad and great, refined and sensible, sane and beautiful in itself." So spoke Homer to the human race as he told an epic story, so also did Sophocles in dramas revealing the victoriousness of life, so also did Shakespeare in the delineation of human character.
As a revolt against the moral values of literature supported by the writings and teachings of the great critics, Arnold and Sainte-Beuve, there arose a new claim, that of "Art for Art's Sake." This conflict continues.
Today a comparatively new literary form is creating much consternation with its growing pains, fiction, that form into which experience is cast by means of the imagination. The present age is a "Battle of Books." Commercialism and fashion are the literary rulers. It is a new age, the industrial age. Life has new materials, wealth, luxury, and power with hunger, injustice, and reaction stalking alongside. The makers of literature in the present age have difficult tasks. The man of today will be heroic, what beautiful, what moral? Fiction, in the throes of the struggle with commercialism, is in the refining stage. Less hampered than the fiction makers, the poets are singing bravely and well. Through revolt and struggle a new humanism is molding literature, a democratic humanism.
For obvious reasons the ordinary reader needs guidance. Literary counsel is not far to seek, and there is an abundance of it. Fashion and counsel should not be confused. Counsel follows the traditional path, the way of the makers of great books; fashion follows the path of popularity. Emerson in discussing the value of literary counsel states: "Nothing is more important for the reader who loves literature than to become intimately acquainted with its great makers; for they alone can guide him in his judgments, can teach him to distinguish merit, and can enable him to estimate literary values for himself."
To be wise in the ways of the makers of literature "helps the ear to listen when the horns of Elfland blow."
The Enjoyment of Literature.
THE world of the reader is a wonderful world. He can sail the seas with Ulysses, explore the depths and the highest heaven with Dante, listen to the sweet songs of Sappho and Shelley, learn wisdom from Socrates and Emerson, and laugh with Sam Weller and Tom Sawyer. The reader's friends, as his adventures, are legion. From all ages and climes they gather at his bidding; Joseph the dreamer, Andromache, Hamlet, Dr. Johnson and Boswell will be among them.
"Books of Power," "Best Sellers of the Ages," "Much Loved Books" are some of the names given to the great masterpieces of Literature. It has been said that one who has read the Hebrew prophets, the Greek dramatists, and Shakespeare has a view of the greatness of life necessary for true enjoyment.
"Dreams, books, are each a world; and books we know Are a substantial world, pure and good, Round these, with tendrils strong as flesh and blood Our pastime and our happiness will grow." —Wordsworth.
Sohrab and Rustum—Matthew Arnold.
The Poet's Way.
THE source of a poet's inspiration has been explained in many ways; to Wordsworth, it was the "spirit of the universe," to Emerson it was "the oversoul," to "AE" it was "the King in His beauty," to Milton it was "God." As the poet gazes on life he finds the hidden message that is waiting its spiritual expression. Many of the great masters of literature have used the classic pattern to carry their inspiration to mankind.
The Poet. Matthew Arnold.
SINCE the Golden Age of Greece there has been no sincerer admirer and student of the classic tradition than the English poet, Matthew Arnold. His activity as a poet belongs to the earlier part of his life. In addition to "Sohrab and Rustum" his best poetical works include a beautiful version of the medieval legend of "Tristram and Iseult" and "Rugby Chapel," a tribute to his father, the renowned headmaster of Rugby. In 1851 he became the government inspector of schools in Great Britain, which position he held for thirty-five years. In later life he became a leading apostle of culture, through the lectures and essays embodying his ideals. Because of the nature and quality of his writings, Matthew Arnold holds a high place among the great masters of literature.
The Poem.
"SOHRAB AND RUSTUM" is a noble poem. With a sustained grandeur of style, a simplicity of language, and a wealth of graphic detail the author tells a poignantly tragic story. From the echoes of the mist-land of ancient Persia came the story. The poet Firdusi (fér dou'sé) (born 935 A. D.) recorded the story as part of the epic poem "Shah Nameh" (shah na ma), the Persian "Book of Kings." Firdusi was commanded by his king to gather the chronicles of Persia from the earliest heroic times, 3600 B. C., and weave them into a poem so that:
"No tide Shall wash away what men Unborn shall read o'er ocean wide."
Arnold took from the poem the tragic story of the great national hero, Rustum (rtis'ttm), who unwittingly slays his own son, Sohrab. Love of family is the human note in the story. Sohrab seeks to be worthy of his renowned father; Rustum longs for a valiant warrior son. Over the story hangs the mist of Oriental fate; "Fate always gets where it will." The land of the Persians is being overrun by the Tartars, and in "the carnage wide blood flowed like water." In their great distress the Persians implored their great leader, Zal, the greatest warrior the world had ever known, to come to their aid. The ancient warrior sent his son, Rustum, to fight in his stead. Rustum had just taken as his bride the beautiful princess, Tamineh (ta min'ah). Rustum went when called by his father to fight for his king. In due time the lovely Tamineh gave birth to a beautiful boy whom she called Sohrab (sunshine), but fearing lest Rustum should take him away and train him as a warrior, she sent word to him that she had given birth to a daughter. Rustum was kept so busy with the wars that he never once visited his wife while his son was growing up. For a long time Tamineh jealously guarded the secret of Sohrab's birth. But when she could no longer keep him from going forth to battle, she told him her story:
"Listen, my child, and you shall hear Of the wondrous love of a maiden dear For a mighty warrior, the pride of his day Who loved, and married, and rode away, For this is the romance of Rustum." —"Shah Nameh."
The lad, who had always cherished a romantic admiration for Rustum, was overjoyed to learn of his origin. Sohrab joined Afrasiab, the chief of the Tartars, to further a plan to overthrow the Persian king and to place Rustum on the throne. The war raged on giving the young warrior many adventures. Sohrab, anxious for an opportunity to distinguish himself, challenged the Persians to a single combat:
"Come then, hear now, and grant me what I ask. Let the two armies rest today; but I Will challenge forth the bravest Persian lords To meet me, man to man; if I prevail, Rustum will surely hear it; if I fall— Old man, the dead need no one, claim no kin. Dim is the rumor of a common fight, Where host meets host, and many names are sunk; But of a single combat fame speaks clear."
Peran-Wisa, the old Tartar general, pleaded with the restless youth:
"But, if this one desire indeed rules all, To seek out Rustum—seek him not through fight! Seek him in peace, and carry to his arms O Sohrab, carry an unwounded son!"
The pleading was in vain, so Peran Wisa took the challenge to the Persian camp. None of the Persians would volunteer to meet Sohrab, so they appealed to Rustum. At first he refused to be moved by Sohrab's vaunts. Later, however, he is moved to action, and agrees to fight unknown and in plain arms. Sohrab came forth, came seeking Rustum. The old warrior wondered as he eyed the adventurous youth:
"Who was he For very young he seemed, tenderly reared Like some young cypress, tall, and dark, and straight, Which in a queen's secluded garden throws Its slight dark shadow on the moonlit turf, By midnight, to a bubbling fountain's sound— So slender Sohrab seemed, so softly reared. And a deep pity entered Rustum's soul As he beheld him coming;.... 'O Sohrab, wherefore wilt thou rush on death?
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Be governed; quit the Tartar host, and come To Iran, and be as my son to me, And fight beneath my banner till I die! There are no youths in Iran brave as thou. So he spake, mildly;'"
Sohrab was strangely moved, and, running to meet him, begged to know his name, for he had premonition that this was Rustum. Notwithstanding Sohrab's eager inquiries, Rustum refused to divulge his name:
"And then he turned and sternly spake aloud— 'Rise! Wherefore dost thou vainly question thus Of Rustum? I am here whom thou hast called By challenge forth; make good thy vaunt or yield! Is it with Rustum only thou wouldst fight?"
For three consecutive days father and son fought. Several times the son proposed that they sheathe their swords, for his heart continued to be attracted to his opponent, who, fighting down similar emotions, always taunted his antagonist into renewing the fight. On the fifth day Rustum, forgetting everything in the excitement of the moment, met his foe with his usual war cry, "Rustum, Rustum." Sohrab, hearing the shout, stood bewildered, and instead of meeting the onslaught, he sank beneath his father's blow:
"For that beloved name unnerved my arm,— That name, and something, I confess, in thee, Which troubles all my heart, and made my shield Fall; and thy spear transfixed an unarmed foe. The mighty Rustum shall avenge my death! My father, whom I seek through all the world, He shall avenge my death, and punish thee!"
On hearing these words, Rustum anxiously demanded explanations, only to learn that he had mortally wounded his own son. The father would gladly have died with his son in his anguish but Sohrab pleaded:
"Desire not that, my father! Thou must live. For some are born to do great deed, and live, As some are born to be obscured, and die."
And "Awe fell on both the hosts, When they saw Rustum's grief."
The poem is more than an episode, it is a perfect illustration of what Matthew Arnold meant by his claim that literature "is a criticism of life."
Suggestions for Study
A. Materials.
1. The Story of the World's Literature, Chapters 1-3.....................Macy
2. The Outline of Literature.......................Drinkwater
3. What Literature Can Do for Me...................Smith
4. The Appreciation of Literature.................Woodberry
5. Sohrab and Rustum...........................Arnold
B. Program.
1. Music. Poems set to music—The poems of Robert Burns.
2. Discussion. A. The Making of Books. B. The Making of Literature.
3. Reading. A. Passages from "Sohrab and Rustum." B. Lines 515-890 to conclude the narrative.
C. Method. The lesson is planned as an introductory lesson for the entire course. It is necessary that the argument be given careful consideration. The aim of the lesson is the appreciation of literature.
Social Service (Fourth Week in October)
Facts ON PHYSICAL GROWTH,
LESSON X
Knowledge plus a will to use knowledge in doing one's work gives one added power. Effective child care is dependent on the growth results of what is done for children. This lesson has two aims: 1. To develop a desire on the part of parents to use knowledge about the physical growth of children in planning their clothes, recreation, education, daily work, and other activities. 2. To give facts to be learned and used by the class members.
Suggestions for Procedure:
Assign the reading guide for careful home study. This will achieve the first aim and point out how the information given in the supplementary material has immediate value to parents and teachers. Assign for topical study, analysis and report the following items from the report of White House Conference 1930. Take time in class to have these reports given.
Relation of physical growth to poverty, pp. 143-146. Relation of physical growth to the school plant, p. 169. School lunch, p. 174.
Discuss in class the facts given in the supplementary material and encourage class members to memorize them as far as possible.
Reading guide: Growth, pp. 8-15. On page 15 it is made quite emphatic that bodily growth is essential for all development—mental and social. The material on pages 8-15 is designed to do three things for the reader: first, to make clear the difference between the absence of sickness and a condition of health and natural growth; second, to call attention to the facts regarding the rhythmic periods of rate of growth; third, to urge the application of present knowledge of caring for children's physical welfare to the things we actually do.
Problem 1. Is it justifiable to place the responsibility for children's ill-health on heredity or on parents' care? P. 8.
Problem 2. Note carefully the new definition of "Healthy growth." p. 12.
Problem 3. Make a list of the specific items listed on pages 8, 9, 13. Go to class prepared to review lessons studied in previous years on the proper care of children in respect to each of these items.
Problem 4. Be sure that you see clearly the significance of the distinction between growth in size and growth as development or maturing of functions.
Problem 5. Work out the author's belief on the relations of heredity to physical health and growth.
Problem 6. Write out a list of the growth characteristics of the ages 0-5, 6-10, 11-15. Indicate the differences between girls and boys. What educational and social problems are indicated as related to these growth periods?
Problem 7. Make similar lists of the special rhythmic and other facts about growth as given on page 11. The problems on page 13-14 are worth working out by each individual class member.
Supplementary material: Information of value in adjusting child care to the status of physical growth.
TABLE I. MEAN HEIGHTS, WEIGHTS
Obtained by United States Public Health Service (1), and Bird T. Baldwin (2). (From United States Public Health Reports, vol. 37, no. 20 (May 19, 1922), p. 1194.)
Age at Height (inches) Weight (pounds) Nearest Boys Girls Boys Girls Birthday 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2
6..........45.4 45.4 44.8 44.3 47.5 45.2 45.5 42.6 7..........46.8 47.8 46.6 46.8 50.4 50.6 48.3 48.0 8..........48.6 49.8 48.5 49.1 54.5 55.3 52.4 53.8 9..........50.7 51.5 50.5 51.1 59.6 60.7 58.0 59.7 10.........52.6 53.5 52.5 53.1 65.2 67.2 64.0 67.2 11.........54.2 55.3 54.5 55.3 71.1 73.1 70.3 74.1 12.........56.2 56.9 57.0 57.6 78.0 77.7 79.7 83.9 13.........58.0 59.3 59.3 60.1 85.1 88.4 89.7 96.2 14.........60.3 61.8 61.1 61.8 95.4 98.3 99.4 107.2 15.........62.9 64.1 62.5 62.7 108.4 109.4 107.6 115.5 16.........64.6 66.7 63.3 63.6 116.7 120.6 113.6 120.6
LESSON DEPARTMENT
This table is valuable because it shows in actual pounds and inches the average growth rate. The differences in size of girls and boys is clearly shown.
TABLE II. PERCENTAGE RATE OF INCREASE IN HEIGHT AND WEIGHT
Data from United States Public Health Reports, vol. 37, no. 20 (May, 1922), p. 1191 (1), and Baldwin, Bird T.: Physical Growth of Children from Birth to Maturity, p. 157 (2).)
              Height (percent)    Weight (percent)
Age Period Boys Girls Boys Girls 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2
6-7..............4.0 4.1 6.1 6.2 7.2 8.0 6.8 7.2 7-8..............3.9 3.4 3.9 3.4 8.1 7.9 8.5 7.2 8-9..............3.9 3.9 4.4 4.0 9.4 11.3 10.7 13.6 9-10.............3.8 3.6 3.8 4.9 9.4 8.7 10.3 13.1 10-11............3.1 3.5 3.9 3.7 9.0 9.0 9.8 9.3 11-12............3.4 3.2 5.2 3.5 9.7 8.8 13.4 10.5 12-13............3.4 4.2 4.2 4.2 9.1 12.7 12.5 15.0 13-14............4.0 3.3 2.9 2.8 12.1 11.1 10.8 10.1 14-15............4.7 3.3 2.0 2.8 13.6 12.0 8.2 11.0 15-16............3.0 3.1 1.5 1.1 7.7 10.2 5.6 3.7 16-17............2.1 0.1 7.5 0.5
Average 3.48 3.40 9.92 9.40
The relatively slow rate of growth at about six, the very rapid rate preceding adolescence are clearly shown. The sex differences to be expected are indicated. The tables are to be used for reference. No single child will be expected to show the exact height and weight shown on the table but his progress will correspond somewhat closely to that shown in the tables. Special parental care must be taken during periods of rapid growth. Unnecessary worry and forced feeding and other attentions are to be avoided during the periods of relatively slow growth. (Tables from the Hygiene of the School Child—by Terman and Almack). 3. Much use has been made of height-weight tables in recent years in order to check the growth of individual children. These tables have very little value because of the many factors which enter into the height and weight of the child. On this point Terman and Almack say: "The growth status of the individual can never be evaluated by a table of norms computed from the growth averages. Each individual is a law unto himself. A school child may be several inches shorter and many pounds lighter than the average for children of his age, race, and sex, while fully reaching the standard which nature set for him. Nor can we set any limits above and below which abnormality is reliably indicated in the individual child. Measurements of size can give little clue to the normality of the processes within.—(Hygiene of the School Child, p. 24). It is much more important that growth be continuous. Children shouldn't stop growing. This point is admirably emphasized in a recent article by Turner, Lytle and Winnemore entitled "Intermittency in Growth as an Index of Health Status" and published in American Journal of Public Health, May, 1932, pages 455-464, The article stresses the fallacy of serious attention to the height and weight tables and defines intermittency of growth as showing no gain for periods of three months. It compares ninety-five children showing intermittent growth with one hundred children showing gradual 554 growth. The mental, social, and economic conditions of the groups were quite comparable. Special studies of the health habit as shown by inadequate protein, low vitamin intake, inadequate sleep, inadequate liquid, deficient roughage, were made. The sickness record and number of defects were investigated. The results showed that intermittency of growth is an index pointing to problems. The authors give the following summary: "Children who have failed to gain for a three-month period reflect appreciably poorer health habits and definitely lower health status than those who gained regularly. Nearly three times as many in the former group (33.12) have two or more important unhygienic habits; serious physical defects are nearly three times as numerous among them (44. 16); nearly twice as many (27.14) have such defects; illness is nearly - twice as common (12.5). The number of children defective in two or all three of these respects is four times as-great (34.8). Intermittency in gaining weight does not draw a sharp line between the children who seem to need attention and those who do not; but it is more commonly accompanied by departure from normal health than is regular growth. (Obese children usually gain regularly and too rapidly. This summary is not applicable to them.)" 4. Anatomical age has become very significant in recent years in planning the social and educational programs of children. Children who are large physically are not capable of doing the same things that older children of the same weight and height can do. Most learning is dependent on some form of physical activity. The degree of maturity can be somewhat estimated by the interests child should receive attention. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE manifested by the child. It is a common remark heard that this boy is big but is a baby in his actions. The coordination of all of the elements of maturity should be considered. There are three definite developments that indicate problems of anatomical maturity that can be observed or measured. These are (1) dentition, (2) the ossification of the wrist bones, (3) the maturing of the reproductive functions at puberty. If these processes are unduly delayed or occur irregularly the orderly process of physical development is being interrupted and the On this point Curti says: (Curti: Child Psychology) Lon. General Bodily Growth: "Common measures of anatomical age are dentition, ossification of the wrist bones, and pubescence, and these are held to be considerably more important as indications of rate of physical growth than height and weight, which are rougher measures apparently considerably more influenced by fluctuations in nutrition _and general health." The author points out that individual differences in stages of dentition sometimes represent four chronological years. The range in anatomical maturity as measured by the ossification of the wrist bones of children the same chronological age is as great as six years. The onset of' pubescence or the maturity of the reproduction organs the range is as great as six years in chronological age. "When we consider that these three different measures of anatomical age all correspond closely in a given child to each other and to general bodily development, it becomes at once apparent that a knowledge of the stage of anatomical development of a particular child is very important LESSON DEPARTMENT ant for any one who wishes to understand his moods and feelings, as “well as his overt behavior." (p. 81.) Girls develop anatomically more rapidly than boys from infancy leading to the earlier pubescence so commonly noticed but the wide variations within the sexes makes it unsafe to assume that any one girl is more mature than any one boy the same age. 5. Some facts indicated in recent study of children: a. The rate of growth in early childhood is indicative of later growth. If the child is taller - than average when young he will probably be taller when grown. B. The mortality rate is lowest among children at adolescence but the susceptibility to disease is very high. C. In general the physical development is greater in brighter children but height and weight are not significant indexes to brightness. D. Delayed puberty generally results in a shorter period of rapid growth and a corresponding loss in development. E. Children raised in less favorable economic and social conditions are smaller than children raised under more favorable conditions. There ls grave danger to the physical well-being of children in economic crises. Late puberty is one of these undesirable results. {.. There are many physiological differences between adults and children that should be known by parents. The following are some interesting items. Listed by Terman and Almack: The white corpuscles in the blood 555 have less germicidal power so that children should be protected from exposure to children's diseases as long as possible. For example, measles is fatal in five times as many cases in the first year as in the next four years. The child's heart is smaller compared to the body and the arteries. Tne dangers of overworking children physically are very real. The digestive system and process are different throughout and are more dependent on proper and sufficient food, proper exercise and fresh air. Lung capacity grows with height and weight. Girls need greater attention than boys in securing proper breathing habits. The muscular system is a smaller percentage of the body in the child. Voluntary control of the muscles develops first in the fundamental muscles and later in the accessory muscles. Fine delicate movements should not be required in early childhood. School progress needs careful scrutiny to see that they do not neglect the large muscle activity and over-stress writing and other movements of the accessory muscles. The various muscles do not grow at the same rate and strength does not parallel accuracy and speed. The bones ossify slowly so that deformity is possible throughout childhood. "Most expressive is the lack of permanency in the form, structures, 'and functions of the child's organs. From first to last, developmental changes are more important than those of mere growth: It is unsafe, a priori, to infer that anything which is safe or beneficial for the adult is hygienic for the child." (Terman and Almack: The Hygiene of the School Child, p. 65.) Theology and Testimony (First Week in November) THE Law or CONSECRATION 1. Activity Versus Inactivity. The Savior's statement to the effect that it is more blessed to give than to receive is well exemplified in his parable of the talents. The circumstances are briefly these: A man traveling in a far country called his servants together and gave them his goods according to their several abilities. To one of his servants the man gave five talents, to another two, and to another one. Straightway the servant who had received five talents traded with the same and made five other talents. So likewise the servant who had received two talents gained other two. But the servant who received one. Talent buried it in the earth for fear of losing it. Later when the man reckoned with his servants, the one who had received five talents came and brought other five; similarly the one who had received two came and brought other two. But he who had received one came with it alone, explaining that he was fearful of losing it and had buried it in the earth. 2. It is interesting to note that to those who, through their industry and intelligence, had developed their talents, the man gave more, but from the one who had indolently sought to preserve his gift, the man took away that which he had. Now, the same basic principle applies in practically all human affairs; intelligent effort is followed by increased efficiency, and indolence, by decline and atrophy. This capacity to progress by means of intelligent effort is one of Diety's choicest gifts to man. Without it, progression would be impossible; with it, attainment is unlimited. From infancy to old age most of man's improvements, aside from involuntary changes, are the result of directed effort. We learn, for example, to sing by singing, to. Swim by swimming, to write by writing, to think by thinking, to do good by doing good. So far as known, this is the prime, and almost sole, means by which man can go forward. It is possibly transcended by no other gift. It is designated by Deity for man's progress and eventual mastery. 3. So jealous, however, is Deity of this gift that whenever it ceases to be used, the benefits derived from it are quickly withdrawn. It is commonplace, for example, for a musician to decline to perform on the ground that he has not practiced during the last few days and therefore is not at his best. Even a race horse would not be permitted by its owner to enter a contest if it had been out of training for several days. Football coaches are well aware of the effect upon their teams of long periods of inactivity. So it is practically everywhere: decline quickly follows discontinuance of activity. 4° Giving and Receiving. From the foregoing it is not difficult to understand why it is more blessed to give than to receive. The giver must be active, and, accordingly, he grows. Receiving, however, is passive, and hence is usually followed by decline. This latter condition is well illustrated in much of the relief work made necessary by the recent depression. There is something about the repeated receiving of help that seems to strike at the independence and strength of the receiver. It is now generally believed that there are few LESSON DEPARTMENT more effective means of pauperizing people than the continued giving of relief without requiring compensating effort. 5. This is true not only of social problems, but of many others, notably educational. Just as there are beggars who sit by the highway of life and ask for alms, just so there are beggars in schools and colleges who make no serious effort to secure things for themselves, but rely principally upon the help of others. It is needless to say that the student who has not experienced the thrill that comes from the self-mastery of a problem has not yet really started on the roadway of success. Students who master problems for themselves and give to others are invariably strong, while those who habitually receive are weak and flabby. Strength comes from self-effort; weakness follows inactivity and indolence. This is a law of God. 6. Devotion and Success. It is scarcely necessary to state that the heights to which an individual attains are governed by the degree and duration of his devotion. The college man, for example, whose energies are scattered cannot hope for the success attained by another of single thought and action. Half-hearted devotion cannot result in more than partial success. It would not be difficult to state what the outcome of President Abraham Lincoln's administration would have been if his interest had been divided or his allegiance incomplete. Lack of genuine devotion at any critical stage of his administration would have been fatal to his objective, namely the preservation of the American Union. But his loyalty knew no limits and his success was accordingly complete. He both lived and died for his people. 7. Similarly it would not be difficult 557 to imagine what the outcome would have been if Joseph Smith had failed to give full allegiance to the cause of God. But from the day of his vision at Palmyra to the tragedy at Carthage, he devoted his entire strength to the fulfillment of the responsibilities which God had placed upon him. His consecration was complete. In this connection it is well for the student to ponder the word of the Lord relating to the achievements of all of his children, namely: "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated: And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." (Doc. And Cov. 130:20, 21.) The degree of one's success, therefore, is dependent upon the degree of one's devotion. Complete devotion is requisite to complete success. 8. The Law of Consecration. Deity is the father of all men. Relative to his love for his children, he says: "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Moses 1:39.) Again, "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." (John 3: 16.) In return for these transcendent blessings he requires that the saints shall render him full and complete allegiance—that they shall consecrate themselves, their time, their talents, and everything that they have or may have to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, for the building up of the kingdom of God upon the earth and the establishment of Zion. It is not enough, therefore, merely to be a member of the Church or to attend to one's duties when convenience or inclination 558 permits. Neither is it enough for a member of the Church to accept only those principles that make especial appeal and reject those which may not. On the contrary, the Lord requires the full allegiance of his people; he expects them to do their duties at all times and to become wholeheartedly converted to every principle of revealed religion. There is no middle ground for the Latter-day Saint. Religion to him is infinitely the most important matter in the world; all other worthwhile things are merely secondary. His consecration to God must be complete. 9. The United Order. As early as January 2, 1831, scarcely one year after the Church was organized, the Lord promised the saints that when they assembled in Ohio he would give unto them his "law." (Doc. And Cov. 38:32.) Pursuant to this promise, on the ninth day of February, 1831, a very few days after the Prophet's first arrival at Kirtland, the Lord gave a revelation which may well be regarded as the moral law of the Church. (Doc. _and Cov. 42.) Among many other important matters, the revelation directs that the saints shall impart of their material wealth for the support of the poor, and that thereafter every man shall be held accountable unto the Lord, "a steward over his own property, as much as is sufficient for himself and family." After this, "If there shall be properties in the hands of the church, or any individuals of it, more than is. Necessary for their support after this first consecration, which is a residue to be consecrated unto the bishop, it shall be kept to administer to those who have not, from time to time, that every man who has need may be amply supplied and receive according to his wants." (Doc. And RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Cov. 42:33.) Later the Lord further said: "This is a law unto every man that cometh unto this land Zion to receive an inheritance; and he shall do with his moneys according as the law directs." (Doc. And Cov. 58:36.) 10. It was not intended by the law of consecration that properties should be held in common, but rather that men should be equal in their holdings according to their various needs. This is made clear in the following statement: "Let my servant Edward Partridge, and those whom he has chosen, in whom I am well pleased, appoint unto this people their portions, every man equal according to his family, according to his circumstances and his wants and needs." Moreover, '"'Give unto him a writing that shall secure unto him his portion, that he shall hold it, even this right and this inheritance in the church, until he transgresses and is not accounted worthy by the voice of the church." (Doc. And Cov. 51:3, 4.) 11. Furthermore, this law did not intend that idlers should be kept by those who are willing to work, as witness the following: "Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer." (Doc. And Cov. 42:42.) Again, "Let every man be diligent in all things. And the idler shall not have place in the church, except he repent and mend his ways." (Doc. And Cov. 75:29.) 12. Although the United Order was intended to be a permanent measure (Doc. And Cov. 82:20.) yet because of weakness and insufficient faith on the part of many of the saints it was temporarily withdrawn. This occurred June 22, 1834, while the Prophet, with Zion's Camp, was temporarily resting at Fishing River, Missouri. By mob violence, the LESSON DEPARTMENT saints had been forced to leave Jackson County and had taken refuge chiefly in the nearby counties on the north side of the river. At this time the Lord declared through revelation that "Were it not for the transgressions of my people, speaking concerning the church and not individuals, they might have been redeemed even now. My people must needs be chastened until they learn obedience, if it must needs be, by the things which they suffer." (Doc. And Cov. 105:2-6.) This occurred only slightly more than four years after the Church was organized. 13. The Law of Tithing. Shortly after the Prophet's return to Kirtland, he and Oliver Cowdery entered into a signed covenant with the Lord, _ November 29, 1834, to give onetenth of their income to the Church for the benefit of the poor or for whatever other purpose the Lord should command. (History of the Church, Vol. 2, p. 175.) Nearly four years later, after the saints had abandoned Kirtland and were gathering at Far West and vicinity, the Prophet offered a fervent prayer unto the Lord for further information concerning the law of tithing. Here are his words: "O Lord! Show unto thy servant how much thou requirest of the properties of thy people for a tithing." (History of the Church, Vol. 3, p. 44.) In reply the Prophet received the revelation on tithing. (Doc. And Cov. Section 119.) The term "tithing" had been used in several of the revelations prior to this time (See 64:23; 85:3; 97:11,) but evidently as synonymous with "contribution" or "free-will offering." The law of tithing may properly be regarded as a "school master" to bring the Latter-day Saints to an understanding and acceptance of the higher law. It 559 is apparent without explanation that those who do not comply with the lesser law will not be able to abide the greater. 14. General Consecration. Let it be repeated that the law of consecration requires that we shall dedicate ourselves, our time, our talents, and everything that we have or may have, to the Church of the Living God. It is not enough, therefore, that we pay our tithing or offer relief to the poor; we must dedicate our time and talents as well as our property to the cause of God. While at present it is not expected of the Latter-day Saints _ that they shall devote their entire time to the duties of Church Office or give of all their possessions, yet it is expected that they will give in part, as the Lord has directed, and be ready on all occasions to contribute of their time and their talents as opportunity affords. Individuals who wait to be commanded in all things have been aptly described as "slothful servants." Latter-day Saints should ever be watchful for opportunities to do good. This, indeed, should be the objective for which they live and work and die. Suggestions for Discussion and Rewew 1. Show that spiritual growth is necessarily limited to those who are intelligently active. 2. Why in your judgment does the continuous receipt of unearned help tend to weaken the receiver? 3. Why do half-hearted people invariably fail? 4, What does the law of consecration include? Try to enumerate a score of things. 5. In what respects would the United Order be difficult for you to live? 6. Why will it be impossible for those who neglect the law of tithing to enter the United Order? 560 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Teachers' Topic GRATITUDE "And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are came in one body; and be ye thankful. "Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and _ spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. "And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him."—Colossians 3:15-17. "Gratitude is an emotional attitude felt and expressed only by noble souls; it may have an element of pain, because misfortune places them under the stern necessity of accepting favors; and an element of pleasure, because of the thought that there are others in this world who, though fortunate themselves, can sympathize with the misery of others. "The majority of the people are too slow in expressing gratitude for favors received. They are willing to accept benefits as if they had a right to them, and they immediately forget the giver. "Ingratitude is certainly not a product of the better side of our nature "Sweet”. If gratitude is due from man to man, how much more from man to his Maker? Every blessing we have is the gift of God. Our hearts should ever be thankful, for there is a faith that all may possess, which assures us our lives are well ordered and protected." Gratitude is a virtue too much neglected, and there is ample need of developing: a more grateful attitude toward God and toward each other. To express our appreciation will often inspire a person to do good, and live a better life, while failing to manifest gratitude may cause discouragement and failure. How may we show our gratitude toward God? By striving earnestly to do his will and keeping his commandments. We should have an attitude of gratefulness toward our fellowmen because of the many acts of service rendered for our blessings. Is the breath of vernal shower, The bee's collected treasures sweet, Sweet music's melting fall, but sweeter yet The still small voice of gratitude." Gray. Ode for Music 1:61. Literature (Third Week in November ) LIFE AND LITERATURE THE GIFTS OF THE GREEKS TO THE WORLD "Give me beauty in the inward soul; and may the outward and the inward man be at one." —Socrates. Mankind throughout the ages has been engaged upon a high adventure, to bring into perfect harmony the demands of the body, of the mind, and of the spirit. The story of Man's adventure is the story of how he learned to live LESSON DEPARTMENT in his world. The Hebrews stand supreme among man's teachers as he has sought to understand the yearnings of the spirit; the Greeks are the great teachers who have taught him to satisfy the questionings of the mind. The greatness of the Greeks was not in what they did but in their spirit. The Greek spirit, their ideals, the love of Freedom, the love of Truth, the love of Beauty, are the imperishable gifts they have given to the World. The Greek Spirit. Forty centuries ago (2000 B. C.) a little band of Aryans, originally from the plains of Thibet, migrated to the Greek peninsula. Their new home was a beautiful one, a land of sea and mountains. The Hellenes, as they called themselves, came to a land of vanished glory, the work of a people that had built palaces, theatres, fortifications, all bearing the touch of art and culture. Today the secret of Crete, the chief city of this ancient civilization, lies hidden under mounds of earth and a great library of clay records still waiting to be read. After a thousand years the Greeks had mastered the Aegean Sea with their swift ships. This period of great adventure with many heroes was the Heroic Age. The Heroic Age. During the Heroic Age the Greeks lived very near to the gods of their own creating: Zeus, the father of gods and men, Hera, his wife, Poseidon, the god of the sea, Athena. The warrior goddess, Apollo, the god of light, Artemis, goddess of the moon, Hermes, the messenger of the gods. The Greek gods were human in form and wants, yet were immortal—they were glorified men. To the early Greek his Religion was 561 an interpretation of his world, external and internal. From generation to generation the tales of heroes and gods were carried by bards. At last came a great poet, Homer, who recorded the great traditions in the greatest of all epic poems, the Iliad and the Odyssey. An ancient tradition told the story of how Helen, the beautiful wife of Menelaus, King of Sparta, had been carried off by Paris, son of King Priam of Troy, and of how the Greeks collected a mighty army under Agamemnon, King of Argos, and his brother, Menelaus, and sailed ' for Troy to bring back the lost Helen. For ten years they beseiged Troy during which time many heroic deeds were performed. The gods and goddesses themselves came down from Mt. Olympus, their home, and took sides, some helping the Trojans and some the Greeks. Glorious Hector, the Trojan, was slain by Achilles, the Greek. At length Troy was taken, and the Greek heroes returned home. The homeward journey was fraught with many dangers and hardships. The wise Odysseus, especially, had many strange adventures before he reached home. Until the beginning of the nineteenth century no one had taken the events as told by Homer seriously. A German, Schleimann, believed the tales of Troy were true. He went to the place where he believed Troy had once stood and began to dig. His discoveries sent a thrill of excitement through the world. He found Troy; he found also the tomb of Agamemnon. Homer had written about what was really true of the early life of his people as he recorded the tales of the shadowy, misty period of Greek life, the Age of the Heroes. The Greeks emerged from a primitive people to a race of human beings 562 living a beautiful and human life. This age, the Attic Age, was the age of culture. The builders of the age were the thinkers and the artists: "Greece and her foundations are Built below the tide of war Based on the crystalline sea Of thought and its serenity." To know what power inspired the imaginations of their philosophers, the thoughts of their politicians, the hands of their sculptors, and the lips of their writers is to understand the genius of the Greeks. Scholars of many centuries have deliberated long to determine the nature of the genius which gave such rare gifts to mankind. Was it their passion for beauty, their passion for truth, their power to see life, all of life, or their humanism? Xenaphon's answer "It is not in beauty of stature, of strength, or of thought that they are superior, but in ambition that fires them to noble achievement." It is said in beautiful simplicity by Tennyson as the hero Ulysses reveals the secret of the spirit of his race: "To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield." The Greeks loved truth; they tried to see all things straight "with an unclouded clearness of mind." They. Had no guiding tradition as had the Hebrew. Religion was not the same thing for Homer or Socrates as for Moses and Isaiah. The Greek said of his gods "they are"; while to the Hebrew, Jehovah said "I am." The Greek sought Truth; "To bear all naked truths, and to envisage circumstance, all calm." Perhaps the greatest Greek searcher for truth was Socrates. This great teacher sought virtue for its own sake and set forth the principles of ethical life. Plato, the chief disciple of Socrates, in dialog form recorded the teachings of his master as well as his own thinking. Aristotle later became RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the master of Greek thinking. His ideas became the basis of scientific and scholastic thought. His writings were the text books of the Middle Ages. This note of directness with its truth and humanism molded the literature of the Greeks. As they looked upon life Man became "the measure of all things." They saw things as they were without fancy or romance. They recorded life "not as a spectacle, not as a vision of beauty, but as life." Life was its own Paradise, and happiness came throug health, beauty, strength, fame, honor, good fortune, and virtue. So Homer with simple grandeur wrote of the affairs of life, war, peace, home life, adventure; Aeschylus with titanic force wrote of the forces of good and evil in the world; Sophocles with dramatic intensity portrayed human passions and emotion; Euripides with merciless insight revealed moral values; Sappho sang sweetly of the individual—his hopes, dreams, longings, and moods. It was a reasonable view of life due to what Goethe called truthfulness that made Greek philosophy and literature immortal, "Spreading a relic wealth richer than golden mines" through the ages. The Greeks loved beauty, especially the Athenians of the fifth century B. C. To the Greek, beauty meant perfection in all that he did. To him "beauty" was the same as "goodness"', and ugliness was evil. Beauty meant control and harmony, the absence of excess and exaggeration. This understanding of beauty touched all phases of Greek life. Art was the outward expression of this ideal. Art is something that is done. In the - narrow sense, art is the outward sign of the spirit of a nation expressed in painting, in stone, and in marble. The Greeks believed that the forms of art are as many and varied as are LESSON DEPARTMENT the interests of every day life. Except for the vase-paintings, Greek painting has almost disappeared, but the achievements of the Greeks in architecture and sculpture are among the greatest of the world. It seemed as if the Greek love of beauty ran through the whole of their lives as a ferment marking everything they built, statues, buildings, or poems. In mere beauty their literature has never been excelled. The Greeks lived at a time when much was done for the first time. To all of life they brought the spirit of Youth, of Joy in creation, and Patience in achieving. To appreciate fully the Greeks there are several scenes of Greek life we can recreate. First, the Acropolis, the ancient citadel of Athens, upon which eminence stood the Parthenon, the most beautiful Greek temple. This greatest product of the Greek ideal of beauty was created by Ictinus, the architect, and Pheidias, the sculptor., It was surrounded by forty-six great pillars. The carvings symbolized the history of the Greek spirit, national and religious. It was the very soul of Athens. Before the temple stood the statue of Athena, a great figure of gold and ivory nearly forty feet high, whose calm and queenly beauty personified the best of Greek Ideals. Another scene would be the great theatre of Athens where twenty to thirty thousand Greeks were sitting in the sunshine listening for the first time to the opening words of the great drama "Agamemnon" by Aeschylus. As the tragic story of the great warrior is unfolded, flaming words announce that "Violence is not the parent of justice," that "To conquer beyond life is to perish." to Aeschylus it was always so and ever would be that: "Man by suffering shall learn So the heart of him again out his life for evermore." 563 Aching with remembered pain, Bleeds and sleepeth not, until Wisdom cometh against his will." Still another scene would be the great Olympic festival, a yearly national event. The Greeks loved athletic contests and competition because they cared so much for physical beauty and grace. The gathering brought contestants and visitors from all over Greece. The contests included footraces, the pentathlon, chariot races, boxing, and wrestling. _ Beauty, grace, skill, and fleetness were the points of excellence. The honors given to the victors were great; poets wrote odes to them, sculptors made models of them, songs of triumph led them home. Pindar, the poet of the Olympic Games, summed up the feelings of every victor in the words: 'He that overcometh, hath, because of the games, a sweet tranquility through Still another scene, was the Greek school where the Athenian boy learned to be a good man and a good citizen. Without the aid of books the boy learned from his teacher to recite the deeds of the heroes of his race, and the words of the wisdom and beauty of the poets and thinkers' of his race. Music, art, and gymnastics were part of his training. By asking and answering questions he learned to know virtue. Military training and service completed the education of the Athenian youth. Although the material structure of the Greek civilization yielded to the foes, internal strife and external enemies, all that was worthwhile was not to die. The Greek spirit lived and became a benefactor to man, teaching him the ways of Truth and Beauty. An Appreciation of the Greeks The following selections have been 564 chosen because they represent the Greek spirit at its best: The Greek Spirit—'Ulysses"— Alfred Tennyson The Love of Truth—"The Death of Socrates"—Plato The Love of Beauty""—Ode on a Grecian Urn'"—Keats Beauty of Expression—Epic— Homer, Lyric—Sappho Ulysses—Alfred Tennyson To the Greek no hero was greater than Ulysses; he was their ideal man. Ulysses loved life; he enjoyed life. Homer wrote the story of Ulysses in the "Odyssey," It is the story of a powerful warrior prince who went to a ten year war, the Trojan war, and helped to win it. On his way home he wandered far by sea and land in an unknown world; his adventures were many and strange. When he reached home on the island of Ithaca he found his home and kingdom besieged by those who thought him dead. Ina glorious struggle he sets his home and kingdom in order. Tennyson loved the tale of Ulysses; the poem "Ulysses" is frequently considered Tennyson's greatest poem. The poem takes up the story of Ulysses where Homer leaves off. The great adventurer, his house and kingdom in order, is an idle king. His adventurous spirit cannot rest as a name; he must still "drink life to the lees," he must be a "bringer of new things." Telemachus, his son, can with prudence attend the common offices of the small kingdom. So Ulysses calls his mariners and challenges them to follow him into the unknown world again.—''To sail beyond the sunset." —'"To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield." The seriousness and intensity of the poem make it impressive. The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE greatness, however, lies in the fact that the poet has expressed the essence of the Greek Spirit, to look upon life as a great adventure. The Death of Socrates—Plato After two thousand years we can still picture the great teacher, Socrates, surrounded by the youth of Athens. His pupils reverenced him because of his modesty, his truthfulness and his wisdom. He had his own religious faith; he believed in one God and hoped that death was not the end of all things. He was accused of turning the Athenian youth from the faith of their fathers. He was condemned to die. Plato wrote the story of the last days of Socrates in prose more beautifully than poetry. It was ordained that Socrates should drink hemlock. During his last month in prison he spent much time with his friends. Crito, who was devoted to him, entreated him to escape. The brave teacher refused reminding Crito that all his life he had taught that the greatest misfortune that could befall a man was to do wrong. The last day came; still Socrates conversed with his friends of his hope of going to a place to gain the wisdom he had passionately longed for all his life. The jailor brought in the cup of poison. Holding the cup to his lips Socrates readily and cheerfully drank the poison. "Till then most of us had been able to control our grief fairly well; but when we saw him drinking, and then the poison finished, we could do so no longer. ''What are you doing, my friends?" he exclaimed. "TI sent away the women chiefly in order that they might not offend in this way; for I have heard that a man should die in silence. So calm yourselves and bear up." "When we heard that we were ashamed, and LESSON DEPARTMENT we ceased from weeping." Socrates then walked about a little, but soon lay down on the couch, and slowly the numbness crept over him; in a few minutes he was dead. The Ode on a Grecian Urn—Keats No one could have been more in sympathy with the artistic spirit of the Greeks than Keats, who loved "the principle of beauty in all things." In the British Museum, Keats had studied Greek art, especially the marble vases with scenes cut in low relief. Deeply impressed with the loveliness of the urn before him, Keats allows his imagination to make the silent figure of the vase take on life and tell a tale of the past. He sees a throng of fleeing maidens (lines 8-10), a sacrificial procession (lines 31-37), following a priest to the altar, a youth piping beneath the trees (lines 13-15), and a bold lover (lines 15-20). These men and women wrought in marble live with a lasting beauty. In artistic perfection and clearness the poem itself is almost Greek. The ode is the highest expression of Keats as it expresses the fundamental belief that beauty was just another name for truth, and that alone is imperishable. "Beauty is truth, truth beauty: Ye know on earth, and all ye need know. That is all " Sappho—Fragments Sappho, the first woman poet, has been called the greatest woman poet the world has known. Her poems were arranged in nine books but all have disappeared with the exception of a few precious fragments. Poems "are unique both for their wonderful melody and for the intensity of passion which the musical words express." The beauty of the world of nature lies revealed in the two fragments entitled, "Beauty" translated by Rossetti: The 565 I "Like the sweet apple which reddens upon the topmost bough, A-top on the topmost twig,—which the pluckers forgot somehow,— Forgot it not, nay, but got it not, for none could get it till now. II "Like the wild hyacinth flower which on the hills is found, Which the passing feet of the shepherds forever tear and wound, Until the purple blossom is trodden upon the ground." "Love'—A Paraphrase by Moore. As o'er her loom the Lesbian maid In lovesick languor hung her head, Unknowing where her fingers strayed, She weeping turned away and said: "Oh, my sweet mother, 'tis in vain; I cannot weave as once I wove, So wildered is my heart and brain With thinking of that youth I love." "Evening—A Paraphrase by Byron. "O Hesperus thou bringest all good things, Home to the weary, to the hungry cheer, To the young bird the parent's brooding wings, The welcome stall to the o'er-labored steer 5 Whate'er of peace about our hearthstone clings, Whate'er our household gods protect is dear, Are gathered round us by thy look of rest; Thou bring'st the child, tov, to its mother's breast." Homer—Hector's Farewell to Andromache The poetry of Homer has been called the most graceful which the world has ever known. His verse moves with dignity and stateliness— as nobly described by Coleridge "'it bears us along in swelling and limitless billows." Hector, the Trojan hero, is about to engage in mortal combat with great Achilles; he takes leave of his little son. 566 "O thou! Whose glory fills the ethereal throne, And all ye deathless powers! Protect my son! Grant him, like me, to purchase just renown, To guard the Trojans, to defend the crown, Against the country's foes the war to wage, And rise the Hector of the future age! So when, triumphant from successive toils Of heroes slain, he bears the reeking spoils, Whole hosts may hail him with deserved acclaim And say, "This chief transcends his father's fame': While, pleased, amidst the general shout of Troy, His mother's conscious heart o'erflow with joy." So prayed he, the brave Hector, 'facing his doom, but little thinking that, when he himself was slain and the city destroyed, his little son should be cast headlong to death from the towers of Troy, and his dear wife led into captivity. But now Hector laid the boy in the arms of his wife, and she, smiling tearfully, gathered him to her bosom; and her husband caressed her with his hand, and bade her farewell, saying: "Andromache! My soul's far better part, Why with untimely sorrows heaves thy heart? No hostile hand can antedate my doom, Till fate condemns me to the silent tomb. Fixed is the term to all the race of earth; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE And such the hard condition of our birth, No force can then resist, no flight can save; All sink alike, the fearful and the brave. No more—but hasten to thy tasks at home, There guide the spindle, and direct the loom; Me glory. Summons to the martial scene, The field of combat is the sphere for men. Where heroes war, the foremost place I claim. The first in danger as the first in fame.', Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature, Chapters 5-10.—Macy. 2. Ulysses.—Tennyson. 3. The Death of Socrates—Plato. 4. Poems.—Sappho. 5. A Day in Old Athens.—Davis. B. Program: 1. Music. 2. Discussion. A. The Gifts of the Greeks to the World. B. The Greek Ideal of Beauty. 3. Readings. A. "Ulysses." b. "The Death of Socrates." c. "Ode ona Grecian Urn." d. Selections from the poems of Sappho. C. Method: The lesson is planned to present simply yet impressively the ideals of beauty the Greeks created for the world. Social Service (Fourth Week in November ) Factors In Early Habit FORMATION LESSON XI That a child shall live and be healthy is a parent's first purpose. Next to this a parent exerts himself to assure that the conduct of his child shall conform to desirable ethical standards. Parents also want their children to be efficient in a vocation and pleasing in their social contacts. In character, vocation and social contacts there are certain conditions in the environment that remain practically LESSON DEPARTMENT constant throughout life and to which responses can be fixed early. These responses are habits. The aim of this lesson is to help parents to understand the nature and importance of habit and to explain to them how early guidance in habit formation may be given. Suggestions on Procedure: 1. The class teacher can read to the class at the previous meeting the fundamental principles given on pages 61-62 of White House Conference report. 2. Follow this by a careful explanation of the reading guide so that the class members as they study will focus on the essential elements in the process of directing the process of habit formation. 3. During the class period discuss each point given in the reading guide and illustrate or explain each from the supplementary material as indicated. The numbers in the supplementary material refer to the item in the Reading Guide to which it is to relate. Reading Guide: Habits pp. 8-14. This chapter plunges the reader immediately into the psychology of learning. If a parent would control the behavior of children he must learn to control the process of learning. Notice: 1. The statement of the universal truth that every act from birth on leaves its effect on future conduct. 2. Interpret clearly the definition of habit as a pattern of conduct. 3. Note that habit as here discussed refers chiefly to reactions, to the more common phases of the environment as stimuli. The illustrations of studying, hanging up clothes, etc., show the need of the proper environment before children are taught to adjust to them. It 567 seems quite ineffective to try to teach a child how to react to a stimulus that he has not been acquainted with. 4, Fit together the three ideas discussed as parts of the stimulus: the external stimulus, the health condition of the child, the desires and freedom from strain or conflict in the individual. These tend to determine the initial responses children make. 5. Note the importance attached to having a correct emotional association for the desired habit. Do not use going to bed as a punishment is one illustration. 6. The author emphasizes what modern psychology makes very important, the law of effect in learning. Note both the natural effects, page 10, and the social rewards, page 11. 7. Note that stress is placed on the long continued process of learning. This implies need for care in guiding the early habit formation. It also holds encouragement for modification of conduct later if it is necessary. The problems on page 14 are not solved in the text but are really applications of the theory in the chapter. Try to relate one of the principles discussed with each problem. Note especially the caution on page 13; it is possible to have too many or too rigidly formed early habits. Be prepared to discuss the social consequences mentioned. Suplementary Material: 1. Florence Mateer (Director of The Merryheart Schools—Columbus, Ohio) (Just Normal Children— D. Appelton & Co.) says of Ideals in Early Habit Formation. "Does not every child have some traits that worry his parents? "No. Most children have but it is not necessary that they should have. A perfectly well child who has been properly trained gives no real worry. 568 Such a child goes to sleep when bed time comes, sleeps the right length of time, wakes up in a happy frame of mind, eats the food he should, makes his own play interests, amuses himself, teeths without trouble, needs no special appliances to learn to walk, nor help in learning to talk, but gains in physical and mental independence and ability daily. A child who does not develop thus, needs special attention to make him as nearly normal in development as possible." (20.) On this same point Forest says: "A democratic society begins to demand of the home that it avail itself of the findings and the techniques of modern science in the field of preschool development, providing for the young child an environment and guidance which appear to be conducive to his best growth." (Forest: Preschol Education, p. 232). Supplementary Material: 2. Habit defined. Habit is an acquired or learned way of behaving in a specified environment. Thom says: (Thom: Everv Day Problems of the Every Day Child). "Everyone appreciates how the repetition of any act over and over again increases the ease and assurance with which it can be performed. The routine of the simplest existence constantly makes demands upon the habits that we have acquired in the process of growing up. The rising hour, the daily bath, exercise, the extent to which we indulge our appetites at the breakfast table, our attitude toward other members of the family or our associates in the shop or office, and our thoughts and actions as they help or hinder us in the adjustments we have to make with other individuals, are largely a matter of habit. We are hardly aware that our decisions have been automatically RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE guided and directed by an unforseen force called habits." This is a liberal, broad interpretation of habit but it is a practical one, 3-4, Laws of learning applied to habit formation. A. Acquire the habit from the beginning in the form in which it will most likely be used throughout life. For example a child first learns to eat with a regular spoon as easily as he does with a special form or child's spoon. In the first place the habit will continue through life, in the second place a new habit must later be learned. Other illustrations will be shown in later lessons. This correct form of the habit applies as much to the stimulus as to the response. Consideration of the requests of others or obedience are desirable habits. The mother who exacts obedience to requests expressed in her normal tone of voice and manner of expression is laying a foundation for consistent permanent habits. A mother who gets results only by shouting or threatening'or other unusual type of expression is not fixing a permanent attitude of obedience because that type of stimulus is not the normal, natural one. B. Repetition is necessary in fixing learned responses. The more frequently an act is performed the more likely its performance will become a permanent part of the child's personality. In home life the learning attitude is not very strong. Children perform to get immediate results. In school they perform in order to learn. To offset this attitude — parents, at times, have to plan opportunities for incidental practice of some desired behavior; for example —courtesy to others, receiving callers in the home. In such cases as going to bed, eating, etc., occasions recur naturally. 5. The law of effect: LESSON DEPARTMENT Thom discusses this point as follows: "The permanency of habits, however, is not solely dependent upon repetition; the mere fact that the individual is made to do the same thing over and over again gives us little assurance that the practice will be long continued after the supervision has been removed. Unless the task is performed efficiently, and with a fair degree of ease, resulting in satisfaction on the part of the doer, we can hardly expect permanence. [For this reason, as will be pointed out later, in our efforts to establish desirable habits, the attempt must be made to see that successful accomplishment is rewarded by emotional satisfaction." (16) He points out that this emotional satisfaction comes in various ways. In walking, talking, etc., the sense of achievement is its reward. In learning proper methods of eating, eliminating, obeying, caring for clothes, etc., the approbation of others is the satisfying element. In other cases prizes or rewards may be needed. On the negative side an undesirable response must be made to fail, must not receive approval, and may require punishment in order to prevent its recurrence. The most unpleasant situation appears when parents build temporary, bad or undesirable habits and then have to substitute other habits later on. Habit breaking is much more difficult than habit forming. (2) Types of habit forming experiences. A. Adapting natural tendencies to daily needs in a social organization. These natural tendencies to talk, to explore, to fight, to manipulate, to form gangs, to be interested in the opposite sex, etc., usually express themselves in some random form. The type of expression that 569 produces the greatest satisfaction tends to become permanent. The parental responsibility is largely one of attaching satisfaction to the desirable expression although, in later childhood, imitation may be used to limit the types of expression. B. Acquiring the fashions of the day, such as handling clothing, using eating utensils, crossing streets safely, going to school or church, participating in games, etc., require a preliminary teaching act, usually a demonstration, and the application of satisfaction to the correct response. An illustration of a negative type is found in cheating at school. This is usually caused by teachers and parents attaching significance to absolute marks or grades rather than to progress in learning. C. Attitudes, ideals, points of view, etc., are built by long continued practice from early childhood of the desired social conduct until generalizations occur. In early childhood the habit forming significance of winning approval by tantrum by refusing to eat or go to bed at night are very significant. 6. General environmental factors to be watched: a. Parental quarrels, indifference, depression or changing moods. B. Domination of one or more brothers or sisters. C. Cheerful affection for and interest in the children together with kindly manner of speech. D, Frankness and honesty in answering the. Questions of the children. E. Evident spirit of fair play. F. General artistic elements in the home. G. Amount and content of home conversation. H. Amount of sharing and adjusting required of the child. This implies 570 opportunities to work, play, compete, cooperate with others. 1, Early opportunities for contacts beyond the home. Ethel B. Waring in an article entitled—Discipline and Freedom in Early Habits (Parents Magazine— May 1932) gives some illustrations, Illustrations: "A mother recently said of her young baby. 'Priscilla can reach her toys in her crib and yet she cries for them.' On inquiry it appears that if a toy is placed in her hand she grasps it but she does not grasp it otherwise; even though it may be within the distance of her outstretched arm and she is crying for it,—she cannot get her to reach for the toy she wants until she has had several experiences in which the reaching movement, accidentally or with mother's help, secures the toy she is looking at and crying for. Only by such experience can the baby discover that she can reach the toy. What mother really meant when she said Priscilla could reach the toy was that Priscilla now has both the arm stretch and the grasping response, and therefore, is ready to learn to reach for her toys instead of to cry for them. It will now be profitable for mother, instead of handing her the toy, to slowly move Priscilla's arm until she touches the toy so that she may grasp it." "Because the two year-old tells his mother when he needs to leave his play and go to the toilet, she assumes that he should waken himself from his sleep to tell her his needs. The necessary experiences for starting this habit are lacking. You need to guide your child through the experiences of being wakened 'and taken to the toilet, of being awakened by a very slight touch and low call, of being wakened from a distance, of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE turning on the light, of walking to the toilet. Gradually each factor of adult help will be removed and he will have learned self control in these habits." This same habit is discussed by Arlitt as follows: "The Dry Habit:—The proper age for training the infant can best be determined by a consultation with the child's physician, since attempts to train children too early are productive of problems later. "Blatz states that in order to have the training successful, that is, to establish voluntary control, the child must be sufficiently mature to be aware of and to recognize sensations of pressure, to remember the sensations associated with the release of pressure, and to retain the necessary degree of tension in the sphincter muscles until the appropriate 'time and place. The entire series involves the conditioned reflex type of habit. "At first elimination occurs solely in response to pressure. If one charts carefully the times at which this occurs, one can place the child on the receptacle a few minutes in advance. In time the elimination which occurred in response to, pressure in the bladder and rectum will occur in response to the toilet chair. The reflexes have been conditioned to go off at the tactile sensations associated with the chair rather than at the appearance of the internal pressure sensations. "Training should be begun at not later than one year of age. If possible it should be begun before that time. Placing the children in the toilet situation at regular intervals as shown by his records of the time at which accidents are apt to occur, will nearly always be sufficient to set up the dry habit, provided this is kept up for a long period and no unpleasantness is associated with the chair situation. LESSON DEPARTMENT This is the same principle of uniformity of conditions as enunciated in the sections on eating and sleeping. Other conditions should also be uniform. The child should be placed in the same room and approximately in the same: place, for here, as in the eating habit, changes in the surrounding conditions often _ prove distracting. "No distractions should be introduced if it is possible to avoid them. To surround the child's chair with toys or other distracting materials is nearly always to make him attend to these rather than to the sensations which one wishes him to become conscious of. It must be remembered that consciousness of these sensations is one of the three things which, as Blatz states, are preconditions of voluntary control. Scolding, scenes, or any other emotional upsets condition the child to inhibition rather than to elimination." 3528 'The time at which training can be expected to be complete varies wit different races and different individuals By Woollen makes the following statement as to the times at which children should be trained, but qualifies her statements by emphasizing the probability of wide individual variations. "By a year the child should be familiar with the use of the chair. At eighteen months, ne should be 'wearing panties and be fairly reliable in the daytime.' At two years he should be well trained for daytime, and two and a half to three years of age, reliable and able to wake himself at night." "Some children are completely trained at eighteen months, but this is rare. In many cases, training is not completed until three and a half. The factors most conducive to the acquisition of voluntary control are: Uniformity of conditions as outlined above, patience, a cheerful, hopeful attitude on one part of the parent, good physical condition, and the absence of punishment and all existing scenes during the toilet period." (Arlitt: Psychology of Infancy and Early Childhood, p. 359). SUNSET ON THE MISSISSIPPI AT NAUVOO The Building of the Organ (Of the Mormon Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah) By Linda S. Fletcher Great Organ, at the surge of melody That rolls, majestic in its harmony, From out thy heart, my spirit quivers free And visions yester-year in ecstasy: I see the blue Pine Valleys ride on high— A gleaming, turquoise range 'gainst paler sky— Above the flashing, rainbow ruggedness— The wild and colorful exquisiteness— Of Utah's South-land; and once more I see In all its massive, gray austerity— Enduring through long ages that are gone— The towering bulk of old Mount Parowan. 'Twas to these heights the Organ Builder sent For wood to make the mighty instrument His soul had planned; for here the tall White Pine— Harp of the Wind!—breathed music all divine For the slight Moon, a gliding Dancer-Maid, Who trod the sky, in silver mist arrayed— Quivered the life from the majestic tree; It lives again, O Organ, part of thee! ' And now I see the oxen draw the load Of timber o'er the rough and dusty road,— Through valley, over rocky mountain ridge, O'er foaming stream 'cross improvised bridge,— A weary journey of three hundred miles! But steadily plod on the lab'ring files; And rises high the smoke of many fires, Boiling the glue that building thee requires; While five-score men toil on through two long years, Shaping the form which unto us appears.
Now, lo! A Voice from out the mountain heights Sings to the world—with music, sweet delights! And to the Soul, encased in 'prisoning clay, Holding sweet mem'ries of a dim, far day, (Which still, like diamond in the dark, Can kindle a prismatic, glowing spark, Doth but a ray of light divine Lift through the prison bars and on it shine) Comes thy deep-cadenced tones, and, all aglow, It quaffs anew where heav'nly fountains flow. Medium, thou, Great Organ; Harmony, The very soul of heaven, breathes through thee And bids that we forget the cares that be And wing to Peace, upborne by Melody!
UTAH SUGAR UTAH FRUITS
A PERFECT combination for those delicious home-made preserves which will taste oh so good, next winter.
PRINTED FORMS SAVE TIME
Have you investigated the time saving possibilities of printed forms applied to your particular job or business? One of our specialists in this field will gladly help you make any survey and give suggestions. Printed forms help you do the same work in less time.
The Deseret News Press 29 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Buy the Best And Have No Future Regrets!
IF YOU INSIST ON BENEFICIAL INSURANCE You'll enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you have the utmost in value.
All Policies Issued By -The BIG HOME COMPANY-
Participate in the annual net earnings. Then too, you are assured BETTER POLICY FEATURES ANNUAL CASH DIVIDENDS HIGHEST CASH VALUES LOWEST NET COST JUST AND PROMPT SETTLEMENTS
No question in your mind If it's a Beneficial Policy it's the best Insurance you can buy
DIRECTORS HEBER J. GRANT GEO. J. CANNON E. T. RALPHS A. W. IVINS B. F. GRANT DAVID O. MCKAY J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. JOS. F. SMITH A. B. C. OHLSSON
The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Volume XX OCTOBER, 1933 No. 10
"WE HEARTILY RECOMMEND KNIGHT ROYAL Spring Canyon or Royal Coal Coal
Hot'n Clean. Clean, Hard—Burns Longer Quick-starting—Utah's Purest Coal
These coals maintain clean, cheery warm homes at lowest cost.
ASK YOUR FRIEND THE COAL DEALER
KNIGHT FUEL CO. ROYAL COAL COMPANY General Offices—5th Floor Newhouse Building—Salt Lake City, Utah Leonard E. Adams, General Sales Agent
Headquarters for L. D. S. Garments FROM FACTORY TO YOU
We Solicit Your Mail Orders
No. 88. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style........................$.75
No. 89. Med. Wt. Men's and Ladies' New Style........................1.10
No. 80. Heavy Wt. Men's Double Back.............................1.35
No. 81. Heavy Wt. Old Style Double Back......................1.35
No. 87. Lt. Wt. Flat Knit New Styles..........................1.35
No. 100. Lt. Wt. Fine Grade Flat Weave, Ladies' Only..............1.10
No. 84. Med. Lt. Wt. Men's and Ladies'..........................85
No. 85. Very Special Non-Run... Rayon. Special..................1.00
Specify when ordering, your bust, trunk and length, whether new or old style, and if man or lady. Postage prepaid in United States.
MOSE LEWIS 14 So. Main St. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
SHIRTS LAUNDERED As "He" likes them!
Royal DeLuxe Semi Starch Full Starch Medium Starch No Starch
Silk Shirts washed and ironed by hand, best of materials used
Offices at 22 E. 2 So., 1 1/2 Main St. And 625 So. State St.
ROYAL LAUNDRY Was. 2624 625 So. State St.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Heat Your Home With a Granite CIRCULATOR One to Six Rooms $19.95 to $85.00
You will save 25% to 50% on your coal bill
"America's Finest" The ROUND OAK Range Will bake perfectly for a lifetime $79.50 to $117.50
We Save you Money
GRANITE Furniture Co. Sugar House 1050 East 21st So.
Everyday Mark-Down
O. P. Skaggs System Stores abound with food bargains every day in the week. One trip to our stores and a few minutes time spent in looking around will convince you of how much you can save weekly.
O. P SKAGGS System Efficient Service — "A Surety of Purity"
WINTER LURKS just around the corner!
It's not too early to begin thinking about your heating facilities, for cold weather will be here almost before we know it.
INVESTIGATE Natural Gas HOUSE HEATING
For cleanliness, convenience and comfort in the home, nothing can equal Natural Gas heating. And its economy has been demonstrated in thousands of homes, through several severe winters in this locality.
Investigate! Just come in and let us explain the most remarkable, most attractive offer we've ever made on Natural Gas house heating.
Remember—winter is lurking just around the corner! Why not come in this week?
UTAH GAS & COKE CO. OGDEN GAS CO. WASATCH GAS CO.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. 20 OCTOBER, 1933 No. 10
CONTENTS
Waterfall, Provo River Frontispiece Thrift Frank Evans 573 "Give Me the Dagger" Harrison R. Merrill 575 Thoughts Elsie E. Barrett 578 Aunt Cheer's "White Elephant" Party Elsie Chamberlain Carroll 579 Go to the Polls! Vote! 583 Montpelier Relief Cabin Harriet Merrill 584 Writing Upon Walls Lucy Goodrich Lind 585 A New Philosophy of Life Fred Bennion 586 Your Home Beautiful Mabel Margaret Luke 589 Priesthood and Womanhood Leah D. Widtsoe 595 Happy Mothers Marba C. Josephson 599 Relief Susan T. Jennings 600 Let's Go Places Mabel S. Harmer 601 Virginia Lottie Grosjean 602 Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 603 The Universal Fruit Lucy Rose Middleton 604 If We Understood 605 Editorial—A Crying Need 606 Attention, Utah Voters 607 Notes to the Field 608 Notes from the Field 611 Lesson Department 616
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3123
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear:
No. 1 New style, ribbed light weight. No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Combed Cotton. An excellent Ladies' number................$1.25 Our best selling wool number. Men's new or old style....$3.00
No. 2 Old style, ribbed light weight. No. 6 Light weight garment, cotton, our standard garment 1.25 Ladies' new style or old style 1.10
No. 3 Ribbed med. weight. Cotton, No. 7 Light weight Spring and bleached. Our all season number. Autumn garment. Men only 1.00 Men's new or old style.... 1.45
No. 4 Ribbed heavy weight. Un- No. 8 Light weight silk for ladies bleached cotton. Our double only, new style only............ 1.15 back number. Men's new or old style 1.50 No. 9 Medium weight. Silk for men and women, new style only... 1.75
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, short legs and sleeves or ankle length legs, are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit.
Postage prepaid on orders accompanied by money order in United States. Special discount to missionaries.
Our Jack Frost Blankets are made of Utah Wool and Utah Labor Write for Prices
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL
Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates
ROUND OAK FURNACES COAL OR GAS
Sugar House Lumber & Hardware Co. "If It Goes In The Building We Sell It" Hyland 555 M. O. ASHTON, Manager
L.D.S. GARMENTS
Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid.
OLD AND NEW STYLE NEW STYLE ONLY, MAN OR LADY
472 Light Rib Cotton........$.75 144 Spring Needle Flat Weave........$1.10 464 Med. Rib Cotton...........1.00 205 Rib Knit, Lt. Weight............1.15 383 Fine Knit, Lt. Weight.....1.25 256 Double Carded, Med. Wt.........1.35 92 Lt. Wt. Rayon Stripe......1.25 228 Lt. Wt. Rayon Stripe...........1.35 758 Med. Hvy Cot., Ecru or White....1.65 84 Rayon Plated..................1.45 902 Unbleached Cot. Extra Hvy.......2.00 405 Non-run Viscose Rayon..........1.35 1118 Med. Hvy. Wool & Cot. Mixed....3.25 306 Non-run Viscose Rayon..........1.75
BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
My Investment By Estella Wilson Peterson
I know of a safe investment Though depression knocks at your door, One that will cost you so little With returns that are ever so sure.
A few cents a day—now don't marvel— Will open stores of wealth yet untold— Treasures so rare and helpful, Grander than silver or gold.
Don't let me forget to tell you This investment insures you too Against blue days and dull days, And even fills you with hope anew.
I couldn't be a bit selfish And share my investment with a few, I want the whole world to know And feel the joys I do.
Invest now—your dividends quicken With happiness, your pennies redeem: Sit down and subscribe—do not tarry— For our Relief Society Magazine.
STANDARD OIL brings Postal Telegraph to your steering wheel
WHEN Standard Oil Companies made a special arrangement with Postal Telegraph whereby telegrams could be sent direct from their Service Stations, they added to an already imposing list of conveniences a service which literally brought the entire world to your steering wheel.
Without so much as leaving your car, and while the attendant is taking care of your gasoline and oil needs, you—the busy, modern woman of today—can wire ahead the time of your arrival... To your home or office... Or attend to any of the many needs for telegraphing which crop up in every-day life.
Just ask the attendant for the pad of Postal Telegraph blanks, write your messages—that's all... The attendant will do the rest—no fuss—no bother—no delay.
Use Postal Telegraph. Avail yourself of the supplementary services, a list of which is shown here. They are designed to aid every woman in her travel, shopping, social and domestic needs.
Postal Telegraph is the only American telegraph company that offers a world-wide service of coordinated telegraph, cable and radio communications under a single management.
Postal Telegraph Supplementary Services
Air Express Pick-up and Delivery Air Travel Reservations Bus Express Pick-up and Delivery Bus Travel Reservations Circular and Sample Distribution Errands and Package Delivery Gift and Purchase Service Marine Reports Money Order Service Personal Service Bureau Theatre Ticket Service Commercial News Reports
Telegrams Direct from the Highways via Esso and Standard Oil Gas Stations
THE INTERNATIONAL SYSTEM Postal Telegraph All America Mackay Cables Radio Commercial Cables
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
MEET THE 1933 WORLD CHAMPION:
Mr. Backman, Secretary of the Chamber of Commerce, presenting Miss Ruth Snow with Silver Trophy won at the World's Fair.
On June 28 one of the students of the L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, MISS RUTH SNOW, won first place in the shorthand contest at the Century of Progress Exposition. Miss Snow met the entire field of university and commercial school entrants in the highest speed event—and carried off the grand prize!
The opening of the Fall Term at the L. D. S. Business College provides an opportunity to secure practical business training in the shortest time possible at the low cost of $15.00 per month—liberal discounts for advance payments.
ENTER ANY MONDAY
WALTON ACCOUNTING—GREGG SHORTHAND—STENOTYPE— BUSINESS ENGLISH—TYPEWRITING—PENMANSHIP
Employment Department Assists Graduates in Securing Desirable Positions
Write or Call for Free Catalog
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 80 North Main (A Department of the L. D. S. College)
The Business College Code condemns as Unfair Practice Guarantee of Positions and Misleading Advertising. No high class school is guilty of such deception.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Thrift By Frank Evans
"The hand of the diligent shall bear rule; but the slothful shall be under tribute."—Prov. 12:24.
The spiritual in man grows only through the practice of the simple virtues. Thrift is one of these. The Church has consistently taught the doctrine of thrift. Thrift is not mercenary, for though it has to do with material things, it has a moral and even a spiritual aspect. It involves prudent giving and judicious spending as well as intelligent saving. It is the wise application of resources, whether they be energy, time, talent, or material means. It is the antithesis of waste.
To live this doctrine, one must submit to discipline—not dictated by others, but self-imposed. It entails sacrifice, but the reward is confidence, integrity, faith. Those unwilling to make the sacrifice confuse thrift with parsimony, but the one is ennobling, the other is mean. Thrift is the source of generosity, and it is only the generous mind that can appreciate the grandeur of little things.
"Those who are thrifty never fail entirely; they may not reach the heights, but they will never reach the depths."
WATERFALL, PROVO RIVER
THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XX OCTOBER, 1933 No. 10
"Give Me the Dagger" By Harrison R. Merrill
WHEN the famous and ambitious lady of the great play made the remark with which this article is headed she was in deadly earnest. To prove it she snatched the bloody blades from her husband's hand, rushed into where King Duncan lay and smeared the faces of the grooms in order "that it might seem their guilt." But before making that exclamation she chided her unnerved husband as many a hubby has been chided before and since. "Infirm of purpose," she hissed, "give me the daggers!" I'm sure she hissed. You try saying it in a half-whisper.
Many of us, had we had someone to help us "screw our courage to the sticking point" and to wield the weapons might have achieved more than we have done, for, I am sorry to say, we are infirm of purpose. In another way, on second thought, however, that very infirmity might have been our savior. For, from the same great Bard of Avon, we present another statement—"There is a destiny which shapes our ends, rough hew them how we will." If all of us had been firm of purpose many of our destinies might have been overridden.
For instance, I have no difficulty in remembering when I wished I might be a Diamond Dick, a Buffalo Bill, or at least a cowboy like the Virginian. Had I possessed the great lady's ambition and the persistency with which she pursued her ends, I might have been a terror to this mountain country always provided that there could have been found a horse that could carry me. I often wonder if it was not that inadequacy and my own tender heart that kept me from actually becoming a happy-go-lucky rider of the range. After I got to weigh over a seventh of a ton I never can remember riding a horse without feeling as if I should at least half of the time change about with him. Recently when I was proffered an opportunity of riding a friend's fine horse, though I was burning to do it, I refused on the horse's account.
In my youth just as I was ready to try my hand at being a cowboy, Fate came along and offered me a job as a camp tender for a sheep herder. I accepted, and who ever heard of a sheep herder changing over to the job of following the "hairies" when he could follow the "woolies" at a much slower pace.
BUT I was not destined to be a sheep herder. I was too infirm of purpose even for that, or else I never really considered it seriously as a profession. I got started in high school and by the time school was out or far enough along for me to quit for credit, all of the camp tenders and the sheep herders had been engaged for the year. Had I possessed the ambition of Lady Macbeth I might have gone up to some camp, thrown its occupant out on his ear, and taken possession, but I fear I was "too full of the milk of human kindness" to catch that "nearest way." Or, on the other hand, I may have been too full of indecision.
Instead I got a job at a saw mill. I was the off-bearer, and often I used to look at the sawyer with envy. I think I even decided to be a sawyer in a sort of an indifferent sort of way, but I never really filed a saw or used the lever for more than a slab or scantling.
Next I became a farmer, not because I had planned to be one but because Fate, or whatever it is that shapes our ends, came along and made it easy for me. I started with nothing and quit with less. At one time during the process of obtaining my experience I decided to be a great farmer, but as drought and frost and low prices followed each other in succession I simply meandered on to something else. I might have told the sun to cease scorching or the frost to cease fooling around my acres, but I didn't. I was infirm of purpose and since there was no one in particular to take up "my daggers," I decided to complete my education. I went to the University of Idaho because a friend wanted to go there, and to Utah State Agricultural College because it was easier to do so. I might have continued my course at Idaho and have become an electrical engineer, but I didn't. I lacked the ambition in that direction. I graduated an Aggie in English and history—think of that.
I DIDN'T decide to go on a mission; I was called. At Liverpool President Penrose asked most of the fellows where they wanted to go and then sent them in an opposite direction, but he failed to ask me. He merely said when I undoubled to my full—very full height—"you are to go to Ireland." Once there I did not come home at my own instigation. I stayed right on until word came that I was released.
Once in high school I wrote a theme which was counted good—better than any theme written by anybody in the class. The class contained but five members, but it was something to be the best of five. Right there I decided to be an author. I started out as a writer, but I could not face the rejection slips. My courage was not "screwed to the sticking point." I fooled around writing a little here and a little there, but I really did not put my heart into it. I had a few things accepted and a lot of things rejected. My friends said, "Well, why don't you keep at it. If I could write like that. * * * " They said, virtually, "Give me the daggers, and I will." But there was something deep down in me that was Macbethean. I could conceive great dreams, but I could not carry them out.
I became a teacher in a high school. A friend kept after me until I went away and got a degree and then later I went away and got another one, but with no stern ambition. I have been without a task master. Fate has been kind. She has kicked me here and there. Some of her blows have made me weep inside, but I've sort of kept up a brave front as if I did not care. I had to be a good sport. I had to be able to say always, "Well, come weal come woe (or whatever the great Thane said) at least I'll die with armor on my back."
GIVE ME THE DAGGER
AND here I am looking back at the zenith of my life, going down hill towards the eternal shadows. I have not moved the world much out of its orbit nor have I forced myself into any high places. I've had a lot of fun. I haven't envied anybody—much, for that is not one of the sins of those who are "infirm of purpose." I have been harmless, but no one will ever come and build a great monument where I fall.
Now I had the size; I think I had the brain cells; but I lacked the "fever that should attend it." "Brave Macbeth" on one occasion rose to great heights of manhood. Had he been able to remain there he might have been truly great—but then that would have spoiled the greatest play ever written. Upon one occasion when he had been goaded to desperation by his ambitious wife, he shot back at her:
"I dare do all that does become a man; who dares do more is none."
While fate has been kicking me about I have always tried to remember that bit of poetry, and have remained rather firm of purpose in that regard. Somehow I managed to be able to see where the fellows were going "who dared do more." While I have never been one of Kipling's "plaster saints" I have kept fairly well toward the middle of the straight and narrow way in a number of things. I have always had an idea that if a fellow keeps his heart right and his mind clean and his eyes up instead of down that when Fate does kick she is likely to kick him up hill instead of down into the gutter. After all these years I still believe that bit of philosophy.
YEARS ago I read a book—I have always read books of all kinds. This one was entitled "Greatness in Men." In it James Whitcomb Riley gives his recipe for success in a bit of verse. As nearly as I remember it it ran something like this:
"Just to be good, it is enough, enough, Oh, we who find sin's billows wild and rough, We learn how more than gold Were the blameless lives we led of old When yet our lips but knew a mother's kiss— Ah, though we miss all else but this To be good is enough.
"It is enough just to be good To lift our hearts where they're understood To let the thirst for worldly power and place Go unappeased; To smile back in God's face With the glad lips our mothers used to kiss; Ah, though we miss all else but this To be good is enough."
That verse, of course, has none of the philosophy of the survival of the fittest in it. It is a philosophy of peace, and, I sometimes fear, one of mediocrity.
SO much that is fine in the world has come through the achievements of ruthless ambition which "has o'er leaped itself and in some cases, fallen on the other side," such as sky-scrapers, railroads, automobiles, in their fine perfection, and thousands of other things, that my philosophy sometimes wavers and I feel very sorry that I have not been capable or worthy of carrying "the daggers."
In the midst of my musing, however, I remember the truly great of the earth—Abraham, Jesus, against whose "purpose" the shafts of the greatest of all empires broke, Martin Luther, who dared do all that any man dared do, George Washington, whose firm purpose could not be swerved by bribery, hardship, and ingratitude, Joseph Smith, who could go "like a lamb to the slaughter" for an idea—and then I know that the greatest achievements are not to be found in steel and stone. That picture Caruth gives us is best:
"A picket frozen on duty, A mother starved for her brood, Socrates drinking the hemlock, And Jesus on the rood; And millions, burdened and weary The long hard pathway plod—
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Some call it consecration (firmness of purpose) And others call it God."
And so, here I am well down the sunset way, a creature who has been molded by circumstance, largely. I might have been more "the captain of my soul" than I have been—who is there who mightn't—but happy if I have served a few and made a few rejoice, * * *
There seems to be no logical way of closing this "confession," but since it is as long as it should be I must inscribe here two of the greatest words of fate—
THE END
Thoughts By Elsie E. Barrett
Thoughts seem such little subtle things Just floating through the brain; Sometimes while passing, with faint stings, They weave a clanking chain.
Sometimes so light, so sweet and wise, They gently wing us to the skies.
Sometimes they tear and bruise our souls While passing to and fro; They plunge us 'gainst the many shoals As ceaselessly they flow. Our bark seems frail to stem Life's tide When bitter, crushing thoughts preside.
Regretful Thoughts! Their bitterness Vitality consumes; While sunshine thoughts, with soft caress, Shed round us sweet perfume. It matters not, success or strife Thoughts help to make or mar each life.
Aunt Cheer's "White Elephant" Party By Elsie Chamberlain Carroll
AS I was putting on Junior's coveralls, I saw Aunt Cheer coming briskly up the walk. She had been gone all summer and I suddenly realized how much we needed her. Instantly my worries over the tonsil operation Dr. Rayner said Millie needed and the shabbiness of Fred's overcoat and even the over-due taxes slipped from my mind in anticipation of a visit with Aunt Cheer who had made her personality the reflection of her name.
I opened the door as she came panting up the steps. "It's so good to have you back," I said leading her into the living room and taking her little old-fashioned lace bonnet and black plush cape.
"Well, it's good to be back," she said settling herself in the rocker I had pushed near the fire. "I'm not going to ask how you are, Kate. I'm sick and tired of hearing about the depression and all the calamities that have happened to everybody since I left last spring. I'm surprised at the lack of backbone this town seems to have. Hard times! My sakes alive, Kate, folks living now don't know the A. B. C's of hard times. The idea of letting a few bank failures and the loss of a few jobs and cuts in wages make folks afraid to live—afraid to get married, to have babies, afraid even to die. Why, there didn't used to be any banks in Chester, and wages consisted of a share in farm products or a few head of sheep or cattle—and we were happy in those days."
I sat down and took up my patching again, wondering how people had ever been able to live without money to buy things they had to have.
As I looked up from the patch "Afraid to live," Aunt Cheer repeated her own words, "that's it exactly. And afraid to die. I just came from Hannah Warner's. You know how she's been praying to die for years—ever since George went and her rheumatism got bad. Well it seems that the money she had put away for her funeral was in the South End bank and now she's worrying about dying and not having as nice a funeral as Nancy Edwards had. You know how Hannah and Nancy were always trying to outdo each other in the whiteness of their washings, the richness of their plum puddings and the number of ruffles on their petticoats."
Aunt Cheer sniffed disgustedly and reached for her little velvet bag in which she always carried her knitting. Fads in hand work had come and gone in Aunt Cheer's day—from netting to tatting; from tatting to crocheting and so on. But Aunt Cheer had remained true to her ball of grey yarn and four steel needles. "There's always someone glad of a pair of nice wool socks," she would say, "even if they're not in fashion."
"Before I went to Hannah's," the old lady went on, "I called in at Ella Drake's. She's so down in the dumps that you'd think she'd lost Jim or one of the children. And all in the world that's the matter is that she's going to have another baby. She's worrying because they can't afford for her to go to the maternity home or have a registered nurse. * * * 'Land sakes, Ella,' I told her, 'when you was born your ma didn't even have a private bed room to go to. Her bed was right out in the front room which happened to be the kitchen and dining room and bath and pantry as well. And I was the mid-wife and your pa helped with the nursing. And all the layette she had was a few little clothes she'd made out of a couple of sheets and some flour sacks. But sakes alive, Ella,' I told her, 'she was tickled to death when she knew you were coming, and she kept you as sweet and clean as any baby you ever had, with all your fancy flummadiddles.'"
I knew how discouraged Ella had been the last few months and was glad Aunt Cheer had been to see her.
"Then after I left Ella's," the old lady went on, "I went in to see Lucy Peters and found her Grace who used to be so bright and sunny moping around like a funeral because she and Ken Ray are afraid to get married this fall as they had planned. She said Ken has lost his job so now they'll have to wait. Well, I told her she needs some of her Grandma Peters' spirit. You've heard the story I guess about how Sam Peters used to freight in the early days and how when he and Mary were engaged and planned to get married after he'd made one more freighting trip, some Indians stole his mules on that very trip and he came home discouraged and went up to see Mary and tell 'her they'd have to call the wedding off. "We can't get married, Mary,' he told her. 'The Indians stole my mules and I had to hire someone else to bring my load in.' "Do you know what your Grandma Peters did then?' I asked Grace. "Well, she went up to your Grandpa and put her arms around him and said, 'Why, Sam it wasn't your mules I wanted to marry.' And they were married the very next day and lived for two years in a dug-out. That's where Grace's Pa was born, and I told her I have yet to see a happier young couple than her Grandpa and Grandma were." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Aunt Cheer rocked back and forth for a few moments in silence, her shining needles clicking off the stitches on the grey sock. Presently she put her knitting down on her narrow lap and looked at me. "Kate," she said earnestly, "the reason folks are afraid to live, as I was saying a few minutes ago, is that they've got so they think too much about things, and about having just the same kind of things that everybody else has. It's like I read somewhere, we spend our lives living in quotation marks.. We're afraid to be our natural selves and enjoy the things that really count in living a simple, wholesome life. Maybe it takes something like a depression to bring us back to our senses once in a while and show us real values. Money isn't essential to happiness as most folks have got to thinking it is.' She took up her knitting again. I protested that money seemed to be essential for a lot of things, and I held up Junior's be-patched coveralls and I mentioned Fred's four year-old overcoat and Millie's needed operation. For a few seconds Aunt Cheer's needles clicked furiously. Then she suddenly reached for her ball and thrust her needles into it and slipped it inside the old velvet bag. "Kate," she said with a little tremor of excitement in her voice, "I can see I've got to take a hand in this depression business and show the folks of this town something about the simple life. We all need a little fun. I'm going home and plan a party." T wasn't many days before people for the first time in months were talking over back fences and at street corners about something beside the depression. "What's Aunt Cheer up to now?" AUNT CHEER'S WHITE ELEPHANT PARTY Minnie Fletcher asked me one morning when she came to bring back a bowl of sugar she had borrowed. "She had all the boy scouts in town out to her place this morning and they're taking notes to everybody in town. Here's one Teddy was to bring over to you but I told him I'd bring it." The note was on brown paper and said: "Dear Fred and Kate, "Have you a 'white elephant' you'd like to get rid of? I mean something you don't need anymore, like those glass cases, Kate, you used to use in your millinery store, or one of those five steers you weren't able to sell last spring, Fred. Bring your white elephant, or a description of it, to the white elephant party to be given in the town hall next Friday afternoon. Maybe the children have some little white elephants too—books or toys they have out-grown or become tired of. "['m counting on you, "Aunt Cheer." WE had grown so used through the years of doing whatever Aunt Cheer suggested that everyone in town fell into line now. Fred said he'd be darned glad to have one less steer to feed and I had certainly wished for years that I could get rid of those glass cases that were cluttering up the attic, without downright destroying them. The children were excited over being invited to a "big folks'" party and began to hunt up books and toys. Minnie Fletcher was asked to send ner baby carriage and crib that had been stowed away since little Benny died. At first she felt that she couldn't do it, but finally decided that keeping them to brood over wasn't doing anybody any good; and she fixed up little Benny's clothes and toys to send along too. Lucy Peters was asked to bring the phonograph she hadn't used since they'd got their radio. Maude Barrows was asked if she wouldn't like to give a few hours of the leisure 581 time she didn't know what to do with, to help out with the kindergarten that was abount to be discontinued. Ella Drake was asked if the room over her wash house wasn't a white elephant she'd like to fix up for old man Potter and his little grandson to live in until spring and Dr. Raynor was invited to contribute a few white elephants in the form of operations, he now had plenty of time for. Tony Damigo was reminded that he might have some 'time for shoe-mending he'd like to offer and Paul Black that perhaps he'd like to dispose of some of the huge wood pile he'd hauled hoping to sell it to the laundry that had closed down. Aunt Cheer didn't miss anyone. Everyone was invited to the party and everyone was asked to bring a tangible or intangible 'white elephant" to exchange for the elephant of some one else. The pall of inaction and gloom which had hovered over the community for months was miraculously lifted. Everybody was laughing and talking about Aunt Cheer's party. A second note brought around by tne scouts asked each family to contribute something for the community picnic to be a part of the party. EARLY Friday morning the white elephants began to arrive at the town hall. By noon the rooms leading off from the assembly room were overflowing with furniture, clothing, bedding, food. Outside were boxes of chickens, bales of hay, lumber, shingles,—even a wagon and a span of horses. Besides these Aunt Cheer neld a great sheaf of notes describing white elephants in the form of music lessons, false teeth, lodgings, baby-tending, laundry work. By four o'clock the hall was filled with a laughing, joking throng of people. As Fred and the children and I were going to the party we 582 saw Grace Peters and Ken Ray coming out of the Peters' gate. Grace called to us to wait. "Ken and I are going to be married next week," she said. ''We want you to come to the wedding. Mother is fixing up the two back bedrooms for us and we're going to be awfully cozy. I think it will be more fun than in the Randall apartments we used to talk about." When we reached the hall we found a happy hub-bub. There was no trace of the gloom we had grown accustomed to during the last year. When Aunt Cheer mounted the steps to the stage we all became. Quiet.. "Well folks," she began, "I guess it's time to begin our party. I believe we've all had a good time getting ready for it. I haven't heard anyone mention the depression for nearly a week. If we've got rid of that old bug-a-boo for that long, why can't we keep him away permanently? "Now if you'll all sit down and be comfortable we'll see what we can do about exchanging our white elephants." The first thing she offered for exchange was an old rocking chair Clair Beebee's grandpa had made when he first came to the Valley. Mamie Lovelace, whose Aunt in the city is crazy about old relics, offered ten days' sewing—making old or new clothes—for it, and Clair with all that brood she can hardly keep dressed, was as pleased as she could be. When Dr. Rankin's order for a set of false teeth was read, old Pap Ipson offered his over-supply of apples and potatoes. Minnie Fletcher's cradle and baby buggy and Benny's little clothes went to the Taggert's twins exchanged for so many hours of snow-shovelling and ashhauling by the twins' father. I had no idea anyone would want RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE my old glass millinery cases, but John Haddock, the president of the school board said the High School needed them for the domestic art department and he offered a thirty dollar warrant—good for taxes. One of the tonsil operations offered by Dr. Raynor was taken by Sally Parks in exchange for a bushel of rare bulbs from her garden tnat always takes the first prize at the annual flower shows, and we got the other operation for Millie for a quarter of the steer Fred couldn't afford to feed. One after another amid shouts of merriment, the white elephants exchanged owners. The children's exchange was conducted in one of the anterooms and produced as much nappiness as a real Christmas morning. "The final offerings,' Aunt Cheer explained when everything else was disposed of, "are not really white elephants; maybe they're pink ones," she added with a little chuckle. "They'll at least help us to keep the depression in the background. They are some splendid entertainments to be given at various times during the winter: a play by the dramatic art department of the high school, a concert by the church choir, a carnival dance by the men's clubs and a community dinner by the ladies' clubs, and a jamboree by the boy scouts. "Now there is just one more before we enjoy the picnic part of our party. It is a plan for an exchange of books and magazines. I've appointed my- -self circulating manager and I'll call on all of you to co-operate so we can all enjoy the books and magazines our friends have as well as our own. You'll hear more about this later. Thanks for coming to my party and making it a success. I hope it has nelped to show you that money isn't stich an important thing as we have imagined, and that sometimes if we AUNT CHEER'S WHITE ELEPHANT PARTY lose one job we can make others for ourselves. If we can do these things we'll force this old man depression 583 from our midst and the first thing we know Prosperity will come rushing around the corner." Go to the Polls! Vote! S Utah will not vote upon the liquor question until the general election in November, the Relief Society women of this State have been enthusiastically working to retain the fine National and State laws against liquor. This has been through circulation of educational material: and by petitions. As we go to press our hearts are warmed by the response of the people to the petitions which have been circulated in the interest of the "Dry" cause. The conscience of the people is challenged, and must not be stilled. The crisis is here. Relief Society women cannot do a finer service to humanity than to continue this fight in the cause of righteousness. The educational campaign must continue. If people could only get the facts, and know the truth, there would be no cause to fear for the outcome. A really enlightened public sentiment would undoubtedly express itself in holding fast to the Eighteenth Amendment and the fine protective liquor laws which are a part of our State Constitution. The opportunity will present itself on November 7th, for us to strike a teal blow in protest against the return of the saloon, and all the vice which accompanies the infamous liquor traffic. See to it that the signers of the petition, and all others interested in good government, vote against the ratification of the proposed Twentyfirst Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which constitutes a repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment, and also against any change in our own State laws against liquor control. Go to the polls and vote for the twenty-one "Dry" candidates. They are all patriotic citizens, earnestly working for the good of the nation, and they are the friends of youth. Montpelier Relief Cabin By Harriet Merrill THIRTEEN years ago on July 30th, 1920, Mrs. O. H. Groo and Mrs. Ashley, mother of Dr. G. F. Ashley, decided to collect relics of the Pioneers of Utah, and the first settlers of Montpelier and Bear Lake County. They met with the City Council and asked for a room in the City Hall in which to store them and were cheerfully given a nice room on the second floor, then commenced the advertising and solicitation of relics, and a start was soon accumulated and exhibited in the Pavilion at the first County Fair held in Montpelier. This gave the ladies who sponsored the movement an excellent opportunity to show the people of the county what they were doing and it created a great deal of interest in the work. When the Daughters of the Pioneers were organized in 1927, the relics were turned over to them and Mrs. Groo was appointed custodian. In 1932 the Daughters decided to erect a log cabin for a relic room. The City Council kindly gave us a beautiful building spot, the Forest Supervisor gave us permission to get the logs, men furnished their teams and hauled the logs for us. All the work except the carpentry was done by donation. The carpenter took - milk, butter, eggs, chickens and small fruits for his pay. The Daughters had food sales, candy sales and parties to raise means. The merchants and business men donated liberally. The building was completed in three months. There are many valuable relics. One being a piece of cloth woven in England in 1798 and brought across the plains by one of the early pioneers, also a black silk hood worn by Sally Barker Dunn, who walked across the plains in 1852; a sword that belonged to the Prophet Joseph Smith, who gave it to a very dear friend, a Mr. Wilson, and whose children have donated it to our relic room; a woven raw-nide bottom chair that belonged to Mrs. Groo's grandfather, Phineas Richards, who brought it across the plains with an ox team company in 1848; a piece of wooden water pipe laid in the City of Philadelphia in 1790 and presented MONTPELIER RELIEF CABIN 585 by Bishop Henry H. Hoff in 1929, also an organ, which was one of the first in Montpelier, and brought to Utah in 1866. It was donated by Mrs. Margaret H. Phelps, whose father gave it to her on her sixteenth birthday. She is now 83 years of age. There are candle moulds, old books, spinning wheels, ox-yoke, pictures, and an old clock which was brought from Switzerland by one of the converts in 1879. Together with many other interesting relics too numerous to mention. Writing Upon Walls By Lucy Goodrich Lind In each heart is an inborn desire To leave footprints, time will not efface, Hence the pictographs carved on canyon cliffs By a savage Indian race. But on walls of worth and beauty Some pictures do naught but deface For some, misguided, follow wrong Just to be known, in life's race. Some write but where need is, for right's sake: Thus in type that the world will ken Their names are through kindness engraven On the hearts of their fellowmen. A New Philosophy of Life By Fred Wimmer Bennion HISTORY flows like a river. The current swirls and eddies through the centuries; pauses from time to time tnrough long stretches of a wide and placid stream, seemingly content with its destiny, just before it enters the rapids, roaring tumultuously and _ inevitably through the cataract below. And then, no matter how rough, and destructive the tortuous channels may have been, the stream again moves smoothly along when it reaches the floor of tne open plain. From the rough, narrow, dark, defiles of the Civil War sixties, the American stream of history emerged to pursue its course of peaceful contentment. For more than half a century, except for minor disturbances, the beautiful, peaceful river flowed on, unconscious of the impending dangers ahead. Suddenly the World War plunged it into an annihilating abyss. So erosive was the action that when the precipitous dash of tne waters was checked, they were muddy, and murky, and dark. History has not repeated itself, for while the stream flows on, it fails, as in former periods to clear and settle. Nor will it settle until a new philosophy of life is developed. Laws, mandates or treaties, kings, dictators or presidents cannot bring peace, order and economic sufhciency without a changed attitude of the individual based on a different philosophy of life. That philosophy must provide for changed attitudes of the individual toward himself, toward his community and his country, and toward the whole world. IRST: The new philosophy must change our personal sense of values. It must intensify our appreciation for the beautiful things in life rather than the material. Markets and banks have failed but nothing else has failed us. Prices have gone down but not one acre has lost its fertility, and all the electrons, protons, and otner waves keep on working in their accustomed ways. The depression has come and people have lost money but an invoice will discover that we are still rich. All our capacity for the enjoyment of life is still intact. Our hundred thousand dollar eyes are just as good as ever. Every magnificent landscape and gorgeous sunset is ours if we want it. Ten thousand dollar scenes and views of majestic mountains, beautiful canyons and streams are added to our collection almost every week. A hundred thousand dollar sense of hearing is still unimpaired and by it we become heirs to a world of beauty and inspiration. The depression has not lowered the value of a single friendship. Our fellow students and neighbors greet us in the same cordial way, instructors still believe we are going to amount to something in life, and parents maintain their undying confidence in us. My faith in the goodness of the universe is unimpaired, for by that faith, I am emboldened to face defeat and despair. The prayers of my childhood and the faith in God that is instilled in me remain a devout treasure no depression can touch. No man becomes great by becoming rich. Neither does a man find enduring satisfaction in life by merely owning something—only by becoming something. The most degrading A NEW PHILOSOPHY OF LIFE poverty is that which results from killing the spirit that the body may be served. The last few months have been for many men a thrilling spiritual adventure through which they have discovered their real wealth. Bereft of dividends and profits, they are discovering the sustaining powers of a strong religious faith, the abiding values of courage, honor, and charity. A financial crisis can wipe out profits and bring business to a standstill, but character is beyond its reach. It can rob us of all we have, but it cannot affect what we are. This must be the new philosophy that will change the attitude of the individual toward himself. ECONDLY; the new philosophy must go further and change the individual's attitude toward this community and his country. No man lives in a community without having a responsibility for being there. A community is solvent when the majority of the people put as much into it as they take out of it. The community or the nation, depends for its success, upon its ability to produce citizens who will think not simply of individual progress and selfish gain, but also of the good of the group. Community spirit is merely pooling the surplus, which individual citizens have beyond private desires, and which they can contribute unselfishly to the good of the group. Spirit is to a community what cement is to concrete. It is the power that takes the individual particles of stone, and gravel and sand and binds them into permanent relationship. It makes the foundation upon which to build community progress. You and I know of citizens who come into the community to bleed it for all it is worth. You have seen 587 the man who is willing to lower the confidence of a nation in its governmental institutions by creating graft and bribery if he can enrich himself. Such a person is a parasite. He is drawing out regardless of what he contributes. Such are the people who wreck the world. If we are to change the order of things in our communities and nation we must fling back into public life men who think in terms of the group and the nation rather than of self, or class, or section. Men in businesses run solely for private gain, must shake off their indifference to national affairs and be made tc feel the sense of community responsibility. Far worse than indifference to national affairs, on the part of the individual, has been his active alliance with well organized class or sectional minorities existing solely to promote their own political interest. The clashing character of state and sectional interests served by Congressmen who have been moved by desire for political survival has been the fundamental cause for many legislative monstrosities. No matter how good the original bill or how much needed in the interests of national welfare, it rarely gets by except in the gravest emergency without being modified, compromised, diluted, twisted, distorted, and tortured out of all reasonable shape. Progress comes when men of broad vision and willingness to serve the public good, think their way through, undaunted by political pull, unswerved by private or sectional or class gain. We are living in a day when the instruments of propaganda are being developed as never before, by people, by radio, and by press. Every day newspapers broadcast calumnies against opponents. Such invectives find their way into our hearts, and 588 there harden into solid walls, the frail partitions that at first separated differing points of view. The walls are built ever higher and ever more soundproof until no one sees or hears the other man again. When individuals or groups have some purpose they want to serve, they have an opportunity to fling it at the community en masse. We produce things en masse in the United States and we tend to think en masse, to follow somebody and too often the person who raises his voice is the person who has a private end to gain. The men who made our country, who created our liberty, and who | brought our constitution out of chaos, were not men who simply thought about it. They stood up as the signers of the constitution recognizing it might mean the loss of every cent they had and possibly of their lives. This is the kind of community and national attitude the new philosophy demands. THIRD: The new philosophy must also embrace a more tolerant and less selfish attitude toward the world at large. For a century America, physically isolated from the Old World, heeded the advice of Washington to exercise the greatest prudence in foreign entanglements. But the international barriers of oceans, mountain ranges, and streams once almost insumountable, have gradually disappeared only to be replaced by formidable barriers of misunderstanding, prejudices, selfishness and jealousy. Before 1914 the average American knew little and cared less about European affairs. The issues on whica the War was begun were rather obscure. When President Wilson, in 1917, led a bewildered nation into war, a new international attitude was created. The intense patriotic appeal to make the world safe for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE democracy and the mingling millions of men of many nations in one common cause fired the imagination, and America passed into an emotional stage of international attitude. In sympathy for suffering allies, wealth and man power were mobilized. Having helped win the war we assumed leadership in the reorganization of Europe, and then, good money was thrown after bad in an attempt to bring about an economic reconstruction tnat would enable Europe to pay her debts to us. NOW today, with foreign trade destroyed and financial disaster about us, with France repudiating her obligations and other European nations unable to pay, the attitude of the American people is becoming dangerously resentful and vindicative. Many would like to turn back the river of history. But that is impossible! Whether we like it or not, the world has become dependent on friendly international relations. Such relations cannot be brought about by mere scrapping of battleships and implements of war; there must be a mental disarmament resulting from a new international philosophy. The first factor is an understanding by one people of others. Until some progress is made in this direction, other efforts must fail. An enterprise is more than bricks and mortar, and machinery. Its vitality is the kind of spirit that moves it. A nation is more than fields, factories, and mines. Its group reactions are determined by the spirit and mentality of its citizens and if we are to understand the peoples of other nations we must understand the spirit that moves within them—that living intangible spirit, the self-starter of national activities. IMPROVING and changing our philosophy of life is slow, laborious A NEW PHILOSOPHY OF LIFE and difficult. There must be a long process of instruction, of information, and of gradual effect of example in bringing about better conditions of thought. The task of developing a new philosophy that will change man's attitude toward himself through a new personal evaluation of life; toward 'his community and his country through a complete sense of individual responsibility; and toward the world at large by a more genuine realization of the social and economic interdependence of nations is not insurmountable nor 589 is it a mere idealistic dream. President Franklin D. Roosevelt in his inaugural address sounded a challenge for a new philosophy when he said: "Happiness lies not in the mere possession of money; it lies in the joy of achievement, in the thrill of creative effort. The joy and moral stimulation of work must no longer be forgotten in the mad chase for evanescent profits. These dark days will be worth all they cost us if they teach us that our true destiny is not to be ministered unto, but to minister to ourselves and to our fellow men. Your Home Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke VIII. RENOVATING AND PAINTING FURNITURE HILE most of us are more or less interested in new furniture and how to choose it, there are perhaps only a few that will be buying an entirely new outfit for their homes, or even a piece or two, especially in these times of depression. The real problem, then, is what to do with the furniture we already have to make it more harmonious with the new scheme, or more lovely in appearance. Every home has a few pieces of furriiture that do not seem to fit, the cast-offs in attic or store room. Then there are the "hand-me-downs" from mother or grandmother—perhaps real antiques, but more often just misfits, some relics from the "Black Walnut Age," or the period of "Golden Oak" or, more recently, Mission furniture, not either appropriate or desirable as they are, but too good to discard. When we compare our own accumulation of furniture with that seen in model homes and in magazines we are often discouraged, but there is truly an enormous satisfaction in redecorating a room with such furniture. You'll be amazed at what you can do if you really make an effort. In considering the question of rejuvenation the first thought is usually painting, and, if your budget will not permit of the purchase of new furniture, the paint brush will often provide another royal road to home beautification. Painted furniture is a valuable asset in decoration. It is the oldest of all known furniture, dating back even to the days of the Pharaohs in Egypt and to the Early Greek and Pompeiian civilizations. Beautiful painted and polychromed pieces of those early periods can be seen in our museums today. Down through the centuries every great art period has Jeft to us lovely painted pieces that furnish inspiration for present-day designers. Among such pieces we find Italian, French and German 590 chests, the delightful furniture of the 18th Century, including that of Chippendale, Sheraton, and Hepplewhite in England, the lovely green and gold or ivory and gold furniture of Louis XV and Louis XVI in France, and the charming Venetian furniture, which with its exquisite colorings and designs of strange birds, flowers and landscapes reflected the spirit of that people. And from China came the inspiration of lacquered furniture, some of which has never been surpassed in decorative charm. From all countries there comes painted and decorated Peasant furniture which may be very successfully imitated in our own homes. Such furniture is Dutch Peasant, Italian Abruzzi, French, Normandy, German Biedermeier, and Early American furniture including such pieces as Windsor, Hitchcock and ladderback chairs, and Hadley and Pennsylvania chests. When one realizes the importance painted furniture has played in interior decoration for centuries one is more ready to give it the care and place it deserves in our homes, rather than feel that painting furniture is an evil resorted to only when necessary. In the modern home painted furniture should receive a hearty welcome as it offers the homemaker not only an opportunity to reclaim old pieces, but to carry out her own color ideas in the decoration of her home. Because it thus combines beauty and practicality it should be used to a greater extent. If painting is done correctly it can be distinctive and charming. THE first step to take is to analyze carefully the piece of furniture to be painted or remodeled, its lines, the wood of which it is made, and its ornamentation. Paint cannot cover up bad lines or unfortunate design. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE It is simply a pleasing way of attaining variety in furniture. Simple lines and few decorations are the most desirable, so remove all superfluous hardware, too ornate carvings, glued-on decorations, elaborate supports, expressionless curved bracketing, and the old finish. You are then ready to begin. Choose an undisturbed spot free from dust, wear old clothes and have plenty of materials at hand with which to work, rags, papers, sandpaper, scrapets, turpentine, rubbing felt, etc. Use a reliable brand of paint and a good brush. It is never good business to put on cheap paint as it will not only not last as long, but the cost of refinishing on such a surface is higher. Be sure to use the product for what it is intended. Skimping is false economy, use the number of coats needed or specified. Before starting to paint be sure the surface is clean. On old furniture it is best to wash it with a solution of washing soda to take off any grease and dirt. Then be sure it is thoroughly dry before painting. Remove the old surface if it is peeled, cracked or otherwise in bad condition. If paint remover is used to take off the old finish be sure it is all removed (with alcohol or benzine) before painting or it will eat through the fresh coat. Wax may be removed with gasoline and steel wool. Sandpaper thoroughly, and fill holes with putty or wood filler. Remember a smooth foundation is necessary for a successful finish. This preparatory work is not very interesting and is often slighted, but is necessary for the desired result. Follow directions on cans carefully. Let each coat dry thoroughly before putting on the next. A good brush is economy and insures a better job, but it must be cleaned after using and hung up to keep the bristles YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL straight. A large surface such as a headboard of a bed, or front of a dresser drawer should be in a horizontal position while being painted to prevent runs and sags. Set small articles on a table or stand to prevent stooping. WHEN the surface has been prepared there are a number of finishes you can use. Lacquer is very satisfactory as it has a tough durable surface, beautiful soft luster, not apt to crack or mar, stands extremes in temperature and is easily cleaned. It is easiest applied with a spray, especially on wicker furniture, although a brush will do if you have a good deal of patience. Keep the brush full and brush quickly with long, straight strokes, making laps quickly. Don't brush back. A second coat must be applied rapidly before it softens the first coat. Before applying lacquer on new wood it is desirable to seal with a coat of thin shellac.; For an enamel finish the following, although apparently a lot of trouble and an involved proceeding, is a fool-proof method and will give your articles that satiny sheen so much sought after, but seldom achieved in "home-made" painting. Apply a first coat of flat paint of the desired shade (always with the grain of the wood). Dry 48 hours, paint with a very light coat of boiled linseed oil and sand lightly with No. 00 sandpaper. Dust and dry. For the second and following coats this formula is good: Mix 50% flat paint and 40% enamel of the desired shade, 7% varnish and 3% Japan dryer. Strain. Apply three to five coats. The early painters of fine furniture often used as many as six or eight coats, each rubbed down with pumice stone until it seemed a part of the wood. Each coat should dry 591 48 hours and be smoothed with a coat of linseed oil, and a paste of pulverized rottenstone and oil on felt. If decorations are desired they are put on after the last coat and given a coat of shellac. Treat with linseed oil and rottenstone as before. Dust, give a good coat of spar varnish, dry for three or four days and finally smooth with rottenstone and oil. A few other suggestions for finishing might be given. Batiking furniture is very lovely. The design is painted on with wax and the whole article dyed, the wax removed and the design left in the natural finish. An antique finish is secured by applying a semi-transparent color, darker than the ground color, such as raw or burnt umber. After the final coat is dry this is applied and wiped away except in spots where you desire the antiquing. It should be applied sparingly where you wish to give the effect of high lights. Old ivory is secured by mixing ivory paint with raw sienna and burnt umber and a glaze of the same applied and wiped lightly. To obtain an eggshell finish pour paraffin oil on the furniture, sprinkle with powdered pumice, and rub well until the desired finish is obtained, then clean away all traces of pumice and oil. To get a weathered silver finish apply a coat of gray stain, when dry, rub over the surface with a rag and a small amount of white paint. A beautiful ebony finish may be obtained by applying first a coat of vermillion flat paint, a coat of black mixed with Chinese blue, and finally a coat of rubbing varnish. [TECORATIONS, such as transfers, Decalcomania, and stencils may be used, but with good taste and judgment. They should be selected with care, so that they have some meaning and properly fill the spaces in which they are placed. Do 592 not have them repeat each other in a dull and monotonous manner. A more charming effect can be obtained by not putting transfers on all the painted articles in a room; it will lend variety and not look so much like a set if only a few are used. That is, in a bedroom, the chairs and small tables might be left without applied design, while the chest and bed are decorated. Striping, if well done provides effective decoration, also shading of colors. Avoid a spotty look in handling these decorations, not only on the furniture, but on door panels, etc. Too few are much better than too many. DO not be afraid of color in furniture. Color was used to beautify the surroundings in the early civilizations with delightful results. Of course, except for accents and furniture for porches, breakfast and sunrooms, a more or less neutral color is best for the background, such as ivory, gray-green, Gray-blue, or black, but they can be decorated in all the tints of the rainbow. Charming touches may be added— such as lining drawers and doors with color, for instance a black desk with Chinese Red or Peacock Blue, Ecru with orange, etc. For mixing colors and color harmonies refer to article two. Often one has an old piece of furniture made of a beautiful wood or with a really fine grain, in excellent condition. It may be covered with several coats of paint, but this may be removed by sanding, or with paint remover and sanding. To finish, shellac may be applied, or shellac and wax, or if you wish to deepen the color or change it, apply stain, which may be secured in gray, brown, green, blue, mahogany and cherry. Give a coat of shellac, dry, then a coat of linseed oil. Smooth RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE with a paste of pulverized rottenstone and linseed oil, applied with felt. Dry and dust. Then apply two or three coats of wax. Wax may also be applied over the dry stain. This will give a rich, subdued luster. Woods especially worthwhile treating in this manner are maple, redwood, walnut, mahogany and pine. Another finish for all woods in their natural colors is burnt sienna in oil, thinned with turpentine until like thin cream and applied with an oxhair brush. When dry, apply shellac, dry and smooth with paste of oil and pulverized rottenstone. Dry and dust with cloth. There are now on the market many delightful pieces of unfinished furniture in the "white," which has fine lines and feeling and built on a scale suitable for small homes and apartments. They may be painted, waxed or shellacked to fit any color scheme. ANYON E handy with a saw and hammer can easily remodel old furniture into new and delightful shapes, or improvise a beautiful piece where there was none before. If the furniture is too high cut it down, if possible. If you have a high bed, the headboard may be sawed down, or it may be removed entirely, and the footboard substituted for the headboard and only a frame at the foot. Supports may be taken off old time dressers and the mirror hung by a cord. A table, washstand, or shelf may be made into a delightful dressing table with a flounce of chintz, taffeta or organdie. A glass may be cut to fit the top, and if desired a bright cretonne tacked under it. The writer once saw an old narrow, drop-leaf table which had been lacquered black, with a line of gold trim. The one leaf was raised against the wall, the other down in YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL front. It was used as a sideboard, and made a lovely background for a pewter tea set. Another use for such a table might be for serving. A breakfast room might be most attractively furnished with a small table in black enamel with jade trim, the chairs jade with seat pads of black oilcloth. Small benches painted green might also be used. Small shelves or a hanging cupboard to match would complete a very charming room. Rows of pine shelves in the same colors as the furniture can be made interesting with pottery, china or glass. FTEN chairs and sofas that are past the stage where they can be remodeled, or have lines that are irredeemable may be _ slip-covered with some colorful material, and are quite satisfactory. This subject will be treated more fully next month under decorative textiles. Mission furniture may be made to fit in with the modern decoration if painted and treated with a few strong decorations and upholstered in a bold pattern or stripes. The serviceability and suitability of wicker, reed and bamboo furniture to nearly every type of room and decoration but the most formal cannot be emphasized too much. It may be left natural, or stained or painted, and upholstered with cretonne or striped linen will prove really fine. Wicker can be interspersed with mahogany or walnut furniture in informal rooms. AINTED furniture possesses the qualities of freshness, gayety and cleanliness. It has a lighter weight effect than furniture of natural wood, and this fact must be taken into consideration in balancing a room. While it will add color and charm to a room, if used with discretion 593 , there are few rooms where it can be used entirely. The best effect is secured where one or two pieces are used for emphasis. Nothing else will give the exact charm an occasional piece of good painted furniture adds to a room otherwise furnished in dark woods, achieving harmony by contrast. Rooms that can be furnished suitably with painted furniture alone are bedrooms, boudoirs, nurseries, bathrooms, kitchens, breakfast rooms and sun porches. But even here it is not often desirable to keep to one color and one decoration, or one type of furniture in the room. For example, a bedroom might have a bed and chest of blue enamel, with stripes of cream, the chairs could be of cream, with or without blue decoration, and the dressing table have a flounce of peach, blue and yellow. Bedrooms are always lovely in painted furniture because it is clean looking and cheerful. The bedroom might be furnished in mahogany or walnut, with a painted or lacquered chest or cabinet for variety or interest. In the dining room more care must be used. In informal rooms the chairs and tables might be painted, or gray enamel Louis XVI chairs, for instance, would look well with a Sheraton mahogany table, a cabinet in gray might also be used. To play safe in more formal rooms it is better to keep to natural woods with perhaps a lacquered cabinet for accent. This is excepting the finer pieces of English, Chinese and French painted furniture. In the nursery, painted furniture is eminently suitable. It should be decorated and furnished to suit the age and interest of the children. Clear (not necessarily pure) color should always be used in children's rooms for they love color and do not 594 understatid so well the more subtle tones. The transfer designs or decorations might be pictures of storybook people, fairy tales or Mother Goose, or other designs familiar to child life. Such pictures may often be cut from illustrations in magazines, pasted on the walls or furniture and shellaked over. They may then be changed as the interest of the child changes. Every child deserves a room of his own, and he should have a share in its furnishings and decoration. His ideas should be used, if possible, and included in the discussion. He should know and understand the "whys" of any decision. Nothing will give him a better start in life, in love of home, correct principles and the ability to shoulder responsibility than a place he can call his own—his private world to which he may retreat for solitude, in which he may be himself. If he can't have a room by himself, at least he should have a corner or nook in a room that is his own. On the porch, in the sun-room or out-door living room painted furniture also finds its natural place. Windsor chairs, wicker and metal furniture are especially good. Such furniture must be weatherproof, strong enough to resist the wind, yet light enough to be moved if desired, comfortable and look nice always. Painted furniture meets these requirements. It may be painted in brilliant colors, sufficiently vigorous RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for out-of-doors, in a setting of trees and flowers, yet harmonious with the exterior of the house. Two coats of lacquer makes a finish impervious to moisture, especially appropriate for porch furnishings. Metal furniture should have a protective undercoat of red lead and iron oxide. While there are beautiful pieces made especially for outdoor use, it is possible to equip the garden room with castoffs from the house. An iron couch or cot with a comfortable mattress and cushions, with a waterproof covering provides for a moment of relaxation. A few chairs, a small table or two, some hanging baskets and potted plants make satisfactory furnishings for a sun room. A dining table here is not amiss. Breakfast in the cheery atmosphere of a sunporch will give you a better start for the. Day. Get the habit of eating "under the sky." There is really no end to the possibilities of old furniture. Never discard it unless it is in bad condition or of hopelessly bad design. It may be that it will furnish that needed touch to give the desired result in the bedroom, or fill an empty spot in the living room. An old chair, a relic of the reign of horsehair, may become "father's favorite” when recovered in a bold printed linen and set in a cosy place by the hearth. Next Month: Slip Covers and Decorative Textiles. OW," said a good book unto me —"'Open my pages and you shall see Jewels of wisdom and treasures fine, Gold and silver in every line, And you may claim them if you but will Open my pages and take your fill." — Edgar A. Guest. Priesthood and Womanhood By Leah D. Widtsoe HE question is often asked "What interest has Priesthood to the women of this Church?" Two mission incidents make the discussion of this subject seem timely. Incident Number One occurred in May, 1929, when a large celebration was held in Leipzig, Germany, to honor the one hundredth anniversary of the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood. Members of the Church from all parts of the mission were present, as well as mission authorities and some distinguished American guests. After a most impressive program one of the visiting women turned to me and asked, "What is the meaning of Priesthood to a member of your Church?" I explained briefly that it is the delegated authority of our Father in Heaven restored to men one hundred years ago by Heavenly Beings so that men may act in His name in any official Church capacity. "Do your women hold that Priesthood, so-called?" I explained that women do not directly hold that power nor exercise its authority but that through father or husband they share in its blessings and gifts. Indeed, the highest, sacred ceremonies in the Temple, or House of the Lord, are participated in by man and woman, side by side, and may not be taken by either one alone. "But as an individual woman, or independent unit, woman has no part in exercising that delegated authority?" "No, she has not." - "Then, why are you women here today celebrating the restoration to man alone of a Higher Power, as you consider it?" Then was given an explanation, the gist of which follows later in this discussion. Incident Number Two happened recently. A group of women had been attending a Relief Society meeting while Theology lesson number five of a current series of lessons, "Authority to Act in the Name of God"—was being given. Amongst the group was an intelligent woman, a non-member of the Church. The lesson was discussed paragraph by paragraph. Finally she remarked, "We have discussed this lesson, I have read it through and it doesn't seem to concern women at all. Why should your women study this subject?" Then she asked some of the questions already quoted in incident number one. She continued, "I read from the lesson, "Thus at this early date in the history of the Church the Lord had restored full authority to man to act in His name.... It encourages men to do good and shun evil.... The Priesthood is intended for every son of God who is prepared to receive it. Accordingly, in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the Priesthood is widely held by the male laity, as well as by those in official positions. The equality of this practice is immediately apparent, etc.' And the closing paragraph of the lesson reads: 'And this is not all. Every male member in the Church is given some specific duty to perform, especially adapted to his capacity. With a working Priesthood of this nature, far greater efficiency is assured than in churches 596 where the clergy alone are active. Moreover, the Priesthood of the Church possesses the actual authority to act in the name of God, and therefore its works are recognized of Him. " The questioner continued: "Are not women given some specific duty to perform? Or are they a negligible quantity? Woman is not mentioned in any part of the lesson. Are only the 'male laity' able to act for God and therefore is man alone recognized of Him? I would like really to know what the womanhood of your Church has to do with Priesthood?" sions, the above questions, with many others, have been asked by members and friends of the Church. Some of these pertinent questions concerning this subject follow: 1. "What is Priesthood and how does it function?" 2. "Why should God give His sons a power that is deriied His daughters? Should they not be equal in His sight as to status and opportunity to perform the labors of life? Surely a just God has no favorites!" 3. "Are not women as a class just as good and intelligent as men as a class? Then why single out one sex for God's preferment °" 4, "In this day of 'woman's rights' how do your women react to having men only hold the Priesthood? Do you not feel that you are discriminated against by this same Higher Power?" 5. "If a boy of 12 years has this gift bestowed upon him while his sister has not does it not tend to make him grow up with a feeling that he is literally a 'lord of creation' while his sister belongs to 'the common herd'?" 6. "Does not this discrimination make men more arrogant in their atOn numerous other occa-— RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE titude toward women? Do they not necessarily feel themselves the superior and dominant sex?" 7. "Does not this difference in religious status take away from men the chivalry and courtesy that make life association so beautiful and satisfying? Indeed, do you not feel that 'Mormon' men are really less courteous and more imbued with the reaction that the 'Priesthood always precedes,' and are not really and truly as naturally polite as are other men?" This question has often been asked by women who are members of the Church as well as by those who are not. 8. In this day of more general study of modern psychology, the next question is natural, and bears somewhat on the other queries. "Does not the fact that women can- - not hold the Priesthood tend to give them an 'inferiority complex' and therefore make their inner lives less serene and normal?" 9. "What is the effect on the home life of families following the past hundred years of dominance by men who hold the Priesthood?" This question, in a way, includes all the others. 10. "Does not this power tend to cause a feeling of 'sex-rivalry' in the relationship of men and women of this Church?" HE answers to the above questions should be understood by the girls and women of the Church for their own peace and progress, as well as to enable them to answer intelligently all interested questioners. To answer question number one our late Prophet Joseph F. Smith may be quoted, "What is the Priesthood? It is nothing more nor less than the power of God delegated to man by which man can act in the PRIESTHOOD AND WOMANHOOD earth for the salvation of the human family, in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, and act legitimately; not assuming that authority, not borrowing it from generations that are dead and gone, but authority that has been given in this day in which we live by ministering angels and spirits from above, direct from the presence of Almighty God, who have come to the earth in our day and restored the Priesthood to the children of men." It must be understood that the Priesthood is operative for the welfare of the entire human family, not for one class or sex. Men and women share alike in its blessings and resultant joy but for the sake of order and wise government our Heavenly Father delegated the power of presidency in this order to His sons. Therefore man holds the Priesthood and stands before his Maker as the one who is responsible for all official acts in Church capacity for human welfare. "Ts this fair?" one may ask, "Why should not women exercise that power as well as men?" This leads to the answer of question number two: Our Father in Heaven has bestowed upon His daughters a gift of equal importance and power, which gift if exercised in its fulness will so occupy their entire life on earth that they can have no possible longing for that which they do not possess. The "gift" referred to is that of Motherhood—the noblest, most soul-satisfying of all earthly experiences. If this power is exercised righteously, woman has no time nor desire for anything greater, for there is nothing greater on earth. This does not mean that women may not use to the full their special gifts, for they are possessed of human free agency to the same extent as are men. Also, the more they advance and exercise innate qualifications the greater will 597 be their motherhood. However, this power of motherhood is so engrossing that when exercised completely, any added outside demand for time or strength would be a tax and would tend to detract from its great requirements. Woman may claim other activity but motherhood should take precedence in her entire scheme of life. So our Father is entirely just, and does prove His love for His daughters as well as His sons. A QUESTION may here be asked: "But what of the women who through no fault of their own can never exercise their great gift?" The answer is simple: Motherhood can be exercised as universally and vicariously as can Priesthood. The world needs good mothers more than any other one thing. Because a woman has been denied children of her very own is no reason why her God-given power and gift may not be exercised for the countless neglected children in every community whose mothers are unfit or have been taken from earth. All intelligent worth-while work for social betterment in private life or in organized activity is but an enlarged Motherhood acting for the uplift of mankind. And in this field every wouldbe Mother could and should be active. When the Mothers of the world train their children from infancy with a "will for peace' and wars cease on earth then may there be enough good men so that most women may exercise directly their own right to Motherhood. HE next question regarding the intelligence and capability of women as a class is but an enlargement of the others. Does not the training of the human soul for advancement and joy here and hereafter call for the greatest possible powers of mind and heart? Psy- 598 chologists and students generally admit that the first years of life are crucial in determining what shall be the future of the child physically, mentally, morally and_ spiritually. That grave responsibility belongs, by gift divine and right of sex, to the women who bear and nurture the whole race. Surely no right thinking woman could crave more responsibility nor greater proof of innate powers than that. Such power entrusted to women proves conclusively that they have been recognized and trusted. Our Father even chose a daughter of Eve to be the earthMother and guide of His Only begotten Son, and thus honored womanhood for all time and eternity! HE fourth question is answered by simply stating that in this day of "woman's rights," the women inside this Church or out, who feel that they must have more than their womanhood demands, are but shortsighted and do not recognize the full scope of their God-given powers. The struggle for woman's rights is righteous in so far as it claims independence of thought and action, civic equality and economic independence for the mothers of men. It is misdirected if it hopes to give woman man's work to do or encourages her to evade her birthright— motherhood. Truly, there is in reality no discrimination between the sexes as to purpose and power only as human beings make it or permit it. Therefore, all must understand that the Priesthood when exercised righteously unites men and women, it never separates them—unless either group, by their own acts, cuts off its power. QUESTION number five, concerning the attitude of youth to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE - this subject, may well be answered by telling a story of the small brother and sister who were competitively discussing their future. The boy stated he could be an engineer when he grew up and drive a huge engine. The girl said she could be a great musician and thrill great audiences with the joy of her art. The boy retorted that he could be President of the United States. For a while the little girl was somewhat silenced for surely here her brother had the better of the argument. Suddenly a bright thought came. "When I grow up I can be a mother and have a baby all my own and nurse it!" That seemed to silence the lad until his bright thought came, "but I can hold the Priesthood!" Who won? Both of them. Because Father shares with Mother the responsibility and joy of raising the new-born life to useful maturity and motherhood were impossible without a father. So with the Priesthood: man exercises its power but may not partake of its greatest gifts and blessings without the woman by his side. Moreover, the exercise of the Priesthood is for woman's benefitas wellas for man's. From childhood both should be made to understand and prepare for the great gifts and powers that await their maturity and should realize that before the great Judge they are equal. However, since man exercises the responsibility of Priesthood his must be the deciding voice. This is but wise and just because man who carries church and family responsibility should actually be the leader. Leadership is necessary in all smooth-running human institutions; in the home it may be joint leadership through love and mutual understanding. (To be continued) Happy Mothers By Marba C. Josephson O be genuinely happy, mothers must learn how to play with their children. 'Play activity has its definite purpose, just as work has its end; each helps make the well-rounded social individual. In play the training should be for cooperation and unity. Play should teach good sportsmanship. Most of us mothers lose out in the play time of our children and thus miss an excellent opportunity to develop family solidarity. Too often we allow our children to think of us only as ogres for work. We have Johnny bring up the coal; we have Mary scour out the basin and tub; we have James do the dusting. But how many times do we call them together and say, "Let's pack a lunch and go gather some wild flowers?" The world around us is so full of wonder that we snould enjoy more of it. Children are so refreshing that we should enjoy more of them. Where there are children there can be no depression, for if we only open our eyes and hearts to them, they will banish any feeling of gloom. We should take frequent walks with our children. In our Rocky Mountain country, the wild flowers are abundant and beautiful. Help the youngsters make a collection; if possible, naming each flower. This year we experimented by pressing the flowers and then enclosing them in cellophane. I am certain that they will keep much better during the year when eager but careless little fingers turn over the pages. This wildflower gathering may expand from year to year by the study of manuals and by classifying and reclassifying. It's surprising how fascinating this particular activity becomes. Following it as a hobby gives plenty of opportunity for hikes and sun-tans, to say nothing of the chance it affords for gaining of valuable information. Insect and bird life are worth studying. Try to learn the characteristics of the birds and recognize their songs. Interest the children in watching them without harming or disturbing them. If little ones learn never to injure birds or other animals an invaluable lesson will be taugnt. If they will not injure dumb animals, how much more will they hesitate to injure human beings. Then we shall be one step nearer to the time when peace and good fellowship shall abound in the earth. Don't forget walks during the winter. Outside activity in this season is essential to health as well as to happiness. Dress tne children in warm (waterproof, if possible) clothing, and then go out for a good sleigh ride or a snowball fight. Incidentally, watch the roses bloom in your cheeks as well as in your children's. You will be startled how many things you can see if you will once open your eyes to the life of winter. DURING the whole year special days should be made much over in the homes. I don't mean that there need be expensive parties. I do mean, however, that something extra should be arranged for the family as an entirety. Pictures offer great possibilities and are easily available. Magazines and papers are full of them. Begin gathering them together. Whenever you see pictures of Washington, Lincoln, or those pertaining to Christ- 600 mas, Thanksgiving, Valentine's Day, or any other holiday, cut them out. When you go to the store, ask the owner to give you the cardboard that comes between the layers in his boxes. Then let the older children paste the pictures on these cards and you have tie beginning of your collection. Get a box and keep the pictures from year to year and you will be surprised at the rapid growth of your picture library. On the special days, put these prints around. Play a few games and serve some special sweet, such as, peppermint chews or cookies that are homemade. Birthdays need especially to be celebrated. In these days when so many people talk freely about limiting the size of the families, I can't help wondering how the children feel. My oldest son, seven and a half, asked a neighbor child to come in and play. The boy said, "Mother won't let me. She says you have too many children already." Son turned to me and said, “We haven't too many children, have we, Mother?" Youngsters must be convinced that they are desired and loved. No day can compare to the child's own birthday for this assurance. If necessary, make less of Christmas (which after all has lost most of its significance through its commercialization) and save for the birthday of each member of the family. With each new child purchase a small notebook and keep a record of his development: his mischief, his cute tricks, his bright sayings, his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE diseases, his triumphs, his troubles. (This information will be priceless in helping you understand him.) A day or two before the birthday, get out the notebook and re-read all the particular happenings to this particular child. Select those items tuat will please him and make the rest of the family approve of him. Never tell anything that will embarrass him or make him lose his self-confidence. Retell the little intimate things to show him that you love him and are eagerly watching 'his development. Make his favorite Pike and put candles on it. Be sure to write his name on it. Vegetable coloring costs so little, lasts so long, and gives so much pleasure that every family should have at least two colors always on hand. Cookie cutters are inexpensive and helpful. In our home we make our parties largely with these cut cookies. Orange or apple chariots have round cookies for wheels; two horses pull them; gingerbread men are the drivers. In addition to the games, plan a program. Even the two-year old responds to the party idea and begins to obtain self-reliance and poise. We are told that we remember longest the pleasant experiences because we recall them oftenest. We mothers who wish to be honored by our children must be sure we give them enough good times that they won't be able to forget us for an instant. By making use of our happy moments we shall help insure family love and unity. Gifts By Susan T. Jennings If I had choice Of all the gifts God gives to womanhood, To me the gift Of all transcendent, Would be my priceless Motherhood. Let's Go Places By Mabel S. Harmer ALL I want is sociability Some one to be sociable with me" may seem at first glance to convey the utmost frivolity, but let's take a second look. Sociability may not be all we want, but surely a well balanced social side to' one's nature is very desirable. It is said that we gain something from every person we meet. It follows then that it is to our advantage to contact a consistently large number of the right kind of people. I believe a valuable part of our religious gatherings comes after the services are over and Mr. And Mrs. Jones stop to exchange a friendly greeting with the Smith's and inquire after Johnny's mumps and whether the party last week was a success. Some one recently said to a lively young matron, "You and your husband certainly do step out, don't you?" She replied that they did and that they intended to do so for years yet. They figured that old age would be time enough to sit at home by the fireside. For the present they intended to cultivate their friends. Let me not for a moment infer that home should be neglected for social ties. I trust that no woman after reading this will say, "Ah, I have only been going out three afternoons a week. I shall now go four." There is a happy medium for all things. It is possible for a mother to give ner home and family proper care and still have time for outside interests. Three of the most outstanding women in the church and community today are the mothers of seven, nine and twelve children respectively and. All are superior children. It is possible that occasionally one of them has had to sew on a button for himself or be depended upon to wash his own neck clean but apparently there nas been little suffering from so doing. I know a woman who at the sacrifice of much time and pleasure keeps an immaculate house. It is a thing of beauty. That it will be a joy forever, I very much question. It is likely that in the years to come she will feel that life should have held more for her than a gleaming house. I am sure her children will feel so. I can well imagine that twenty years hence Johnny Jones will not say with a thrill of pride in his voice, "My mother always kept her mop boards shining." While on the other hand he may be very proud to say as he passes the Art Barn, "My mother nelped to build that." Children want a mother whom they and their associates can admire. A recent magazine editorial says, "It is psychologically necessary that children should feel proud of their mother." It is quite possible that a mother's full duty is not done when children are merely fed, clothed and given their cod liver oil. They need a mental stimulation which she can best give them by having interests outside of the home. Man does not live by bread alone and perhaps children do not. I HAVE heard more than one mother remark that after her children are grown she intends to turn to other interests. It will be too late then. She will not know how. What a pathetic object a woman is, 602 who in her own family circle listens in a bewildered manner to the kaleidoscopic interests of the day without being able to share in the discussions. She is still more pathetic when her brood suddenly takes flight and she is left with time on her hands and no idea of what to do with it. A most interesting phase of modern times is the increasing number of mothers who take University extension classes, some even going back to school to be graduated with the youngest of their children. Let me reiterate that home and family come first and should never be neglected for other interests. But aren't they better served by the added richness which comes into the mother's life by contacts with her fellowmen. After all, it is she who sets tne standards of family life. More than one man who thought he had married a companion has awakened to find that he has married only a housekeeper. By social life, I do not mean, of course, incessant card playing as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE some people's social life has come to be. There is nothing very sociable in four people with their heads bent together over a card table. Usually any conversation foreign to that of the game is excessively frowned upon. It is rather deplorable that so many parties nowadays have come to mean nothing else. It takes a little more ingenuity on the part of the hostess to plan entertainment. The easy thing, of course, is to wash her hands of her guests, figuratively speaking and put them down at card tables. The hostess is daring indeed who relies on her guests' conversation for their entertainment and still my own experience has been that the most delightful part of an evening comes when the formal part of the entertainment is over and the guests are allowed simply to talk. Let's go places and meet people— providing, of course, they are the right places and the right people. It's much more fun to go out and talk to them than to stay at home and read about them. By Lottie Grosjean If I were asked to give a toast Toa season of the year. I'd choose thee, lovely Autumn, Grandest of all the year. The hills are like rock gardens Of every brilliant hue; Thanks to the Master Painter, To whom all praise is due. Then here's to your glowing sunsets, Your skies of azure blue. To your trees all flaming glory, Autumn, I give thanks for you. Autumn Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon 9' TIS harvest time. The world is full of golden things. Let the soul be full of golden thoughts. WY, ALICE REYNOLDS, professor of English literature at the Brigham Young University, Utah, has a record of 39 years' service as a faculty member. RS. GAINOR JENNINGS (Penelope Perrill), Ohio's oldest newspaper woman, died last month. For 14 years she was on the editorial staff of the Dayton Daily News. RS. MARTHA MARTIN, of Idaho, just celebrated 51 years as postmistress in the service of Uncle Sam. RS. STELLA ATKIN, a young lawyer of Savannah, Ga., was recently sworn in as assistant in the department of justice. GENORA MARCELLE DURAND, Paraguay's first lady, has been mediator between her country and Bolivia and persuaded the belligerents to hold a peace council in Rio de Janiero. GENORITA CARMENCITA CAMPOS, age 17, is said to be the youngest woman engineer and the only woman engineer on the American continent. She holds an electric engineer's license and is employed by the Pacific Railroad system of Costa Rica. "THE MISSES BURN, STRATTON and ETTRIDGE are the first women detectives on the Scotland Yard police force. They have made a thorough study of criminal procedure and law as they affect police. ANNE LINDBERGH, assisted her distinguished husband in mapping an aerial cruise over the notth Atlantic to Europe. The young couple received an ovation at Copenhagen and were entertained by United States Minister Ruth Bryan Owen. HELEN JACOBS, of California, now holds the woman's national tennis championship, having defeated the popular Helen Wills Moody, who, because of physical distress, was forced to default. DR. MARGARET G. SMITH, of Washington University, has discovered a virus which it is believed, will be a valuable aid in the battle of sleeping illness. DAME FASHION has queer notions for "Milady" this autumn, bringing back the puffs and ruffles of the "90's," while the hats and hair and makeup are entirely unique even for this "Jazz age." MARGARET AYER BARNES' novel, "Within the Present," also Mary Borden's "Technique of Marriage" and Naomi Smith's "Portrait of Mrs. Siddons," are among the new September books. Jaxer BEITH, an English girl, won the $20,000 prize in the international prize novel competition. Her book entitled "No Second Spring," is published this fall. MRS. CATHERINE PHILLIPS gives a colorful picture of early San Francisco days in her recent book ''Portsmouth Plaza." ISABEL WILDER in her novel ~ "Mother and Four" very interestingly relates a simple story of pleasant, intellectual people. Mrs IRENE MERRILL and Miss Phyllis McGinley, two Utah girls, have attained distinction in the literary field, one as a magazine contributor and one as a poet. The Universal Fruit By Lucy Rose Middleton HO can say how long before the coming of the white man to America the native crab apple blossomed and bore fruit in nature's orcnard? Our history books tell us that in 1629 a governor of the. Massachusetts Bay Colony brought over from Europe the first seedlings of cultivated apples. The apple industry has flournished greatly, for today the United States is the largest: apple-growing country of the world. The annual production is 169 million bushels. Washington, the biggest apple producing state, contributes from 32-35 million bushels. The varieties are too numerous to mention. There are now at least two thousand different ones. New kinds are continually being produced from seeds; but since the apple is chiefly propagated by grafting, these new varieties are frequently engrafted on the old trees. More apples are consumed today than ever before. The modern cook has added greatly to the dried apple pie and applesauce. Utilized in puddings, pies, fritters, salads or fancy desserts, canned, preserved, pickled; made into marmalade, jelly or jam; baked, stewed or raw, the apple is the housewife's unfailing friend. Fresh Apple Pie 6-8 sour apples %-34 cup white or brown sugar 4 teaspoon grated nutmeg or cinnamon 4 teaspoon salt % tablespoon butter 2 teaspoons lemon juice Few gratings lemon rind Line pie plate with pastry. Pare, core, and cut apples in eighths, put row around plate one-half inch from edge, and work toward center until plate is covered; then pile on the remainder. Mix sugar, nutmeg, salt, lemon juice and grated rind, and sprinkle over the apples. Dot with butter. Wet edges of under crust, cover with upper crust, and press edges together. Bake in a moderate oven for 40-45 minutes. Dried apples, soaked over night in cold water may be used in place of the fresh fruit. Apple Sauce Cake Y% cup butter 1 cup sugar 1 cup cold, unsweetened apple sauce 1 teaspoon soda 1 cup raisins and nuts, cut in pieces 1 teaspoon cinnamon Y%2 teaspoon powdered cloves 2 cups flour Cream butter, add sugar gradually. Add soda to apple sauce and add to butter and sugar. Add other ingredients and bake in buttered and floured pan 40 minutes in moderate oven (350° F.). Hot Spiced Cider Mix 2 quarts sweet cider, 14% cup brown sugar, 3 small sticks cinnamon, 2 whole cloves, 1 nutmeg (grated), and % teaspoon salt. Boil ten minutes. Dutch Apple Cake 2 cups flour 4 teaspoons baking powder ¥Y, teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon sugar 34 cup milk THE UNIVERSAL FRUIT Mix dry ingredients, sift twice, work in butter with pastry blender, fork, or finger tips, and add milk gradually. Spread 84 inch thick in buttered round or oblong pan. Cover top with wedge-shaped slices of apples, pressing thin edge into dough. Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Bake in moderate oven (350° F.). Serve with hard sauce, or lemon sauce, Hard Sauce 1/3 cup butter 1 cup confectioner's sugar or 3/4, cup granulated sugar 1/3 teaspoon lemon extract 2/3 teaspoon vanilla Cream butter, add sugar gradually, while beating constantly. Add flavoring. Lemon Sauce 1/2 cup sugar 1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 cup boiling water 2 tablespoons butter 1 1/2 tablespoons lemon juice Few gratings nutmeg Few grains salt Mix sugar and cornstarch, add water gradually, stirring constantly; boil 5 minutes, remove from fire, add butter, lemon juice, nutmeg and salt. Apple Dumplings 2 cups flour 1/4 cup sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder ½ teaspoon salt 1 egg 1/3 cup shortening Applesauce Mix dry ingredients and sift twice, work in shortening with tips of fingers, add egg well beaten and milk. Roll out one-fourth inch thick and cut pieces about four inches square. In the center of each piece place half a cooked apple or one table spoon of applesauce. Sprinkle with sugar and nutmeg and double the dough around the apples, pinching the edges together. Put in greased baking pan and bake for 30 minutes at 425 degrees. As soon as the dumplings begin to brown, baste with syrup made by boiling 4 cup sugar, 1/2 cup water and a few grains nutmeg together for 3 minutes. Serve with whipped cream or a vanilla satice. Stuffed Apple Salad Take an apple for each service; pare and remove all the seed cavity from the center. For six apples make a syrup of one cup sugar and 1 1/2 cup water; add a speck of red color paste and the juice of one lemon or an orange. In this syrup cook the apples until tender. Let cool in liquid. To serve, set in nest of lettuce or a bed of snredded lettuce. Fill the center with salad dressing mixed with one-half cup pecan nut meat, cut fine, six halves of pears cut in small pieces, and one-half cup sliced celery. If We Understood Could we but draw back the curtains That surround each other's lives, See the naked heart and spirit, Know what spur 'the action gives, Often we should find it better, Purer than we think we would; We should love each other better, If we only understood. Ah! We judge each other harshly, Knowing not life's hidden force, Knowing not the fount of action Is less turbid at its source, Seeing not amid the evil All the golden grains of good; Oh! We'd love each other better If we only understood.—Selected. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND: - - - - President - - - First Counselor - Second Counselor Geacieal Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs, Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. 'Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline \Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Manager -. Louise Y. Rosison Voit. XX OCTOBER, 1933 No. 10 EDITORIAL A Crying Need HAT 'has become of the intrepid spirit manifested by the pioneers? Where do we today find the unyielding adherence to principle they manifested? We are placing too high a value on money and are willing to sacrifice principles for gain. The world is crying for leadership and leaders are not to be found. "We tend to live for show, for the material things. However able we start on the enterprise, we end by living on the surface of life instead of living in its deeps."' We talk much of the financial depression and try to devise ways and means to put money in circulation and furnish work for the unemployed, to rehabilitate broken down businesses, etc. These are necessary, but we are thinking too little about the appalling conditions that are everywhere manifested in character deterioration. Our moral standards need fortifying, our resistance to evil needs strengthening. All about us are men who do not seem to have the moral turpitude to do what they know to be right. An employer of men recently asked the applicant if he smoked or drank. He replied, "I do not smoke, but I drink a little.' "That will not do for us," answered the employer. "We must have reliable men." "Well, I have been on the 'water wagon' for some time so you can depend on me," pleaded the applicant. For one week all went well. The man did his work very acceptably. On Monday morning the employer was informed over the telephone that this man could not come to work. He had had a sun stroke but he would probably be able to come about 11 o'clock. He did not appear at his post until the next day. Another was then filling his place. He admitted that on Saturday night he had gone out with "the boys" and had become intoxicated. He had lost a good position because he was not master of his appetite. A wife and three children were dependent on him. One can easily picture the Editor Assistant Manager Mary Connelly Kimball. I Amy Brown Lyman EDITORIAL happiness and distress his weakness caused. Another applicant when questioned said, "I do not drink, but I smoke." "What wages have you been receiving," asked the would-be employer. "T started at $40.00 but was receiving $22.00 when I left." The manager of the store thought there must be something wrong and phoned to the former employer. He found the story was true. He was told that the man understood nis work well but that he could not go four hours without smoking, that they found him repeatedly at the back of the store smoking when he should have been at the front waiting on customers. He had lost his job because he was a slave to the cigarette. Many employees are so intent on watching the clock that they lose many opportunities for service. One big concern seems to see to it that their employees never know what goods are on sale and unless the buyer checks aarefully, he is always charged the full price. Some store keepers are found repeatedly giving short weights. Bonus seekers have become a stench in the nostrils of the American people. Many concerns have been paying such fabulous salaries that there has been nothing left for bond holders and for those who have stocks. Many friends have become obnoxious because they have used their friendship to sell stocks, bonds, etc., to further their own financial gain even when they should 607 have known, if they did not, that the concerns they worked for were not solvent. We have been letting our very advantages weaken our back bones, and the things which when rightly used would have proved blessings have all too often weakened our will power and lessened our power Of resistance. James Truslow Adams says, "Today if one lives in an apartment in the city the heat comes on in the radiators with no effort on our part, or in a country house one can have a thermostat which will tend the furnace while we sleep, with like result. Twenty years ago thermostats were not in use. I lived in the country, and my father, tnen an old man, lived with me. On cold mornings I had to get out of my warm bed to go down to the cellar to stoke the furnace, so that the house might be warm when he got up. Now, it is much pleasanter to lie in bed while the thermostat works than it is to stoke the furnace early on a cold day; but forcing one's self to do the latter has an effect on character which waiting for the thermostat has not. In the first place, I had to use my will to get up, which strengthened will. In the second place I was doing something for someone else at the expense of my own comfort, which also had its effect." We glory in the Renaissance of Learning. We need a renaissance in morals, Attention, Utah Voters! VOTERS should be advised that they will, on November 7, vote both on the National and on the State Constitutions on separate ballots and not to overlook the question of the proposed repeal of the dry clause of our State Constitution which will appear on the regular white ballot. The national question will be presented on a separate pink ballot. Notes to the Field Theological Course HEN the Savior showed 'himself. To his disciples the third time on the shores of Galilee, he took bread and fish and gave to them. After they had dined he said to Peter, "Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these?' He saith unto him, 'Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee." "Feed my lambs," said the Savior. Twice again he asked the question, and to Peter's reply he said, "Feed my sheep." not bread and fishes but the bread of life eternal. Down through the ages has come the message of Carist, crucified and resurrected for our salvation. In many ways have his words, "Feed my sheep" been exemplified. To the Latter-day Saints has come more definite word regarding the way of light and truth. We are told we must search for truth; for truth makes men free. One of our doctrines is: "It is impossible to be saved in ignorance," that is, in By this the Lord meant ignorance of the things of God. We, therefore, believe it to be the paramount mission of the Church to enlighten its membership in those things; to follow the divine commandment given to Peter, "Feed my sheep." Our latter day scriptures bring great joy and strength and assists us in keeping that command. The Taeological Department of the Relief Society is an agent in furthering this work. This coming year we go still further into the study of the 'Doctrine and Covenants" with its glorious truths; so that the testimonies of the mothers in Israel may be strengthened, and greater faith in the Father, The Son, and Joseph Smith be obtained. 'This study will give us more background to intelligently plant in the hearts of our children everlasting truths. We are the sheep of the Divine Flockmaster and the bread of life is those truths that lead to supreme joy and 'happiness in this world and life everlasting in the world to come. Literary Course T is indeed gratifying to note the increased interest in the educational department of the Relief Society work. The literary lessons alone have been so attractive that many women are seeking admittance to these classes who never before had taken particular interest in the organization. Our women are beginning to realize that a rare opportunity heretofore desired of gaining knowledge of the highest order is now open to them without cost; knowledge equal to a college course in advanced literature. The new outline for the coming year is especially attractive. It is rich in history and full of delightful reading. Each lesson complete in itself incites one to further pursuit and desire to drink deeper of the fountain of learning. HE title "Life and Literature" has been given to the course of study in literature because it has been planned to meet the objective of the educational program of the Relief Society—To bring a fuller understanding of Life to the Latter-day Saint woman. The spirit of the course is best expressed in the statement, Literature has recorded what Man has thought and felt as with Ulysses-like courage NOTES TO he has continued through the ages "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield" in his quest for an understanding of Life. The lesson units of the study have been planned to present a view of human progress and an interpretation of that great realm of human experience that never changes—love and hate, hope and fear, motives and impulses, joys and griefs. The literary materials of the units have been chosen for their human appeal, their beauty of expression, and their power to touch us in an intimate way. THE FIELD 609 The lessons themselves as printed in the Relief Society Journal constitute the text book of the course of study. The supplementary text book, "The Story of the World's Literature,' by Jonn Macy, supplies an adequate background for the study in a condensed yet informal manner. The message of the course is embodied in the words of "The Chambered Nautilus'— "T hear a voice that sings:— Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll!" Teachers' Topic A NEW¢ era is being born and with the birth there is pain and fear and struggle. The teachers' topic aims to help with this struggle in every home, to the end that the new day shall bring better conditions and satisfactory adjustments. To this end it encourages faith in God, faith in one another and faith in one's self. It directs attention to the great purpose of life and endeavors to show a few guiding lights along the way. Our president, Louise Y. Robison, said recently, "What we need most is courage to face what is just ahead of us." The teachers' topic aims to help each one to meet the responsibilities of the hour with courage. It aims to help each family to uphold real fundamental values in life, to hope anew when overtaken by disappointment. It encourages gratitude, for one's real wealth may' be measured by ability to appreciate. The teachers' topic aims to light the spark of cheerfulness in hearts bowed down. The humblest cot may be a paradise if cheerfulness prevails. What happens to us matters so much less than how we take it. Attitude conditions the weight of the burden. It aims to build character and pre- - serve an atmosphere of peace by selfcontrol. It seeks to help each one to forget his own troubles, through consideration for others. Tears dry soonest in the eyes that see another's pain." In short the great purpose of the teachers' topic is to make more understanding and sympathetic wives, more efficient mothers, more happy homes, better neighbors and more useful citizens. It will further the wish of President Roosevelt that "A united nation banish all fears and face the sunrise of a new day with courage and with trust in God." Teachers will do their part in this great day. Social Service Course OW think ye? If a man have an hundred sheep, and one of them be gone astray, doth he not leave the ninety and nine, and goeth into the mountains, and seeketn that which is gone astray? 610 "And if so be that he find it, verily I say unto you, he rejoiceth more of that sheep, than of the ninety and nine which went not astray. "Even so, it is not the will of your Father which is in heaven, that one of these little ones should perish."— Matt. 18:12-14. The big objective in the course of social service lessons is that not one child shall perish for lack of proper care and development. The thought in planning them is to fortify the mother rather than give her problems she cannot solve. We are all quite aware that our modern conditions of living have brought many marked changes that seriously affect the conditions under which the child develops. These conditions are challenging to our whole social system and to parents in particular. Definite educational aims have been given with reference to the cnild as a whole and stress has been put on his mental growth, his emotional adjustment and social relationship as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE well as on his physical growth and fundamental health habits. It is being recognized on all sides that the child is mucn more than something to be fed, bathed and clothed. He is an individual with a personality to be developed. He has inherent limitations which must be recognized as well as capabilities which must be provided for and brought to the fullest by the educational process. Some of the most intelligent parents who have studied the more generally known principles of child care are recognizing their inability to cope with certain other problems, particularly those of social development. The greatest contribution our leaders can make to the development of the American boy or girl is the projection of thought towards future citizenship and a knowledge of the responsibility of every individual to mold the character of our national life through a successful home. Mothers will you accept the challenge? Our Cover HE cover is a water color painting of the Hayden Fork Road at Summit near Mirror Lake. The mountain in the distance is Hayden Peak, 12,500 feet. At the base of this mountain the boy scouts have their camp, where they find all the joys of the great out-of-doors. There are 115 lakes in this section. From this point the head waters of the Weber, Bear, Provo and Duchesne Rivers all start. These high Uintah Mountains rise more than 13,000 feet. They have so far resisted the advance of the automobile. This is one of the few wilderness regions of America where. The traveler must go on foot or with saddle horse and pack trains, as did the pioneers of early days. The high Uintah's primitive area contains 243,957 acres in the Wasatch and Ashley National Forests, and extends along the crest of the Uintah Mountains from Mirror Lake region eastward to King's Peak, which is 13,498 feet, the highest in the state of Utah. This is a region of abounding charm and beauty. Perennial snow banks with the charm of shifting light and shade on these lofty mountains. HE painting on the front page shows a beautiful water-fall at the head waters of the beautiful Provo River, up in the Granddaddy Lake district. Notes from the Field Northwestern States Mission: HE manner in which one of our missions celebrates Annual Day is most graphically told in the following account by Mrs. Pearl C. Sloan, President of the Mission Relief Societies: "Our Branch Presidents have kindly given the Relief Society a Sunday night nearest our Relief Society Anniversary, March 17th, for a program. This gives an opportunity for presenting our work to our friends and also to members of the branch. Most of our programs have brought in some phases of the work of the Relief Society and the opportunity it offers to its members, and also they have taken the opportunity of bringing in other speakers who could talk to them on topics of interest. In Seattle, Mrs. Thomas Irving, President of the Federated Woman's Coterie Club of the University District, talked to the Relief Society sisters, upon, 'The Accomplishments of the Recently Closed Session of the State Legislature.' Mrs. Gertrude Hovland of the Ladies' Nordica Choral Society rendered two vocal solos. This, with the excellent singing by the Seattle choir, made an interesting evening. "On March 17th our Relief Societies also celebrated our anniversary by giving a free entertainment for the adult membership of the branches. Many of our smaller groups gave a dinner or a luncheon, with a short play or an original program. "In Klamath Falls, Oregon, the program was built around the Relief Society Magazine, with the desire to emphasize many of the activities contained therein. An impersonator calling herself Miss 'Maga Zine' carried an enlarged copy of the March issue, introducing each number on the program, which consisted of a reading and a musical number by a quartette of 'singing fathers,' a talk 'Our Virtues—The Beatitudes,' also a playlet by the visiting teachers and another talk 'Service as We Know It,' a retold story from the literature lessons, a talk 'Practical Value of the Doctrine and Covenants' and a short dramatization, 'The Spirit of Relief. Society.' "Butte, Montana, dramatized the work of the different departments. Subjects chosen were: Theology— 'The Restoration of the Priesthood;' Literary—'Balcony Scene from Romeo and Juliet;'? Social Service— 'Class Work in the Clinic;' Visiting Teachers—'The Right and Wrong Way for Teachers to Present the Teachers' Topic.' These numbers were interspersed with musical and specialty numbers. "In Bynum, Montana, each class leader directed a one-act play representing their particular work. A prize of a year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine was given for the best play. "In Tacoma, Washington, a poem composed by one of the sisters told very cleverly of the purpose of the party, also of the value of membership in the Relief Society. A play 'The Organization of the Relief Society, was given by the members, and another interesting feature was an old-fashioned album made by two of the sisters. Past presidents were represented by six of the Relief Society sisters and as the leaves were opened they were introduced by the hostess, each one giving their own autobiography. The hostess then gave a sketch of the life of our own loved President, Louise Y. Robison. These with a number of appropriate mu- 612 sical selections made a very interesting program. "Varied and original ideas in decorating with our Relief Society colors added to the pleasure of our celebrations, and in some of our Societies we were given excellent publicity by our newspapers." Another picture from the Mission is presented as follows: "I visited in Kelso, Washington, yesterday. It was our social service meeting, the last one for the season, the lessons being given there by Sister Linda Fletcher, who has written a number of poems for the Magazine. It isa standing joke that some of the sisters have buried their talents, but unlike the man in the Bible, they expect theirs to grow and produce results in the way of flowers and vegetables. Two sisters whose husbands are unemployed were wondering how to get the original dime, when walking along the street they each found the shining silver coin lying at their feet in the grass along the walk.' " Sister Sloan was a delegate to tne Thirty-seventh Annual Convention of the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, held in the Olympic Hotel at Seattle, on May 22 to 26, 1933. It is gratifying when our sisters can cooperate in these great educational movements. The subject of this convention, "The Child and His Community," fits in splendidly with the program of study in our social service work for this year. The following are a few of the high spots in the convention: "Adults of this generation face a grave responsibility and yet have great opportunity to turn more thought, more energy, more real and intelligent planning into making the child in his community safe, happy, and ready for the future—Mrs. Hugh Bradford, National President." "We are all of us fellow-passengers RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE on the same planet and we are all of us equally responsible for the © happiness and well-being of the world in which we happen to live— Hendrik Van Loon's Geography." "The year ahead needs concentrated effort, wise planning, and a cheerful approach to our problems. Let us hold our meeting's for the high purpose of discussing the future welfare of our children. Let us not speak in terms of regret for the past but in terms of confidence for the future; confidence because of the faith we have in our neighbors far and near; confidence that what we determine to have for children will be theirs if we are united in our effort and wise in our planning —Mrs. Hugh Bradford, National President." North Sanpete Stake: SINCE our stake has put over some very excellent work during the past year, the attendance and interest in Relief Society has increased very materially. Before the work began last fall our class leaders' convention was held and the inspiration and interest that were kindled by Sister Maud Beeley Jacob has carried over into all of our season's work. "At the September Relief Society conference Sister Jennie B. Knight, our beloved General Board member, gave us much, food for thougnt, and in her pleasing spiritual way left her message of personal peace that has sustained us in our work. "Annual Day in March was very fittingly observed by every ward in the stake. On account of its being rather out of the ordinary, I should like to give the proceedings of the day as observed by three wards that unite each year on this occasion. The adults, men and women, between five and six 'hundred, gathered at the beautiful new chapel (at Fairview South Ward) at 11 a. M. Where a wonderful program was carried out. The Bishop's counselor of one ward NOTES FROM THE FIELD took charge. All former Relief Society Presidents, twelve in number, were honored. Ten living and two by proxy were present seated in a unique manner on the stand while a brief history of the Relief Society from the beginning, with time of 613 service of each president, was read by a Relief Society sister. Then the song, 'That Wonderful Mother of Mine,' was rendered by one of the brethren. This was followed by the pageant 'Eternal Womanhood,' original readings, one act play, a short PAGEANT, "THE COLLEGE OF OPPORTUNITY" FAIRVIEW NORTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY 614 operetta 'Synthia,' and talk by a stake officer, and music by a stringed orchestra were features before luncheon was served in the basement. The crowd was so large that lunch was served to about seventy-five at a time, while they still carried on the program in the auditorium. The honor guests and all over sixty were served first. During the luncheon the stringed orchestra furnished delightful old time music. Stunts, readings, one act plays were enjoyed until 4 p. M. The day closed with a dance where the ladies paid for the tickets and chose their partners. Standing feature of the day was the cooperation of the brethren, who are just as interested and look forward to it with just as much pleasure as do any of the sisters. The brethren took part on the program, worked on the refreshment committee, and helped on the entertainment committee right along with the women. They were there the day before with teams and wagons and cars getting things ready for the occasion and the day after cleaning up and putting things back in order again. "Ward Relief Society conferences have been held in every ward of the stake. As the main part of the program we used 'The College of Opportunity,' with some changes in poems, music, and songs by our late chorister, Tressa L. Ericksen. The wards spared no efforts in making the conference a success. The staging and costuming was beautifully and effectively done. "A very successful visiting teachers' convention was held June 8, 1933. The stake board served refreshments to 325. We feel that this stake day was very fitting as a conclusion to our year's activities. "On May 21, 1933, our beloved stake chorister, Tressa L. Ericksen, passed away. We feel deeply the loss of such an efficient woman from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE our board. She has been a member for ten years. At the April General Relief Society Conference 1931 she gave a talk on correlation program of songs to the lesson of each month." Franklin Stake: HE following interesting report comes from the Stake Board: "Franklin Stake Relief Society has just closed a profitable year. The lesson work in all departments has been greatly enjoyed. During the last six months our special activities have been satisfactory. Under the State Extension Department, demonstrations have been held in all parts of the stake, and women have been instructed how to conserve fruit, make over clothing, and beautify home and gardens. "A four-day Recreational Convention was also held at which two persons from each auxiliary organization in the two stakes were given a course in social games and folk dancing. "A Woman's Educational Encampment also was held in Bear Lake in July. Sixty-six of our stake women participated. "Fifteen nundred women of the county signed petitions against 3.2 beer. These were sent to the Governor and Legislators in special assembly. "We succeeded at our late ward conferences in having Relief Society choruses in every ward, some of which were very creditable. "Tn connection with the Red Cross we have given extensive relief to the needy. "Near the close of the lesson work a very unique social was sponsored by the stake board in honor of officers and class teachers. The fourseason scheme demonstrated at the late April conferences was succssfully carried out. Decorations were NOTES FROM THE FIELD all in keeping with the season. The games and program were snappy and appropriate. The luncheon served in birthday groups was simple and very delicious." North Weber Stake (Grouse Creek Ward). A MOST delightful and successful banquet was held in the ward amusement hall on March 17. The Ward Relief Society sisters were the hostesses. Those present were members of the Society with their husbands, others of the Ward over 40 years of age were invited guests. The older ones present were presented with beautiful flowers. Takles, with decorations, etc., in keeping with the spirit of St. Patrick's Day were set for nearly one hundred. A bounteous repast was served in courses, during which time several toasts, songs, musical selections, etc., were enjoyed. The event closed with a dance at night for the public. A large crowd was present. The music for the dance was furnished by local talent, and was free of charge, which was one of the con- 615 tributing factors to a successful entertainment. California Mission (Mar Vista Ward). “To commemorate the ninety-first anniversary of the Relief Society, a unique program was carried out in Mar Vista Ward on Tuesday, March 14, 1933. The morning hours were spent in making housedresses and pajamas for the Red Cross, On the menu of the delicious luncheon which was served at noon, was a large birthday cake. The program was interesting and varied, consisting of interpretation of the Irish theme in song and story. First of all the members joined in singing well-known Irish melodies. Sister Ethel Taylor, dressed becomingly in a costume of 1842, told the story of the organization and purposes of the Relief Society. Sister Harriet Anderson rendered a group of songs of Erin and Sister Barbara James gave several Irish readings. Irish costumes lent their color and atmosphere to the entertainment and the remainder of the afternoon was spent in appropriate games." CALIFORNIA MISSION Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in December) ATTITUDE TOWARD CiviL Law LESSON XII 1. Mutual Agreements. The attitude of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints toward civil law and the officers that enforce it is well set forth in the twelfth Article of Faith, as follows: "We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law." The principles contained in this statement form the very basis upon which society endures. Indeed, if people were not willing to subscribe to the principles upon which general agreement exists society could no longer be maintained and modern life would retrograde into barbarism. 2. As it is, however, civilized peoples have agreed to live together in peace and harmony, to the end that life, property, and the pursuit of happiness are vouchsafed to all. Ina composite group, however, such as is present in any community or nation, there are always some who are not 'willing to comply with the decisions of the masses, and who, accordingly, produce trouble and discord. Before these are considered, nowever, let us reemphasize the fact that society itself is an outgrowth of the mutual agreements of those who constitute it, and that the degree of its success is a direct reflection of the fidelity in which these agreements are respected. An ideal society would be one in which just and equitable laws exist, honored and sustained by every member. 3. Individuals who live in society, and thus partake of its privileges and protection, are not free to do as they choose unless their acts do not interfere with or invade the rights of others. This fact is basic to both the proper operation and perpetuation of law and order. Uninformed and misgttided people, often with a distorted and exaggerated opinion of their individual freedom, not infrequently assume the attitude that no restrictions should be placed upon their personal acts or desires, in other words that they are free to do as they choose. The fact is that membership in society restricts one's freedom solely to those acts that do not violate the rights of others. In other words, membership itself is tantamount to a pledge and agreement to live within the restrictions agreed upon by society as a whole. Violation of the law constitutes a direct viola-. Tion of this pledge and agreement. 4. A means is provided in all good governments by which undesirable laws can be repealed and desirable ones enacted. So long as a law remains in force, however, the individual is bound to respect it and obey its provisions. The individual must never resort to subterfuge or violence; and order must prevail. The good citizen is not an obstructionist; neither does he retard the progress of justice. The law offers him almost unlimited protection and he is duty bound to obey its mandates. 5. Disregard for Law. There are those, however, who, regardless of the benefits and protection that they LESSON DEPARTMENT -derive from society, are not only willing but seek opportunity to violate its provisions. These are criminals, culpable of malicious intent. These are they who are opposed to law and order and wno seek to overthrow the ideals for which society stands. They are the enemies of civilization. Society has provided means for their punishment, varying in intensity with the nature of the offence. They are a liability to the community in which they exist and a hindrance to human progress. 6. Then there are large numbers of well-meaning citizens who unwittingly or otherwise violate many of the more or less minor provisions of the law. Among these are many of those who violate traffic regulations and who are otherwise easily tempted to do wrong, especially when they are not likely to be apprehended. The injury to society brought about by tnese people is doubtless far greater than is commonly believed, more particularly because of the vast numbers thus involved. 7. There is of course no justification for disregard for law, even in the slightest degree, no more, indeed, than there is for disregard for natural law. The Latter-day Saints should be most careful in their observance of law; even the slightest infractions should be avoided. The Latter-day Saints are enjoined to give full allegiance to the countries in which they live. The word of the Lord leaves no room for doubt concetning this matter. Listen: 'Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land. Wherefore, be subject to the powers tnat be, until He reigns whose right it is to reign, and subdues all enemies under his feet." (D. And C, 58:21, 22.) 8. Modern Problems. It is generally believed that disregard for law 617 is more widespread at present than perhaps ever before, the causes for which are thought to be many. Uprisings incident to the casting off of old regimes in various countries have doubtless had their influence, even among peoples not directly affected by them. Then, too, the underworld is always ready to take advantage of unrest and indecision. In America, because of the incomplete success of the prohibition movement, the underworld is determined that the widespread use of alcoholic liquors shall be legalized and that its long list of accompanying evils shall return. Unfortunately an orgy of drinking and attendant debauchery appears to be near at hand. Nor is the propagandist counting the cost to human happiness. The liquor interests are determined to sell their products, even if the young people of the nation are sacrificed thereby. Broken homes, infidelity, moral turpitude, underfed children, poverty, and a legion of other ills are, to the liquor vendor, wholly unimportant in comparison with his desire for gold. Civilization has never had a more subversive or dangerous foe. The booming of enemy cannons at our very doors would not constitute a menace equal to that of the present liquor problem. And yet many of the nation's excellent citizens are actually assisting it to succeed. It does not appear to be widely understood that the liquor vendor's interests are basic in the problem and that he is determined to succeed irrespective of the injury wrought to those who consume his wares. 9. The thinking people of the nation should arise as a unit against this perfidious and seductive enemy. A call to arms for righteousness should be sounded far and near. Doubtless more educational work must be done. People, especially young people, should be more fully 618 taught concerning the evils of liquor. The moral tenor of the country in this respect must be raised, and raised greatly. Much of the breakdown of America's prohibition movement can be traced directly to the fact that the people generally were not highly enough trained to appreciate it. The education of the masses must be intensified in the future. Good laws must be enacted and weak ones strengthened. Men who will enforce the laws must be elected to office, and violators of the law must be made to pay the penalty for disobedience. The enemy, liquor, must not succeed; his depravity knows no limitations. 10. The Word of the Lord. No doubt snould exist in the mind of any Latter-day Saint concerning his duty toward the constitutional law of the land, as witness the following word of the Lord: "I say unto you concerning the laws of the land, it is my will that my people should observe to do all the things whatsoever I command them. And that law of the land which is constitutional, supporting that principle of freedom in maintaining rights and privileges, belongs to all mankind, and is justifiable before me. Therefore, I, the Lord, justify you, and your brethren of my church, in befriending that law which is the constitutional law of the land; and as pertaining to law of man, whatsoever is more or less than this cometh of evil. I, the Lord God, make you free, therefore ye are free indeed; and the law also maketh you free. Nevertheless, when the wicked rule the people mourn. Wherefore, honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently, and good men and wise men ye should observe to uphold; otherwise whatsoever is less than these cometh of evil." (D. And C. 98: 4-10.) 11. The foregoing statement is unusually RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE comprehensive, especially. Considering its brevity. It sets forth tnat the principle of freedom as proclaimed by the American constitution is the common heritage of all mankind. It justifies the members of the Church in befriending all laws in harmony with this principle, and it brands as evil all man-made regulations which are disharmonious with it. The statement declares that those who obey the law are free, and then hastens to warn that when the wicked rule the people mourn. It concludes with the admonition that wise and good men should be selected as rulers of the people. It is interesting to observe that if the principles and instruction contained in this statement were embodied in all political procedure many of the world's ills would almost immediately disappear. 12. The Constitution of the United States. More than two thousand years before the time of Columbus, the Lord gave a revelation in which it was pointed out that a man (Columbus) would discover America, that he would be followed by many others, and that the original inhabitants (Indians) would be scattered before them. In consequence of their humility, however, the newcomers prospered greatly in the land, and the power of God was upon tnem. Ata later time warfare broke out between them and their mother country (England), but they were delivered by the goodness of God. Following this, they prospered greatly in the land. (See I Nephi 13:12- 20.) It would be difficult, indeed, to epitomize more briefly and clearly the early history of the American people. 13. It is a matter of common knowledge that for several years following the revolutionary war with Great Britain the American people passed through by far the most critical period of their history. For LESSON DEPARTMENT a time it appeared that even though the war had been won, the colonies would be unable to unite upon a general policy, and accordingly would be compelled to reunite with the country from which they had so recently gained their freedom. At the close of nearly four years, nowever, the Federal Convention, consisting of fifty-five members, including George Washington, met at Philadelphia and in the incredibly short period of eighty-five working days framed the American constitution and prepared it for submission to thevarious states. The document has been declared by students of history and political science as "the most wonderful work ever struck off at a given time by the brain and purpose of man." While a number of amendments have been made to its original provisions, yet the spirit of the constitution, as conceived by its framers, remains uncnanged. 14. The principle of self-determination, free agency, independence, freedom to do as one chooses, has ever been vouchsafed to the children of God. Deity's attitude in this regard dates from before the foundations of the world. Ina revelation to Joseph Smith, given December 16, 1833, the Lord declared that every man should be able to act in principle and doctrine according to the moral agency which had been given unto him, and that it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. The American Constitution was established to safe- 619 guard this precious right. Here are the words of the Lord: "For this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood." (D. And C. 101:80.) Little wonder, therefore, that the Latter-day Saints regard the American constitution as an inspired document! 15. The Latter-day Saints are thus inherently a law-abiding people. They recognize the fact that in obedience lies safety and freedom, whereas disobedience leads only to sorrow and servitude. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. In what way does our membership in society (say, the United States or Great Britain) obligate us to obey its provisions? 2. Why is the lawbreaker a violator of his implied promises to society? 3. What do you think of the loyalty of a person who violates traffic law merely because an officer is not present to prevent him? 4. What can you do in your community to lessen the evil of liquor traffic? 5. What can you do to encourage the people of your community to elect honorable men to office? 6. How many of you have read the Constitution of the United States? How can you encourage people to read it? BUSINESS depressions and panics may sweep the earth, causing people to feel that they are sorely afflicted. But let us think for one moment: if the sun should cease to shine, the rains cease to fall, if the seasons each with their numerous blessings should cease to visit the earth, if all nature's gifts were suddenly lost to us—then indeed we should know real panic. How good is God; how blessed is man.—Camille C. Nuffer. 620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Teachers' Topic THE JOY OF SERVICE Service is the key to true 'nappiness. Man cannot exist alone, and his peace and happiness is dependent upon his fellowmen. 'Love of our fellowmen comes from a response to the finer, more beautiful, more spiritual in both nature and our fellows." "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." John 3:16. "For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's, the same shall save it." Mark 8:35. "If any man serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there shall also my servant be; if. Any man serve me, him will my Father honor." John 12:26, References: Luke 6:30-31; D. C. 42:29-31; D. C. 18:10-17; Mosiah 2 19-24; Matt. 7:12. The great work of our Father is service in behalf of his children. For their happiness he builds worlds and labors to bring to pass their happiness. Discuss Moses 1:31-39. Our Savior set us the perfect example in service, for he took upon himself our infirmities and sins that we, through obedience, might receive salvation. We do not know the excruciating agony he endured that we might live. D, C. 19:15-19. Jesus taught that to give our lives for others was the way to achieve blessings and our greatest joy and happiness. "From his life we derive the principle that love should be given to all mankind and help to those who need it. Every hour, every day, we are to be nelpers of the Father in assisting Him to lift every soul into greater happiness, greater self realization, and in turn to greater service." Selfishness is the basis of most of the trouble of today. If man would keep the second great commandment, love his neighbor as himself, and truly serve him, he would overcome many of the enemies of life. If we are interested in our neighbors' welfare, selfishness disappears, and we have no time nor inclination for such destructive forces as hatred, jealousy, envyings, self pity, etc. Discuss now these attitudes thwart soul growth and destroy happiness. "It is what we give rather than what we receive, which develops the soul." How is this true? Read thoughtfully and analyze the fourth section of the Doctrine and Covenants. E Jes' keep on a-strivin' an' hope for the best; There's only one method of meetin' life's test; Don't give up the ship an' retire in dismay; 'Cause hammers are thrown when you'd like a bouquet. This world would be tiresome, we'd all get the blues, If all the folks in it held just the same views; So finish your work, show the best of your skill, Some people won't like it, but other folks will. —Exchange. LESSON DEPARTMENT 621 Literature (Third Week in December ) LIFE AND LITERATURE THe Roman VIEW OF LIFE "To conquer beyond right is to perish.”—Agamemnon. One of the great stories Man has written in the "Book of Literature" is the biography of "The Youth of Society." The book is a book of heroes—men who made the world of. Yesterday a social foundation for the world of today, men who built cities that still stand as world capitals, men who made laws that are incorporated in the laws that govern us today. The story of "The Youth of Society" was enacted during the sovereign sway of the Romans as the governor of the world. The Roman World The great historian of Rome, Gibbon, looked upon Rome as "the bridge between the past and the present,—the central lake in which all streams of ancient history lose themselves and out of which all the streams of modern history flow." History records the fact that about 1200 B. C. A highly cultivated non-Aryan people, the Etruscans, established themselves in the south of the peninsula. Rome, on the Tiber, became the center of the life of the people of the south. The Etruscans, masters of such matters as roadbuilding and military organization, were gradually conquered by the Romans. Conquest after conquest followed until the Roman world included northern Africa, Greece, Gaul, Britain, Egypt, Asia Minor, and Palestine. From tribal unit to a kingdom, from a kingdom to a republic, the master of the civilized world, Rome developed before 31 B. C. The close of the Republic and the beginning of the Empire marked Rome in the supremacy of her power. To achieve power and greatness was a national impulse of the Romans. Julius Caesar, the greatest Roman of all, wrote his own greatness and that of his nations thus: "I came, I saw, I conquered." Virgil (70-19 B. C.) The great epic poet, of the "Aeneid," told the story of the fortunes of a remnant of the conquered Trojans led by Aeneas as they sought a new home in Italy. Virgil wrote: "Let others melt and mould the breathing bronze To forms more fair,—aye! Out of marble bring Features that live; causes well; Or trace with pointed wand the cycled heaven, And hail the constellations as they rise; But thou, O Roman, learn with sovereign sway To rule the nations. Thy great art shall be To keep the world in lasting peace to spare The humbled foe, and crush to earth the proud." The Roman's destiny was to be the governor of the world. They built a civilization based upon organization, military and political. The Roman was a man of remarkable masculine vigor and intensely practical nature. He was not influenced by sentiment, being conservative in all things. His desire for knowledge was limited to that which was useful, with little interest in the novel or speculative. His practical nature built amphitheatres, aqueducts, and roads; his power of organization developed a system of government. The religion of the Romans was as practical as the rest of his life, through ritual, prayer, guilds, and augers he sought to gain the favor of his gods. "Rome was indeed the religion of the Romans." The Roman must be admired for the moral qualities, manliness, sincerity, loyalty, which grew out of the severity of military discipline, the basis of their national life. It is to the great credit of the Roman, that he dignified and sanctified family ties and domestic virtues. The place of woman in the home and in the state was exalted far beyond that accorded to her by the Greeks. In the quest for power and dominion the Roman learned the science of government. The most significant outgrowth of Roman way of life was not in terms of individual perfection, but of making "leaders" and "rulers" of men. The Roman Empire rose on the wings of conquest, organization, and leadership: the Roman Empire fell in the conflict of sensuality and spirituality. "The decline and fall of the Roman Empire is the greatest, perhaps, and the most awful scene in the history of mankind." — The Literature of Rome In the literature of a nation one finds the life and ideals of the nation. It was the ambition of the Romans to create a literature as great as Greek literature. This was an impossibility as Greek life and ideals were not Roman life and ideals. Greek life in its simplicity was conducive to individual development; to them "Man" was the measure of all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE things. Roman life was not free and individualistic; it was complex and dominated by the national quest for power. In public life, therefore, the orator was a more honored figure than the poet, and the military leader more than the philosopher. The Coliseum, with its gladiatorial combats, was first in the social life of the Romans; then came the circus with its race tracks; the theatre with its comedy and pantomime came third. The great masters of Roman literature were Virgil, Horace, Caesar, and Cicero. Virgil, the epic poet, sang of "Ilion falling, Rome arising" in the "Aeneid." The poem was a deliberate piece of work fashioned upon the works of Homer. Tennyson in his tribute to Virgil calls him wielder of the "stateliest measure ever molded by the lips of man." A scholar, idealist, and dreamer, his work was the product of design rather than that of an exuberant singer of hero lays. The few lines translated from one of his simple poems in praise of the life of the farmer illustrates the perfection of Virgil's work: "Easy quiet, a secure retreat, A harmless life that knows not how to cheat, With homebred plenty, the rich owner bless; And rural pleasures crown his happiness. Unvexed with quarrels, undisturbed with noise, The country king his peaceful realm enjoys— Cool grots, and living lakes, the flowery pride Of meads, and streams that through the valley glide, And shady groves that easy sleep invite, And, after toilsome days, a sweet repose at night." LESSON DEPARTMENT Horace (65-8 B. C.), the most distinguished poet after Virgil, gave to the world the immortal line "I shall not wholly die." He loved his country and was enthusiastic over its promise, yet his passion for beauty of expression was Greek in its nature. Tender and delicate of disposition with a pleasant ego, he was the father of a family of lovable literary characters, Chaucer, Cervantes, Montaigne, Izaak Walton, Oliver Goldsmith, Charles Lamb, Washington Irving, Henry David Thoreau. It has been said that "Horace's Sabine farm, Chaucer's Tabard Inn, Irving's ivy-mantled sunnyside and Thoreau's hut by Walden pond, are the homesteads of literature, where the latchstring is always out and the hearth always bright and the voices of cheerfulness and tolerance are saying, 'Welcome, my brother!'" The following selection is from the poem "To Maecenas:" "Happy the man—and happy he alone,— He, who can call today his own: He who, secure within, can say 'Tomorrow, do thy worst, for I have lived today; Be fair, or foul, or rain, or shine, The joys I have possessed, in spite of Fate, are mine, Not Heaven itself upon the Past has power, But what has been, has been, and I have had my hour.' * * * "For me, secure from fortune's blows, Secure of what I cannot lose, In my small pinnace I can sail, Contemning all the blustering roar: And running with a merry gale, With friendly stars my safety seek Within some little winding creek, And see the storm ashore." Cicero, the Latin master of prose, by sheer genius and pains established Latin speech as a universal language. His speeches and essays, as well as being great prose classics, reveal a statesman and a cultured gentleman. From the essay "Old Age": "The short period of life is long enough for living well and honorably; and if you should advance further, you need no more grieve than farmers do when the loveliness of spring-time hath passed, that summer and autumn have come. For spring represents the time of youth, and gives promise of the future fruits; the remaining seasons are intended for plucking and gathering in those fruits—The nearer I approach to death, I seem, as it were, to be getting sight of land, and at length, after a long voyage, to be just coming into harbor." Julius Caesar was a man of letters as well as a soldier. His "Commentaries on the Gallic War" is written in model Latin. Though the great day of Latin Literature passed with the Roman Empire and but little was revived after the Dark Ages, the great Latin language has never died because it is the world-wide language of the Catholic Church. The Literature of Roman Life To present the best of Roman life and thought for appreciation, we shall consider Plutarch's "Lives" and Shakespeare's "Julius Caesar." Plutarch (46-120 A. D.), the biographer of antiquity, was the bond between the two great civilizations, the Greeks and the Romans. Born a Greek but intensely interested in Roman life, he could look on the past glory of his own nation and the grandeur of the conqueror, Rome. Plutarch wrote "Lives" not history. He chose fifty heroes from the two great civilizations and in their lives found the leadership that made for greatness. His method was so unique that for eighteen hundred years he has received the admiration of men of letters and men of action. Emerson spoke of Plutarch thus: "Read Plutarch and the world is a proud place peopled with men of positive qualities, with heroes, and demi-gods standing around us, who will not let us sleep.—He is the elixir of Greece and Rome, the laureate of the ancient world." Another admirer reminds us, "To open our Shakespeare alongside of Plutarch and find the solid bronze Plutarch left behind him was some fifteen centuries later transmitted into gold by Shakespeare, and this alchemy of his we know as the plays "Julius Caesar," "Antony and Cleopatra," and "Coriolanus." The finest portrayal is Antony, the greatest character is Julius Caesar, the choicest life is Marcus Brutus, and the best wisdom is 'It is not God that injures thee but thyself.'" Shakespeare's great classical trilogy has for its hero, Rome. To do this Shakespeare followed Plutarch studiously, and truthfully presented Roman life and character. The plays are not merely chronicles, out of the materials of Plutarch and the "stuff of life," the genius of Shakespeare wove a true tapestry of Roman life. Julius Caesar—Shakespeare The great drama "Julius Caesar" presents with fidelity the Roman empire at the pinnacle of its greatness. From the time it was written in 1601 to the present, it has been one of Shakespeare's best liked plays. The play follows closely the account given by Plutarch of the assassination of Julius Caesar, the great military idol of the common people, but the object of hatred of the nobility. The scenes of the drama can be vividly pictured and the characters are clearly drawn. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Caesar is pompous, "full of lofty airs." Cassius is crafty, keen, and unprincipled,—a man who flatters men to win them. Brutus, a noble Roman, "who loves the name of honor more than he fears death." Casca is false and shallow. Mark Antony, the gifted orator, loves Caesar but uses him for his own ends. Calphurnia, weak and colorless, tries to rule her husband by threats and entreaties. Portia, womanly and charming, seeks to deserve her husband's confidence by fortitude and understanding. In the play the dramatic skill of Shakespeare is at its best, his poetry at its richest, and the portrayal of human nature at its fullest. The play opens in Rome. The common people are out on the streets making holiday to celebrate the return of their great hero, Julius Caesar. The Roman tribunes, dispatch the commoners to their homes, because they have violated the law of Rome by coming out on the streets on a laboring day without the signs of their trades. The tribunes remind them that not long since they came on the streets to honor great Pompey, and now they honor his conqueror. The commoners leave as commanded, and the tribunes disrobe the public statues of their decorations. The procession of Caesar and his followers passes down the street on the way to the games that are to celebrate the Feast of the Lupercal. Cassius and Brutus do not follow Caesar to the games. The Stoic Brutus is not "gamesome" as Antony, who is going to participate in the games. Cassius endeavors to gain the support of Brutus in a conspiracy against Caesar, first by flattery, second by a recital of his own virtues, and third by a denunciation of Caesar. Brutus is too noble to suspect the baseness of Cassius. A shout of applause is heard from the games, and the troubled Brutus reveals his thoughts: LESSON DEPARTMENT "I do fear, the people choose Caesar for their king." In answer, Cassius reveals his jealousy of Caesar. Both men have started life as common soldiers, yet in spite of physical handicaps Caesar has encompassed Rome "like a Colossus" and Cassius is but an "underling." Again and again the shouts are heard from the games. At length the procession returns from the games. Caesar noting Brutus and Cassius together comments to Antony: "Yond Cassius has a lean and hungry look: He thinks too much: such men are dangerous. * * * He reads much: He is a great observer, and he looks Quite through the deeds of men: * * * Such men as he be never at heart's ease Whiles they behold a greater than themselves." As Casca passes Brutus stops him to inquire of the happenings at the games. Casca in a racy manner reports that Antony had offered Caesar a crown three times and the applause was greater at each rejection. Seeing that Brutus is greatly moved by the words of Casca, Cassius plans to convince Brutus of the need for action against Caesar by sending documents to him as if they came from several citizens. Brutus receives the several letters and seeks the solitude of his orchard to think of their purport. He decides that Caesar, the man, is not dangerous, but Caesar, the king, would be. When the conspirators arrive in the garden, he assists in making the plans for Caesar's death. Brutus will allow no oath to be taken by the conspirators: "Do not stain The even virtue of our enterprise, Nor the insuppressive mettle of our spirits, To think that of our cause or our performance Did need an oath." The conspirators plead for Antony's death also. Brutus, the idealist, will not consent to become a murderer: "Let us be sacrificers, but not butchers, Caius. * * * We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar; And in the spirit of men there is no blood." Brutus has not been able to conceal his trouble from his wife, Portia. Thinking that her husband's secrecy is due to lack of confidence, Portia plans to give her lord a test of her fortitude. She inflicts upon herself a wound on the thigh to show that she was a woman, a woman worthy to be Cato's daughter, worthy to be Brutus's wife, worthy of her husband's counsel. Brutus overwhelmed at the nobility of Portia, grants her a knowledge of his enterprise. After a night of thunder and lightning and strange omens, Calphurnia prevails upon Caesar not to go to the senate. Caesar sends to the priests for an augur of the day's promise, boasting: "Cowards die many times before their deaths; The valiant never taste of death but once. It seems to me most strange that men should fear; Seeing that death, a necessary end, Will come when it will come." The message from the augurer was a foreboding of evil, so Caesar yields to his wife's entreaties. The conspirators arrive to conduct Caesar to the senate. Calphurnia's fears and the priest's warning fade into insignificance before the flattery of Decius as he suggests that a crown may be awaiting Caesar. As they pass along the street to the Capitol, a soothsayer warns Caesar and suggests a way to escape his doom. Events move rapidly as planned by the conspirators. Caesar goes to the senate and proceeds with the business of the day. Metullus Cimber presents a petition to Caesar for the release of his brother. One by one the conspirators gather around to plead with Metullus. Caesar is killed. After some time a messenger comes to Brutus from Antony expressing friendliness and seeking an interview. Antony comes in grief for his friend but bidding for the goodwill of the conspirators. Antony is given permission to speak at Caesar's funeral against the advice of Cassius. At the funeral of Caesar, Brutus delivers a speech showing the reason for Caesar's death. The people accept the word of Brutus and choose him "to be Caesar." The speeches of Antony fire the people to indignation against the conspirators. Brutus and Cassius are compelled to flee. The innocent poet, Cinna, is torn to pieces by the angry mob because he had the same name as one of the conspirators. With brands lighted at the funeral pyre of Caesar, the people fire the houses of the traitors. The Roman army is divided, part joins the cause of Brutus and part joins Antony. Eighteen months later Brutus and Cassius meet at Sardis to discuss a new plan of action as their campaign so far has been unsuccessful. The two men begin by mutual faultfinding. Brutus maintains a lofty position of honor over Cassius; bribes have been taken from the Sardians and military offices have been sold for gold to undeservers. Cassius resents being checked and chastized like a bondman pleading that: "A friend RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE should bear a friend's infirmities." Cassius needed money to pay his soldiers. Brutus calls for a bowl of wine in which to bury the unkindness. With the pledge of reconciliation Brutus tells Cassius of the death of Portia. The two generals plan for a great battle on the plains of Philippi. That night the ghost of Caesar comes as if to mock their plans by promising to meet them at Philippi. The opposing armies meet and a conference is held. Antony rejects the proposals for peace. Before the battle Brutus and Cassius part in a touching farewell. Cassius leads a charge as the armies meet and is defeated. He orders Pindarus to kill him with the same sword that killed Caesar rather than be taken prisoner and led in triumph through the streets of Rome. Brutus rallies his forces to a second charge. He is taken prisoner. Antony orders that Brutus be treated kindly, but he dies by his own hand, noble even in death. Antony commends the great character of Brutus: "This man the noblest Roman of them all: All the conspirators, save only he Did that they did in envy of great Caesar; He only, in general honest thought And common good to all, made one of them. His life was gentle, and the elements So mixed in him, that Nature might stand up And say to all the world, 'This was a man!'" The drama "Coriolanus" is a tragedy of pride, the conflict of the plebeians and the patricians in Roman life. Coriolanus was one of the great generals in the last war with the cruel Tarquins about 400 B. C. Later he brought about his own destruction at the hands of the people: LESSON DEPARTMENT "You speak of the people As if you were a god to punish, not A man of their infirmity." The drama "Antony and Cleopatra" is a tragedy of sense, of voluptuous delight, the great classical trilogy of Shakespeare with Rome as the hero, presents a vivid picture of Man and his efforts to organize his Social World. * * * * * Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature. Chapters 10-13.— Macy. 2. Julius Caesar.—Shakespeare. 3. Lives.—Plutarch. 4, Poems.—Horace. B. Program: 1. Music. 2. Discussion. A. The Roman World. B. The Roman View of Life. 3. Review. A. "Julius Caesar." 4, Reading. A. Selections from the poems of Horace. C. Method: It is possible to gain from the selections considered in this lesson an understanding of the influence of the Roman genius for organization. Do not forget to enjoy the portrayal of character by Shakespeare. A Mother's Prayer By Hattie M. Stephenson Those tiny hands that cup my chin, And rouse me from my drowsing hour, They are so pink and soft and warm, They thrill me with their hidden power. His eyes meet mine with happiness, Angelic smiles spread round his lips, "He's mine, all mine," my soul cries out; I tingle to my fingertips. And yet, I seem to hear a voice Say, "Not all yours, dear mother heart; I trust him to your earthly care, Oh, nobly, humbly, take your part." I shake the slumber from my soul, I see as God would have me see, "Oh, help me, Father, rear my son And bring him back in purity. Oh, let these dimpled feet I clasp Stray not far from the path of truth, Oh, let this mother's prayers e'er guide, That he may be a manly youth. I do not ask for thornless trails With flowers growing on each side; For freedom from our earthly cares And cushioned limousines to ride. I do not ask my son to go Through this life's span and know no pain, For only by the rise from loss Will he e'er reach the higher plain. But let my son e'er walk the path That work and prayer and faith lead to; May chastity bedeck his brow To glorify his life in you." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Social Service (Fourth Week in December) THE SLEEP OF CHILDREN LESSON XII As indicated in the material of this lesson, sleep is one of those rhythmic activities on which health is dependent. Practically all social and recreational programs are affected by the habits of sleep that are formed by children. The effect in early childhood is largely on the elders who care for the children. In youth the adjustment is one for the young person himself. This lesson deals with the problem of guidance in the formation of proper sleep habits. The aim is to help class members understand the factors they should control in educating children in proper sleep habits. Suggestions for Procedure: A good method will be to have the class members make individual reports on each topic given for study in the reading guide and in the supplementary material. The class leader can guide the discussion and present at the end a carefully prepared summary of ideas to use in the home. Study Guide for Class Members. Habits, pp. 15-19. This chapter is an application of the suggestions on habit formation to a specific habit. Note the following elements in determining the correct habit to form. A. Amount of sleep. B. Time for sleep —especially the caution about naps. C. Clothing and undressing. D. Activity preceding going to sleep. E. Conditions furnished at going to sleep time that are to be made uniform, time of day, etc. F. Conditions that should vary— such as bed, clothing, room, bedding, etc. G. Mental attitude about sleep— all three points are very important. Supplementary Material: The material given below is for the purpose of reinforcing by repetition the simple suggestions given in the study material. It represents the conclusions from modern child study and clinical experiences with parents and children. In the weight of authority some ideas are fixed. Holt & Howland: The Diseases of Infancy and Childhood, p. 6. (Appleton—1922. ) (Quoted from Thom, "Every Day Problems of the Every Day Child," p. 73.) "Training in proper habits of sleep should be started at birth. From the outset an infant should be accustomed to being put into his crib while awake and to go to sleep of his own accord. Rocking and all other habits of this sort are unnecessary and even harmful. An infant should not be allowed to sleep on the breast of the nurse nor with the nipple of the bottle in his mouth. Other devices for putting infants to sleep, such as allowing the child to suck a rubber nipple or anything else, are positively injurious. If such means of inducing sleep are resorted to, the infant soon acquires the habit of not sleeping without them. "The hours for going to bed and arising, as well as nap periods, should be firmly and unalterably fixed. LESSON DEPARTMENT There is a great temptation for parents to keep the child up a little later, or put him to bed a little earlier to suit their own convenience, Or perhaps they wish to display the child to friends who are coming for a seven o'clock dinner, " Thom, 73. "One thing more should be added. The child should have the idea firmly fixed in his mind that the sleeping period is the time when he must be alone, that companionship and distraction, such as books and games, are not compatible with sleep, and these things cannot be gained by wailing. The mother who complains that her child does not go to sleep for hours after he goes to bed will invariably tell you also of his demands upon her attention—a glass of water, the closing of a window, 'I want to go to the toilet,' 'I have something to tell you,' —anything that will attract her notice. Often this attitude of the child toward the mother at night is quite in contrast to his bold adventurous spirit during the day." Thom, 74-75, "A short period of absolute rest from any sort of physical activity, or mental stimulation, just before the child goes to bed, is of value in helping an active child to find sleep soon after retiring. Playing about until the last moment before retiring, or listening to some exciting story or the radio, is often the cause of many restless hours in bed. The thrilling story in the living room often becomes terrifying to the imaginative child once he finds himself in the quiet and dark of the bed chamber." Thom, 76. "If it is necessary for the parents to leave the house after the child has gone to bed, it is much wiser, to tell him honestly that this is to happen. It may be a bit more difficult for the parents the first time, but in the long run it will be more easy for all concerned." Thom, 77. "There is a great difference in the inherent sensitivity that children exhibit toward noise and light, heat and cold, indiscretions in diet, emotional situations, and in fact, any stimuli both internal or external, affecting the nervous system. The average child, however, properly trained in regular hours of sleeping and eating, whose eliminating processes are functioning normally, and whose general regime of living is not dependent on the whims of adults, need have no protection thrown around his sleeping quarters. In fact, it is not difficult for the child to develop the habit that permits him to sleep on in spite of noise, light, or other factors. The ability to short-circuit, so to speak, these stimuli, which ordinarily arrest one's attention, when either awake or asleep, is brought about by experiences often repeated over and over again. It is comparable to the negative adaptation that the stenographer makes, working in a busy office, where the typewriters are constantly clicking. She soon learns to carry on quite unaware of their presence. "It is, therefore, not well to protect the child from everything that might possibly disturb his sleep; in fact, it is much wiser, during his early years, for him to learn to sleep under what might be called adverse conditions. The undue precautions so many parents take in order to secure what they consider ideal conditions for the child may well be the very factor that makes him unduly sensitive in later life." 77-78. "The healthy child should go to sleep within twenty or thirty minutes after going to bed and should get up immediately after awaking. If it should be that the child habitually awakes before the adults of the household arise, some form of amusement should be provided, as it is during these restless periods that mischief often begins." 9. "Dreams and talking or walking in sleep are generally the continuations of the daytime experiences or the expression of subdued fears or denied desires. Boys will live on during a ball game. Children will continue the chatter of a party. Non-athletic boys will perform the denied activities. These are not necessary symptoms of mental disease except as they point to possible fears or desires. "These various activities during sleep are usually of short duration and, if properly managed by parents, need not cause any alarm whatsoever. If, however, the attitude of parents drives the child to further repressions, they may be prolonged indefinitely." Thom, 82. "Baby's sleep may be disturbed in the following ways. He may be excited by being played with or tossed about before going to bed. He may be too warm, too cold, or wet. The room may be too hot, too cold, too light, too noisy, or improperly ventilated. Trips to the movies, shopping, evening visiting, or being kept up to see guests all tend to make the baby wakeful and fretful, and the family should from the first have rigid rules against such practices. "A well baby will sleep. If he is restless or fretful, it may be because he is very tired. Try to discover what may have tired him. Never give the baby soothing syrups, drops or paregoric, many babies die because of these drugs." (Goodspeed & Johnson: Care and Training of Children—Lippincott, 1929, p. 63.) "Giving the child nipples or anything else to suck, being rocked to sleep, or having someone lie down with him, only help to build the habit of not being able to go to sleep unless these conditions are present." G. & J., p. 149. Thom,. Deprivation to the child. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Prepare His Mind for Going to Bed.—The child will not go to bed readily if he is emotionally aroused. Any kind of excitement just before bedtime, such as strenuous play, too many visitors, or a trip to the movies is unwise. He should understand that bedtime is quiet time and that he goes to bed for one purpose only and that is to sleep. This prohibits all distractions. No toys may be taken to bed. No pillow fights or other excitement should be permitted. "The adult dealing with the child at bedtime should speak of going to bed as a pleasant thing to do and should make his voice carry a note of finality, so that the child does not form the habit of teasing to stay up a little longer. After all his physical needs such as a glass of water, and a trip to the bathroom are taken care of, make the last good-night a final one and a firm one. He should understand from the beginning that after good-night is said, it will be useless to try to get attention and ward off sleep by asking for a drink of water; jumping out of bed, singing or talking, asking to go to the toilet or 'just wanting to tell you something.'" G. & J., pp. 149-150. Arlitt: Psychology of Infancy and Early Childhood, McGraw Hill Book Company. "It must be kept in mind in dealing with children of all ages that whereas the adult often enjoys sleep because it is an escape, children find in sleep a cutting off of a series of interesting activities and contacts. What is an escape to the adult is a deprivation to the child. Making the process of going to bed and settling down to sleep more satisfactory than that of staying awake, is, therefore, one of the serious problems in connection with the habits of sleep and rest." 352-353. A FAMOUS OVERALL MADE BETTER STILL! —NOW THAT MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS Are Equipped With Stop Loss Pockets The new, exclusive, patented feature that has aroused the enthusiasm of workmen everywhere. Saves time, saves tools and valuables—and saves temper. THEY COST YOU NO MORE! Ask your dealer for Mountaineer Overalls and Work Suits equipped with Stop-Loss Pockets. Manufactured at Salt Lake City by Z. C. M. I. Clothing Factory NEW EUREKA WITH MOTOR-DRIVEN BRUSH LIGHT—EASY TO HANDLE AGREEABLY QUIET This sensational new Eureka with motor-driven brush is designed to meet the requirements of those who desire a motor-driven brush but recognize the necessity of "High Vacuum" (powerful suction) for the thorough removal of embedded dirt. Unnecessary weight and awkward size have been carefully avoided. It is quiet—agreeably quiet. The demonstration! It is spectacular — sensational — thrilling. Embedded soda fairly "boils" from the rug. Sand dances— how it dances! Surface litter — lint, hair and threads — are instantly removed by its motor-driven brush. This new Eureka cleans faster—cleans better. $5.00 Down—Balance on Easy Terms Phone for Demonstration Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. Salt Lake City, Utah 177 East Broadway Phone Wasatch 4764 Are You in Style? The peculiar human restlessness which causes us to continually seek new and more becoming designs in hats and dress, automobiles and jewelry, is responsible also for an unceasing change in the styles of type in newspapers, magazines, and advertising matter. The types which today carry the advertisers message are as different from the types of five or ten years ago as are milady's pert, breezy creations of today different from the hats of 1920. Here the advertiser and buyer of printing can depend upon getting his message set in type that is alive with the spirit of today. The Deseret News Press PRINTERS—BINDERS—RULERS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine "SURE DAD, I ALWAYS KNEW BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE WAS BEST—NOW I KNOW WHY." For the past quarter of a century the Beneficial has continuously served its Policyholders faithfully—their savings have been, at all times, immediately available—in cash. In addition to the regular guarantees, the company has paid to Policyholders, dividends each year. THE BIG HOME COMPANY WHERE POLICYHOLDERS SHARE IN THE NET EARNINGS The assets of the Beneficial have increased each year assuring absolute safety—High Policy Reserves make it positive IF YOU CAN'T SAVE TO BUY INSURANCE—BUY INSURANCE TO SAVE BENEFICIAL INSURANCE COMPANY DIRECTORS HEBER J. GRANT GEO. J. CANNON E. T. RALPHS A. W. IVINS B. F. GRANT DAVID O. MCKAY J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. JOS. F. SMITH A. B. C. OHLSON The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Volume XX NOVEMBER, 1933 No. 11 WE HEARTILY RECOMMEND Spring Canyon Coal KNIGHT ROYAL Clean and Wet These coals maintain clean, cheery warm homes at lowest cost. ASK YOUR FRIEND THE COAL DEALER KNIGHT FUEL CO., ROYAL COAL COMPANY General Offices—5th Floor Newhouse Building—Salt Lake City, Utah Leonard E. Adams, General Sales Agent ELECTRIC SERVANTS Will Banish Drudgery Now is a good time to make your home modern, and enjoy the wonderful advantages of all-electric service— CLEANLINESS, CONVENIENCE, COMFORT, ECONOMY CALL AT OUR LOCAL STORE You will not be obligated, but we will be glad to show you attractive models of the Electric Range, Refrigerator and Water Heater. Also we will explain how easy it is for you to start enjoying them. UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Efficient Public Service
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Clean, Hard—Burns Longer Quick-starting—Utah's Purest Coal Heat Your Home With a Granite CIRCULATOR One to Six Rooms You will save 25% to 50% on your coal bill "America's Finest" The ROUND OAK Range Will bake perfectly for a lifetime — $79.50 to $117.50 We Save you Money GRANITE Furniture Co. Sugar House 1050 East 21st So. Peerless Laundry COMPLETE LAUNDRY SERVICE Snow White Clothes Phones: Hy. 2182 Phones: Hy. 2183 1184 East 21st South Salt Lake City Every Day Since August 15th MORE Utah Families Have Changed to Natural HEAT You can rent or buy a modern heating unit for as low as 5¢ a day UTAH GAS & COKE CO. OGDEN GAS CO. WASATCH GAS CO. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine $19.95 to $85.00 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. XX NOVEMBER, 1933 No. 11 Portrait of Elder Charles A. Callis...................Frontispiece Indian Summer.......... Ella J. Coulam 631 Relief Society Conference......... Julia A. F. Lund 633 Opening Session 634 Officers' Meeting......... 650 Apostle Charles A. Callis..... Joseph Quinney, Jr. 661 Happenings..... Annie Wells Cannon 664 Relief Society Rally......... Miriam Jeanne Warnick Wright 665 Reorganizations 665 Priesthood and Womanhood.................. Leah D. Widtsoe 666 "Judge Not!"....... Marguerite Johnson Griffin 671 Accessories for the Thanksgiving Dinner................ Lucy Rose Middleton 675 Hearts Intertwined......... Minerva V. Dutson 676 November......... Annie Wells Cannon 677 Editorial—Two October Conferences......... 678 Elder B. H. Roberts Called Home......... 679 Opening of Our Season......... 679 Read the Doctrine and Covenants......... 679 Our Song Contest......... 679 Changes in Mission Presidents......... 680 Just As Good......... Estelle Webb Thomas 680 Unusual Visits......... Marba C. Jacobson 680 Old Grist Mill......... 684 Lesson Department......... 681 Sister Amy Brown Lyman......... Alvaretta S. Engar 695 "Sweet Are the Uses of Adversity"......... Vernessa M. Nagle 697 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3123 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear: No. 1 New style, ribbed light weight. No. 56 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Combed Cotton. An excellent Our best selling wool number. Ladies' number................$1.25 Men's new or old style...$3.00 No. 2 Old style, ribbed light weight. No. 6 Light weight garment, cotton, our standard garment 1.25 Ladies' new style or old style 1.10 No. 3 Ribbed med. weight. Cotton, No. 7 Light weight Spring and bleached. Our all season number. Autumn garment. Men only 1.00 Men's new or old style... 1.45. No. 8 Light weight silk for ladies No. 4 Ribbed heavy weight. Unonly, new style only............ 1.15 bleached cotton. Our double back number. Men's new or No. 9 Medium weight. Silk for men old style 1.50 and women, new style only.. 1.75 In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, short legs and sleeves or ankle length legs, are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid on orders accompanied by money order in United States. Special discount to missionaries. Our Jack Frost Blankets are made of Utah Wool and Utah Labor Write for Prices FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates L D. S. GARMENTS, CUTLER VALUES No. 68 Ribbed Light Weight Cotton........ $.75 No. 74 Ribbed Light Weight Fine Cotton... 1.25 No. 64 Med. Weight. Bleached......... 1.45 No. 62 Heavy Weight. Bleached Double Back 1.95 No. 56 Extra Heavy Weight. Bleached Double Back... 2.35 No. 500 Super Non-run Rayon Short Sleeve and Knee Length... 1.45 In ordering garments please state if for men or women, and if old or new style. Postage prepaid. Special—When you order three pairs of garments at one time we Cutler allow you a 15% discount on third pair only. An additional charge of 20% will be made on orders for persons weighing 210 Company pounds or over. SALT LAKE CITY UTAH L.D. S. GARMENTS Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. OLD AND NEW STYLE NEW STYLE ONLY, MAN OR LADY 144. Spring Needle Flat Weave........$1.10 472 Light Rib Cotton............$.75 205 Rib Knit, Light Weight............ 1.16 464 Med. Rib Cotton........... 1.00 88 Fine Knit, Light Weight............ 1.26 92 Light Weight Rayon Stripe.... 1.25 256 Double Carded, Med. Weight......... 1.35 228 Light Weight Rayon Stripe............ 1.85 758 Med. Heavy Cotton, Ecru or White.... 1.65 84 Rayon Plated 1.45 902 Unbleached Cotton Extra Heavy......... 2.00 405 Non-run Viscose Rayon.............. 1.36 1118 Med. Heavy Wool & Cotton Mixed.... 3.25 806 Non-run Viscose Rayon.............. 1.75 No. 82 83 1/3 % Wool.... 3.35 BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Postal Telegraph THE INTERNATIONAL SYSTEM Commercial Cables All America THE STANDARD INDICATED ON THE MESSAGE Telephone your Telegrams to Postal Telegraph Charges will appear on your regular telephone bill. Postal Telegraph Supplementary Services Air Express Pick-up and Delivery Air Travel Reservations Bus Express Pick-up and Delivery Circular and Sample Distribution OUR telephone is Gift and Purchase Service Marine Reports a Postal Telegraph station. Personal Service Bureau Theatre Ticket Service Commercial News Reports From it you can send a Telegrams Direct from the Highways via Postal Telegram to anyone Esso and Standard Oil Gas Stations anywhere in the United States and Canada. Postal Telegraph speed, accuracy and dependability are at your fingertips. Bus Travel Reservations Errands and Package Delivery Money Order Service Postal Telegraph is the only American telegraph company that offers a world-wide service of coordinated telegraph, cable and radio communication under a single management. THE INTERNATIONAL SYSTEM Postal Telegraph Commercial Cables All America Cables Mackay Radio When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Indian Summer By Ella J. Coulam Oh fairest Indian Summer Your ways are so beguiling. You lift our hopes when days are drear With golden beauty smiling. Your slopes are draped with tapestry Of yellow, red and green. The aspens stand like sentinels In coats of silver sheen. Your flowers are more vivid In their color rivalry. The sun shines through the tinted sky With added brilliancy. Oh, why this burst of splendor, Have you a hidden reason? Do not fear that we'll forget you In the glory of next season. ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XX NOVEMBER, 1933 No. 11 Relief Society Conference By Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary THE semi-annual conference of the Relief Society was held October 4 and 5, 1933. There was a departure this year in the nature of the Fall sessions. The formal educational subjects which constitute the course of study for the year were treated in two special department meetings for each subject —Theology, Literature, Social Service (class work), Teachers' Topic. A preview of each subject was given, and time devoted to lesson demonstration and discussions by authorities in the different fields. The meetings were inspirational and gave much concrete help in constructive methods of successful teaching. The large attendance of enthusiastic class leaders was most gratifying. President Louise Y. Robison presided over the General Conference, which opened with a short meeting in the Assembly Hall, Temple Square, Salt Lake City, Utah, at 10 a. m. on Wednesday, October 4. A hearty welcome was extended to the Relief Society sisters, and the keynote of the conference sounded in a brief address from President Robison, after which adjournment was taken to the various departments. A special message, embodying the four subjects, was presented in the splendid pageant in the Assembly Hall. In order to accommodate the throngs wishing to see this, the entire program was presented twice during the evening, Wednesday, October 4. "The Laurel Wreath" was the title. The beautiful message of Theology, Literature and Teachers' Topic was written by Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon. These, together with a delightful little social service play called "Our Challenge," by Mrs. Herman, constituted the "Lesson in Pictures." Exquisite music, beautiful girls, trained readers and brilliant stage setting, under the able direction of Professor E. H. Eastmond and Mrs. Irma Felt Bitner, made this entertainment appealing and artistic in the highest degree. The success of the departments and the pageant owed much to the work of the committees of the General Board, who spared neither time nor efforts in preparation. The General Officers' Meeting was held in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building, Thursday, October 5, at 10 a. m. 98 of the 104 stakes and 9 missions were represented, with the following attendance—Mission Presidents 9; Stake Presidents 60; Counselors 99; Secretaries 36; Board Members 316—making a total of 520. The General Session in the Tabernacle represented the largest attendance on record in Relief Society Conference. The music should receive special mention. The Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the leadership of Mrs. Charlotte O. Sackett, with Mrs. Alta B. Cassity at the piano, Frank W. Asper at the great organ, and William Hardiman with the violin, offered a superb program of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE appropriate musical numbers. It will be of interest to the sisters of the organization to know that the Relief Society Singing Mothers supplied the music for the afternoon session of the General Conference on Friday, October 6, 1933. President Grant was most complimentary in his expression of appreciation for this. Opening Session Assembly Hall PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON WE are delighted to meet you here this morning, in our first all-day Class Leaders' Convention. From most of the stakes comes the report of the excellent work of our Class Leaders. Even where there is little opportunity, these fine women are surprisingly efficient. The Educational Committees of the General Board (and these comprise all of its members) have been working for months to make this day both profitable and pleasurable. You, too, have made effort to come. Many have traveled long distances, most of you have left your families at a sacrifice, with the sole desire to be of greater service to the women of your communities. I can think of no greater aim. We have met here in the name of Him who came to teach us how to serve, to teach us how to help mankind to a higher level. When we use His methods we not only improve the intellect and aid in cultural development, but there is an actual molecular readjustment. This is Tennyson's meaning when he said: "A great thought strikes along the brain and flushes all the cheek." Thought is the only action the spirit has, and where that thought contemplates spiritual activity and human welfare, it is expressing divinity and becomes entirely and purely creative. Thus the body is uplifted and purified by thinking good thoughts. The standards of the community are influenced by Class Leaders who encourage mothers to read good books, and who inspire them to use a little time each day in study. Consider what a great opportunity there is for one who has the power to influence people to improve themselves. It would be interesting to know who encouraged Brother B. H. Roberts to study. Did his mother or some Class Leader help that little emigrant boy to see the benefit of study? Weary he must have been as a young blacksmith, but he paid the price and the Church and Nation are made richer for his effort. Few in your class would have greater difficulties to overcome than had Brother Roberts, and who can tell where real intelligence is waiting for you to express the thought that "strikes across the brain," and makes a sordid life beautiful. A. A. Berle, Jr., writing for a recent number of Scribners Magazine, says: "If life were nothing more than working and eating and sleeping and dying, this tremendous fabric would be meaningless. * * *" The great justification for living is that life is a conduit of civilization; the great joy of life is to add some slight part to that civilization through personal fulfillment. The great faith of life is that through our very difficulties and in our efforts, we deepen that stream and enlarge the scope of the spiritual life of the country." RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE I know of no group of people who are doing this more effectively than the Relief Society women. May our Heavenly Father give us the ability and the power to help our sisters to live life to its fullness. MAUDE BEELEY JACOB DIRECTOR OF LITERATURE THE title "Life and Literature" has been given to the course of study for the year. It has been planned to bring to the Latter-day Saint woman a fuller understanding of Life. Literature has recorded what man has thought and felt through the ages as he has pursued his quest for an understanding of life. The message of the course is couched in the words of the poet: "Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll!" The lesson units of the course have been planned to present a view of human progress, the factors that have influenced human thought and action and an interpretation of that great realm of human experience that never changes, love and hate, hope and fear, motives and impulses, joys and griefs. The literary materials of the course have been chosen for their human appeal, their beauty of expression, and their power to touch us in an intimate way. As we look at the Greeks with their zest for life, we realize that their greatness was the result of their spirit. The Greek spirit, the love of freedom, the love of truth, and the love of beauty, are the imperishable gifts they have given to the world. The selections, "The Death of Socrates," "Ulysses," "Ode on a Grecian Urn," selections from the poems of Sappho, selections from Homer, can impart to us the Spirit of the Greeks. One of the great stories Man has written in his "Book of Literature" is the "Biography of the Youth of Society." This is the story of the Roman way of life, the story of the men who made the world of yesterday a social foundation for the world of today. As we consider the greatest book in the world, the Bible, under the divisions, The Old Testament as a Record of the Life and Thought of the Ancient Hebrews, How We Got Our Bible, The Bible as Literature, we shall come to know the mighty note of Hebrew faith, "Know God." This great epic of immortality records Man's struggle for individual happiness and God's struggle for the perfection of man. One of the most fascinating chapters in the world's literature is "The Romantic Spirit." Men and women as national heroes and knights, priests and saints, lords and ladies, rulers and slaves, make up the body of romance. Songs of worship, of war, and of love are the expression of romance. With Tennyson's delightful poem, "The Princess," we shall pause in romantic spirit. Many great literary masters have written in the "Book of Literature," but none with a greater understanding of human nature than has Shakespeare. His mellowest wisdom is recorded in "The Tempest," his last RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE work. From the princely Prospero, the earthy Caliban, and the sprightly Ariel we learn of the divinity of man. Literature as a criticism of life can be more than an explanation and an interpretation of life, it can present a vision of what life can be at its best. Man's greatest struggle is a spiritual struggle. Literature with spiritual values can give to man, "quietness, strength, understanding, and steadfastness, whether to do or to endure." From Ibsen's "Brand," the way of a saint, "Peer Gynt," the way of a sinner, and Emerson's "Self-Reliance" and "Compensation" we see the forces that determine the soul's growth in the progress of self-realization. "Man is his own star" and "The aids to noble life lie within us." MRS. HAZEL H. GREENWOOD LESSON PREPARATION AND PRESENTATION TEACHING has been called "The finest of the fine arts" and we who have been called to teach should sense the responsibility and seek to prepare ourselves in every way possible to get the best results. On us depends whether it shall be a job, a profession or an art. Teaching gives us the opportunity for growth. "It is work that stimulates ambition and enhances personal worth. There is no greater developer of character to be found." Our influence for good in the lives of others can never be estimated, we may be able at some crucial moment to drop a word, a bit of philosophy that may give courage to meet and solve the problems of life. Then also there is the joy that comes from the association with these fine women we are privileged to teach; we get their reactions, their inspirations, and are able to dip into their minds and souls and see what is mirrored there. Be interested in the members of the class, learn their possibilities, seek to broaden their horizon, help to make for them a rich old age. Stimulate their thoughts and ambitions with the strength and value of the principles you are seeking to teach until they fill their lives with worthwhile study and effort. Teach the difference between good and poor reading. A real teacher must be a real student. No one should teach to the limits of his information. A teacher must be so full of his subject that he gives the impression that he has much in reserve that he could give if he had time. To be helped to become all that you may become is a real service. "Welcome the task that makes you go beyond your ordinary self if you would grow." You as teachers can enjoy the spirit of the Lord in your work. Seek Him in prayerful humility. Approach this great task with a prayer in your heart for guidance. "Be thou humble, and the Lord thy God shall lead thee by the hand and give thee answer to thy prayers." Doc. And Cov. 112:10. The preparation of a lesson involves first the collection of material. The text, the Magazine, the stories, poems or books to be studied, all the available supplementary material. Pictures, magazine clippings, articles, etc. (Lectures, moving pictures, songs, poems, radio, library if available. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Make a scrap book for individual use.) A knowledge of the background of the work in question is necessary. Discover the author's purpose in writing it, points in the author's life, if they will assist, historical setting, are all necessary to a clear understanding of the work. One very necessary thing in the preparation of a lesson is the free use of the dictionary. One presenting the lesson should understand the meaning of every word and sentence in the selection. Pronunciation of words should be accurate. If we do not love it and enjoy giving a lesson we cannot hope to make others love and enjoy it. The Objective is the generalized statement around which all the facts of the lesson must be made to center. We sift out of this material a central truth. The teacher must see through what makes the lesson worthwhile, must discover the gem, and around this central thought arrange the material; exclude some and include others, leave out the non-essentials and emphasize the important points. Time is limited, we must select the essential things. Ask ourselves, what have I? Why was this book, play, poem written? What is its message? What prompted this at this particular time? What values in this work are fundamental? How can they be illustrated in our lives? What experience in my life has equaled this? Have these experiences meant anything to me or any members of my class? What questions may I ask to emphasize outstanding points? The outlining of a lesson is one of the most difficult tasks, but when once mastered is one of the greatest helps. The aim should point the goal we seek, but an outline points the route we will follow. Outlining helps to settle on important and unimportant facts, to stress the ones most needed and to stay within time limits. Organization requires intelligent discrimination to know what parts to omit and what to retain. The type of audience will determine this. We must know our women. There are various ways to present a lesson, by lecture, special topics, discussion. The lecture method has its advantages, as it lays a suitable foundation for the introduction of material and is often the best way of approach. There is an economy of time in a lecture, the product of a vast study can be given in a short time. A carefully planned special assignment promotes independence of thought. It encourages a spirit of inquiry and places responsibility upon members of the class. Training in expression and standing up before people gives confidence, and a sense of having contributed something. It also develops initiative. Discussion prompted by skillful and intelligent questioning on the part of the teacher gives a fine opportunity for socialized self-expression. The opening remarks are important, do not begin with an apology or a complaint, and be sure that the first thing you say arouses interest. Once the interest has been gained, things of less interest can be presented. Before presenting the lesson to a group it may be well to go over it aloud to an imaginary audience. This is one way to master the material. Present it simply and with feeling. Dramatic presentation is not necessary, though at times this may help. Place in the hands of the listeners choice bits or memory gems from the selections. Read always as much of the author's words as possible. Take time to assign next month's lesson and encourage reading the lesson in the Magazine. Take time for a review to connect the whole, and show its relationship—one lesson to tie into the next. Teach them that the time for learning anything is the time it is needed, that no matter how late in life we begin we can get comfort and joy in study. IDA P. BEAL GENERAL AIM OF THEOLOGICAL LESSONS THE word "theology" is of Greek origin. It comes to us from "Theos" —meaning God, and "logos" —a treatise or discussion. "Emphasis is everywhere increasingly placed on the conception that education is not a process ending with the school, but is rather a life process; that school life, however prolonged, simply evokes ability and taste for learning, and furnishes the initial equipment for securing never completed self education." "The formation of right ideals is the major task of education," says Brigham Young. It would be impossible for me to give all the aims of our theology lessons, so I have chosen a few that I think stand out prominently. Joseph Smith gave to his age many generalized truths. I can but repeat a few of these as examples; viz: "The glory of God is intelligence." "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance." "A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge." "If one man, by his diligence, obtains more knowledge than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come;" and so on. These quotations help us to sense in a measure our responsibility to inform ourselves of the glorious truths of our gospel. Our theological lessons stimulate our sisters to a renewed appreciation of the gospel, as it is the charted path by which we can again return to our heavenly home, and there receive our rewards. It strengthens our testimonies. It is a special privilege and blessing of the Holy Ghost to every true believer to know the truth for himself. It is both the duty and privilege of the Latter-day Saints to know that their religion is true. Our theological lessons help to develop our powers of mental discrimination, aesthetic appreciation, moral determination, and a love of God and His work. We become more aware of our social relationship and are active in the discharge of all our obligations; respectful of law and order, devoted to truth and justice; loyal to the best traditions of our people, and dream and work toward better things. In brief, a striving for the ideal and a life that will be faithful thereto. A study of theology stirs our sisters to a constructive self activity, builds up a technique of good habits, habits of righteousness, and a loyalty to our church and its standards. Our duty is to know the will of God and do it. The gospel of Jesus Christ is the opening avenue—the open gate to the road or way from earth to heaven through which direct revelations come to the children of men. It RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE establishes faith in God, that He is our Father, and that Jesus Christ is our Elder Brother. Faith is an eternal principle and is a direct gift of God. We must put our faith in a God of law and order. After all our endeavors to obtain wisdom from the best books, there still remains an open fountain for all, "If any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God." Our study creates a love for our church works, and an eagerness to read and re-read the Word of God. Through our study of theology, the doctrines of our church become plainer and more beautiful and the duties of parents, as to the instruction of their children, cannot be misunderstood. In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 68—25th verse, we read this great exhortation, "And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God. And of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents." "What our deepest self craves is not mere enjoyment, but some supreme purpose that will enlist all our powers and will give unity and direction to our life. We can never know the profoundest joy without a conviction that our life is significant, not a meaningless episode. The loftiest aim of human life is the ethical perfecting of mankind—the transfiguration of humanity." (Henry J. Golding) In summary: 1. We must study our gospel— the church works, the theology of our religion. 2. We must have faith in God and in his ministry and in his delegated authority. 3. We must study our duties and obligations to our children, and theirs to their parents. 4. In brief, we must believe the gospel, preach the gospel, and live it. 5. We must learn by doing the things of God. MRS. CORA L. BENNION LESSON PRESENTATION THE successful teacher must continually be a student." An educator of great fame was asked why he found it necessary to prepare for each day's lesson. He said he preferred that his students drink from a running stream rather than from a stagnant pool. This standard of teaching requires a great deal of time and effort, but all that we can do to help ourselves become better teachers, will return to us in rich experience and a larger capacity for service, and bring to us joy and satisfaction in our work. The teacher should have the right attitude toward her task, with a full appreciation of her opportunities and responsibilities. The end of all our teaching is not merely to impart information, but to develop character. When a teacher has finished her work with a student. The efficiency of her work is determined not so much by what the student knows as by what she is. Education is a problem of developing personalities. The factors that enter into the process are many and complex in their relationship. What should be the teacher's equipment for this undertaking? It should be much more than merely learning the subjects that are to be taught. This must be part of the equipment of a teacher, but not the most important part. The teacher must know the real nature of her group in order to bring the lesson within their experience and their appreciation. She must adapt the lesson to fit her group. "The value of our teaching is always to be measured by the degree to which it finds expression in the lives of those we teach." Knowledge is without meaning except as it becomes a guide to action. Do the lessons we teach find expression in the home? Are they helping us to improve our lives each day? Jesus was the greatest teacher because He lived the lessons He taught. His teachings entered into the lives and conduct of His students. The best teachers are those who inspire their students to want to study and take part in the lesson. "The greatest service that any teacher ever renders to her students is in the development of the ability to solve the various problems which life presents." "The great art of teaching is to teach in such a way that students will want to do the things that they should." The address by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith will be published in a later number. NETTIE D. BRADFORD REINFORCEMENT OF AIM THROUGH TESTIMONY BEARING "A gift from God if neglected, or unworthily used, is in time withdrawn; the testimony of the truth will not remain with one who, having received, uses not the sacred gift in the cause of individual and general advancement. Study and strive to acquire the knowledge that leads towards, and the wisdom that shall reach, the goal of life eternal. Your testimony as to the truth of the restored Gospel may operate towards salvation or condemnation as it is used or misused." —Joseph F. Smith. The purpose and practice of testimony bearing in Relief Society is to renew our faith and testimony. It is not the chief purpose of testimony bearing to accumulate physical evidences of the truth of the Gospel but rather to cultivate the spirit of the Lord within the hearts of our sisters. Testimony bearing has a strong educational influence upon our lives and feelings and tends to cultivate within us thankfulness and appreciation for the many blessings we enjoy. Our testimony meetings should have as one of our aims, the cultivation of our feelings of gratitude, not only towards our Heavenly Father but towards friends, neighbors and all God's children. "It is an excellent way to make people helpful and thankful to others by first making them thankful to God." —Joseph F. Smith. The more we speak of the goodness of the Lord to us, the more our hearts are filled with love and appreciation and sincere gratitude for the many blessings showered upon each and everyone of our Father's children here upon the earth. We are made happier by giving expression to those inner feelings. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE "Search out the truth of the written word, listen for and receive the truth declared by living prophets and teachers; enrich your minds with the best knowledge and facts. Of those who speak in His name the Lord requires humility, not ignorance. Individual testimony is a personal possession." —Joseph F. Smith. One cannot give her testimony to another yet she is able to aid another in gaining a testimony. When one is under the influence of the Holy Spirit that influence is felt by others and the testimony of one often strengthens that of another. "Truth commends itself to every honest person. It matters not how simply it is told, and when it is received it seems as though we had been acquainted with it all our lives. It is the testimony of the Latter-day Saints that when they first heard the Gospel preached as contained in the Bible and Doctrine and Covenants although entirely new to them, it seemed as though they already understood and must have been 'Mormons' from the beginning." —Brigham Young. MRS. ELISE B. ALDER THE WHITE HOUSE CONFERENCE Heavenly Gifts Lo! From its heavenly home where angels sing Soft lullabies, a little child they bring To earth; and seeking tenderest care Such as in heaven has been its wont to share, They find the nearest semblance to God's grace, Lives in a woman's heart, shines in her face, So deeming her most fit, at heaven's behest, Bright angels give the baby to her breast, And mother-love is born—henceforth it fills The woman's soul; and all creation thrills. No love alone completes the heavenwrought plan, 4 Nor builds the strength and character of man, Nor moulds his mind immortal. Were it so Each mother's babe a perfect child would grow But love has never kept disease away, Nor o'er the hand of death does love hold sway, 'Tis her's', the mother's task, to find the light, And guide and guard the baby life aright, By all the truth earth's wisest men have learned, By all the skill their patient toil has earned. —Annie D. Palmer. MY dear Sisters: I think I can see on your faces this morning the same look of interest that was seen on the faces of those magnificent audiences of three thousand knowledge giving, knowledge seeking people who met at the White House Conference in Washington, D. C. November 19-22, 1930, at the call of President Herbert Hoover. They were leaders in the medical, educational and social field as they touch the life of a child. They were representatives from the various States and present upon the invitation of the President to receive what had been found on the important subjects pertaining to the welfare of children. You are here from the various stakes of Zion at the call of the President of the National Woman's Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as class leaders in the social service work as it touches the life of the child, with the knowledge of the Gospel in your hearts guiding you in the enlightening of mothers in 642 the Relief Society as to the welfare of their children. The call for the White House Conference went out in July, 1929, as one of the early acts of President Hoover, who announced that it was to study the present status of the health and wellbeing of the children of the United States and its possessions; to report what is being done; to recommend what ought to be done and how to do it. There had been two other White House Conferences held, the first one called by President Theodore Roosevelt in 1909, the second by President Woodrow Wilson in 1919. The results of both these earlier conferences have been broad and far reaching, and their recommendations are influencing social and legislative protection for children. This third conference included the subjects in two former conferences, but the range was enlarged to take in not only the dependent child or the special need of protection, but all children in their total respects. To find facts, to define standards to recommend changes were the aims of the conference. These experts in the various fields of child-life, gave a service largely voluntary, the results of which are immeasurable. Sixteen months were devoted to preparatory study, research and assembling of facts on the part of 1,200 experts, working on nearly 150 different committees, assembled under 17 main committees, divided into four sections: Medical Service, Public Health and Administration, Education and Training, and the Handicapped. Commencing on page 51 of our textbook we find the findings, conclusions and recommendations of the many subjects that were considered. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE At the closing session of the conference, nineteen points embodying the main recommendations of the committees were presented. These points in final form represented the core of the conference findings. As the Children's Charter, they go on record as the aims toward which the conference hopes to lead public thought and action for the children of the country, in other words, or in short the Children's Charter is a crystallization of the needs of the children of our United States, the outcome of the White House Conference in 1930. The study of childhood is the key to the future. It needs patient and careful study. It needs insight and sympathy. It needs hard work, but it is worth it a thousand times worth it, and the future shall be our reward. The present century is often called the Century of the Child. If the present generation can merit the title it will be to our everlasting glory, for with the child lies our hope. This then is our task, a sacred task too, and worthy of the best we can give it. It is the hope and prayer of this committee, headed by Mrs. Lalene H. Hart, that from now on this book, the outcome of the great White House Conference held in Washington, D. C. In November, 1930, may be a help and an inspiration to you in your work more in the future than it has been in the past. Let us study this book and weave its contents into our lesson work, remembering that the best minds and the noblest workers of this country were employed for more than a year studying the problems of childhood, and their findings have been classified and condensed into a compilation, our text for the coming year. RED EEeeeCIEATY CONFERENCE 643 DR. L. JOHN NUTTALL HAVE only a few suggestions similar to the discussion a year ago. Last week a lady, whose business takes her into many of the Latterday Saint homes, met me in one of the stores, she said: "I think you ought to teach these things to the parents." When I enquired why, she told me about many different kinds of homes in which she has to go at frequent intervals, and some of the scenes that happen in these homes. Sometimes the children are crying and yelling. They will not let their mother sit and talk in a courteous way to a visitor. Yesterday I saw a mother on the street with a seven year old youngster. She was very much ashamed of what that youngster "was doing, and she attempted to pacify him. The reason she had to pacify him on the street, was that she had continued to pacify him ever since he was born, instead of training him. She thinks he is a bad boy now, and he is, but he is doing exactly what she taught him to do. It is not difficult to picture what happened in that home. The social service lessons last year and for the coming year were designed by your General Board committee, I sat in and gave a little help in the preparation of the lessons, and in working out the ideas presented for the lessons. These lessons were to call the attention of the mothers of the Church who had the. Responsibility of young children to the fact that there is a_ specific method of approach to the problems of behavior. If you want a youngster to cry, you can train him so that he will do it. If you want him to be a good natured chap, and not cry; you can train him to do that. The training principle is the same in both cases, the product is different because of the method used. I am going to read the topics through, in order to illustrate the point: 1. Factors in Physical Growth. 2. Factors in Early Habit Formation. Sleep of Children. Food and Eating Habits. Sex and Emotional Maturity. Socialized Conduct. Play and Play Facilities. Constructive use of out of School Time. 9. Home and School. If you look at these lessons and read over the list you will find physical growth, food, eating, sleep, all mentioned. It sounds like a course in nutrition, or medical care of children. That is just exactly what it is not. The purpose of all of the lessons is to focus attention on the problem. Of behavior. The lessons ought to help people who study them in making the youngster eat what is fed to him, or keep him from eating what is not fed to him. It does not matter whether you put your youngster to bed at 7, 8 or 9 o'clock, but there is a type of child behavior which makes for health, and for peace in the family, that makes youngsters go to bed and go to sleep at the time set. We are not concerned in these lessons that the class members learn point by point all the facts, but we are concerned very much that the people who study these lessons see the possible behavior problems of growth. Each lesson is prepared in five distinct parts. The first part of each lesson is usually an introduction, which leads to a statement of aim. The first lesson begins this way: "Knowledge plus a will to use knowledge 644 in doing one's work gives one added power. Effective child care is dependent on the growth results of what is done for children." That sentence establishes a point contact, or point of view. In some of the lessons the introductory statement is a little longer than this. It introduces the general topic in the relation of physical growth to behavior. The second part of each lesson, running right through, is a statement of a suggestive purpose. No one can write for others what specific goals are to be set up, but one can suggest the type of aim towards which others | should strive. In this lesson we make this suggestion; to develop a desire on the part of parents to use knowledge about the physical growth of children in planning their clothes, recreation, education, daily work, and other activities. The aim then is to have the parents desire to use knowledge in meeting these problems of every day life. The Second aim is to give facts to be learned and used by the class members, but not to take the responsibility of drilling until every one of these facts is learned by class members. The aim is simply to set before the class a body of facts about child growth, and build up in the class members a desire to let these facts help them in determining what to do with the children. The third part of each lesson is wholly for the class teacher, not the class member. It is again suggestive; many of you can work out procedures better than this. This first lesson suggests as follows: "Assign the reading guide for careful home study. This will achieve the first aim and point out how the information given in the supplementary material has immediate value to parents and teachers." You know what these little pamphlets are. The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE suggestion for the material in this lesson is not to use for studying the pamphlets but to assign a reading guide for home study. "Assign for topical study, analysis and report the following items from the report of White House Conference 1930. Take time in class to have these reports given." You take time in the class before, or at the beginning to suggest to the members that they read from the pamphlets. That part of the teaching is general. Then you take these specific topics which are very vital, from the Report of the White House Conference, and assign three people to make a topical report in the class time. After these reports are made the teacher uses the rest of the class time going through the supplementary material. In this way the attention of the class members is called to it. They are advised that it is worthwhile to know this information. This is simple teaching. Give them some work to do at home; have three class members come and make some topical reports, and the teacher take the responsibility of going through in a suggestive way, the supplementary material printed in the lessons in the Relief Society Magazine. The next part of every lesson is the reading guide. It is to be used quite generally as is suggested in the lesson. This one happens to be a reading guide which contains a lot of facts. In making the assignment you would go through these problems— do not try to answer them all. "Make a list of specific items listed on pages 8, 9, and 13." "Growth," which makes clear the meaning of growth and development. We have in our own family now two boys two years apart in age. But the younger is the taller. He is big as far as size is concerned, but in development still only a baby. He does more crying than any of RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE the other three youngsters in the home, because people abuse him, they think he is grown up. The fifth part of each lesson is a guide to supplementary material which is not in the material to be read. This might be available to class teachers if they had access to a university library, or to a fine psychological department in a public library, but very few of you have such accessible material, so we have selected some material which you can use. We suggest that you spend most of your class time calling attention of the class members to this, because most of the other part is well cared for in the reading. This particular first lesson has a table of Heights and Weights. Do not have these memorized. Suggest that because it will be in their Magazine, that if they want to know whether their child is very far from the normal height and weight for his age, they can get an idea from this chart that might help them in solving the problem of their child. If they have a child six years old, 45 inches high, weighing 70 pounds, the mother can look at this and knows her child is overweight. Much use has been made of height and weight tables in recent years in order to check the growth of individual children. These tables have very little value because of the many factors which enter into the height and weight of the child. It is very important that the growth be con- 645 tinuous, that it does not stop for a while, and then start again. 'The behavior of the child is controlled in part by conscious attention to the problem of physical growth. We follow this with a significant analysis of what is commonly known as the anatomical age. Some of you may have wondered why children of six years old do things that are not done by other people. Children who are large physically are not capable of doing the same things that older children of the same height and weight can do. Capability is not measured in terms of years and months, but by bone and muscle and nerve development. Many of the Relief Society teachers say: 'There is so much more than we can possibly teach." It is good news when teachers begin, to complain this way. Do not try to teach in the sense of academic learning in half an hour all of the material present. See the specific problems in the course in terms of behavior, pick out a specific aim, achieve the aim and you have taught your lesson. You may hope that each lesson will lead to further study and application from your class room into the homes of the members of your class. The teaching will not be difficult if you keep clearly in mind that there is a behavior problem before you all the time. Do not try to do everything. Keep the class members conscious of their problems, and interested in studying to solve them. MRS. LOTTA PAUL BAXTER HE Savior loved to teach in parables, and whenever I think of Relief Society workers t he thought uppermost in my mind is the parable of the Sower, Matthew 13:3. Relief Society teachers are among the greatest sowers of seed to be found in our every day life. The pulpit speaker is losing ground and is no longer able to sway. Big audi- 646 ences by his persuasive methods, but the quiet worker who has access to the home and the small group, one who carries a worthwhile message, is the teacher of the future. As I see these teachers faithfully going from door to door in two's, with a regularity that in itself is a magnificent testimony to the cause in which they work and their devotion to it, I say to myself how privileged they are to be part of a royal army numbering over 23,000, making 881,436 visits last year. If one seed is sown at each visit, what do you think the harvest will be? What kind of seed are we sowing? Where are the seeds falling? Good seed, good soil, are indispensable for a worthwhile harvest, but there is still something that must accompany the seed and the soil. It is the spirit of the message and of the messenger. Have you experienced the joy of warmth and power in your work that you know has come from your Father in heaven? I have attended a number of teacher-training meetings, and I too have partaken of the inspiration there. As I watched the eager faces of the women listening as they drank in the message of love and goodwill, I said in my heart "this is one of the most faith-promoting endeavors of Relief Society work." Have you ever thought as you read the scripture that the Savior might have been speaking to you and of your work when He said, "I am the vine, ye are the branches." Let us think this over in simple terms and see what connection there is between the vine and the branches. If there were no vine, there would be no branches, and conversely if there were no branches there would be no vine. Holding firmly to the lifegiving earth the roots make for stability and permanence, sending nourishment to the most remote parts of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the branches. On the branches are found the leaves, the blossom and the fruit, each adding its strength, beauty and usefulness to the whole. And we are told that "By their fruits ye shall know them." Is our fruit desirable? Is it a credit to us and the work we represent? Do we do this work from a sense of duty because we do not like to refuse, or do we love to do it? Do we feel it a privilege to be called to the work? There are so many items forming teachers' work that to me. It weaves a chain which -is very impressive. These are the links of the chain: 1. Vision of the work. 2. Teachers' Topic committee of General Board. 3. Relief Socicty Magazine, containing the message. 4. Stake Teacher-training and the Union Meeting. 5. Ward teacher-trainer and the one o'clock meeting. 6. Faithful eager group gathered there. 7. The visiting teachers going on their districts. 8. The homes which receive them. 9. Spirit of inspiration. No chain in broken parts is attractive, only when it is connected in harmony with its neighbor, pulling together instead of pulling apart, has it the power to call forth admiration from those who witness it. These are the forces which make our work a success, and no chain is stronger than its weakest link. J ask you in your special capacity, is your link the weak one, or through devotion to the cause and earnest prayer have you made your work the strong link? Let us take the first link: 1. Why vision? We are told, "Where there is no vision the people RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE perish." In every endeavor we must see the possibilities ahead, and not the mere task in hand. 2. Why a teachers' topic committee? Other lessons are prepared by people outside of the board, but this lesson is the product of women steeped in the spirit of Relief Society work. Almost a year before the topics are printed, thoughtfully, prayerfully these faithful women meet to decide what will breathe into the hearts of the women in the homes, the most encouragement, the most faith, the most ambition. Have they succeeded? As a humble partaker of the richness of that message, I say they have. 3. Why the Magazine? This faithful little messenger, coming regularly every month with its outlines of lessons should be in the hands of every teacher carrying as it does a complete educational setup, but greatest of all it breathes into us the spirit of love and faith and service. 4, Why stake teacher-trainer and union meeting? Here we find the almost perfect system of institute work, where in departments teachers teach other teachers, and the spirit and the method is passed on to the ward worker. 5. Why the ward teacher-trainer and one o'clock meeting? Here are the messengers who spread out into the homes with the revivifying mes- 647 sage. The subject matter is treated simply but with great spirit and force and here the vision of the work. Is broadened. 6. The teachers? If you are not convinced in your own mind that Relief Society teaching is a great force in the community, attend a successful ward teacher-trainer meeting and you will doubt no more. The eager, earnest group gathered there determined to get the best possible foundation for their special work through the inspiration of the topic and its message. '7, And then comes the eventful day of teaching. I have had the rare privilege of seeing five pairs of teachers at the same time going in different directions on their mission of love, and my heart has been touched deeply by the simple beauty of it. 8. The homes which receive them? Does the spirit of that home reach out to encourage and bless the visitor, or do they expect the teacher to furnish the topic, spirit, strength and everything that goes to make a visit a success? Let us all do our part. 9. Back to the beginning is the spirit of inspiration, without which there is no teaching. The mere message, the call, is vain, useless without the spirit which giveth life. PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON T is a very important thing to stand before you women and suggest any other thing for you todo. Iam addressing, in the main, stake officers and stake board members, especially those who have charge of the visiting teachers. I wonder if you caught the vision this morning that I did while Sister Baxter was giving her beautiful address. I wonder how any ward or stake worker could say, "We have not time for a visiting teachers' meeting' and yet that word does come to us. I was thinking of how many of us have had husbands or sons or daughters on missions, and how we have worked and sacrificed in order to keep them on missions, and how 648 proud we are of them when they write home and tell us that they addressed a group on a street corner, or that they had a conversation in a home with some intelligent person. We all like to feel that our dear ones are so well prepared on the Gospel that they can discuss the subject with ministers, and other educated people. No missionary has a greater opportunity for preaching the Gospel than do the members of this great army of visiting teachers, who must know how to meet each woman in the district, as each one may require a different approach. It is only through the Spirit of God that we can, any of us, reach the human soul. When missionaries go into the field, they are drilled on the principles of the Gospel, so that they will know what to say when they go out. It is just as important for these visiting teachers to be drilled and know the subject they are to take. They must know it better than a teacher. It is known all over the world that the best method of carrying a message is from house to house. The Government is asking that we do this in the N. R. A. Sisters, the Lord's way is always best. We have eight, ten or twelve women in the district of a pair of ward visiting teachers. They can get so close to these women that they know their needs—whether they need to be. Encouraged to go to sacrament meeting, or to send their children to Primary, Sunday School and Mutual. There must be a desire, a willingness to serve, and a knowledge of how to do it. The Relief Society visiting teacher must have this, or she could not leave her home one day a month and do her fine work in the community. I wonder if in all these 881,436 homes a vital message was left last year. I wonder if the mothers were RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE better prepared to be mothers and Latter-day Saints because of the visits that were made, if they were not, what is lacking? We have the opportunity. This fine group of women to get training in our stake officers' meeting, and in our wards. The subject to discuss is given to us in our Magazine, and if we are as efficient as we want our missionaries to be we must be on our tip toes, full of this teachers' topic. We are told that what the world needs is spirituality. This world needs unselfishness too, while there are women in homes who never get out to hear spirituality, and those who do not care much about it, and who are rearing children to know little about it. If people would only follow the Savior's advice there would be ideal homes, and ideal communities where everything would be ideal, but we are selfish and hard to control. The world now is in misery everywhere, and good people are suffering with those who helped bring on this distress. The teachers' topics that were outlined last year on the Beatitudes were so lovely. The first lesson for this year—The Great Objective of Life" should challenge us. What is the great objective of life? The answer rings out, "To obtain exaltation and to become like God." Could we teach this—could we go into the homes and tell the women that this is the objective of life—to become like God—what an incentive to progress. The world never heard of such a statement until a few years ago, and very few now comprehend it, but we have had this revealed to us, that we can become as God if we are obedient. Some of the busy women in the homes do not take time to study; some have not the desire, but if we RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE could only teach them that the great objective of life is to obtain exaltation and become like God, surely this is a challenge to any woman, no matter how little she cares. This lesson tells us also that the Gospel is not just something for Sunday, it is not just long prayers, but it is service for the day. Brigham Young is quoted as saying: "Our work is a work of the present." I am glad that statement was put in our first lesson, as it certainly must make us realize that we have something te give to the world, not only to the people outside, but our members here, children of the pioneers who have made sacrifice to come, all too many of them do not know why we are here, and what our opportunities are. So I am glad that this committee has made this challenge to us, and I believe, class leaders in the stakes, if you will pray for light, if you will be so full of the Gospel, you can put this message over to the ward class leaders, and they in turn to the women they visit. This is a most wonderful thing, and it is every day that we are to do this. If I attend to what devolves upon me to do today, and do that, then tomorrow I can become more like God. What are trials? What are these little trivial things we are going through, when we can, by the Spirit of God help each other and develop that divine spark within us that can achieve such greatness. Think of the women in your districts, of the women in your wards whom you will visit, who can be helped by knowing that characterbuilding is the most important business in life; that we are here, and it is the way we meet life that determines how soon we will become as God. I pray that the spirit of this calling will rest upon you, as it is one of the 649 most important callings that can come—to be a visiting teacher who will take a vital message into the homes, who will stimulate the women who have not the spirit to lead better lives, and to those who are doing well to further inspire them to go on. It is the most thrilling thing we have in the whole world. If this could only be carried forward as there is possibility for it to be, we would have very few people leave the Church, very few people indifferent, very few criticisms, because these teachers could lift them above the petty things. Do you see the need of a topic? It depends upon the spirit that is with you in giving your message. It is the Spirit of God, the work of the Savior, to go into the homes and help lift a load off the people, and help them to see the light. That you may do this, I humbly pray, for it is the greatest lesson and opportunity that can come. It is not all sacrifice. There is no teacher who studies the lessons, and prays for strength who is not benefited. And so it is just to the degree of excellence with which we do our work whether or not we will have joy in it. If we only half do our work we will have no pleasure, if we do it from a sense of duty we will have no joy, but if we feel that we are a branch of this vine, and that our Father in Heaven has felt us to be worthy to be a member of that branch, and that we can carry this work when it is here to do, then we will have joy. I pray you may have the strength and the love of humanity enough that at the end of this season these 881,436 homes you have visited will be so lifted up that they will feel to declare, ""How beautiful upon the mountain are the feet of them who bring glad tidings," because that is what the visiting teacher does. Officers' Meeting PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON OUR presence here touches beyond the power of expression. We have such a large audience this morning. We would like our stake officers to see our lovely rooms on the second floor. Just recently the Presiding Bishopric have fitted up a very fine office for the Welfare Department in the Young Building, and you are invited most cordially to go over and see it. We are sure you will be delighted. We have a room fitted up for stake officers on the second floor of this, the Bishop's Building. It is not luxurious, but there are lots of conveniences, and you are so welcome. When you stake officers come into town, if you do not know just where to have your mail directed, have it sent to Relief Society Headquarters. There are desks and stationery and a telephone where you may call your friends. Lots of you people stay in hotels and have to pay ten cents a call, so just come into the office and use the telephone. This is your home when you are in the City. Make appointments to meet each other here, as we are happy to have you. The Magazine Department sends to the stakes order blanks and receipt books in the early part of the season for the agents. These must get lost, because the ward agents are sending in all the time for them. Will you sisters in the stakes check up and see if they have been left in your homes. We hope that this year there will be so many subscriptions that you will not have enough receipt books and order blanks. This year we have a new record ~ handbook. _ paring book. We are having no small record books made, as we found they were not satisfactory. The books will be one-third larger but will be the same price as they have been before. We are still recommending our excellent handbook. Possibly you presidents would be relieved of a lot of anxiety if you would read your So often you take the time and go to the expense of writing and asking questions which are answered in the handbook. There is one little correction that we are going tomake. For years, ever since our dear sisters came from Nauvoo, they spoke of the Relief Society as being organized in the Masonic Lodge Room. When we were prefor the monument, and through investigation in the Church Historian's Office, we found that the Relief Society really was not organized in the present Masonic Hall, which is pictured on page 24. We have stickers prepared now for this correction, and the General Board want you to know that it is as accurate as it is possible to be. This sticker is the width of the page, and can be stuck right in the handbook beneath the picture of the Masonic Hall. It reads: "Recent research in the Historian's Office has disclosed the fact that the Relief Society was organized in the Lodge Room over the brick store which stood on the Joseph Smith homestead, and not in the New Masonic Hall which was built in 1844, and which is pictured above The old store has been destroyed." We have long been eager to have RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE a Relief Society song, something that is inspiring, and that we could sing in our meetings; something that we could all know, which would carry the enthusiasm of Relief Society. We offered a prize of $25.00 to anyone who would submit the kind of a poem that we had in mind, and $25.00 to the person who would compose the music. There have been some very lovely things sent in, but not one of them was just the type we wanted, so we are going to ask you to think it over again, and sometime when you feel that enthusiasm, something fine and big in Relief Society, the spirit of the Lord I believe will come to you, and you will catch that message, and be able to produce the song. It is not so much the theme of beauty alone, as it is the message of Relief Society, so we are asking you to explain to your people in the stakes who have submitted these poems. The same holds true of the music. We have had professional people pass on the numbers. There is some of the music that is lovely, but it is not just what we wish. In some of the wards we still find there is lack of hospitality. We go to meeting and are so earnest in the work we are doing, that we are not as attentive as we might be to those fine women who come to our meetings. I think we are very practical in our organization, but we do not feel that way when a friend comes to ourhome. Weare happy to have her come, and we tell her so. Cannot we take this hospitality into the Ward Relief Societies? When people go there some are a little diffident, some have a sorrow, and are a little bit sensitive. They need the friendship and cooperation of the sisters, and they leave sometimes feeling that they have not been treated quite as courteously as might 651 have been. There is nothing in the world that makes work go so smoothly, as to be thoughtful and courteous to everyone. We are hoping that this will work out a little more extensively in the wards. I have been thrilled in visiting our stake conferences, to see how the ward houses have been made beautiful and attractive. I can hardly refrain now from speaking the names of some of these. I believe that all of you know the softening influence of flowers and beautiful surroundings in your wards. In the correspondence of the general office and the stakes, what we write to a stake president is for the stake president and her board alone. It may be that we wish to get over a message into the wards, and it would spoil anything that could be done if this was made public. We write to you on subjects that are for you, and you can readjust them, and soften them down if we are a bit harsh, and adjust them to suit the situation. Do not show it to the people whom we are trying to help, because we have unburdened our hearts to you in confidence. In our stake meetings we are always treated so beautifully, and the stake board prepares a delicious luncheon for us. Of course we all appreciate this very much, but sometimes the board members have to leave the stake board meeting, which is especially their meeting, to prepare this repast.. We wonder if you could not possibly ask some of the wards, or someone who is in need of help, to do this? I was at a stake just a few weeks ago, where, when we were through with our meeting at 12 o'clock, we went right into a room where there was a real banquet ready. The President said: "Now the ward that we are meeting in is in need of funds, and so we have 652 asked this group to prepare this excellent luncheon for us, and we will pay the ward out of our funds." It may be done this way, or it may be that some of the sisters in your stake who are excellent cooks could supply it, and let you take care of the expense. When there is an official stake board meeting we feel that the members should all be there. I think we have never had anything that has been more confusing in all of the stakes, than to know how to give credit for visits to the sick. I think the best rule is to ask what does your Relief Society stake president decide? She knows the situation and will be just. There is a question that perhaps has come up before, and that is, What should be done about credit for taking care of the sick who do not belong to the Church? In wards where there is no other agency to take care of them, where the county is failing, even after you have petitiond for care of these non-Latterday Saints, so there is just as much credit, and it should be given for taking care of people outside of the Church, as for people in the Church. This is under the direction, of course, of your stake and ward president. Iam sure you presidents who have had a longer term of office know about this, but we have a number of new presidents coming in, and the question has been asked a number of times, where several board members go to visit one ward, do you say there were five visits to the ward, if there were five board members, or is it one visit? It is one visit, no matter if your whole board is in attendance. In the minutes, the secretary may say that there were five board members present, but it is one visit by the stake board. We have before us this Fall one of the most important things that we RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ever had to face, and that is the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment. With the permission of the General Authorities of the Church, the Y. L. M. I. A., and Y. M. M. I. A., the Primary and Relief Society, are working to retain the Eighteenth Amendment. It does not matter whether it is a president of Relief Society, Mutual, Primary or a Methodist Minister who is the chairman, but work for the cause. It is a challenge to the people of our Church. The eyes of the world are upon us, and I believe that there is not anything more important than to have each woman in the Church consider honestly what her opinion is on this vital issue. All stake presidents, will you please, when you get home, if you care to, advise with your priesthood presidents, take it up in the wards and see that there is an organization in the ward, that every home will have the opportunity of knowing our stand, and what is expected of Latter-day Saints. We cannot direct their votes, but we must let them know how we feel about it, and what the real issue is. After all the millions and millions that have been spent by the wealthy men of the United States to get the wet propaganda before the people, making it possible and plausible that drinking will bring back prosperity, when in your hearts you know that there was never a man who drank who was as capable of earning money as if he did not drink; when you know that the dollar or ten cents spent for liquor cannot be used to buy milk and shoes, that it is taking legitimate money out of legitimate channels and misusing it, you can see that it cannot bring back prosperity. It is the wealthy men who are doing this to try and get the poor people to pay the taxes. One of the Duponts said before congress RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE that if they could get the people drinking fifty billion dollars worth of beer a year, it would save them millions of dollars in taxes. Can you see who is doing it? When they tell you they are doing it for. The good of the people, what people are being blessed by alcohol in the homes? Think it over sisters, and I pray our Heavenly Father to bless you that you will know what to do, but see that every woman in Utah has the opportunity to vote in November. Brother Merrill said that Latter-day Saints could not consistently do anything else than support the Eighteenth Amendment. We tell our boys and girls that God does reveal His will, and we repeat it at home and pay for our boys and girls to go out into the world to preach the Gospel and tell that God has revealed the Word of Wisdom. Let us not be swept off our feet by the plausible reasons that are given to us by men who are not working for the good of the working people of the world. 653 I pray that the blessings of the Lord will be with you sisters. I pray that you will see what is the best for your women at home. Facing the situation as we are today, it looks a dark miserable outlook for the world, but God is at the helm, and no matter what conditions come He will help us. You are working for His people, and I believe that we will need to suffer possibly until we have proven that we are working for the people, but in your work do not forget that you are working for God, and that He is willing and able to help you, and though the clouds do look dark, though you wonder how you can clothe and feed and support the people in your districts, do not get discouraged, this is the work of the Lord and He will bless us. I pray that you will never be left alone, but that you will always feel that the spirit of the Lord is near you, and that you will have the help that is needed, I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. KATE M. BARKER PREVIEW OF THEOLOGY "*There's a hard wind blowing today, which helps, if you're going in the right direction.' Soa farmer-friend writes me out of the West. The sentence might well express what is happening in our contemporary life. There is a hard wind of new ideas blowing."—Overstreet. There is a new wind of new ideas blowing, and never were ideas more conflicting, never was the battle between right and wrong waged more fiercely. All the ideas and standards of the world are brought to our very doors. Life has never been more a matter of choosing. Esau's condemnation came because of wrong choosing, he chose a mess of pottage in place of his birthright, which is typical of what all are tempted to do. We need, as never before, guidance to keep us going in the right direction. The Doctrine and Covenants is God's message, His guiding message, to us today. We hope our theological lessons for the coming year will increase our faith and strengthen our testimonies in the divinity of the Gospel—the only sure guide to the road we must follow. Our lessons are: 1. Obedience to Law the Basis of Reward. 2. The Law of Consecration. 3, Obedience to Civil Law. 654 4. The Word of Wisdom. 5. Responsibility of Conveying the Truth to Others. 6. Intelligence and Future Life. 7. Gifts of the Spirit. 8. Zion the New Jerusalem. 9. Death and the Resurrection. Some are spiritual lessons, some give us the temporal law, yet the two cannot be separated, because from obeying temporal laws spiritual blessings come. The general theme running through the lessons is that of obedience. "There is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated. And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." From each of the lessons we hope to get some specific spiritual truth which will strike a responsive chord in our hearts, and which we can apply in our lives, and that as a result of all these specific truths our general aim will be realized—increased faith, stronger testimony. These spiritual truths which are gained from each lesson will sink deeper in our hearts if carried over into testimony bearing. Impressions are intensified by expression. One form of activity which builds us up is expression. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE A testimony is like everything else worthwhile, it is a matter of growth. It comes through personal experiences, through actively seeking it, and through expressing it little by little as it grows. Our testimonies are not equal. Some have an absolute knowledge. Their experiences in life and the testimony of the spirit has given them this knowledge. We need their testimony. Bearing it helps to keep it alive and strengthens those who hear. Our Gospel is one of mutual helpfulness and _ self-expression. 'There are others whose testimony is not so strong. We wish to encourage them to bear testimony to those truths which through their experience they know to be true. The specific truths in our lessons will give them this opportunity. If we earnestly seek a testimony, if we build on what we do know, and give expression to it, the Lord will crown our efforts with the testimony of the Holy Spirit. The gratitude we have to our Heavenly Father for all His blessings is intensified by expression. The great need today is to recapture that fervid, energizing testimony which will guide us in the right direction, and lead to a greater consecration of our lives to the work of the Lord. MARY C. KIMBALL PREVIEW OF LITERATURE LESSONS OUR Literary course for this year. Life and Literature, is unusually fine. The lessons in the magazine are very illuminating and the text, The Story of the World's Literature, by John Macy, is as interesting as a novel. We urge all officers to get as many as possible to attend the sessions and to participate widely in the discussion. Class leaders should endeavor to encourage those who are not readers to form the reading habit. By so doing an inestimable benefit will be conferred upon these women. Recently I heard a friend say that RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE she knew an old woman who was a most pitiable figure. She had never learned to love books, and now in her old age she has no interests. She doesn't read. She doesn't participate in any group activities. How different was another woman who told her daughter on one occasion, "I love to have you come and visit me, but never come because you think I am lonely. I never can be lonely while I have my books." This woman through a long life had made it a practice to keep a record of the books she had read, the impressions they: had made on her, and what critics said of them, so when her daughter wished to know what to read, she would phone her mother, because she knew she could tell her the things that would be of great interest. "Dreams—books are each a world and books we know Are a substantial world, pure and good Round them with 'tendrils strong as flesh and blood Our pastimes and our happiness will grow." 655 The lesson headings in Life and Literature are, after an introductory lesson, The Gifts of the Greeks to the World. The Roman View of Life. The Bible, A Record of the Life and Literature of the Ancient Hebrews. The Bible as Literature. The Hebrew Classics. The Romantic Spirit. The Tempest. The Spiritual Values of Literature. These lessons will give us an outlet for our finest emotions and thoughts, will ennoble our thinking, and beauty will sink into our souls and will enrich our lives. They will build for us higher and higher ideals, for "every masterpiece of literature, whatever its theme, is rooted in an ideal, reflects an ideal, and illustrates an ideal." Through the study of these lessons, we will be transformed by the renewing of our minds, cultural refinement and joy will come to those who study them. LALENE H. HART PREVIEW OF SOCIAL SERVICE LESSON SINCE the beginning of civilization forward looking people have directed their thinking and efforts towards making the human race more efficient. John Dewey has said, "What the best and wisest parent wants for his own child that must the community want for all its children." The aim of our social service course is to establish in the minds of our people that whatever raises or lowers the standard of, the individual will likewise determine the standard of home, the influence of which, will extend to the community and the nation. What the standard and the ideals of our nation will be tomorrow will depend on how well we have lived today. Women have a unique role to play. Into their hands fall much of the intimate personal part of living. It behooves them, therefore, to educate themselves for this vital task. They need to understand not only the importance of their work as it touches the members of their own families in their own homes, but its importance as it influences the members of the family in their contacts outside, and the possibilities of extending, through their own activities, the benefits of their knowledge and experience in the care of human life, 656 to the community. They need to know how to meet wisely the basic human needs, to detect when the specialist is needed, and to know what ones are to be had. Ina word, they need to know the fundamental principles of science and art, a scientific point of view that enables them to keep an open mind, and an eagerness to keep mentally awake, a consciousness of the vital importance of their work that will make them respect it and themselves, to the point of bringing to it their finest powers. President Hoover's Committee on Social Trends found that in the last thirty years family life declined in social significance, although not in human values. The social and psychological functions of the family are as important as the economic ones. A few years ago we shied away from the responsibility of training in these functions, but we no longer fail to consider them in child care and training, personal development, character building and family stability. If home life and child care are as important to the national stability as sociologists have claimed, there is some evidence that a new program for family life is needed. The particular type of education or training that will help maintain the home as a significant unit in society is a difficult problem to contemplate and the part our social service lessons play in such a program is our chief concern. Our question is, "will the nature of this work be such that it will help to adjust to these functions?" If our lessons are approached from this standpoint they will not be taught as ends in themselves, but as a means to more satisfactory adjustment and personal development. We hope-you will not be too critical and feel that the lessons are too hard, too long, or RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE uninteresting. We have aimed to give you the latest and best compilation of findings and recommendations on the important subject of child health and protection, keeping in mind that the conservation of human life is the biggest job in which women have a part. The Children's Bureau, through its studies, estimates that nearly onefifth of the preschool children in the country are showing effects of poor nutrition, madequgte housing, lack of medical care and in many cases the effects of the anxiety and the sense of insecurity that prevails everywhere. Unless some tangible evidence of nutritional status can be used to make parents and teachers see their children as they really are, little can be accomplished by way of widespread betterment. In the interest of health education, knowledge of foods must needs become a part of the working equipment of every home. While a well rounded health education program in a community could only be realizd through cooperation of the doctors, nurses, social workers, home economists, teachers, and parents, upon the latter almost exclusively falls the responsibility of making it workable. In our lessons this year we deal with factors that are intensely vital to almost every human being, physically, mentally, and emotionally. Some of the most important values in home life are almost impossible to measure objectively and therefore there'is a tendency to ignore them, but just as the school is trying to readjust itself, revalue education, and maintain high standards for guidance of its students, just so must the parents face squarely and courageously the responsibility that makes for security, development, contentment, and happiness of those children entrusted to their care. It is RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE true we are facing many new and changed conditions and with them come rare opportunities to introduce into the lives of boys and girls new elements of happiness and permanent values which will mean finer citizens and more intelligent living. Mrs. Dorothy Canfield Fisher states as her belief that only trained educated human beings, living mostly on the spiritual, intellectual, and aesthetic plane will be able to adjust for healthful living in the new social order. Why should we not build towards a far better civilization than man has ever known? The family has endured in the past. It will continue to be the INEZ K. 657 fundamental institution from which will emerge strong personalities that will wield an influence for good upon the perplexing problems of the day. Someone has said that he wanted to go to school where they "taught all the branches." "But what about the roots," another asks. Are we seeing to it that as much nourishment as possible comes through the roots capable of feeding the branches. We appeal to you as officers and teachers to accept the challenge given you through the social service lessons, that every child may have an opportunity to reach its highest possibilities. INEZ K. ALLEN PREVIEW OF TEACHERS TOPIC IN recent years there have been so many failures and disappointments judged from a worldly point of view. The Teachers' Topic aims to help the mother in each home to see past the injustices and crude judgments of earth. It should help her to realize that what she is worth to God cannot be measured by worldly standards, because as William L. Phelps says: 'They are so coarse they are adapted only for gross and obvious results, one cannot weigh a_diamond on a hay scale, it would not register, yet its real worth would be many tons of hay." Honest effort, though followed by disappointment and the innermost yearnings of her heart, all count for something. It should teach her to count her blessings with an attitude of thankfulness, because real wealth may be measured by ability to appreciate. The weight of the load is conditioned by the attitude, like the boy who was carrying a child up a steep hill, when overtaken by a traveller who said, "Its too bad you must carry such a heavy burden," but the boy retorted "Oh, he aint very heavy, he's my brother." The topic aims to encourage each to seek for enduring satisfactions, seeking first the Kingdom of Heaven, purity of thought and life, honesty of purpose, and high ideal. It should encourage her to seek and find joy close to home, as the poet says: "T have found such joy in simple things: A plain, clean room, a nut-brown loaf of bread, A cup of milk, a kettle as it sings, The shelter of a roof above my head; And in a leaf-laced square upon a floor Where yellow sunlight glimmers through a door. "I have found such joy in things that fill My quiet days: a curtain's blowing grace, A growing plant upon a window sill, A rose, fresh-cut and placed within a vase; A table cleared, a lamp beside a chair, And books I long have loved, beside me there. 658 "Oh, I have found such joy! I wish I might Tell every woman who goes seeking far For some elusive, feverish delight, That very close to home the great joys are: These fundamental things—old as the race, Yet never, through the ages, commonplace." The topic should build self control as a means of preserving mutual love, for as the poet says: "The light of a whole life dies when love is done." Self control enables one to influence and govern others, and preserves one's own peace of mind. What more distressing than are the regrets for hastiness? Truly are we told in Proverbs "A soft answer turneth away wrath." God must be proud of one who, under stress, controls herself, and thereby keeps her heart open to the promptings of His Spirit. It has been expressed that '"'cheerfulness is the center color in life's bouquet." Ella Wheeler Wilcox truly said: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "The one worthwhile, is the one who can smile, When everything goes dead wrong." We all can recall a humble dwelling made a paradise by the cheerful mien and smiling face of a mother. The most destructive fear is that which destroys self confidence. It kills the "try" in one. "Believe in yourself, hang on to your self respect" it would say to each one. Women have never faltered in a time of stress. They gave birth to babies on the plains, sometimes buried loved ones by the roadside, and journeyed on. Pioneers had the courage to hope anew when overtaken by disappointment. As the pioneer mothers needed God on that great march to this land, so we need Him now. The teachers' topics are humbly dedicated to the hope that every mother will face the sunrise of 'a new day believing in herself, trusting her fellowmen, and having faith in God. COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE HE Depression has revealed, among other things, the great need in this country of some kind of security against unemployment. The unemployed must receive attention and care, and we have been giving this largely through some form of charity, which to say the least, is very embarrassing to the man who is anxious to work, and asks only for the opportunity to work. Forward-looking people have been advocating for some time the establishment in the various States of the Union, of some form of unemployment insurance for workers, to take the place of relief giving during periods of depression. A number of the larger States which have great industrial centers, have been discussing this problem for a number of years. Wisconsin now has a law in operation which is being closely watched by other States. There seems to be a great deal of opposition generally to unemployment insurance, due to the fact that it is not understood. Bills presented in twenty-five State legislatures last year failed. It is strange that people who believe in other forms of insurance are opposed to this. They believe in life insurance or insurance against RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE death, fire insurance, automobile insurance, burglar insurance, burial insurance, and in accident insurance or workmen's compensation, and in war pensions, but are opposed to unemployment insurance. The prevention of, and cure for unemployment are great economic problems which have not yet been solved. It is therefore all the more important that unemployment reserves should be set aside as a source of income for working people who are out of employment. My object in speaking on this subject today is not to advocate any definite plan for such insurance, but to discuss the principle of this form of protection, and to recommend that Relief Society women everywhere study this question for themselves. What is unemployment insurance, and who is it for? It is industrial accident insurance for physically fit people who are laid off work through no fault of their own. It is a source of income for working people out of employment. Itisasecurity wage, which should be treated as part of the worker's whole wage. Some say it would resolve itself into a dole, but this is not true. A dole is paying physically fit people funds which are raised by taxes. Voluntary insurance plans do not reach many workers, and the privately worked out schemes between employers and employees are not sufficiently safe due to the fact that industrial concerns may fail. The only safe plan is through the State itself. Where the State sponsors the scheme and manages it, it is sure to be a success. The best plan, many people think, would be one embodying the essential features of our workmen's compensation laws, the main feat- 659 ure of which is the creation of an unemployment reserve fund, held exclusively for the wage earner. The funds of the worker ought to be in hands which will continue to exist regardless of the business enterprise from which the accumulated funds are drawn. Great Britain has established a system of unemployment insurance, the fund being built up by contributions in a relatively equal amount by the employer, the employees and the Government. This is considered a very thorough and workable plan. 'The needs for unemployment insurance and old age security are apparent on every hand. When we realize that from 50% to 60% of our people are absolutely dependent at the age of 60, it would appear that steps should be taken to prevent such a condition. The result of a study by Mr. Raymond Fosdick shows the following results. Ifa group of people age 20 years each were selected from a cross section of society, in 40 years the picture would be as follows: 36 would have passed away; 54 would be absolutely dependent; 5 would be self-sustaining; 4 well-to-do; 1 would be rich. This condition alone justifies plans for unemployment insurance and old age security. Psychiatrists tell us that a large number of people have a mental age of only 12 years, and cannot plan beyond the present. These are found in all of our families. They tell us also that millions have an earning power so little above standards of decency that saving is impossible, and these are found in all of our families. Another reason why some sort of security ls necessary is because of too low wages. A recent survey in the house dress industry in Chicago gives startling figures. 660 Twenty concerns were included in the survey. In eleven of these concerns the girls and women were paid only 5 cents and less per hour for their work. In an eight-hour day they would earn 40 cents; in a week they would earn $2.40. In the other nine concerns the women were paid 15 cents and less. This accounts for the cheap house dresses which we find on the market. Who takes care of the unemployed today? The answer is, the taxpayer.. And who is the taxpayer? The taxpayer is principally the one who has general > such as farms, cattle, mines—property which is visible. It is not the man with millions in hidden assets which no one can find, and which he cannot find himself. The enormous relief bills of the last few years in the United States will surely put a mortgage on every farm and on every small business in the country, which it will take us a decade, if not a generation to remove. If unemployment is an inevitable part of our industrial system, it is a part of the cost of production and should be charged as such, and the plan for carrying its expense made a part of the regular financial planning of every enterprise. Who are the unemployed today? They are both men and women, native born and immigrants—skilled, semi-skilled, unskilled—bricklayers, helpers, carpenters, miners, painters, factory hands, type-setters, etc. Millions of them have excellent work records and are out of work through industrial operations over which they have no control. What happens when there is unemployment? First the cash savings are used up, insurance poliproperty, sheep, houses, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cies lapse, the furniture is sold, debts pile up, the family moves to poorer quarters, the mother goes to work (if she can find work), the health of the whole family is neglected, self respect crumbles. The psychological effect is bad. If a man is hungry he may later build up, but if he is discouraged too long, his faith and confidence are gone. The unemployed eligible for insurance would consist of those alone who lost their jobs through business hazards, and not through the worker's own fault. The payments he would receive would of necessity be below the average income earned while working, but would be enough to help to tide him over. Unemployment insurance is not intended to pay workers for not working. Insurance should be utilized only as one part of a completely rounded program to combat booms accompanied by over-employment, followed by depression with under-employment and unemployment. Unemployment insurance would not be a cure for unemployment. It would however offer protection against the hazards of unemployment, which workers themselves cannot foresee and cannot prevent. A number of the counties in Utah are qualifying for the establishment of old age pensions. I would recommend that Relief Society women study the law which provides for these pensions, and be prepared to assist when asked to do so in carrying out the provisions intelligently. In connection with this law we should also study the laws providing for the responsibility of relatives to their needy. Relatives are required by law to assist one another and should not shift this responsibility to the county or to the Church. Apostle Charles A. Callis By Joseph Quinney, Jr. ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS, richly endowed with the great gift of spiritual power, was unanimously sustained an Apostle of the Lord, Jesus Christ at the general conference of the Church October 6th, 1933. The choice of this greatly beloved man, meets universal approval. Elder Callis saw the light of day May 4th, 1865, in the city of Dublin, Ireland. He was baptized at the age of eight years in the city of Liverpol, England. Two years later he and his mother's family immigrated to Utah and settled in Bountiful. He was married to Grace C. Pack in September, 1902, in the Salt Lake Temple. They are the parents of eight children, six living and two who died in Jacksonville, Florida. He served the Church as a missionary in England during the years 1893-1894, He was Stake Superintendent of the Y. M. M. I. A. For some time after his return from a mission to England. He was County Attorney of Summit County for six years. He served as a city councilman in Coalville, Utah, for a number of years. He was a member of the 2nd Utah State Legislature and filled the place with honor. He was called to serve the Church as a Missionary in the Southern States in the year 1906. He succeeded the late Ben E. Rich as the President of that Mission and has served in that capacity for a quarter of a century. HE spiritual life of Elder Callis stands out as a great sentinel light, and the depth of his convictions to truth carry a power that stirs the souls of all who come within range of his strong and convincing personality. His faith in Jesus Christ the Lord is most vivid. The life of the Saviour has ever been his great ideal and through the power of the master he has ministered among his fellowmen. It is said that "We judge of a man's wisdom by his hope, his faith and actions." The life of Elder Callis thus judged shows great wisdom. Elder Callis carries always the thought that, "to know God is the controlling passion of life." Hence, the fine artistic qualities in his life are, and always have been, susceptible to all the Saviour taught. His interpretation of the Master is broad, sympathetic and fine. His love for the Christ is exemplified in his very thought, word and action. His "faith is a spiritual extension of vision, a moral sense that reaches out toward the throne of God and takes hold of verities that the mind can not grasp." The most exalted meaning of the gospel to Elder Callis is to love the Lord with all our souls, and then a consideration of our fellowmen with the same character of love. He has never been known to falter in his efforts to impress his fellowmen with the saving graces of the Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. Eternal life is, and always has been his goal, and the passion of his life has been to proclaim this mighty truth to all the world. ELDER CALLIS has impressed every missionary that has labored under his presidency with the thought that, "the path of truth, 662 higher living, truer development in every phase of life is never shut from the individual until he closes it himself." He would have every missionary feel the power of this statement; have him make it a great faith, a real and living factor in his life so that there would be no limits to his progress. The sincerity with which he conveyed this truth was ever impressive and went to the heart of the individual. He would have them think, and pray, and work. The missionaries love and respect Elder Callis and will feel highly | honored in his elevation to the exalted position that has come to him, not alone because of their love for him, but because of his great ability and worthiness. Perhaps it is proper to say that no Mission President was ever more loved by the elders and lady missionaries than President Callis. It is a high tribute to any man who places his expectations of reward on a solid foundation of service rendered and who is willing to pay the price of success in honest effort. And this is exactly what Elder Callis has always done. The poise and power with which he has moved among the people of the south will be the same power with which he will move among the saints at home and will be felt in all of the Stakes of Zion and wherever he travels and is known. He is greatly endowed with spiritual warmth and his ability to impart the spiritual side of the gospel will, without doubt, in spire the people everywhere to higher levels of apreciation for the saving graces of the Church. His Loyalty to a cause—the cause of the Church which he has so nobly and ably represented, is outstanding and complete in character. He has always held sacred the Authority and good name of the General Authorities of the Church, and has spoken of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE them always with appreciation and praise, realizing the great trust imposed in them by God in leading and directing His mighty work. If he were to have a Guide for the conduct of his life, it would read something like this,—"To respect and love my God, His Son Jesus Christ and His work; to uphold and sustain His authority and never permit myself to be untrue to them or the great cause they represent; to be honest and square to my fellowmen, as I expect them to be honest and true to me; to be a loyal citizen of the United States of America; to speak of it with praise, and act always as a trustworthy custodian of its good name; to be a man whose name carries weight with it wherever it goes— this is my aim." THE ministry of this good man has been aided by a fine and noble wife; both have shared the joys and great honors that have come to them. Sister Callis has nursed and mothered the missionaries as they have come to her in the mission field. She has understood their needs and has supplied them. Her apreciation for the great responsibilities that her husband carried gave to her an interpretation of life that, like her husband, was very sympathetic and real. To her "conduct, culture and character are graces that go through life hand in hand, never separate or alone," and she has more than a speaking acquaintanceship with each of these noble qualities of life. Her great weapons for the defense of truth have been humility and prayer. She has been in touch with God. And the power and light of His holy spirit has given her the light of wisdom. No man has appreciated a woman more than President Callis has his devoted wife. If he should "seek to touch the greatness of this MRS. GRACE PACK CALLIS fine woman, he would lay his hand upon her heart." To him, she has been all that could have been asked; she has not only been virtuous, but virtue itself. As she has been with him in the ministry abroad, she will be with him in his new and exalted calling and march on with him in the ministry of God throughout Zion— a strength and an inspiration. ELDER CALLIS has been a great soldier of righteousness, true to God and a fragrance in the path he has traveled. He loves the beautiful in human life and in the great creations of God. He is tolerant to those who do not share the same beliefs as he does. He has a keen sense of humor and is always ready to listen to a good wholesome story, and, at the same time, is ready to tell one. He is very charitable to all and will take time to listen to their stories and troubles. He never sees failure, "because the golden sun of ambition is always shining in his face, blinding his eyes to the impossibilities. He doesn't heed the warnings of discouragements, because higher and clearer than the little noises of the little people he hears the call of suc+ cess. He must be what he is. He's filled with the mightiest message given to man—he has been touched with the God-Spark that blazes into achievement." He is a man of God, a lovable companion, a true friend worthy the confidence of all. He comes into the Apostleship of the Church with the blessings of a grateful people. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon THE thrifty housewife fears not winter's advent for her home is stored with summer's gifts. MRS: ISABELLA GREENWAY of Tuscon is the first woman elected to Congress in Arizona. She is the widow of General Greenway, a "Rough Rider" in the Spanish-American war. Miss MARY WARD is now Boston's immigration commissioner. MRS. JEANETTE A. HYDE, 8 years Collector of Customs at the Port of Honolulu, has returned to her home in Utah. MISS DORIS W. BRADWAY, Mayor of Wildwood, New Jersey, is the first woman mayor in that state. Mrs MARY ANDERSON of the labor department is working against differentials in industrial codes. The woman's bureau of the N. R. A. Claims the same minimum wage rates for men and women. GECRETARY PERKINS | says "We cannot stop with the present minimum wages and maximum hours of labor." She also sees a new conciousness toward child labor. The Child Labor amendment has gained during 1933. Since last April, 9 states have ratified, making a total of 15. WILHELMINA of the Netherlands, today the only woman ruler in the civilized world, celebrated her 43rd anniversary as Queen last summer, amid much rejoicing. She is much beloved by her subjects for her simple dignity and wisdom. OROTHEA BAIRD, the original Trilby in Sir Herbert Grier's first production of the famous play in 1895 died this fall in London. Sne was noted for her beauty and musical voice and the charm and intelligence she brought to her many roles. RENEE ADOREE of the films died last month. Her greatest part was "Melisande" in The Big Parade, though she was also popular in "The Cossacks," "La Boheme," "The Exquisite Sinner," "The Tide of Empire" and other fine films. MRS. ANNIE BESANT, world famous Theosophist leader, familiarly known as the grand old lady of India, died recently at Madras, India. MISS STREETER ALDRICH has produced another best seller, "Miss Bishop." The new book is the self sacrificing story of a school teacher, amusing and pathetic but lacks the fine artistry of "A Lantern in Her Hand" or "A White Bird Flying." MRS E. M. DELAFIELDS "Provincial" Ladies, whether in London or Philadelphia, certainly makes one ''see ourselves as ithers see us" and provokes much introspection. MARY R. BEARD'S book "America Through Women's Eyes" is an edited combination of diaries and articles by women covering a period of 300 years and puts a new or different phase on much of history. It is seen from the feminine view point. Rebirth (Third Honorable Mention in the Eliza R. Snow Contest of 1932) By Miriam Jeanne Warnick Wright (To Albert Shepherd) Prisoned to plodding actualities I strayed Into a concert hall, So many there I felt I might be lost Entirely, And closed my eyes; Your music poured in strains That laid soft fingers On my troubled pulse, My eyes looked up, My hands unclasped, The music lured me Just a little Past myself; And then I knew A stretch of hope, The center of me stirred, A challenge! And my spirit floated out Upon your notes of promise— I was freed! My spirit played, It danced, it laughed At the imprisonment It knew Before I entered; Then solemnity, 'A purpose held me, A. Pure pondering Before a wonder strangely found; I was swept into possibility, And by a strength supreme Lifted beyond Into a newer seli— I lived a miracle! Recaptured for the spirit's sweet resolve, In reverence And ecstacy I knew This was the spirit's actuality! Reorganizations APPOINTED DATE STAKE RELEASED PRESIDENT Aug. 1933 Bear Lake Eliza B. Cook Hazel Shepherd June " Boise Mary C. Martineau Mabel S. Nokes June" Burley Luella Wright Dora Pickett Aug, " Garfield Ida H. Steed Esther B. Mathews July " Lethbridge Mildred C. Harvey Ida Wood July " Logan Bessie G. Ballard Ada E. Morrell Aug. " Pocatello Martha E. PugmireVera R. Horsfall Sept. " St. George Josephine J. Miles Juanita Brooks June " Star Valley Kittie D. Burton Pearl B. Holbrook July " Taylor Julia E. Ririe Allie R. Jensen Eastern States European MISSIONS Alice D. Moyle. Leah D. Widtsoe Grace S. Colton Mrs. Jos. F. Merrill Priesthood and Womanhood By Leah D. Widtsoe UESTIONS numbers six and seven, regarding man's possible arrogance or lack of chivalry, may be answered together by saying that a man's attitude to woman depends largely upon the mother who trained him in youth and the women who have most influenced his life. True, IT father's attitude to mother influences. The growing lad, but some woman trained father! If boys are brought up to a full realization of the importance of motherhood and its power for human good or ill they will naturally reverence every potential mother and wish to guard her powers. So thata chivalry deeper and truer than merely polished manners will be felt by men who exercise righteously their Priesthood. A proof of this statement is the fact that the men of this Church granted woman her religious and civic independence without her even having to ask for it. No other group of men on earth have done that! In some cases women have had to fight and suffer imprisonment for just those privileges that were granted women of this Church as their inalienable right. However, the training for true chivalry as evidenced by an outward respect and true courtesy should be given every lad in his home. Girls must be trained to merit and reciprocate that courtesy. The right attitude of the sexes toward each other depends fundamentally upon home training, and woman strikes the key" note of the home. QUESTION number eight implies that the women of this Church may have an "inferiority complex" but it has not been made evident. However, it is often asked and may be answered only by each woman individually. The general reply would be that if woman sensed fully the full scope of her power for human progress or retrogression there would be danger of her having a "superiority complex." or there is no greater power on earth than Motherhood! A knowledge of its full scope and possibility should make women feel neither inferior nor superior but truly humble, and willing to learn that they may exercise that power increasingly for the improvement and uplift of mankind. If they will but grasp the full meaning of their privileges they will have no time and less inclination to feel themselves either inferior or superior but will be happy and joyously content to do their share toward making their own little world a better place in which to live. AS to the next question, which concerns the home life of the people of this Church, the answer is conclusive. The homes of today, as of the past, in which the Priesthood is held and exercised by the fathers and sons and honored by the mothers and daughters are the ones where, almost without exception, peace and mutual understanding make life a continuous round of progressive accomplishment and joy for all. This condition is so general that it may be given as arule. Exceptions there may be, but they are extremely rare. The rule is so general, in fact, that it should be taken by the women and girls of today as a guide for future success in home PRIESTHOOD AND WOMANHOOD building. If you would have a truly happy home in which children may be nurtured for future progress, then do your full share to this end but in addition encourage your menfolk to honor and exercise their Priesthood. It is in reality a key that may unlock the door of joy and accomplishment so that all may progress together. Here it must be understood that girls and women should participate in those Church auxiliaries that fit their age and capacity for they were designed to prepare women to study, learn, and progress toward the ideal of Eternal Motherhood as the exercise of the Priesthood causes man to reach upward toward his Father in Heaven. It should be understood also that all official acts performed by men or women in the Church auxiliaries or in Temple ceremonies are performed by certain powers being delegated by the Priesthood— those who have the right to direct these activities. So that women officially appointed do exercise on their own behalf a measure of that delegated Power or Priesthood; this is done always under the authority of those who directly hold the Priesthood. THE next question, that of possible sex-rivalry, concerns deeply the women of this Church for therein may they be able to set an example to all the world. When the Priesthood is understood and exercised righteously there can be no "sex antagonism"—it is impossible. Let some of our leaders of the past express themselves on this subject: On one occasion Brigham Young said, 'We have sisters here who, if they had the privilege of studying, would make just as good mathematicians or accountants as any man; and we think they ought 667 to have the privilege to study these branches of knowledge that they may develop the powers with which they are endowed. We believe that women are useful, not only to sweep houses, wash dishes, make beds, and raise babies, but that they should stand behind the counter, study law or physics, or become good bookkeepers and be able to do the business in any counting house, and all this to enlarge their sphere of usefulness for the benefit of society at large. In following these things they but answer the design of their creation." On another occasion he said, "Now, sisters, I want you to vote, because you are the characters that rule the ballot box." Again, "Every man or woman that has talent and hides it will be called a slothful servant. Improve day by day upon the capital you have. In proportion as we afe Capacitated to receive, so it is our duty to do. Go to school and study, have the girls go, and teach them chemistry, so that they can take any of these rocks and analyze them. The sciences can be learned without much difficulty. I want to have schools to entertain the minds of the people and draw them out to learn the arts and sciences." A later prophet, our beloved Joseph F. Smith has said, '"Motherhood lies at the foundation of happiness in the home, and of prosperity in the nation. God has laid upon men and women very sacred obligations with respect to motherhood,. And they are obligations that cannot be disregarded without invoking divine displeasure. The word and the law of God are as important for women who would reach wise conclusions as they are for men; and women should study and consider the problems of this great latter-day work from the standpoint of God's 668 revelations, and as they may be actuated by His Spirit, which it is their right to receive through the medium of sincere and heartfelt prayer. If there is any man who ought to merit the curse of Almighty God it is the man who neglects the mother of his child, the wife of his bosom, the one who has made sacrifice of her very life, over and over again, for him and his children. That is, of course, assuming that the wife is a pure and faithful mother and wife. I have often said, and will repeat it, that the love of a true mother comes nearer being like the love of God than any other kind of love. The father may love his children, too; and next to the love that the mother feels for her child, unquestionably and rightfully, too, comes the love that the father feels for his child. There are people fond of saying that women are the weaker vessels. I don't believe it. Physically, they may be; but spiritually, morally, religiously and in faith, what man can match a woman who is really convinced? Daniel had faith to sustain him in the lion's den, but women have seen their sons torn limb from limb, and endured every torture satanic cruelty could invent, because they believed. They are always more willing to make sacrifices, and are the peers of men in stability, Godliness, morality and faith. No man will ever enter heaven until he has consummated his mission; for we have come here to be conformed to the likeness of God. He made us in the beginning in His own image and in His own likeness, and He made us male and female." When men, our leaders, express such sentiments regarding women one must know that such a feeling as sex-jealousy is set aside. Individual exceptions may occur but that proves nothing. If women are expected to exercise all their faculties and magnify every gift they may RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE possess, and that without any feeling of prejudice; if men and women admittedly stand equal before the bar of man's and God's judgment, then what more is there to be desired—and of what may either one be jealous? Indeed a woman who would sacrifice the greatest of all earth professions, that of Motherhood which is hers by right of sex, for the senseless reason of proving that she could do a man's work as well as any man, or for any other reason, is something less than a true woman and is to be pitied as well as condemned. While on the other hand it is but a small and puny-souled man who could wish to humiliate woman as a class and keep her as the inferior sex. For men can never rise superior to the women who bear and nurture them. The man who fears the dominance of woman or suspects that she is now attempting to take revenge on man for the centuries that her sex has been held in thralldom before the law—such a man admits his own inferiority, and condemns his own beginnings. WHEN women are recognized as the equals and partners of men in the good game of life and given the privilege of traveling side by side with them while sharing equally the load, they will be more than willing to accord man the presidency of all domestic councils, and will always look up to him as a leader —when, only when, he is a worthy leader. The history of family life in this Church is ample proof of that statement. The normal woman is glad to be led—in righteousness; she craves the companionship of a man, a real man; one whom she may honor and respect and on whose wise judgment she may lean. There are times when a man desires the same support from a good wife. So that PRIESTHOOD AND WOMANHOOD in the last analysis, life to be complete must be shared by well matched "team-mates" each one carrying a full share of the load, but with a comfortable understanding that man is the leader for his is the final responsibility for family integrity. When this relation is understood and practiced there can be no room for sex-rivalry; it is just crowded out of the picture. HERE the thinking woman may remark, "All this is very well, if all men were righteous and natural leaders and if all women were rather shrinking by nature and glad to lean on someone and be led. But what about the countless cases where unquestionably women possess greater powers of leadership than their husbands or where the husband is unable to lead or even provide for himself to say nothing of the family?" It is undeniable that there are weak men as well as weak women, and it is equally true that such men are often attracted by and marry strong capable women and visa versa. What then 4 Brigham Young partly answered the question when he said on one occasion, "I have counseled every woman of this church to let her husband be her file leader; he leads her and those above him in the Priesthood lead him. But I never counseled a woman to follow her husband to hell!" Families in such cases must make their own adjustments. The wise woman, however, will place her motherhood above every claim and not allow it to become secondary to anything. The wise man will accept the situation and be content to be the titular head of the family only, giving his best so far as his capacity allows. If a man is vicious or unwilling to do right that brings in another 669 factor which is not within the scope of this discussion. Women are weak and fall into error, too, but that is another question. In the Church, however, it is different. There, no adjustment can be made. The Priesthood always presides and must, for the sake of order. Some of the women of a congregation or an auxiliary organization may be wiser, even greater in mental power, or in actual power of leadership than the men who preside over them. That signifies nothing. The Priesthood is not bestowed on that basis but is given to good men and they exercise it by right of divine gift as they are called by those who have authority so to do. However, woman has her gift of equal magnitude also. Sex enters here and is indisputable. It is eternal—so why quarrel with it? A wiser Power than any on earth understands why a spirit in the far off beginning was male or female. On earth there is waiting work for each to do. The important thing to consider here is that there is scope in this Church for every woman to exercise all her greatest powers and talents. If she is a natural leader then in her own field she may demonstrate and use her powers to the utmost. No one could or would hold her back. NEVER in history have women enjoyed the freedom of thought and action accorded the women of this Church. In the Temple and sacred buildings of the past women were not permitted to enter beyond the outer court. In the Jewish Synagogues to this day women are not permitted to worship with the men; they are separated by a distinct wall or barrier. While in the Temples of the restored Gospel a 670 man may not partake of the highest ordinances without his wife and in life pursuits she is given her entire independence. This gives to woman a mighty responsibility which if she honors and uses will be increased in power upon her; but if she ignores it or treats it lightly or fails to magnify it she may lose that which she now possesses and thereby forfeit her birthright. For this great privilege women in this Church should be eternally grateful and willing to use and cherish this precious and priceless relationship. Where much is given, much is expected. A final question may be asked: "With the restoration of the Gospel in its fulness, all righteous men of this Church were given the right to hold the Priesthood—a privilege unknown for ages and not shared by men outside this Church. No commensurate gift was bestowed on the women, for motherhood is a universal gift for woman in every age, the heathen and degraded, as for the women of the Church. Where is the justice?" The answer to this question summarizes the entire discussion. Indeed the women of this Church are equally honored, for they share with father or husband all the resultant privileges and blessings of Priesthood. "Neither is the man without the woman nor the woman without the man in the Lord." Exaltation is impossible for man alone. The full understanding of this privilege should sober every woman in this Church and cause her to pause when RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE any temptation to worldliness or weakness comes her way. She may be a real support and inspiration to one who literally holds a measure of authority to act. For God on earth; or she may be the opposite. Which shall it be? She surely has a privilege not shared by women outside of this Church. Indeed, hers is the gift supreme: to be the mother and guide of priests and men of God! Hers is the privilege of teaching the lad to honor or despise the great gift which awaits him; she it is who implants his desire to honor or disregard his sacred calling. As the girl grows she retains the same privilege: as sister, sweetheart, or wife she may ridicule and taunt or encourage and bless the lad or man who is to hold this sacred power. So who may decide as to the greater gift? HE womanhood of modern Israel have a joyous responsibility. They must never lose sight of their greatest privilege—to be the mothers and companions, hence the inspiration, of righteous men who hold the Holy Priesthood. They must ever hold to the ideal of the Mother of the Gracchi: while scorning the wiles and temptations of the world they must gather round their own or potential children with the joyous thought "These are my jewels!' When woman understands her full and complete power for building righteousness on earth she will sense that the gift of motherhood direct or vicarious is the greatest of all gifts and will be forced to exclaim "My cup is full; I cannot ask for more!" Do you want to know how to obtain temporal salvation? Not only the Latter-day Saints, but all the world would have the solution of that problem if there were no tea, coffee, liquor nor tobacco used in the world. Peace, prosperity, and happiness would come to the entire world. —President Heber J. Grant. "Judge Not' By Marguerite Johnson Griffin MISTER GIBSON turned her weary steps in at a little rosetwined gate which beckoned invitingly to a cheery white cottage beyond. She was coming in the capacity of Relief Society Teacher. Her companion was very ill, and, as the ward was small and workers few, she was covering her district alone. The day was warm, and as she stood upon the small porch ringing the bell she brushed a stray lock from her moist brow and lifted her flushed face to a cool breeze made fragrant by myriads of brightly blooming flowers. Soon a young woman, looking cool and crisp in a dainty housedress, met her with a welcoming smile, and at her invitation Sister Gibson gladly relaxed in a deep cozy chair. "And how are you and your husband, Sister Cook?" she began. The younger woman's radiant face and sparkling eyes bespoke the, happiness which they had found in their few short months of marriage. Then Sister Gibson cleverly maneuvered the conversation from the preliminary common-places and presented many of the beautiful thoughts suggested by that month's Teachers' Topic, and almost before she knew it, the time had been spent and she felt she must go. "I have just one more call to make this warm afternoon," she said. "By the way, it's to Sister Woods', a few blocks down this street. Do you know her? I have called there several times, but I have never yet found her home," A faint shadow of scorn crossed Martha Cook's face. "Oh, yes. I know her. That is, not very well. I don't know as I would particularly care to. She works. I guess that is why you have never found her home. She is having her vacation now, though, so you might find her today." "I hope so," returned the other kindly. "I don't believe I have ever met her." "No? Well, she is a widow, you know. Her husband died less than a year ago, and he was hardly cold in his grave before she was going about wherever she pleased and all dressed up fit to kill. While he was living she just went around in home-made things, and never looked very nice." Sister Gibson was feeling very uncomfortable. The least bit of gossip always distressed her, and her own home-made dress made her feel ill-at-ease. "Lots of times a limited budget makes it necessary for a woman to do her own sewing, especially if there are several children," she returned gently. "And you know, somewhere in the Doctrine and Covenants it says something about letting the "beauty of your garments be the work of your own hands." "Oh, that is all very true," returned Sister Cook. "I admire anyone who can sew, but honestly she didn't have a new dress once a year, I don't believe. Of course, she has three children, but then—He must not have been very good to her or 672 she would have grieved more, don't you think?" "People grieve in different ways. Some weep with their eyes, some with their hearts. Lots of times we are too quick to judge from appearances." "Yes, I know," said the younger woman with a hint of bitter prejudice in her voice. "But she must have married so young. She is scarcely older than I, and has three children. So I'm sure she must not have loved her husband so very much, for since he has been dead she is better dressed and looks years younger. I knowif I should lose my husband—" and her face softened with the blush of young love—"I'd just die." "No, you wouldn't," returned the older woman softly. "We have to just keep living on, and no matter how our hearts ache we have to accept the lessons in life that come to us, with faith in our Heavenly Father Who knows what's best. Now I must be running on." "T always enjoy your visits so much, Sister Gibson, and I'll be looking for you again next month." ONCE outside, the Relief Society Teacher was now oblivious to the blinding sun whose white heat glared up at her from the hot sidewalks. The latter part of her visit with Sister Cook had placed her in a turmoil. Gossip always did. Perhaps all she had said about Sister Woods was true. Perhaps she had married too young, and had mistaken infatuation for true love. Perhaps her husband had been stingy with her. Perhaps she was happier, more care-free, now that she was' alone. But even so, what good did it do to pass on such bitter thoughts to anyone, even if they were true? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE And on the other hand, what proof does anyone ever have that their critical judgments of another's heart are true* The Master said, "Judge not," and His counsels are always wise. Hardly before she knew it, Sister Gibson was at the humble little home of Sister Woods. Yes, she was home today, for the door was open, the busy whir of a sewing machine greeted her ears, and soon the little widow herself was smiling at her, inviting her to come in. It was very true. Sister Woods, the widow, was very little older than Sister Cook, the recent bride, but Sister Gibson could read things in the little mother's face which the younger woman, with her lack of knowledge and experience, could not. There was a wistfulness about the deep grey eyes which told of a heart that suffered. There was a firmness about the mouth which bespoke determination to face life and provide for her children. There was a little upward tilt to the head which bespoke a depth of courage to carry on. Sister Gibson felt something tighten in her throat as she read the heroism marked in that little wan face, and before long the younger woman was pouring forth some of the things which she had kept bound up in her heart for so long. "It's hard to understand why he had to go," she was saying, while her eyes misted but did not overflow because of the strength of determination evidenced. "We were always so happy. Oh, we didn't have much to get along with, but we managed to pay for our home, such as it is. And we always met our bills, because we planned for them. It's been very lonely without him." Her eyes looked far away, and JUDGE NOT Sister Gibson could find no words to express what she felt in her heart. The little widow turned back to her and smiled. "T don't believe it's so bad right at first. You go numb, somehow, from the shock of it all, and so many cluster around you to help you, to think for you. People are kind. You do not feel so all alone then. But it's afterward, when it's all over and you have to go on living, and trying to find some way of earning a living, with only failures to confront you. But I can't complain. It was only a few months until I found this job, even if it did seem like eternities. But I'm boring you with my troubles,' she ended abruptly. "Not at all," returned Sister Gibson. "One needs to let things out once in a while. It isn't good to keep them bottled up too long at a time." "That's sweet of you," returned the other appreciatively. "But I do this very seldom, for I always think everybody has enough troubles of their own. You don't know how I've enjoyed your coming today. 1 feel better already." "Tm afraid I have interrupted your sewing." "Oh, no.I’ll have plenty of time for that. I am spending my two weeks' vacation sewing. Working, you know, I have to keep dressed up all the time, and it takes an awful lot of dresses. If I watch bargains I can get them for me almost as cheap as making them, and then when I wear them out I make them over for the little girls." "How old are your children?" "Jean is nine, and such a little help. I don't know what I'd do without her. Then Alice is seven, and Billy not quite five. The lady next door takes care of him while the girls are in school, and then they 673 look out for him after that. We get along quite well, you see," and she smiled bravely. "You are a heroic little mother, Sister Woods, and you have been a great inspiration to me." And for that little fatherless household, Sister Gibson's heart swelled with the sincere and humble prayer of the Relief Society Teacher. "Peace be to this house." N the year that followed she faithfully visited her district, month by month, sometimes with one companion, sometimes another, and sometimes alone. She had no further visit with Sister Woods, for her work kept her away from home, but quite often coming later in the afternoon, she would find the children there with Jean getting things ready for Mother's supper. So, for them, things were going along in the same old way, just a matter of living, learning, and carrying on. Her visits with Sister Cook were perhaps more eventful, first being colored by the young woman's glowing anticipation of the coming of her first baby and her eagerness in displaying this new little dress she had made, or this dainty little sweater some friend had given her. And at last had come the glorious fulfillment of those months of bright hopes in the birth of a tiny son, and then— disappointment, as the little life flickered for only a few days and was taken on the wings of Death back to the God who gave it.. Following this the Relief Society Teacher's visits were subdued and saddened by the countenance of the pale little woman who seemed crushed to such an extent that she did not get well fast enough, and for nearly four months Sister Gibson, seemingly powerless to say or do anything to help her, watched her pine and brood and suffer, 674 At length on one hot summer day, while she and her companion were making their call, Sister Cook, reclining on her couch, saw Sister Woods coming up her front walk. "Well of all things!" she said petulantly. "What's she coming here for? I wish she wouldn't. She doesn't know what it means to suffer." Sister Gibson found time to pat the younger woman's thin white hand and say, "Be nice to her, I'm sure she means well." And then the little widow woman stood before them. "I hope I'm not intruding, but this is the only time I could come." She seated herself by the young woman on the couch and impulsively took her cold hand in hers. "I just had to come," she said simply. "I thought perhaps the lesson I have learned might help you get a grip upon yourself and ° get well and strong again. For if you regain your health, then some day you can have another baby. Of course, you will never have one that will take the place of this one you have lost, but others will bring you happiness, and after all—you still have your husband." Her voice broke slightly and Sister Cook's eyes, now opened by her own suffering could see that the little Widow's face was drawn and white, could understand that what she was saying was tearing open again the raw ache within her heart. "You know," went on Sister Woods, while the firmness of her chin forced her voice to be steady, "no matter how we fight against the things fortune sends us we cannot change them, we cannot bring our loved ones back. Why fight, then? It is a waste of effort that devastates our bodies and makes all those RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE around us, who have a right to happiness, unhappy on our account. No matter how hard it is to do, it is better to try to become reconciled, and to appreciate the things we have left to us. You have your husband, I—I have my children. Some day you will have other children. I know it's hard to do. It's hard to smile when your heart is breaking, and there are times when you're all alone that all the old ache will come back and for the moment, perhaps, you will have to give way. But God is good, and to those who really try to submit to His will without bitterness in their hearts, He gives added strength and helps them take up their crosses. I know." 'Abruptly she arose, kissed the other woman on the brow with lips that were hot with anguish, and then she left. AFTER she was gone Sister Cook at last found her voice, and the whole torrent of her soul's regret mellowed every word. "How blind I've been! She has been brave. She has not wasted her time with useless grief, but has fought it back and made her little family as happy as possible. She has not allowed her sorrow to obsess her, while I— Oh, I've been a coward. My lot is not as hard as hers, and how I've misjudged her all this time." Once outside, Sister Gibson's heart rejoiced for she knew that the little widow's seeds of courage had been planted in fertile soil, and again her thoughts were busy as she went her way. She mused on how close to the living, pulsing, throbbing things of life the Relief Society Teacher comes. Close, not only to joys but heart-aches as well. And what a responsibility is concealed in her humble task! "For just think!" mused Sister Gibson. "If I had carried that bit of gossip from Sister Cook to Sister Woods, I would have embittered the heart of the very one in whom JUDGE NOT 675 she was to find the message of comfort, courage, and the ability to carry on. Indeed the Master knew what "we needed when He said, 'Judge 999 not. Accessories for the Thanksgiving Dinner By Lucy Rose Middleton AST year we described and gave recipes for a_ typical Thanksgiving dinner. The disnes chosen were of American origin as befits this day which is so closely connected in our minds with the arrival of the Puritans at Plymouth in 1620. This year we will not repeat from start to finish the details of a full Thanksgiving dinner, for the basis of the meal is likely to vary little from year to year. It is the accessories or "trimmings" of the dinner which are best calculated to-add dis- - tinction and grace to the result. Some of the following suggestions may help you to add the touch which distinguishes the elegant and artistic from the commonplace: Cranberry Cocktail Cook 1 quart of cranberries in 1 quart boiling water until berries pop open. Strain through a cheese cloth bag. Do not press the fruit as that tends to make liquid cloudy. To the juice add 1 tablespoon lemon juice, few grains of salt, and 3/4 cup sugar. Return to the fire and bring to a boil. Serve cold in cocktail glasess. Garnish with lemon slice. Frozen Fruit Cocktail 1 cup orange juice 1 cup grapefruit juice 1 cup apricot juice 1 cup water 1 Cup orange pieces 1 cup apricots 1 cup grapefruit 1 cup sugar Boil the sugar and water together for 5 minutes. Cool and add the fruit juices. Freeze to a mush and mix the fruit cut in small pieces. Serve in cocktail glasses and garnish with mint. Stuffed Onions Cook 6 onions in boiling salt water until tender, drain, and let cool. Remove the centers of each, being careful not to break the outside layers. Saute 3 finely chopped mushrooms in melted butter, add 11/2 cup bread crumbs, the pulp removed from the center of the onions, a few grains of salt and pepper, 1 teaspoon melted butter and enough cream to bind the ingredients together. Use this mixture to fill the centers of the onions. Bake ina buttered baking dish in a 350 degree oven until tender, about 20 minutes. Baste several times with melted butter in hot water. If a mild flavored onion is desired, change the water once or twice. Place a roasted turkey on a platter. And surround it with the stuffed onions. Oyster Stuffing for Roast Turkey 3 cups bread crumbs Y cup melted butter 1 teaspon salt 4 teaspoon pepper 1 small chopped onion 676 2 cups chopped celery 1 pint oysters Mix the bread crumbs, oysters, and melted butter and seasoning. Add enough of the oyster liquor to soften the dressing. For a large turkey this amount would have to be doubled. Harvest Salad 1 cup boiled salad dressing 1 cup creamed cheese 1 cup cream, beaten stiff 1 tablespoon gelatin Y% cup almonds, chopped 1 small can shredded pineapple ½ cup maraschino cherries 1/2 cup green grapes 1/2 cup diced apples 1/2 cup diced celery Mix the creamed cheese with the salad dressing and the whipped cream. Soak the gelatin in 1/4 cup cold water for 5 minutes, then dissolve over hot water. Add to the shredded pineapple. Set in a cool place until the mixture begins to thicken, then add the fruits, celery and nuts. Mold. Serve on lettuce and top with salad dressing and paprika. Orange and Grapefruit Salad Peel, section, and remove membrane from oranges and grapefruit. Shred pimento and break pecans. Place on crisp Romaine lettuce and serve with fruit French dressing. Fruit French Dressing Y, cup salad oil 3 tablespons lemon juice 1 tablespoon orange juice RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 1 tablespoon grapefruit juice Dash of paprika 1/4 teaspoon salt Mix all together and shake in - fruit jar before serving on fruit salad. Carrot Pudding 2 cups flour 1 cup suet chopped fine 11/2 cups brown sugar 2 cups bread crumbs 2 eggs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon cloves 1 cup carrots, ground 1 cup currants 1 cup raisins 1 cup almonds 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon nutmeg 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 1 tablespoon warm water Sift the spices and flour together and add the suet, crumbs, sugar, carrots and beaten eggs. Mix the raisins, currants, almonds together and add to the batter. Add the soda dissolved in the warm water last. Put into well buttered cans and steam for 3 hours. Serve with Sterling sauce. Sterling Sauce Y% cup butter 1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 4 tablespoons lukewarm milk or cream Cream butter and mix with sugar gradually. Then add milk (or cream) and flavoring drop by drop to prevent separation. Hearts Intwined Minerva V. Dutson I am happy when you're happy, I am glad when you are glad, I am lonely when you're lonely, I am sad when you are sad. T am loving when you're loving, I am blue when you are blue, I am pleasant when you're pleasant, I am true when you are true. I am thankful when you're thankful, I am kind when you are kind, I am cheerful when you're cheerful, In your soul my heart's intwined. November By Anme Wells Cannon In majesty the bare trees stand Silent, grim and grey. Their summer garb around their feet In dry brown clusters lay. Beneath the leaves, the flowers sleep, Nature's covering rare The naked trees their vigils keep Like holy prayer. Sweet the music of the rustling leaves Whirled along the way; Stark the beauty of the naked trees Silent, grim and grey. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD. MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND: - President First Counselor: Second Counselor Geteral Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A, Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs, Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs, Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VoL. XX NOVEMBER, 1933 No. 11 EDITORIAL Two October Conferences THE October Relief Society Conference, which featured our class work, was most helpful to our. Class leaders. The attendance was large, the interest keen, the spirit beautiful. It is a great pleasure to meet our Sisters in these gatherings and to realize their great love for the work and their eagerness to gain all possible help. THE 104th Semi-annual Conference of the Church was outstanding in several ways. The speakers outdid themselves. The instructions were timely and so forceful that no one could mistake their purport. Two vacancies were filled, Elder Charles A. Callis was sustained as a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, Elder John H. Taylor was placed in the Frst Council of Seventy. These two men come to their new positions qualified by life-long devotion to render most valuable service to the Church. They have both been ardent workers in the Mutual Improvement Association and have had wide and long experience in the Mission Field. Elder Callis has labored in England, presided over the Irish Conference and for 27 years has worked in the Southern States, over 25 years of that time presiding over the Mission. Eider Taylor has performed two Missions in Europe and has presided over the Northern States Mission. Brother Callis showed that he had the spirit of his calling when he said, "I desire to spend and to be spent in your service. In speaking at the Conference, Brother Taylor paid beautiful tribute to his Mother and his wife, expressing his gratitude for their goodness and saying that whatever he had done had been 'helped and encouraged by these two good women. May every blessing attend these brethren in their ministry. Editor Manager Assistant Manager Mary Connelly KIMBALL Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman EDITORIAL 679 Elder B. H. Roberts Called Home MOST colorful life closed when Elder B. H. Roberts passed away September 27, 1933. His boyhood was hard. His life was a continuous struggle. He showed what an intrepid spirit can accomplish, spite of odds. Who would think that this eminent writer and cultured man had had no school advantages in his boyhood? In his young manhood, so eager was he for learning, that he would walk back and forth from his home in Centerville to Salt Lake to attend school. He studied until he became one of the most noted theologians in the Church. He had an insatiable hunger for knowledge. Ulysses-like, he was ever striving, seeking, and finding truth. In his long life he experienced much. His books on Church doctrine and his extensive histories of the Church will ever be a most valuable source of information to students and will make his name live among generations yet unborn. Opening of Our Season GAIN our season's meetings have opened with joy and increased attendance. We note with pleasure the earnest efforts that are being' put forth to get a large attendance of young Mothers. The organization offers a_ delightful change in their routine and gives them wonderful help in the care and training of their children. More organizations will have Kindergartens to care for the little folks, while their Mothers are in meeting this year than ever before. Read the Doctrine and Covenants "Search the Scriptures" "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom" —Dotctrine and Covenants 88:118 E do not remember a Conference when so many quotations from the Doctrine and Covenants were read and dwelt upon. Beautiful, strong, soul satisfying, they inspire to better life. All women would do well to re-read the Doctrine and Covenants this Winter Our Song Contest WE are very sorry to announce that no song that was entered in the Contest was judged worthy of the prize, and that all had to be returned. While the Contest is closed, we do hope that someone will get the inspiration to write a song that shall be worthy of this great Organization. 680 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Changes in Mission Presidents FLLDER SAMUEL O. BENNION has been relieved from his duties as President of the Central States Mission to return home, and Elder Elias S. Woodruff has been appointed to succeed him. Elder Joseph J. Daynes has been appointed to preside over the Western States Mission and Elder LeGrand Richards to preside over the Southern States Mission. These brethren have had long experience in Church work and will be valued wherever they are are placed. May they be made equal to their task and may the work grow under their ministry. Just as Good By Estelle Webb Thomas NATION-WIDE advertising and propaganda have made us wary of substitution in trade. The housewife is rare, nowadays, who does not buy by brand when marketing or shopping. She knows what she wants and will mot be satisfied with something "just as good." But are we all so careful in the more subtle things of life? Most of us started out with a pretty well-defined idea of what we wanted from life. We had built up in our minds certain standards and ideals and had no intention of falling short of them. But the great majority of us have found the price too great. We have weakly left off striving for the really worth-while things and accepted cheap imitations comforting ourselves with the fallacy that the spurious pleasures we have substituted for the real happiness we might have earned are "just as good." There is no substitute for honest labor, clean living, right thinking, square dealing. These things bring their own reward, and those who have "grown old in righteousness" will tell you there is nothing "just as good" as a faithful adherence to the old-fashioned virtues. Let me promise you right here and now that if you vote for the repeal 6f the Eighteenth Amendment, there will be a great many more professing Latter-day Saints who will be drunkards than there have been while the Eighteenth Amendment has been in force—President Heber J. Grant. Full Measure By Marba C. Josephson My neighbor's yard is neat and trim; And spotless is her house within. Her dress is never, never soiled; Her hair and face are never roiled. Do I, you ask, then envy her? Nay, in my neart does pity stir That she who has a mother's eyes Can never know such Paradise. No sticky lips to hers are pressed In mother's joyous blessedness; No dirty arms around her thrown To leave love spots upon her gown. Oh, never, never would I choose Her lot to have and mine to lose— I've seen the nunger in her soul;— My heart is as a brimming bowl. Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in January ) Tue Word of WISDOM 1. Its Origin. The Word of Wisdom was received early in the history of the Church, indeed scarcely three years after its organization, at a time, February 27, 1833, when the Saints were living principally in Ohio and Missouri. The Prophet himself was residing at Kirtland in a house owned by Bishop Whitney. 2. One month earlier, a revelation was received by Joseph commanding him to organize the School of the Prophets in which the elders of the Church were to "teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom," including a knowledge "of things both in heaven and in earth, and under the earth." They were to "establish a house, even a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God." Only worthy members of the Church were to be admitted, and they were to be received by the ordinance of the washing of feet, 'for unto this end was the ordinance of the washing of feet instituted." (D. & C. 88:118-139.) 3. Already in February, 1839, the School of the Prophets was under way. The house of learning commanded by the Lord had, of course, not been completed, but a temporary meeting place had been selected in an upper room of the Prophet's residence. In this humble quarter the Prophet had done everything possible to comply with the requirements of the Lord. President Brigham Young relates, however, that occasionally when Joseph entered the room he found the air filled with tobacco smoke and the floor soiled. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, p. 705.) This, of course, occasioned the Prophet no little annoyance, since it seriously detracted from the spirit and purpose of the School. Joseph sought the Lord for guidance in this difficulty, and received the revelation known as the Word of Wisdom. 4. Principal Features. The principal features in the Word of Wisdom are too well known to require lengthy discussion. They embody a warning primarily against the use of spirituous liquors, tobacco, hot drinks, and excessive amounts of meat, the latter more particularly in hot weather. The Lord says that he gave the revelation for the temporal salvation of the Saints, "in consequence of the evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days." The revelation is also accompanied by a promise of far-reaching effect. Several of these features will be considered more fully later. 5. Scientific Standing. Considering the time at which the Word of Wisdom was given and the very limited knowledge that then existed concerning the subjects therein treated, this document alone may well be regarded as proof of the Prophet's claims to revelation. More latterly science has repeatedly proved every one of its admonitions. The use of liquor is now regarded as one of the most vexatious problems confronting civilization; and tobacco, especially 682 since its consumption has become widespread among certain classes of women, may be placed in much the same group. Tea and coffee are also known to be injurious to the body, especially to the nervous and excretory systems. The use of excessive aniounts of meat is also regarded by physicians and dieticians as conducive to various forms of ill health. 6. Thus, it is no longer necessary to adduce evidence proving the scientific accuracy of the Word of Wisdom. There is probably not a single member in the Church who is not convinced of it. Our present problem is not one of converting the Saints to the truthfulness of its claims, for this has already been done. Rather it is a problem of inducing them to do what they know to be right. Ina measure, our problem is similar to that of the antiliquor forces throughout the world. There are very few drinkers, indeed, who do not know that the habit is injurious, and yet they lack the stamina, perhaps in some cases the selfcontrol, to desist. Among the Latter-day Saints the problem concerning the Word of Wisdom is not greatly different. It is well known that the Lord had advised against the use of these substances; it is well known that this advice is supported by scientific truth; and yet there are some people among us who would rather satisfy their appetites than obey the word of God. 7. In Consequence of Evils and Designs. One hundred years ago when the Word of Wisdom was given, the liquor and tobacco interests were scarcely in their infancy. Today they form perhaps the most aggressive and powerful monopolies in the world. They are provided with wealth practically unlimited, and are apparently determined to sell their products to the public regardless RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE less of the consequence. For the past few years in America the liquor demon has been partially suppressed, but it appears that just now he is about to break forth into one of the most violent and debasing orgies of all time. Liquor interests are determined that the American people shall consume their products, and apparently there are many who are anxiously willing to do so. Tobacco interests have exhibited a similar disregard for the welfare of mankind. For many years their efforts were limited primarily to men, but more recently women have received a large part of their attention. Little regard has been exhibited for the welfare of those who use the products. A broken home, a drunken father, a wasted mother, a hungry child apparently mean nothing to liquor and tobacco trusts in comparison with their greed for gold. The Latter-day Saints have been warned and forewarned by the Lord concerning this evil, and, therefore, are left without excuse. 8. Not by Commandment or Constraint. It has been repeatedly offered as an excuse by members of the Church who disregard the Word of Wisdom, that it was not given by "commandment or constraint," but rather as the "will" of God. This excuse, however, has but _ little weight, since we are commanded to observe every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. Moreover, no one will scarcely argue that he can ignore the "will" of God with safety. Surely Deity is not, concerned with matters that are not vital to the welfare of his children. Finally, God has said that certain things are not good for man, and has promised great blessings to those who abstain from them. No Latterday Saint who understands the genius of his religion, will quibble LESSON DEPARTMENT as to whether the Word of Wisdom is a "commandment" or the "will" of God. Even a suggestion from Deity should be followed by willing and implicit obedience. The Lord does not expect his children to be commanded in all things, "for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward." (Doc. & Cov. 58:26.) 9. Promise for Obedience. Although the Lord plainly states that the Word of Wisdom is given for "the temporal salvation of the Saints," yet the reward that he mentions is distinctly dual, namely, physical, and intellectual (or spiritual.) To those who "keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments,' the Lord promises almost unlimited health and wisdom. (See verses 18-21.) It should be noted that these blessings are predicated upon compliance not only with the Word of Wisdom, but with "the commandments" as well. Moreover, it should hardly be expected, except perhaps in special cases, that obedience would be followed immediately by the entire blessing. In the first place, in his present state of development, it would be difficult, if not impossible, for man to comply fully with the commandments of God. In the second place, many of his ills are inherited and therefore not the result of his own disobedience. 10. On the other hand, there can be no doubt that compliance with the Word of Wisdom and the '"commandments" of God is followed quickly by an increase of both physical and intellectual strength. The outstanding health of the Latter-day Saints is attributed, in part at least, to this cause. Thousands of Latterday Saints bear testimony of blessings which have come to them through obedience to the Word of 'on decline. 683 Wisdom. In course of time the blessings promised by the Lord will be fully realized. It is not difficult to understand that the blessings at present received are in strict accord with the degree of compliance. 11. Latter-day Saints have certainly -not overstressed the remarkable spiritual strength derived from obedience to the Word of Wisdom. The very act of adherence to the counsel of God results in spiritual growth; whereas disobedience brings In these days it would be a rare experience, indeed, to find a breaker of the Word of Wisdom with marked spiritual acumen. 12. Self-Indulgence us. Self-Control. Self-indulgence is the act of gratifying one's own inclinations, appetites, or desires, without regard to the rights of others or the effect upon one's self. It is at once an act of encouraged weakness, destructive of ambition, and unworthy of anyone who hopes for self-mastery and success. The outstanding difference between man and the animals is the ability of the former to will and act for himself. Whenever man submits to the dictates of his passions and unrighteous appetites, he weakens and otherwise injures the very thing that makes him man. To the Latter-day Saint, who entertains ambition for endless progression, self-indulgence should be unknown. It is the antithesis of success; it is the signal of danger; it is the reverse of progress. 13. It is doubtful that many of the Latter-day Saints, for example, who gratify their appetites by the use of tea and coffee, understand the extent of the moral injury thus wrought. The will to do as one chooses is strengthened by acts of self-control and weakened by acts of self-gratification. For this reason, acts of self-indulgence, if often re- 684 peated, commonly result in general decrease of resistance to wrong. To the Latter-day Saint self-control is absolutely essential to success. Indeed, his entire religion is largely one of self-mastery—intellectual, physical, spiritual. Self-control lays at the very foundation of the development of man; without it progress is impossible. 14. Faith to Comply. It is not enough that the Word of Wisdom appeals to the reason and is supported by indisputable scientific fact; Latter-day Saints must have the faith to comply with its teachings. There are large numbers of people both within and without the Church who are thoroughly convinced of the accuracy of the Word of Wisdom, and yet they do not follow its admonitions. Themselves in things that they know to be injurious than to restrain their appetites. 15. Faith to do right is the most potent factor in overcoming evil. It is stronger than reasoning, or belief, They would rather indulge RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE or even knowledge; indeed, it exceeds them all. Without it, men weaken and fail; with it, they grow strong and succeed. It is God's greatest gift of strength to man. Latter-day Saints who are disregarding the Word of Wisdom should seek God for this priceless gift, and if they seek with a real desire, he will not turn them away. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Why is a suggestion from the Lord equally as important as a command? 2: What can you do in your community to develop faith to comply with God's "will?" 3. Why do you regard the Word of Wisdom particularly important at present? 4, In what way do the liquor and tobacco trusts fulfill the warning of the Lord? 5. Why is self-indulgence destructive of strength of character? Acme Photo Ca. OLD GRIST MILL THAT ONCE STOOD WHERE LAFAYETTE SCHOOL NOW STANDS LESSON DEPARTMENT 685 Teachers' Topic SELF EFFORT Individual soul growth and development depend upon the law of self effort. All men have received the great gift of free agency through which they merit rewards for service or punisament for disobedience. "For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things, for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward. "Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness: "For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. "But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned.' Doctrine and Covenants 58:26-29. References—Doctrine and Covenants 6:3; 6:13. Man is God's masterpiece of creation, and he should realize what a wonderful soul he possesses, and that there is need for its salvation. Man should also realize that the greatest achievements are made when he sees and feels 'nis own possibilities, and that growth and development come only by self effort. Sorrow and disappointment awaits the individual who expects to get something for nothing. We must pay nature's price. Zoroaster said: "Nature abhors and is ruthless toward those who will not help themselves." It is only through persistent effort that we build character, place ourselves beyond the destructive tendencies of life, and gain salvation. Mastery brings to the human intelligence the greatest joy and satisfaction, for it is not what we have, but what we do and what we are that is important. Could salvation come to man unless he had the inherent power to chose for himself? 2 Nepni 2:15. Covenants 29:34-35, Explain why not. The Lord requires of all men that they do all in their power to bring to pass their own salvation, and he has done, and does for man all things which are beyond the power of man to do. Why is this so? Explain the justice of God in granting to all men according to their works. See Matt. 7:24-27; 2 Cor. 5:10; Romans 2:6; Rev. 2:26. Discuss tne proverb: 'There is no excellence without labor," also, "What is worth doing is worth doing well." Lowell has written: "No man is born into the world whose work Is not born with him, there is always work, And tools withal, for those who will; And blessed are the horny hands of toil." The Savior said: "Do not be deceived, the Kingdom of God will not come by observation. The Kingdom of heaven is within you." The great goal of existence, we have learned, is to become perfect as our Father in heaven is perfect. This requires constant labor, both now and hereafter, until this perfection comes, and then. We will be prepared to go forth in the greater work of creation which will endure forever. Doctrine and 686 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Literature (Third Week in January) LIFE AND LITERATURE THE BIBLE—A RECORD OF THE LIFE AND THOUGHT OF THE ANCIENT HEBREWS "Thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory for ever." The Bible is the supreme book of religion. The sacred books of the world's religions have recorded Man's experiences as he has sought to understand the nature and purposes of God, the Creator. Man's concept of God is the noblest product of human thought. The Bible, the record of an inspired race, has for its dominant note God's grace to Man, his offspring, with the everrecurrent refrain, "Thine is the Kingdom, and the power, and the glory," running like a golden thread through every book binding all together to make it the world's greatest epic. The Bible, 'A Divine Library," is an epic of immortality. From Genesis to Revelation it has recorded the struggle of the Hebrews for national and moral integrity to merit their heritage as the chosen people of God; it records Man's struggle for individual happiness; also, God's efforts in the perfection of Man. The significance of the Bible in the modern world is expressed thus: "The Bible is not a book but a library; the product not of one mind and age but of many minds and many ages; the record not of the fixed but of the progressive revelation of God; designed not to teach nistory or science but morals and religion; whose inspiration is not verbal but personal; and whose authority rests not upon tradition, infallibility, or churchly sanction but upon its own intrinsic value as the supreme religious literature of the world." The Old Testament As A Record The Bible grew out of the life of a people never reckoned among the great nations of the world, the Hebrews. Interest in the Bible has changed with the ages. The great interest that carried it from the earliest days until the last century was the divine element it contained. Then came the critical age challenging the authenticity of dates, authors, and manuscripts. The present age is one of appreciation, the result of a new approach, of historical and literary study. The literary study of the Bible is a study of its literary growth and literary content. The literary approach to the Bible, as an anthology collected from the vast body of the national literature of the Hebrews and representing over a thousand years of creative activity, has resulted in the organization of the books according to their natural chronology and recorded according to their literary forms— history, biography, essay, epistle, drama, oratory, lyric poetry, and law both civil and ecclesiastical. In other words, it nas revealed to the modern reader the world's greatest classic. The historical approach to the Bible has invested the life and times recorded with a new vitality. For centuries the history of the civilizations of the past has been shrouded in mystery. The archaeological researches of the past century in the countries mentioned in the Bible have uncovered buried cities, temples, tombs, and monuments bearing inscriptions which when deci- LESSON DEPARTMENT phered verified many events of Biblical times. The magic spade of archaeology in Egypt, Palestine, Arabia, Persia, and Babylonia has provided many fascinating bits of evidence for the historian to use in recreating the life and times of those civilizations. Among the most interesting are numbered; the ancient city of Ur of the Chaldees, the home of Abraham; the Epic of Gilamesh, the Babylonian epic containing an account of the Flood; the Moabite stone, a commentary on II Kings; the Black Obelisk of Shalmaneser, bearing the story of Jehu paying tribute. When man learned to write he placed his records in many places; the walls of his temples, and tombs bore his early records. In the course of time tablets and papyrus were used for sacred and personal records. The modern science of palaeography (the study of ancient writing) is the magic key that has unlocked the secrets of many ancient documents. Modern linguistic study in its turn has marked and noted discrepancies that have crept into the records as the old documents have been copied from time to time, or as they were translated from the original Hebrew to Aramaic, to Greek, to Latin, to Anglo-Saxon, to English. Today the English Bible unlocked for the reader by historical, scientific, and literary study is in reality the greatest book in the world, The Book of Life. Hebrew Life as Recorded in the Old Testament The history of the ancient Hebrews, a Semitic race, is the story of a people maintaining their individuality in the midst of conflict. Ages of nomadic life on the desert between the valley civilization of Egypt and Mesopotamia fashioned the genius of the Hebrews. The race developed early a distinctive individ- 687 uality. Keeping themselves tribally aloof, three factors shaped their genius, their religious temperament, their racial purity, and the rigorous discipline of a life of hardships. Always across the desert "East" and "West" was a land of plenty in the rich valley civilizations. When Egypt became the rich granary of the ancient world many migrations led westward. About 1500 B. C. Abraham of Ur of the Chaldees led the small tribal band westward to find a new home in Palestine near the land of plenty. The Canaanites there established were hostile to the newcomers. Another migration under Joseph led them into the Nile valley wnere they remained enslaved to the Egyptians. During this period of tribal history the Hebrews developed a greater capacity for endurance, a stronger sense of racial unity, and a greater dependence upon God. The Biblical account of the Exodus of the children of Israel from Egypt is consistent with historical records. Moses as the prophetic leader of the Exodus became the saviour of his people as well as the nation's founder. A new epoch in human history opened when Israel emerged from bondage to become a nation. From Goshen they were led by Moses across the Red Sea to Sinai. A renewed allegiance to Jehovah, their deliverer, the Decalogue given by Moses, and the preparation of the sacred Tabernacle to house the Ark of the Covenant were the cementing factors preparing the race for a great national history and later an unparalleled world influence. Unable to enter Palestine from the south because of the fierce Amalekites, they passed round the east of the Dead Sea through the land Moab. With the conquest of Heshbon, the Amorite capital came territory for a new home. Joshua, the 688 fearless military leader who followed Moses, through bitter warfare accomplished slowly the conquest and colonization of the land of the Canaanites. From a nomadic race the Hebrews were transformed into an agricultural people, the camp gave way to the village as a new nation was born. The story of the early colonial life of the Hebrews has been told vividly by the historian of the books of Deuteronomy and Judges. Of great significance was the distribution of the tribes of Israel in the new home. The northern territory was separated from the southern by a chain of Canaanite strongholds. This division of the tribes together with the influence of the Baal worshipping Canaanites provided the first great national crisis. Deborah, a valiant woman, arose to save Israel. Realizing the grave danger, with spiritual insight and moral courage, she challenged every son of Israel to "come up and help Jehovan against the mighty." The famous song of triumph of Deborah in the book of Judges recounts the struggle and ultimate victory. The consequences of this victory were far-reaching, the chief being the preparation for the establishment of the Hebrew kingdom. Out of another great crisis, the menace of the military power of the Philistines, grew the establishment of the Hebrew kingdom. The prophet Samuel arose to inspire Saul, the Benjaminite warrior, to deliver his people from this enemy and become their king. The later disobedience of Saul, the persecution of David, and the tragic death of Saul make a doleful picture of Israel's first king. To David, the hero of Saul's army, fell the task of completing the subduing of the Philistines. Later as the king of the combined RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE kingdoms, David was the builder of the empire. Jerusalem was made the central capital, a military organization was maintained to keep peace, and diplomatic relations with bordering nations, was established, all helped to usher in the Golden Age of Israel. David, king, military genius, and diplomat became a benefactor to his people; David, the man and the po et, left the record of his deepest emotions and spiritual experiences for mankind in the Psalms. With the great King Solomon the Hebrew kingdom reached the peak of its glory, wealth, magnificence, and extravagance reigned. The great temple erected by Solomon, 950 B. C. Strengthened the spiritual life of the people, while an excessive system of taxation became a factor of dis integration. The separation of tie kingdoms, Israel and Judah, provided a new crisis. Ahab, the king of Israel, made alliances with the Canaanites and the Phoenicians, as a result the debasing worship of Baal entered Israel. Only the heroic efforts of Elijan and Elisha saved Israel from religious degradation. The kingdom, however gradually weakened under the government of foolish kings until the Assyrians were able to enter and occupy Samaria, the capital. Judah, as an independent kingdom, fared a little better than did Israel. Rehoboam's extravagance and resultant taxation impoverished the people. The Egyptian invasion, 945-925 B. C. Despoiled the temple and disneartened the people. Out of the turbulence arose a great leader, Isaian. A statesman, philosopher, and _ poet Isaiah's moral grandeur and human understanding did much to renew the courage and faith of Judah. Tae martyrdom of Isaiah and the shameful idolatry of Manasseh mark the LESSON DEPARTMENT last days of the decline of the kingdom. The Assyrian invasion, successful in Israel, passed on to Judah. Only a miracle saved the besieged Jerusalem. The Assyrian conquest, however, was short-lived, The powerful king of Babylon, Nebuchadnezzar, became the new conqueror of both countries, 586 B. C. Half a century of exile led to a purification of the spiritual life of the Hebrews. During the period, one of suffering for all, those carried away to exile and those left isolated at home, came a spirit of regeneration which gave birth to Judaism, a religion. A chastened people took up the national life upon the return of the exiles after the fall of Babylon. The prophetic leaders, Haggai and Zechariah, gave their people a new hope, the promise of a new and glorious age, the Messianic age; Malachi, the sage, convinced them that God was long-suffering and would still remember them as His chosen People. A new age for the entire world began with the conquest of the ancient world by Alexander the Great, the Greek. East and West met for the first time, two widely differing civilizations with two systems of ideas. Alexandria in Egypt became the centre of the new culture. Under Greek directorship Greek learning permeated Palestine. The Pharisees grew out of Hebrew life as a sect vigorously opposed to the mingling of Hellenic and Hebraic ideas; the Sadducees, another sect, sponsored the liberal acceptance of Greek culture. This was the most severe crisis in the history of Hebraic thought. The influence of Greek life, manners, customs, and wisdom, was far-reaching. The Jewish Sanhedrin was established on the pattern of the city-state government of 689 the Greeks. The period 250 B. C.- 70 A. D. Witnessed many persecutions for the Jews. The Greeks attempted to make Palestine a Greek colony and the temple at Jerusalem a pagan sanctuary. Rising in rebellion many Jews were massacred. Judas, a Maccabee, gathered an army and fought valiantly to liberate his people.. The hard earned freedom under Maccabean rule was soon lost when Rome became the master of the world. At the close of the Old Testament era, Palestine was governed by Herod, a despot and a pagan, enslaving and degrading his subjects to a degree unprecedented in the nation's history. Yet now more brightly than ever there burned within the Hebrew the belief that he was of God's chosen race, and as such with eager longing he awaited the Messiah. The New Testament Age. Palestine is a holy land to both Jews and Christians throughout the world. At the opening of the Christian Era racial 'boundaries were gone, Jews and Gentiles mingled under the jurisdiction of Rome speaking a common language, the Aramaic dialect of Hebrew. The two forces, Paganism and Judaism, fighting for supremacy in Palestine formed the background for the life and teachings of Jesus. The ruthlessness of Roman rule, the discontent of the Pharisees and Scribes. The Jewish nationalists, and the corruption of priests and Sadducees, made the lot of tne peasant a difficult one. Religion had become purely ceremonial dominated by the Scribes and Pharisees; superstition was rife, ignorance abounded. To this chaotic life came Jesus, not as the Jews expected from their interpretation of the Messianic prophecies, a king to deliver them from the oppressor. 690 The humble and lowly understood the message of Jesus and accepted it; the Jews crucified Jesus. After tne death of Jesus the Apostolic age in Palestine was short-lived. A series of injustices and persecutions by Jews and Romans continued until the destruction of Jerusalem 80 A. D. Now Christianity was severed from Judiasm. The larger horizon of the Mediterranean became the home of the scattered followers of Jesus and the recipient of the missionary activities of the apostles. In a world dominated by Greek thought Christianity came into being. Paul, the apostle, in the Epistles sent out to the world the teachings of Jesus, not as a narrative as did the Gospels but in the form of a new philosophy of life, Christianity. The Romance of the Bible. The story of the triumphs, tragedies, and adventures of the greatest book in the world and the heroes who fought and died for it is a romance in. Itself. The Bible we possess has existed in its form littke more than three hundred years, yet it had its beginning over five thousand years ago when Abraham left Ur of the Chaldees carrying with him the stories of tne beginnings of things and kept them alive in the oral literature of his people to be incorporated later into his nation's record. The Hebrews recorded their national and religious life in a vast body of literature: (1) Historical Books: (2) Books of Prophecy; (3) Books of Song and Devotion; and (4) Books of Wisdom and Religious Philosophy. The organization of the Bible, first the Old Testament canon out of the sacred literature of the Hebrews and later the New Testament canon out of the early writings RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the Christian era, is a story all its own. The greatest material treasures of the Christian Church are the manuscripts and Bibles its adventures have discoverd and produced. Looking at them as tney are housed in the great museums and churches of the world, eacn has added its chapter to the romance of the life of the greatest book in the world. In the early days of writing with what pride did the Hebrew record the hero tales and war songs of his race; the glories of his empire, the splendor of his temple. During tribulation, exile and dispersion, persecutions and massacres, how he guarded with his life the parchments bearing the records of his beloved race. Let us pause and dream over some old Bibles. The first Greek translation of the Old Testament, - the Septuagint, was translated by seventy-two Jews of the dispersion for the great library at Alexandria, 250 B. C. In the first centuries of Christianity with what care did the early fathers read and copy any word that came from the beloved Paul or the other apostles telling of the Master's teaching? If by chance a little band of Christians obtained a copy of one of the Gospels it was held more sacred tnan life. When the Bible became the sacred book of organized Christianity under the rule of the ancient Catholic Church the first great need was the most accurate version obtainable to be written in Latin. The wisdom and piety of Jerome, the hermit scholar of Bethlehem, became known. To this great saint was given the sacred task. Years he labored to translate the "Divine Library," so that man could have an accurate version. Several versions were made before the Latin Vulgate was completed. This version became the official document LESSON DEPARTMENT from which all others were copied for many centuries. What stories could be collected from the monasteries of the Old World as for ages they were the libraries of nations. Years and even lifetimes were spent in making copies of the sacred word. From the dawn of Christianity in England we get the beautiful story of Caedmon. A humble servant in the monastry at Whitby, he listened to the reading of the Bible. Being a peasant the Latin word could not be read by him. Brooding and sorrowful over his 'limitations his soul yearned. In a vision the story of the beginning of things, the history of Israel, and the mission of Christ, was given to him. As he sang it to his comrades the next day in his native tongue, he made the first simple version of tne Bible in the English tongue. One by one the books of the Bible were translated. The great scholar, the Venerable Bede, spent his last breath giving to a scribe the words of the Gospel of St. John. When the Danes invaded England many of the monasteries and the manuscripts were destroyed. Some of the monks fled carrying their precious records with them. The Norman Conquest brought a measure of security for religion. Culture was given an impetus. The great cathedrals of Europe are a silent testimony of the place of Christianity in medieval life. Realizing the value of the manuscripts of the early Bibles, the search for them goes on today. Tree Bibles of the Septuagint translation in existence, the Vatican Manuscript, the Alexandrian Manuscript, and the Sinaitic Manuscript, all had dramatic discoveries. The most interesting discovery, however, being that of the Sinaitic Manuscript. A German scholar searching for old 691 manuscripts in 1844 found it in a basket of old parchments being used for fuel in St. Catherine's Convent at the foot of Mt. Sinai. Strangely enough these three oldest Bibles are now in the possession of the three branches of the Christian Church; the Vatican Manuscript in the Vatican library at Rome, the Alexandrian Manuscript in the British Museum at London, the Sinaitic Manuscript in the Greek Church at Leningrad (St. Petersburg.) There is yet another episode in the great story of the Bible, one fraught with suffering and magnificent courage, the making of the English Bible. The Bible, the Latin Vulgate, was the book of the priest and the scholar in England. After six hundred years of Christianity in England a spirit of hostility was slowly growing to the use of this Latin document. Then came John Wycliffe, a scholar and a preacher. In sermons and in pamphlets he made the claim "that the Sacred Scriptures were given to man." A band of traveling teachers, the Lollards, went through the land preaching the Gospel. Wycliffe made the first English translation of the Bible. One hundred years later John Tyndale arose to carry on the work started by Wycliffe. His translation was the first printed translation of the Bible in English. Opposition and persecution followed him, driving him from place to place until he was burned at the stake in 1536. The Bibles were burned whenever found and the owners and the readers severely punished. The liberality of Henry VIII and the Reformation gave rise to other versions of the Bible made from the Tyndale translation. The best known of these Bibles being Coverdale's translation known as the "Great Bible." The story of the Bible would be 692 incomplete without mention to the German chapter of its romance. The whole world is indebted to Johann Gutenburg, the father of printing. He used his magic art in making copies of the Latin Bible. The beautiful Gutenburg Bible exists today a monument in itself to its maker. Martin Luther, the Morning Star of the Reformation, gave to his people the German translation of the Bible. This great work did as much for the liberation of thought in Germany as the English translation did in England. With the reign of Queen Mary came a period of persecution for the English Bible and its advocates. The attempt to restore Catholicism as the religion of England drove many Bible scholars to the continent to avoid death. John Calvin gathered the exiled scholars at Geneva; the Geneva Bible was issued by them in 1560. The English Catholics now gave to their followers an English version of the Bible, a literal translation of the Latin Vulgate of St. Jerome. When King James came to the throne of England in 1603, he found the Protestant in bitter strife over the translations of the Bible extant. Calling a conference of bishops he gave them the task of making an authentic version. It took six years and was the work of scholarship using all previous versions as guides. The King James translation of the English Bible was produced when the language was at its best; it sought to retain the noble simplicity of Tyndale's Bible with the accuracy and strength of the original Hebrew and Greek versions. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "As a literary monument the English version of the Bible is the noblest example of the English tongue." "East and West met in the matchless phrases translated from Hebrew and Greek and Latin into the Bible; and the heart of the East there answers the heart of the West." Thus was made tne Bible, the world's greatest book. Suggestions for Study. A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature. Chapter 4—Macy. 2. The Modern Reader's Bible. —Moulton. 3. The Outline of Literature.— Drinkwater. 4, How We Got Our Bible — Smith. 5. The English Bible As Literature.—Dinsmore. B. Program: 1. Music. Selections from the oratorios, "Elijah", "Messiah", etc. 2. Discussion. A. The Ancient Hebrews. 3. Review. A. The Story of the English Bible. 4. Reading. A. Selections from 'The Song of Deborah." b. Selections from "The Book of Ruth." C. Method: The lesson has two objectives: to present a brief yet concise account of Hebrew life and thought; to present a brief account of the history of the England LESSON DEPARTMENT 693 Social Service. (Fourth Week in January) Foops AND EATING HABITS LESSON XIII Scientific work in the field of nutrition has done wonders in making it possible to furnish food in proper quantities and proper varieties to children of all ages. Second in importance in knowing wnat to feed children is knowing how to guide them into willing happy eating of this proper food. To help parents. Solve this latter question is the purpose of this lesson.. Suggestions for Procedure: Assign the reading guide at a previous meeting. A class member may be assigned to investigate the "Nutrition Teaching" given in the public schools as suggested on page 176 of White House Conference, 1930. A review of needed information regarding diet can be had at the beginning of the class period by using the section on "Nutrition and Diet" on pages 60-61 of White House Conference, 1930. Class members may be asked to answer the questions given in the reading guide and the application as called for in the questions on page 24 of "Habits." Reading Guide for Habits pp. 20-24. Keep clearly in mind the fact that you are reading about child behavior in regard to food. The author assumes as is stated on page 21 that the reader knows what good habits of eating are. If the second paragraph on page 20 is not clear go back and review the material read from Lesson XI, Habits pp. 8-14, Members: The emphasis in the chapter is on the positive point of making correct eating habits pleasurable. Looking for the answers to the following questions will help in interpreting the material. 1. Is hunger natural? 2. Are 'having an appetite' and 'being hungry' the same? 3. Does too long continued use of a simple diet fix habits that make it difficult to introduce other foods later? 4. How do you prevent this tooearly habituation to menus? 5: Will children get real pleasure from feeding themselves? 6. What shall we do with dietary rules? 7. In what way does telling children they must eat affect their response to the food in question? 8. Do children sometimes learn to refuse to eat because refusing gets them satisfaction in other ways? In reading the constructive rules on page 23, notice that No. 1 calls for a substitute for force. This substitute is found in the suggestions for creating natural appetites, numbers 5, 6, and 7; and in attractive serving, number 4. Number 3 is especially important and needs to be illustrated by all of the foods that are specially flavored or prepared artificially in order to create appetites. Appetizers are habit forming. Number 2 refers to the possible danger of letting eating habits form the center around which the child satisfies his natural craving for attention. The problems on page 24 are worth solving. 694 Supplementary Material. "Habits of eating, sleeping, and elimination are directly concerned with the physical well-being of the child." (Thom; Every Day Problems of the Every Day Child, p. 50.) Parents may make mistakes in two ways (1) They may ignore the importance of these early habits or (2) they may become unduly anxious and worried over them and thus do more harm than good. Some basic facts will help establish the proper point of view. As given below they are adapted from Thom, Chapter 14, p. 30., 1. Action in the digestive tract is affected intimately by emotional status: "Physiological research has established the fact that emotions of various kinds. Such as fear, anger, or excitement, influence directly the flow of secretions that have to do with the digestion of food." 51. 2. Loss of appetite due to physiological ill-health is serious but calls for no forced feeding or undue emotional response on the part of the parents. 3. All children do not require the same amount of food. There is danger in over emphasizing the lightweight standardization. All cnildren do not need to eat spinach or carrots every time it is served any more than they should eat other foods without exception. 4. Emotional activity at meal time may give the child a sense of power which he uses for dominating his parents or attracting attention to himself. Vomiting may be an expression of this. 5. Many children with bad eating habits are not undernourished. "Investigation discloses that the child is getting a sufficient amount of food. The problem usually resolves itself into, first, the quantity of food taken; secondly, the method RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of taking it and the time of taking it; and finally, the necessary outlay of energy and effort on the part of the parent in getting the child to take adequate nourishment. (55) They would not, of course, wish to minimize the importance of the state of nutrition as a useful indicator of the child's general health and well-being. It is necessary to emphasize the fact, however, that a child's food cannot be too highly standardized; that all children need not necessarily be the same weight or height at a given age; and that no harm will follow if they fail to measure up to the so-called 'norms', or if they happen occasionally to miss a meal or two. One would emphasize the fact that it is the anxiety on the " part of parents over some trivial matter that frequently precipitates and perpetuates feeding difficulties in children." (56) 6. The attitude with which a child comes to meals should be cheerful and free from the demands of other activities. It is quite desirable to call children to meals early enough so that the play or reading may be stopped logically without creating any excitement or resentment. 7 In early learning to eat the child should probably be by himself where the spilling and splashing won't attract the attention of others and where the variety of foods of the adult will not distract tne child. If the mother sits by the child she should read or sew and not be an audience for the child's eating antics. 8. In order to teach a child to eat a new food two rules will help: Serve it daintily and attractively; do not force a child to eat it on first appearance but let him observe others eating it. 9. Let meal time conform to social custom. Have meals regularly. Use only a reasonable time for meals a LESSON DEPARTMENT maximum of 30 minutes is suggested. Then remove food and let children leave the table. Suggestions from Goodspeed & Johnson: Care and Training of Children. "It is one thing to be well informed as to the best foods for body growth and the maintenance of health. But to feed these foods successfully to members of a family is quite another matter. It is nota rare occasion when one hears a young mother say 'I simply cannot induce Peter to eat the vegetables he should, but for that matter, I never eat carrots or cabbage myself." 138 "Said little Sue's sister, "The hard- -est job we have is to make Sue eat; we have done everything suggested, but, it always ends in mother's patience flying out of the window, and Sue getting punished. I'm ashamed of it, but, often I find myself just shouting commands to eat.' 128 "We have said before that example plays a large part in the learning process. If big brother John, who goes to high school, refuses tne spinach, and father says, 'No carrots for me, please,' how can little Sue be expected to want them." 138 "Avoid Food Discussions—One of the greatest mistakes made is to discuss the family food dislikes, and those of the child in his hearing. The latter gives him a feeling of importance. The fact that he does not want to eat is important enough to be talked about—constantly worrying and fussing during the meal hour to induce the child to eat is just another way of making a child realize his power. He likes to have the older folks concerned with his affairs instead of absorbed in their own." 139 "Fear, anger, and excitement are known through science to stop the secretions of the digestive tract. Is 695 little Mary in any condition to enjoy, digest, and assimilate food? In this mood she may even form a dislike for the bowl of bread and milk offered, because she was emotionally upset on coming to the meal. 139 "The food should be simple, well seasoned, and attractively served in not too large amounts. A plate too full of food is a task which some children cannot even attack. Learn the correct portions for children of different ages and be consistent in using them. Serve even smaller portions of foods which are not well liked until the child has learned to accept them. 139 "Let the equipment at meal time be suited to the child. 139 "A Happy State of Mind is Necessary.—The state of mind in which a cnild comes to the meal is important. Give him enough time to bring his play to a point where it can be left with a certain sense of completion; and see that between the washing of the hands and the meal there is about ten minutes for a rest, just a few minutes for relaxing in a roomy chair, on a couch, or on a soft rug. Unless the person who serves the meal and who remains in the room to give needed help, is in a cheerful mood, the meal will hardly be a success. But, it is wise for the server, whether mother, sister, or aunt not to give undivided attention to the child. "Place the food on the table, do not hurry him, do not nag, scold, nor bribe him to eat. Give helpful suggestions stich as 'Eat some of the carrots, they are better hot;' 'push the food toward the middle of the plate, then it can't spill'; "when I eat tapioca I take this much on a spoon, then I do not get it on my cneek or dress.' Talk occasionally about his play. It is not necessary, however, 696 to keep up a constant run of conversation." 140-141. "Try to show no worry or concern if he does not eat all of the food, but, see that some of all the food served is eaten. If the main meal is not all eaten, serve no dessert; let that be understood from the start. It is not wise to emphasize the dessert by giving it any particular importance in the meal, but it should be plain that we do not go to the dessert, until the main plate is empty. Twenty minutes is sufficient time for breakfast and supper and thirty minutes for dinner. At the end of that time remove the tray, whether the food is eaten or not. The meal is over. Don't talk about it." 141 "The next important step is, that no food is given from that meal until RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the next, no matter how much it is requested." 141 "Points to Remember in Building Good Food Habits—The main points to remember in helping a child to form good food habits are—serve simple, appetizing, attractive food in correct amount at regular periods in the day. Allow no food between meals. Let it be understood that we eat all food put on our plates. The meal time is to be a pleasant one, free from scolding, threats, or evident worry on the part of parent or big sister or brother, who is serving the little one's food. A tired, angry, or worried child will have but little appetite for food. There must be no discussion of food dislikes before the child; finally, all members of the family should train themselves to good food habits." 141-142 Life Perfect (Second Honorable Mention in Eliza R, Snow Poem Contest of 1932) By Alvaretta S. Engar Her feet helped print That track thru-western loneliness. Miles—On to the horizon Dawn—Darkness on. Measured distance by the footsteps that she took She told me. And my feet ached. Her hands helped form A log-hewed home place. Hours—Finishing—Beginning. Light—Night dimming. Legered was each task in her life book. I listened And felt weary. Her love creating— Joy flooding her work like still Moonlight on brush-rough hills, Days—love filled. Treasured each memory in her heart nook, Grey eyes looked into blue. I yearned to learn Sweet-happiness she knew. In her smile I heard her heart sing: "T passed the sage-brush— And forgot it. Wheel-ruts I stepped over—lightly. Not weary marches, hours of toil Do I remember—wearily, But—Little love-created things— joyfully." And I knew. "Sweet are the Uses of Adversity" By Vernessa M. Nagle THESE words, "Sweet are the uses of adversity," so frequently quoted, and, yet, so little understood, penned over three hundred years ago by our much loved Bard of Avon, have but recently found their true interpretation in the lives of individuals and nations. Many of us have just awakened to a realization of the fact that adversity has its credit side as well as its debit column. Lor many years we Americans have been living very rapidly—most too rapidly. It has all been, so it seems, an attempt to keep up with the Joneses, and the Joneses in turn to keep up with the Smiths. Many of our luxuries have been purchased on deferred payments. Not until stocks had dropped, jobs disappeared, and payments came past due did we realize that somewhere had there been a miscalculation. Although the economic shake-up has caused chaos in the business world, it has not entirely wrecked the American home. It has, however, brought about a tragic readjustment. It has developed, to a certain extent, our ingenuity. We have had to conceive of new forms of entertainment and as a result the home is fast becoming the center of amusement. Many of us have been compelled to give up our mad pursuits of pleasure, the more or less costly excursions, and as a result have turned to our books, home gardening, and the family picnics. Never before have people generally taken up the home-gardening idea with more enthusiasm. It has been a worthwhile experiment if we have learned merely the value of living close to the health-giving sun and air and soil. Richly endowed is he who has learned the true joy of living at home! The so-called depression has taught us the valuable lesson of thrift—that a dollar saved is a dollar earned. Never before have the simple words of Benjamin Franklin been more timely. We now consider it smart to be thrifty. Thrift and economy will lift this nation out of its difficulties. What is true of a nation is true of individuals. Adversities have been responsible for some of the greatest achievements of mankind. Adversity caused the man who would not turn back to push on and on when to do so meant almost certain peril. Adversity it was that hardened our pioneer fathers, prepared them for the hardships of the wilderness life of a new country. We may find occasion to complain of "hard-times," but we must remember that the bridges have been built, the great irrigation projects which required almost superhuman effort by the few pioneers then, hava been constructed, the virgin soil broken, and the desert made to blossom as the rose. Sometimes we regard our hardships as terrible things that kill the soul within us, but Ouida says, "It is the north wind that lashes men into Vikings; it is the soft luscious south wind which lulls them to lotus dreams." We need not consider every calamity a curse; surmounted difficulties not only teach us but prepare us for future struggles. Nor should we excuse our sloth under 698 the pretext of difficulty. Washington Irving tells us that little minds are tamed and subdued by misfortunes; but great minds rise above them. I wonder how many of us in the times of plenty prepared ourselves for the times of want. I recall the proverb of the child and the man. The child complains at the long hours at his desk when he might be playing out of doors; he sees the vacation coming to an end; he counts up the years he must still spend at his books; and he gives a sigh of weariness. The man, on the other hand, looks back with a sigh and recalls how many hours he wasted in school, how little attention he paid to the recitation, what trouble his mischief caused the teacher and how he prevented the studious from fixing their minds on their lessons. But it is now too late! There is a French proverb which says, "If youth but knew; if age but could." These are uncertain times. We read of the financial failures of large corporations, the failure of business houses, and of the loss of private fortunes. To me, many of these cases have a tinge of pathos. I see the life's savings of individuals wiped away almost over night, as it were. How transitory, how fleeting are these things we think of as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE wealth! But the pendulum swings. Fortunate is the man who can go down without a taint of dishonesty attached to his name. This world is full of people just like you and me; we never get very far up, so we do not have far to fall. How I hope that I shall always know how to live at the bottom. It would be so much easier, should one fall from the top, if one has first learned the joy of truly living at the battom. So, in these times of uncertainties, we must keep our heads cool and our hearts calm. Cheerful smiles and confidence will go a long. Way to bring this old world back to something of its former self again. Men and women before us have weathered uncertainties and hardships. Ties are strengthened by stress. Sometimes the woman in the home wonders what she can do to help clear up conditions around her. Although we think of the husband as the family financier, we find that most husbands seek chiefly spiritual help from their wives when clouds are the blackest. It has been said that the woman in the home is the barometer of that home. The general tone of the household depends upon her. Her ability to encourage the family to go ahead makes for the family success or failure. I wonder—is that not, after all, the true mission of woman! Christmas For $1.00? WHY SHOULD I SUBSCRIBE FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE? FOR $1.00 I receive one year's training in every walk of life. What Should I Give My Friend for Her Birthday or for The Relief Society Magazine. I give her a MONTHLY reminder of my love The joy of my gift lasts throughout the year ANTIKNOCK value  AT PRICE OF REGULAR Stop at any of the 400 Utah Oil Service Stations SELECT YOUR Christmas Cards NOW! While our stock is complete. You will find here just the card you want. Values this year are greater than ever before. The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine The REAL VALUE OF LIFE INSURANCE Vv Few people realize the true value of Life Insurance except its value as protection to their dependents. The greatest value of Beneficial insurance really lies in its investment value. In addition to preserving homes, holding families together in times of bereavement, providing for dependents,—it has made and saved fortunes, supported businesses and made old age independent and comfortable. Investments in Beneficial Life Insurance have, at all times, carried a cash value of 100 cents on the dollar and payable on demand. INVESTIGATE THE REMARKABLE SAVINGS-INVESTMENT PLAN OF BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY DIRECTIONS: Heber J. Grant A.W. Ivins J. Reuben Clark Jr. Geo. J. Cannon E.T. Ralphs Jos. F. Smith B.F. Grant David O. McKay A.B.C. Ohlson The RELIEF SOCIETY KNIGHT ROYAL Spring Canyon Coal ROYAL COAL Hot 'n Clean These coals maintain clean, cheery warm homes at lowest cost. ASK YOUR FRIEND THE COAL DEALER H KNIGHT FUEL CO.. ROYAL COAL COMPANY General Offices—3th Floor Newhouse Building—Salt Lake City, Utah Leonard E. Adams, General Sales Agent "WE HEARTILY RECOMMEND. Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. m. To 5 p. m. Salt Lake City, Utah THIS IS THE YEAR TO GIVE PERSONALITY PORTRAITS wks OUR XMAS SPECIAL 6—4x6 and one 8x10 Special California Easel for the price of $4.95 Phone Was. 4939 for appointment ) 13 East First South— Cckor S tudto Only Ground Floor Studio in Salt Lake When Buying Mention Relief Society Mogesine Clean, Hard—Burns Longer Telephone Wasatch 3286 'Quiek-starting—Utah's Purest Coal 29 Bishop's Building Heat Your Home With a Granite CIRCULATOR One to Six Rooms $22.50 to $85.00 You will save 25% to 50% on your coal bill "America's Finest" The ROUND OAK Range Will bake perfectly for a lifetime $79.50 to $117.50 We Save you Money GRANITE Furniture Co. Sugar House 1050 East 21st So. Peerless Laundry COMPLETE LAUNDRY SERVICE Snow White Clothes STRICT SANITATION Phones: Hy. 2182 Phones: Hy. 2183 1184 East 21st South Salt Lake City A NEW FUREKA WITH MOTOR-DRIVEN BRUSH LIGHT—EASY TO HANDLE AGREEABLY QUIET This sensational new Eureka with motordriven brush is designed to meet the requirements of those who desire a motordriven brush but recognize the necessity of "High Vacuum" (powerful suction) for the thorough removal of embedded dirt. Unnecessary weight and awkward size have been carefully avoided. It is quiet—agreeably quiet. The demonstration! It is spectacular — sensational — thrilling. Embedded soda fairly "'boils'? From the rug. Sand dances— how it dances! Surface litter — lint, hair and threads — are instantly removed by its motor-driven brush. This new Eureka cleans faster—cleans. Better. $5.00 Down. Balance on Easy Terms Phone for Demonstration Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. Salt Lake City, Utah WHY SHOULD I SUBSCRIBE FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE? For $1.00 I receive one year's training in every walk of life. What Should I Give My Friend for Her Birthday or for Christmas For $1.00? The Relief Society Magazine I give her a MONTHLY reminder of my love. The joy of my gift lasts throughout the year. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 177 East Broadway Phone Wasatch 4764 THE RELIEF SOCIETY Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. 20. DECEMBER, 1933 No. 12 CONTENTS Portrait of Elder John H. Taylor...................Frontispiece Sing the Blessed Christmas Songs.................Bryce W. Anderson 699 Leonora's Christmas Visit....................Lella Marler Hoggan 701 If They Need Me.......................Josephine Gardner Moench 712 For Six at Christmas-Tide....................Elsie Talmage Brandley 714 Elder John H. Taylor.............................Carl A. Badger 716 Anne Brent, Helpmate........................Elsie Chamberlain Carroll 721 Latter-day Saint Chapel, Washington, D. C........................ 724 Happenings.............................Annie Wells Cannon 725 Christmas............................Elise B. Alder 726 Happy Mothers.........................Marba C. Josephson 728 Mary...............................Camille C. Nuffer 730 Relief Society Conference........................Julia A. F. Lund 731 Christmas Joys........................Edna J. Gardiner 741 Interior of L. D. S. Chapel, Washington, D. C........................ 741 Candy for Christmas...................Lucy Rose Middleton 742 Notes to the Field.......................................... 744 Editorial—Joseph Smith..................................... 746 Eighteenth Amendment Repeal............................... 747 Mobilization for Human Needs............................... 747 Work of Agents Appreciated................................. 748 Lesson Department......................................RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 749 Opportunity.............................Lizzie H. Welker 764 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3123 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear: No. 1 New Style, ribbed light weight. No. 56 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Combed Cotton. An excellent Our best selling wool number. Ladies' number..............$1.25 Men's new or old style....$.300 No. 6 Light weight garment, Ladies' new style or old style 1.10 No. 2 Old style, ribbed light weight cotton, our standard garment 1.25 No. 7 Light weight Spring and Autumn garment. Men only 1.00 No. 3 Ribbed medium weight cotton, bleached. Our all season number. Men's new or old style....1.45 No. 8 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only................ 1.15 No. 4 Ribbed heavy weight. Unbleached cotton. Our double back number. Men's new or old style 1.50 No. 9 Medium weight. Silk for men and women, new style only.... 1.75 No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number. Men's new or old style....$.300 No. 10 Ladies' new style light weight. 1/3 wool 1.75 No. 11 Ladies' new or old style medium weight. Part wool, silk stripe.... 1.50 In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, short legs and sleeves or ankle length legs, are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid on orders accompanied by money order in United States. Special discount to missionaries. Our Jack Frost Blankets are made of Utah Wool and Utah Labor Write for Prices FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates NEW HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS FROM FACTORY TO YOU We Solicit Your Mail Orders No. 88. Light Weight Men's and Ladies' No. 87. Light Weight Old and New New Style $.65 Styles 85 No. 89. Medium Weight Men's and Ladies' No. 100. Light Weight Fine Grade Flat New Style 1.10 Knit Ladies' Only............. 85 No. 80. Heavy Weight Men's Double No. 84. Medium Light Weight Men's and Back 1.35 Ladies' New Style................ 85 No. 81. Heavy Weight Old Style No. 85. Very Special Non-Run Garments—Guaranteed—Not To Double Back 1.35 Run Rayon. Special.............. 1.00 Specify when ordering, your bust trunk and length, whether new or old style, and if men's or ladies'. We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. MOSE LEWIS SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH L. D. S. GARMENTS Good grade and well made. Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new or old style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. OLD AND NEW STYLE NEW STYLE ONLY, MAN OR LADY 144 Spring Needle Flat Weave........$1.10 472 Light Rib Cotton...$.75 205 Rib Knit, Light Weight... 1.15 464 Medium Rib Cotton............... 1.00 88 Fine Knit, Light Weight......... 1.25 92 Light Weight Rayon Stripe.... 1.25 256 Double Carded, Medium Weight......... 1.35 228 Light Weight Rayon Stripe................ 1.35 758 Medium Heavy Cotton, Ecru or White.... 1.65 84 Rayon Plated 1.45 902 Unbleached Cotton Extra Heavy....... 2.00 405 Non-run Viscose Rayon............ 1.35 1118 Medium Heavy Wool & Cotton Mixed.... 3.25 806 Non-run Viscose Rayon.............. 1.75 BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Bits of Humor Willie: "Paw, what is a genius?" Paw: "A genius is a successful crank, my son."—New York Sun. Senator Tillman was arguing on the tariff with a congressman. "You know I never boast," his opponent began. "Never boast? Splendid!" said Senator Tillman; and he added quietly, "No wonder you brag about it!" "Wal," sighed Cyrus Browne, a genuine Rhode Island farmer, as he entered the house, "Jed Hopkins wants me to be pall-bearer again to his wife's funeral." "Wal, wot be yer hesitatin' about?" rejoined his soul mate. "It's this way, Melissa. Y'know when Jed's first wife died he asked me to be a pall-bearer, an' I did. Then his second wife died, an' I was pall-bearer fur her. An' then he married Deacon Wall's widow, an' she died, an' I was the same again. An' now—wal, I don't like to be all the time acceptin' favors without bein' able to return 'em." "Billy, He's in TROUBLE" I've got a letter, parson, from my son away out West, An' my ol' heart is heavy as an anvil in my breast, To think the boy whose future I had once so proudly planned Should wander from the path o' right an' come to such an end. I told him when he left us, only three short years ago He'd find himself a-plowin' in a mighty crooked row; He'd miss his father's counsels an' his mother's prayers, too; But he said the farm was hateful, an' he guessed he'd have to go. His letters came so seldom that I somehow sort o' knowed That Billy was a-trampin' on a mighty rocky road, But never once imagined he would bow my head in shame, An' in the dust I'd waller his ol' daddy's honored name. He writes from out in Denver, an' the story's mighty short; I just can't tell his mother; it'd crush her poor ol' heart; An' so I reckon, parson, you might break the news to her— Bill's in the legislature, but he doesn't say what fur. —Anonymous. INFLATE YOUR DOLLARS You get many times the value of your dollar when you subscribe for the Relief Society Magazine Send it to your friend for a present. It will be a reminder of your thoughtful love every month in the year. If you only desire to spend 50c, send it for six months. SEND YOUR— Holiday Greetings THIS YEAR BY— Postal Telegraph The gracious exchange of greetings during the holiday season is a lovely age-old custom charmingly modernized by using Postal Telegrams. Holiday greeting telegrams are delivered on Christmas or New Year's morning on specially designed blanks, in decorated envelopes, by uniformed messengers. Modern, personal, convenient, inexpensive and socially correct. THE INTERNATIONAL SYSTEM Postal Telegraph Commercial Cables All America Cables Mackay Radio When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine BOOK LOVERS, A MOST LASTING AND APPRECIATED XMAS GIFT IS A GOOD BOOK ASK US NOW FOR SUGGESTIONS DESERET BOOK COMPANY Box 958 Salt Lake City, Utah WANT AN OFFICE POSITION Mail this coupon for details, telling how to qualify. You Will Weather the Winter Better on BLUE BLAZE COAL It is— Long Lasting Free Burning Clean And has— Fewer ashes Order today from your local dealer BLUE BLAZE COAL COMPANY 1111 Walker Bank Building Salt Lake City, Utah Wasatch 671 Gentlemen: Please send literature explaining how to qualify for an office position, and the assistance offered by your Employment Department Opportunities for employment in Secretarial and other office positions are increasing. The intensive, practical courses offered by L. D. S. Business College will qualify you in minimum time and at the lowest possible cost. Mail the coupon today— your inquiry will not obligate you in any way. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY A visit to our beautiful new quarters will convince you of the superiority of L. D. S. Training. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Sing the Blessed Christmas Songs By Bryce W. Anderson Sing the blessed Christmas songs; Sing the carols, sweet, of yore; Leave thy fancied cares and wrongs; Look ye heavenward once more! Sing the sacred hymns of old; Sing of Christ, who dwells on high; Sing the tale so often told; Let not gladsome echoes die! Cynic, wipe away thy sneer; Miser, now forsake thy pelf; This one day in all the year, To the Spirit lend the Self! Sing, ye humble sons of man! Make the vaulted heavens ring! Christ the Lord is born again! Sing His praise, O mortals, sing! ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XX DECEMBER, 1933 No. 12 Leonora's Christmas Visit By Lella Marler Hoggan BILLY'S enthusiasm bubbled over in shrieks of happy laughter as Daddy lifted Mama in his strong arms that she might pin the shining star on the very tip of the Christmas tree. "Don't you let me fall, Papa Gordon," warned Mildred, as she reached out cautiously to fasten the star in place. "You're perfectly safe," assured John, chuckling softly. "My arms are more secure than that wobbly ladder." "There," and Mama gave a little sigh of relief as her feet touched the carpet again. "Now, Mama, draw down the blinds. Here, Billy." The child's face was a picture of awed surprise as his little hand touched the magic button that illuminated the beautiful tree. Soft lights shed their colored radiance across the clustered green needles, the sparkling tinsel, and the bright ornaments. The Christmas star fairly scintillated. But the solemn moment was interrupted by the burr-r-r of the doorbell. As Daddy hurried to answer the ring, Mother raised the window shades and the spell was broken. This Christmas was the most outstanding event in little four-year-old Billy's life. He stood and gazed at the tree rapturously. Then suddenly remembering he exclaimed, "Oh, Mama, where shall we hang the stockings?" "Right here by the mantel, see. Daddy has the hooks all ready." He clapped his little hands for joy. "Sister will sure be glad when she wakes up and sees this pretty tree. Shall I wake her now?" "No, let her sleep. You and I have many things to do yet." Mildred's face clouded with anxiety as she noticed the telegram in John's hand. But his beaming countenance allayed her fears. "Well, well," he smiled, "We're going to have company for Christmas, Mildred. Leonora Willis, an old friend of mine, wires that she is coming to spend a few days with us." "That will be lovely," acknowledged Mildred. And John was so occupied with his own recollections that he did not notice the lack of enthusiasm in her voice. "Well, well" he repeated, "I haven't seen Leonora for years. We used to go to school together. In fact, she was a sweetheart of mine. It will bring back many pleasant memories to meet Leonora again." Billy caught his father's hand joyously. "Shall we hang the stockings now, Daddy?" "No, Son, not until Christmas eve. Mama will see about that." John's enthusiasm for the tree and for Billy's plans seemed to have suddenly waned. "When is she coming?" asked Mildred. "Let's see, today is Friday. She will arrive sometime tomorrow. Christmas comes on Monday, so she will not leave before Tuesday." "Aren't you going to meet her?" "She doesn't say what time she will get here. Oh, you can't tell a thing about Leonora's plans. She may come dashing in here before breakfast in the morning; and again, she may call me up at 11 p. m. to come down to the station and get her. All I can tell you is that when she arrives, she will be here." John laughed. Then looking at his watch, he suddenly remembered that he had an appointment in an hour. So Mildred hurriedly prepared lunch. John jubilantly related many incidents of his school days, in which Leonora had a prominent place. Baby Ruth awakened in time to get her good-bye kiss along with Mama and Billy. And then Daddy was gone. "Home at the regular time, Mama," he called as he waved happily to the two children. AFTER the lunch dishes were cleared away Mildred went to look over her guest room. It had not been used for weeks. It had been cleaned along with the other rooms. But the bedding would have to be aired and fresh linen would be needed. She viewed the bed-spread disconsolately. It was frayed at the ends. And the curtains did not look very crisp. She decided that both should be laundered. She really should have a new spread. She would have to make a trip to town. There were a number of last minute purchases to be made, anyway. Then, too, she would have to do some extra baking, if she was going to have a guest tomorrow. She wondered what sort of guest Leonora would be. Not that it mattered, only, she wondered. It was sufficient to know that Leonora was an old sweetheart of John's. Nothing must be left undone that would add to her comfort and happiness while she was a guest in John's home. The stores were so crowded with Christmas shoppers that it would take some time to make her purchases. Perhaps she could get her neighbor to come in and take care of the children. Aunt Polly, as they called her, had been a friend of John's for years. She had known him before he became a college teacher. In fact, she had lived in the little town where John was born, and had known and loved his mother. Possibly she had known Leonora Willis, too. Yes, Mildred decided, she would get Aunt Polly to come over and keep the children. The stores would not be so crowded early in the morning. That would be the best time to go. So she laundered her curtains and spread and other pieces of linen. She aired the bedding and washed the windows, and did some baking. When her guest room was finished it looked very pretty, all except the frayed spread. It would never do. She would have to have a new one. But when she counted her money, she was afraid she would not have enough for the purchase. While dusting the living room, she discovered that her Christmas present for her mother had not been mailed. It was wrapped and addressed. But in his excitement about the telegram, John had forgotten to take the parcel. The sight of it, now, added another obligation to her already over taxed pocket-book. How could she have forgotten it? She must have a Christmas present for Leonora Willis. But what? Over and over again, she figured the necessary purchases. The meager amount refused to be spun out sufficiently to cover her needs. True, there was the money she had saved so carefully to make the last payment on the beautiful set of books for John. She remembered the numberless little sacrifices she had made in order to get the gift. No she could not use that money. And she was determined that John should not know of her needs. And then, happy thought, she saw her way out. She would give Leonora the beautiful piece of handwork she had made for her mother. She could make her mother another piece. And mothers always understand. It was providential, after all, that John had forgotten to mail the parcel. She would write her mother a lovely letter. "ARE you going to have Aunt Polly over for Christmas?" John asked at dinner that evening. "Of course," smiled Mildred, "it would scarcely be Christmas without Aunt Polly." "I was thinking," remarked John, "she will enjoy seeing Leonora again." "Oh, so she knows Leonora?" "Yes, even better than she knows me," chuckled John. "What sort of girl is your friend, John?" asked Mildred, abruptly. "Is she light or dark? Is she tall or plump?" "Leonora? Oh, she's rather tall and slender, and light, very light complexioned. She has blue eyes, and well, I can't tell you much about her. She's just Leonora. You'll understand when you see her." That night Mildred was very painstaking in her preparations for bed. Her cheeks became rose pink as she massaged the cream into her clear soft skin. She brushed her glossy brown hair until it clustered about her face in shining waves. "Leonora Willis, a sweetheart. And I didn't even know John had an old sweetheart. I might have known, though. A man like John would, of course, have more than one sweetheart." AUNT POLLY was glad to keep the children. "I'll stir you up a batch of pies while I'm here, Mildred," she announced. "I can't sit around doin' nothing. Ruth will likely sleep till you get back, and Billy can stay right in here where it's warm, and help me." "I'll not be gone long," promised Mildred. "But there are a few things I have to attend to. You see John's old friend, Leonora Willis is coming for Christmas. She'll be here today." "Lennie Willis comin' for Christmas? My stars, I'll be glad to see Lennie again. What time'll she get here?" "She didn't say. She just wired saying she was coming today." "Yes, that's Lennie. Most likely she don't know herself what train she'll take 'till she gets to the depot. Lennie never knows what she's goin' to do 'till she does it. Why land sakes, Dave Miller's been ready to marry Lennie a dozen times. But by the time he's ready she's generally miles away, plannin' on something more romantic." "I wish you'd come in and see my room," invited Mildred. "How do you like it?" "Why, Mildred, it's beautiful," said Aunt Polly frankly. "The pink in your curtains just matches that pretty embroidery on your pillow cases and these other pieces of linen." "I really should have a new spread," said Mildred, wistfully. "Perhaps I can find one this morning." "Why, child alive, why don't you use that white quilt of John's? The one that his mother made with the pink roses on it." "Oh, you dear heart, I never once thought of that quilt." Mildred brought it from her large chest and spread it carefully over the bed. Then she fluffed up the pillows and put them in place. "It's a dream," she exulted. "Now all I need is a bowl of pink flowers on that table to make the room look just right." "It's as pretty as a picture. But Mildred, you're goin' to too much work for Lennie. I'm afraid she'll not appreciate it. You see, mostly, Lennie's worryin' about makin' herself comfortable, and wonderin' if her paint's on straight or if her nose needs another little dab of powder." "Yes, but she's one of John's old friends you know, and I must have things nice for her." "You couldn't have them much nicer, my dear. You're always thinkin' of someone else. I never saw such a girl. Now Lennie would worry more over a runner in her silk stockin' than she would over a famine in India." Mildred reached home from town in time to cook a somewhat elaborate dinner, which she served at noon. The table was laid in the dining room with her best silver and linen. John made a great many trips to the front door under the pretext, as Mildred thought, of watching for the mail. The mail man finally arrived but Leonora did not appear. John did not try to hide his disappointment. By three o'clock he had gone back to town to attend a meeting. Mildred looked into her guest room with satisfaction. Streaks of sunshine lay across the dainty white bed. On the table was a bowl of the pinkest half-blown rose buds intertwined with lacy green ferns. "It is worth it," sighed Mildred, remembering that the roses had been purchased at the sacrifice of the darlingest red-robed Santa Claus. It was the one she had planned for days, to place on the mantle just above Billy's stocking. But Mildred had the happy faculty of adjusting her emotions to any emergency. RUTH and Billy were sleeping quietly, so she decided it was a good time to write her letter to her mother. Assembling her materials, she had scarcely begun when the doorbell burred loud and long. She hurried to the door to be confronted by a carefully gowned young woman, a perfect blonde, whom she recognized at once as Leonora. "I'm sure you're Miss Willis, aren't you?" she greeted. "Come right in. I'm very glad to see you." "And you?" questioned Leonora, "Are you John's wife?" "Of course I am," laughed Mildred. "But I was always under the impression that John married a blonde. I can't make it seem natural that you're John's wife." "You look exactly as I thought you would," smiled Mildred. "Let me take your wraps, and sit over here where it's warm. I'm sure you must be chilly that wind is so crisp." "I'm half frozen," admitted Leonora. "I wasn't sure about your address so I walked up from the station and carried my bag." "You dear girl," sympathized Mildred. "Had we only known when you would arrive we certainly should have met you." "Well, I'm here, thank goodness. But I'll have to trouble you for a sandwich. I forgot to take a lunch, and number eight is a through train with no diner, so you may know I'm ravenous." "Well, you shall certainly have something to eat at once." "I'll just sit in the kitchen while you fix it," volunteered Leonora. "Don't bother with any frills whatever." So Leonora sat at the little kitchen table spread with a simple lunch cloth, for her belated meal. But what the table lacked in artistic decoration, was made up by Mildred's thoughtful, lovely service. And before Leonora finished, her sandwich had stretched itself to a three course, hot dinner. "This pie is wonderful," she effused, "Just like Grandmother used to make at Christmas. Do you make your own mince meat?" "Yes. John made the mincemeat last Saturday, while he was out of school. And Aunt Polly Tucker made the pies this morning while I was in town." "Aunt Polly Tucker? Not the Aunt Polly from our home town is it?" "The same. I'm sure there could be no duplicate of Aunt Polly." "They don't grow in pairs," laughed Leonora, using Aunt Polly's own idiom. "I'm going to call her up right now." And Aunt Polly was at the door, calling out her sunny greeting before Leonora had scarcely finished her dessert. "Lennie, you don't grow a day older, do you?" queried she. "No, Aunt Polly, I quit having birthdays years ago," laughed Leonora. "So did I, Lennie, and I never miss 'em. But tell me, girl, how's all the folks? What's goin' on at home anyway?" "Just rolling along, Aunt Polly, Not a ripple of anything unusual." "You're not married I guess." "No, not yet." "How's the Barton twins and Sally Davis? And what's become of old man Dougan? Have they finished the Church yet? Why girl, there's a hundred things I want to know." And so the old time reminiscences ran on. BILLY awakened and showed Miss Willis the Christmas-tree and the place for his and Sister's stockings. Leonora, strictly against family rule, rocked Ruth to sleep before she had eaten her evening meal and gave Billy a generous piece of mince-pie. After Aunt Polly left, Leonora cleaned her shoes and pressed her suit. "I wonder if you'd mind catching up that little snag in my skirt, Mildred," she asked, as casually as if she had known Mildred for years. "I'm so awkward with a needle." "And I guess I'll have to trouble you for some tissue paper and a ball of cord. I have a few Christmas presents I want to wrap. Billy can help me." "You bring the scissors, Billy dear, and I'll let you put on the Christmas seals." Mildred was glad to darn the tiny tear in the beautiful skirt, and to find the needed articles for Leonora. Later, too, she put away the ironing board and the shoe brushes and cleaned up the scraps of paper and string. So that altogether, by the time John came, the perfect blonde had ceased to be an awesome guest, and had established herself on good-fellowship terms with Mildred, and made a willing, happy bond slave of little Billy. Leonora greeted John with a kiss, and all unmindful of his blushing self-conscious manner, laughingly narrated her adventure of arriving cold and empty, and carrying her bag from the station. "Next time you'll remember to tell me what train you're taking," bantered John, "so I can meet you with the car." In the midst of the greetings there was a call to the door, and Mildred hurried out to learn that a delivery boy had come with the set of books—John's Christmas present. He gave her a receipt for that last precious payment and deposited the box in the basement. "What a narrow escape," breathed Mildred, "After all these weeks of stealthily guarding the secret, it would have been disastrous had John answered the door." Lest John might ask some question about the delivery, she announced carelessly, "That turkey is a beauty, John, I'm sure. I thank you for attending to that for me." "Glad it suited," acknowledged John. "I told Harry to be sure it was young and fat." "It looks to be both," informed Mildred. A half hour later she surveyed the ice box anxiously, wondering by what dietetic magic she could convert her left-overs into a semblance of a formal, balanced, attractive dinner. Leonora relieved the situation, however, by calling from the dining room, "Don't attempt to serve a hot meal tonight, Mildred. John and I are going down town. I have to do a little shopping and we may decide to go to a show. I wouldn't dare eat again so soon, or I couldn't sleep. And I know John will be satisfied with a lunch so we can be going right away." John graciously consented to her plans and they were soon ready. "We'll not be late," he promised, kissing Mildred and Billy goodnight. "Sorry you're not going, too." AFTER tenderly tucking Billy in for the night, Mildred went back to the interrupted letter to her mother. After it was finished she remembered that she must unwrap her mother's parcel and exchange the greeting card for one bearing Leonora's name. She went to John's desk to get the parcel but it was gone. She could not locate it anywhere. John must have taken it with him to mail it. Now she was in a dilemma. She could have cried from sheer vexation. She felt that bad luck had been winging itself in her wake all day. She waited up for John and Leonora. It was nearly midnight when they came. She cut her Christmas cake and wanted to serve them a hot drink but they would not taste the cake nor drink anything warm. "We had a light lunch at the cafe after the show," announced Leonora. Mildred had to confess to herself that she did not like the high-handed way in which her guest was upsetting the household arrangements. It was altogether too Bohemian. Sunday morning Leonora arose early. She came into the kitchen where Mildred was preparing breakfast. "By the way, Mildred," she drawled, easily, "I've changed my plans about Christmas. I've decided to leave this afternoon." And before Mildred could remonstrate, she turned to John and asked, "Can't you take me down to Cousin Laura's place this morning?" John was preparing to attend an important Church meeting, but his sense of hospitality demanded that he should carry out her desires. "What time can you be back, Leonora?" he asked. "I seldom tie myself with promises," she announced, "but I think, perhaps, we could be back about three." Mildred gave her approval, laughing bravely to hide her disappointment. When they were ready to leave, Leonora kissed Billy good-bye and waved blithely to Mildred. Mildred came back to the disordered rooms somewhat reluctantly. This was a real adventure, to stand passively by and watch your husband's old sweetheart walk out into the morning sunshine beside him, and imperiously put to naught your most careful plans. But it must be met graciously. It was now only ten o'clock. By hurrying a little, she could put her rooms in order, care for the babies, and have the Christmas dinner—turkey, fruit pudding, and all—ready to serve by three o'clock. It was the magnanimous thing to do. And she was determined to give the full measure of her gracious hospitality to John's old sweetheart. She decided to use her new steam cooker for the preparation of her dinner. Accordingly, the young, plump turkey was stuffed and trussed and fastened by the legs to the top part of the steamer. The fruit pudding was in a covered receptacle in another compartment of the same steamer. After carefully watching her dinner for some time to make sure that everything was just right, she finally closed the cooker and with calm assurance began to put the rooms in order. There were numberless tasks to be done in order to have everything immaculate by three o'clock. And her thoughts were preoccupied. She had finished the rooms and had come in to prepare the vegetables, when she suddenly realized that she had not looked to the fowl for some time. Hurrying to the stove she opened the cooker and her heart almost failed her. "Oh," she moaned, "what a pitiful wreck." Closing the cooker she dropped into a chair and burying her face in her arms she sobbed softly. All of her best resolves were oozing out in self pity for her miserable failure. But there were footsteps on the porch and she looked up into Aunt Polly's smiling countenance. "Now, now, my girl, it's not so bad as that," she soothed. "Open that steamer," challenged Mildred, "and you'll see it's not mere emotionalism I'm exhibiting." AUNT POLLY opened the receptacle and peered in solemnly at the cause of Mildred's collapse. Then slowly turning around her face mellowed in a rippling laugh. "If it wasn't so funny," she said, "it would be tragic." She laughed until her eyes were moist with tears, and Mildred's were bright with laughter. "That poor old turk," chuckled Aunt Polly. "Them two drum sticks look so pitiful danglin' from the top of that steamer, while the proud old fellow lies in a mangled heap that way, rollin' in his own dressin'. But it could be worse. 'What the eye don't see' you know—Say, Mildred, just run in the other room for a minute and see what Billy and Ruth are needin'. When I whistle you come back." Mildred waited anxiously for some minutes before she came hurrying back in answer to the shrill little whistle. "You're a magician, Aunt Polly," she exclaimed. "You've put Humpty Dumpty together again." There was the big fat turkey all properly trussed and lying sedately in a buttered pan ready for the oven. "When that turkey's on the platter all brown and garnished," said Aunt Polly, "no one'll know the difference but you and me. And we'll not be sayin' anything. He's so tender he'll melt in their mouths." "You're the saving grace of all my disasters," confessed Mildred, winking back the tears. "What good is a neighbor if you can't use 'em once in awhile when you're in a pinch?" To herself, Aunt Polly ruminated, "That girl's homesick just like I told John." It was four o'clock. The Christmas dinner waited in the oven for the belated John and Leonora. The children were getting restless. "I'm going to give them their dinner," announced Mildred. "And we may as well eat with them." "Just as well," consented Aunt Polly. "Let's eat in the kitchen." "No," said Mildred, decidedly. "A Christmas dinner tastes better served properly. We'll have the best. Linen and silver, candlesticks and all." Billy and Ruth were elated. "Oh, see the big turkey and the Christmas candles," exclaimed Billy. They were so happy over the lighted candles and the decorations they could scarcely eat the carefully selected portions of food their mother had placed on their plates. Mildred and Aunt Polly tried to be cheerful. Once Mildred looked up and smiled. "I have an uncanny feeling," she said, "that John and Leonora are standing in that doorway watching us." "Pay no attention to 'em, Mildred, just laugh 'em out of countenance," advised Aunt Polly, seriously. "I used to have a neighbor who always imagined her mother-in-law was standin' in the door way dictatin' the sunshine out of her life. 'What makes you tolerate such intrusion?' I asked her. 'How can I change it?' she asked, helplessly. 'Put her to work,' says I. 'That'll rout any ghost. Just smile pleasantly and say, "Good mornin' Mother, Come right in. Just set down and dry the dishes while I wash 'em." Keep up a line of pleasant talk, and she'll not stay long.'" "I feel sorry for women who worry about their in-laws, and the bitter things their husbands say about it," remarked Mildred. "So do I," replied Aunt Polly. "I used to worry some over things Sam said that hurt me. But, lawsey me, 'taint no use. These days, when he begins to crab around, I know he's needin' a tonic or a fishin' trip, and I just set about plannin' a good dinner and don't hear a word he says. After he's all through I look up smilin' and say, 'What's that you say, Samuel? Was you speakin' to me?' And he says, 'No, not particular, Polly.' And that ends it." "That's certainly a cheerful way of avoiding commotion," laughed Mildred. "Well, men's men and women's women, and you can't change 'em. God didn't intend they should be alike or he'd cut 'em all by one pattern. And there's things about a house that men don't know nothin' about. And there's no use wastin' tears and energy tryin' to teach 'em. If you need sympathy go and tell your mother or some woman you can trust. Bein' a woman she'll understand, and give you the word you'll need to get by on. But when it comes to the big lessons of life, and death, and happiness, no woman on earth can take the place of your husband." After a few minutes of silence Aunt Polly went on, "To my notion, naggin' is a positive crime. Now when Sam comes in in a bilious state of mind, I pray silently, 'Dear Lord, please excuse Sam, he doesn't mean to be so cross. He'll feel better when his stomach is full.'" THE fire on the grate glowed softly as Mildred sat on a low chair and told Billy and Ruth the story of the first Christmas. Aunt Polly rocked in her chair as she sang them some little songs that her mother used to sing to her on Christmas eve. Billy hung his stocking and Ruth had to be lifted up to hang hers. Then they knelt by their mother's knee and said their prayers. When they were asleep, Aunt Polly and Mildred brought the box of books up from the basement, and placed it behind the tree. Mildred had emptied one shelf in the book case thinking to put them there, but she decided that John would enjoy opening the box himself. "He loves to touch the beautifully tooled leather," she said "and feel the smooth surface of the linen paper under his fingers. To him, a well made book is a priceless treasure." "He'll get a world of joy out of 'em," said Aunt Polly. Drawing out a large drawer in John's desk, to make room for the books she had removed from the case, Mildred was surprised to find her mother's parcel. John had not mailed it, after all. And that reminded her that she had not mailed her Christmas letter to her mother. It was too late now. She placed them on top of the box of books. "We'll let Santa Claus take them to her," she said ironically. "Perhaps he is not too busy." Papers and booklets were cluttered up on John's desk. "If I attempt to put them away," she explained to Aunt Polly, "John never can find what he wants. So I let him straighten it when he gets ready." "Men are all alike that way," asserted Aunt Polly, "only some are more so. Sam is decidedly more so. When we was first married it worried me, and I'd call his attention to it gentle like, so as not to offend him. As months went by I spoke of it more hefty, you might say. But lawsey me, it didn't do no good. You'd have to almost disfigure Sam to get him to be orderly. I wanted peace in the home, so I just went about the house pickin' up after Sam, and smoothin' out his clothes and his temper, as if it was a joy and a privilege, which it is now. Why, land sakes, I'd feel lost if I'd come into a room after Sam had been in a few minutes, and find things orderly. I'd know he was sick, which he would be, too." "You'll miss him while he's at Frank's, every day." "Miss him? Why life wouldn't be worth livin' without Sam. He'll be back next week and I'll sure be glad of that." The hours wore on, ten, eleven, twelve o'clock; and still Mildred and Polly sat before the fire alone. Mildred did not try any longer to conceal her uneasiness. Groundless fears were consuming her. "They may have met with an accident. Shall we call the hospital?" "The hospital will call you if they are there." "Do you think—they surely couldn't—Oh, Aunt Polly, shall I call the police?" "No," was Aunt Polly's uncompromising reply. "This is one of the times when you have to sit tight and pray earnestly. Don't let your faith or courage waver. Men like John, don't go bad over night." "Will you pray with me?" And Mildred's pleading eyes held a nameless fear. The two women knelt beside the bed where the sleeping children lay. Mildred's brown curls clustered close against the white locks of the older woman. Aunt Polly's voice was soft and clear as she made her humble petition. When they arose Mildred kissed her gently. "Thank you so much," she said. "It is all right." The children slept quietly. It was nearly two o'clock. "Can't you lie down?" asked Mildred. "No, we'll just sit here together. They'll be coming soon now," said Aunt Polly, reassuringly. In less than half an hour she hurried to open the front door as footsteps and voices neared the house. Mildred waited by the fire-place trying to calm her fluttering heart, as she recognized John's voice. She must meet this situation bravely and becomingly. "What alibi," she wondered, "Would Leonora offer for this breach of conventional behavior?" And then she was held close in John's arms. "I've brought you a Christmas present," he whispered, as he kissed her tenderly. "Mother!" "Mildred, my girl." THEN followed hurried explanations of a wrecked train that had finally been transferred to another track. And the story of the long anxious hours John had spent waiting at the station for the delayed coach to arrive: not knowing, himself, whether the mother would be one of the fortunate passengers to arrive alive and safe, or whether she would be one of those left behind lying maimed or crushed in some hospital. "Your mother and I planned this surprise weeks ago," he explained, "and I hated to spoil it all. Besides I did not know just what news I might have to bring you when the train did not arrive. All that I could have told you, would only have added to your anxiety rather than allayed it. So I decided all I could do was to wait for your Mother's arrival." After the explanations and greetings were over John sat munching walnuts and smiling into the fireplace. "Aren't any of you interested enough in Leonora Willis to inquire about her?" he asked. "And who is Leonora Willis?" questioned Mildred's mother. "She's my guest," confessed Mildred. "And in the joy of seeing you, Mother, and having John back safely, I had almost forgotten." "It's about time you spoke up young man," volunteered Aunt Polly. "Do you realize how many hours its been since you left this house with Lennie Willis?" "I realize that it's hours longer than I expected it would be. But I was lawfully detained." "You could have called up," insisted Aunt Polly. Mildred looked around the circle of happy faces, and across at the sleeping children. She patted John's hand tenderly. What did it matter after all? Was not her cup of joy already running over? How much more of heaven did Aunt Polly expect on this Christmas morning? "Now listen, Aunt Polly," said John, contritely. "I was under solemn promise to keep a secret for Leonora until Christmas morning. It is now two-thirty," he said looking at his watch. "So I'm at liberty to tell you, that Dave Miller eloped with Leonora Willis last night. They were married at that little church south of the bridge, and left on the 10 p. m. California Limited for their honeymoon." "John," gasped Aunt Polly, incredulously, "if that's true I can forgive you everything. Why, Dave's been tryin' for seven years to marry Lennie. Tell me, how did he manage it?" "Well, knowing how she loved romance," explained John, "he conceived the idea of an elopement and a Christmas in the sunny South." John's eyes were half closed in merriment. "John Gordon," challenged Aunt Polly, "you planned that elopement yourself, and you know it. Dave Miller never would have thought of it in a life time." "Say, Mildred," smiled John, "I think your mother's half starved. Can't you give us a 'hand out'?" "It's all prepared, John, from roast turkey to plum pudding. Turn on the heat and I'll set the table." "You'll do nothing of the sort," countermanded Mildred's mother. "We're all going to bed and get a little sleep before these children wake up and begin to celebrate. John, right there in the top of my bag is a parcel. It's a red-robed Santa Claus for Billy. Where do you want it Mildred?" "On the mantle, Mother, just above their stockings," smiled Mildred. "John you had better look to the furnace. Mother and Aunt Polly can sleep in the room next to mine, it's all ready for my Christmas guest. I'm so happy I'm afraid I can't even go to sleep."
If They Need Me By Josephine Gardner Moench "I'M so tired of everything. It's hurry home and get the supper, hurry and clean the house, hurry and get my lessons." Lila's childish face was the picture of weariness and despair as she sat down to the table and picked up her books. "If Dad would only come home he could cook dinner and you wouldn't have to do that," said her older brother, Dick, a boy of fourteen. He was grieved at the despair in her voice. "And Daddie can cook as good things as Mother," said eight-year-old Alice. "I'll say he can," agreed Dick. "Wasn't it fun that time Mother had the measles and we all had to be quarantined and Dad did the cooking." Lila's tired eyes brightened as she added: "And he never quit teasing Mother about growing little again and getting the measles, and he made jokes about everything, and we had the most fun." "If he would only come home I'm sure Mother wouldn't cry every night when she thinks we are asleep," Dick said, "But he won't come. I wrote and asked Uncle Cal why he doesn't come home if he can't find work out there. I got his answer today. I know it will make Mother cry so I'm not going to tell her. Uncle Cal said that Dad vowed he wouldn't come home and be the star boarder while Mother has to teach school and earn the living." "How can we have Christmas without him? Who'll give us our Christmas money?" asked Alice quickly. "I don't know, it takes every penny Mother earns to make the payments on the house and buy our food and clothing," answered Lila. "But I've been thinking we could have a Christmas without money." "How can we buy presents without money?" "I know some presents I would rather have than money presents. If you would hurry and get the dishes done and not dawdle, and Dick would remember the fire always, and you would both put your things where they belong, it would be much better than a money present." "I know what I can do," said Dick. "I can make you a book and fill it with merit marks like the merit badges we have in scouting." "And I can make one and fill it with silver stars like we do in the Blue Bird class." "I'll make one too, only we will all make them for Mother. Let's begin tonight and have everything done so she won't have to remind us of a thing. And I will write a letter to Dad and tell him to bring himself home for his present to us. I'll write it now and Dick can post it before Mother gets home." WHEN NORMA ALLERTON came home from an exhausting day, Lila hurried to warm her dinner and Dick took her coat and hat and hung them up as her husband might have done. Alice took off her boots and put them away as she told of their plans for a Christmas without money. "Make a book for me too," Mrs. Allerton said, "and paste in it a star for every time I remember to do the things for you children that I have been neglecting so lately." That night, for the first time since her school began, Mrs. Allerton spent a full night in refreshing sleep. Who knows but that it was the unseen influence of the children's letter speeding on its way to the husband she loved so much, whom she seemed to have lost. The man so bowed and helpless who had said good-bye the day her school began was certainly not her Hal of a year ago. The year of searching for employment had taken heavy toll of his buoyancy and youth. When the savings were gone and it became evident that she would have to go back to teaching, he had gone away to a distant city, to a brother who had repeatedly written that it was useless for him to come there to seek work. THE City of N...... was brimming over with the Christmas spirit in spite of the grave situation of unemployment. Never had it seemed more beautiful. Cal Allerton's perplexity was all the more poignant because of it. Heretofore Christmas had never disturbed his bachelor routine to any great extent. He had given generously to charity, but that meant only writing a check and denying himself for a short time some of his accustomed comforts. But Christmas this year presented a problem with which he was in no way able to cope. His brother, Hal, who had never once in all his married life spent Christmas away from his wife and children now stoutly refused to go home. What was Cal to do? In the midst of his perplexity he reached home to find Hal, erect and smiling, hurriedly packing his suitcase. "I am going home Cal. Read this letter—isn't she the clever kid—did you get what she said about my cooking when her mother had the measles—do you see that tear? Imagine the poor, tired kid hurrying home from school to cook dinner for the family. I'll accept the price of a ticket home Cal, but no more. Do you see what she said about a Christmas without money? What's money if they need me? Get me to the station, will you? I mustn't miss that train." * * * "SAY, Lila, what's Dad's big rush every morning to get the work all done before we start to school?" Dick asked one morning as they left a clean and orderly house. "He laughs when I ask him and says he likes to go early for the groceries so he can walk part way with Mother. He doesn't need to get all the work done before he goes. I should think he would like to have something left to do while we are all gone." "Maybe he takes all day cooking dinner—he gets such good ones," Lila answered. "We'll have our books chuck full of merit badges and stars with Dad helping us all the time." When the children reached home on the afternoon before Christmas the house was decorated with Holly wreaths, and a beautiful Christmas tree stood in the accustomed place. "Some one broke the rule and spent some money," Lila exclaimed, her eyes lighting up at the sight. "A present from the grocer," Mr. Allerton answered. He didn't add that he had spent several hours the week before helping to unload the shipment of trees and holly in return for the grocer's "present." After dinner the children brought out the Christmas decorations which they kept from year to year and Mrs. Allerton put on a kitchen apron for the first time since her husband's return and went into the kitchen to make some of their favorite candy. Hal went out, saying he had found a little work down town and would be late getting home. About midnight he drove up to the house in a truck and went in quietly to see if they were all sleeping. Finding the house quiet, he returned to the truck and carried in, piece by piece, the four articles of furniture on which he had been so faithfully working in order to finish them in time for Christmas. There was a desk for Norma, a cedar chest for Lila, a typewriting table for Dick, and a doll bed for Alice. They had given him so much happiness that there seemed something human about them as they stood beside the tree. The drudgery of unloading lumber and cement and cleaning and straightening the shop to pay for the materials was forgotten. The last weight had been lifted from his shoulders with the promise of the shop foreman. "We'll make a place for you, Hal, after the holidays." Hal looked up at the tree and a blue bird which seemed to be flying toward him from the white background of a Christmas card drew his attention. He took it down and read: "To Hal from Norma. "A symbol of the happiness brought back by my boyish Hal, "Who once was dead and is alive again."
For Six at Christmas-Tide By Elsie Talmage Brandley Around a table where the lamplight spreads A ring of warmth, a pool of golden cheer, Sit six I love, with pencils poised, and brows Drawn into lines of puzzlement severe; Of vital import is the work at hand— To Santa Claus they write of little schemes, To tell him of their needs and wants and hopes, To ask him to remember all their dreams. Their names are signed, and, ere the dream-fraught page Shall flutter, flame-borne, up the chimney-place, They ask that I shall read with critic's eye; Anxiety is stamped on each young face. * * * To bed they troop, eyes full of distances— So many things to make them glad they see; Their letter safely off, their prayer well-said, They give themselves to slumber, peacefully. Tonight six children rest in deep repose, Their slates of life all clear, their troubles few; Tomorrow they will be six women grown, With all the problems of the world in view. They ask for party-dress with silken sheen; For necklace on a white young throat to wear; For books and games; for fruit and candy sweet; A wrist-watch, and a doll with curly hair— * * * My eyes grow misty, and the fire-flames Are silver stars and arrows to my sight. Where shall I seek to find for them the gifts That I would put in stockings six tonight? I would find magic fabric for a gown To wrap its wearer close in happiness; Its folds to be a cloak of modesty, Its silver gleam white innocence to dress. I would find jewel of luster pure and clear— The thoughts and hopes of radiant maidenhood; Its setting simple, as the purest joy Is found in simple task and quiet good. Their books should whisper from the pages new Secrets of laughter and of hallowed tears; Their games enchanted be—the games of life, And rules to play them fair throughout the years. Where to find sweets of spirit, and of heart? Of kindly words to help along the way? Where grow the fruits of years well-lived and loved?— These would I put in stockings six, today! The watch should tick away throughout the hours And measure only moments glad and gay, And sound a little chime when danger nears, And warn temptations, fraught with fear, away. A doll I'd find endowed with power to speak And whisper all the joys of motherhood; With hands to grasp the heartstrings of a girl And guide her into pathways light and good. * * * I seek in vain for magic frock and jewel; For witchery of time-piece, silver-chimed. And drop, instead, a wordless little prayer That life will bring the gifts I cannot find. * * * And when their childhood days are put aside, May they dream dreams for six, at Christmas-tide!
Elder John H. Taylor One of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies By Carl A. Badger JOHN H. TAYLOR, recently chosen one of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies, was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, on June 28, 1875. His birth place was a three roomed typical pioneer structure that still stands just north of the Jackson School between First and Second North Streets on Seventh West Street. His father was Thomas Edward Taylor, a son of President John Taylor, and his wife, Elizabeth Keighen. John's mother, Emma Louise Harris, was the daughter of Thomas Harris and Elizabeth Morris Harris, both of them English by birth. John attended the Fourteenth Ward Sunday School and among his earliest teachers he recalls John W. Taylor and Mathias F. Cowley, afterwards Apostles, and the late Henry Elder who taught him the life of Christ. The first school was in the Fourteenth Ward Meeting House. Later he went to the Eighteenth Ward Seminary under Gideon M. Mumford. Among those who attended school at the same time was a girl who was very much provoked that the other girls would not play baseball with the boys and who enjoyed using a boy's baseball bat. Had John known that this girl would someday be his wife he would have paid more attention to her and perhaps the interest would have been mutual, though strange to say neither of the persons vitally concerned can now recall the other of those days. JOHN'S father had a hay, grain and produce business and John early became acquainted with the tasks of sorting potatoes and candling eggs. Truthfulness necessitates the admission that he was not enamored of these duties. As a boy John sang alto in the Tabernacle Choir and worshipped from afar soloists Bessie Dean Allison and Viola Pratt Gillett. He almost grew up in the theatre. His grandfather Taylor always had a box for the use of the family. John took his turn with the other grandchildren in kneeling down by the box rail and watching the performance. His grandfather Harris was door keeper so there was no keeping John away from the show house. He sold ice cream in the dizzy heights of the third circle, and then achieved a boyish ambition by acting the part of a girl in the juvenile opera "Billy Taylor." John also attended school for some time in the old Brigham Young School House which stood on the present site of the Bransford Apartments. Finally he reached the Fremont School on Second West and was graduated therefrom under the teachership of the wife of the present Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Utah, Mrs. D. N. Straup. For a short time he went to the old Salt Lake High School, across the street south from Temple Square. Charles Gillilan was principal. Here he played on the high school football team. Later he went to the L. D. S. College. In those days there was a strong disinclination on the part of Church School authorities to encourage what was regarded as the dangerous sport of football, and John who was very much interested in the game joined a team of local celebrity organized by the Y. M. C. A. On this team John T. Axton, who afterwards became Chaplain General of the United States Armies during the World War was center. John was a football hero. His friends remember a famous game played against the University of Utah on a muddy football field in which he made a long run. This was the only game which his mother ever witnessed. For easily understandable reasons he did not encourage her presence at football exhibitions. John's friends were very much interested in his football activities and they still remember the almost unrecognizable, mud-be-spattered champion who bore the applause of the crowd and the keen admiration of his friends with modesty and silence. John had by this time developed the characteristics which were to remain outstanding through life. He said nothing during the game. His way was to act, not to talk. He accepted the rulings of the umpire without protest and was regarded by everyone as a "good sport." He played the game with every ounce of energy in his powerful body. John graduated from the L. D. S. College, which was then situated on First North Street on the old Ellerbeck property in 1895. At the L. D. S. College there was formed a group of young men and women who took themselves very seriously! They used to meet once a week and discuss the problems of personal, community, national and international wellbeing. On one occasion each of them solemnly arose and declared his ideals and life's ambitions. JOHN was not yet twenty-one when on January 25, 1896, he left home for a mission to England. He was set apart for his mission and ordained a Seventy by President Heber J. Grant, then an Apostle. The mission lasted for two years. John served most of the time as clerk of the Nottingham Conference. President Anthon H. Lund was there presiding over the European Mission at this time. It was almost as hard for a returned missionary to find work in 1898 when John returned, as it is now, and he can recall how when he applied for a job in handling freight at the U. P. Freight Offices the man looked him over and told him that his clothes and his hands indicated that he was not cut out to "juggle" freight. John then served a short apprenticeship in dentistry with Dr. T. A. Clawson, now Bishop of the Eighteenth Ward. In 1898 he went to Chicago and enrolled in the Chicago College of Dental Surgery. FATE had a novel way of promoting publicity of the engagement between John and Ray. At the close of the first year he developed appendicitis and President Grant took John's mother and his daughter on a hurried trip to Chicago. This precipitated the announcement of the engagement of the young couple and the marriage took place September 20, 1899. Mrs. Taylor went with her husband to Chicago for his second year's training where they went through the mild hardships of cramped quarters, the top circle of the theatre on Saturday nights, and the strictly limited budget of expenditures that was the normal lot of the ambitious young married folk of those days. Upon his graduation Mr. and Mrs. Taylor went to live in Forest Dale Ward where they purchased a home in what was a favorite locality for those starting married life, but which in those days was not overly supplied with street cars. IN 1907 Brother Taylor was called to the Netherlands Mission where he remained for three years, laboring in the French speaking section of Belgium. He then returned and after a post graduate course at his old school in Chicago, aimed to give familiarity with the newest methods, he again commenced practice of his profession at home. Unfortunately, as he deeply felt on account of the strain of his work on his eyes he relinquished his profession, and shortly after was called by President Joseph F. Smith to act as director of athletics in the Y. M. M. I. A. Athletics had assumed a more insistent place in the development of youth and it was felt necessary to give them some direction. Brother Taylor supervised the intensive courses of instruction given to young men called from all over the Church for the purpose of developing leaders in athletics. Scouting came to the front about this time and Brother Taylor introduced it in the Mutual Improvement organization. Later the Mutual Improvement Association of Scouts affiliated with the National organization. In 1913 he was appointed the first Scout Commissioner in Utah when the local group was chartered by the National organization. Brother Taylor served for twelve years in connection with the Mutual Improvement Association as field man, necessitating constant travelling and absence from home. IN 1923 he was called to preside over the Northern States Mission headquarters at Chicago, Illinois. This position he held for a little over five years. In 1928 he was released and given charge of the Missionary Home at Salt Lake City, a position which he still holds. During his term of service more than 4,000 missionaries have passed through the home, most of them receiving a two weeks course in preliminary and intensive training for their service in the field. AN outstanding quality in the leadership of young men as exhibited by President Taylor has been his quiet and unassuming attitude towards those with whom he has worked. He has always believed in and has made operative in his various undertakings with young men what may be called the honor system. Men who come to the Mission Home, as was the case in the Mission over which President Taylor presided, are informed by him that he trusts them, that they are responsible to God and themselves, and that he relies upon them to do their full and complete duty. In his long experience with thousands of young men, President Taylor says that he finds that this method, the only one which he feels he can successfully use, has brought the desired response in heightened appreciation and faithful performances of duty. WHEN called upon publicly in the Tabernacle to speak after his appointment to the high position which he now holds, President Taylor referred feelingly to the supreme influences in his life represented by his mother and his wife. It is fitting that a few words be said of the splendid character and useful life of Emma Harris Taylor, the mother of President Taylor. At the good age of eighty-one years she still smiles at life and with serene confidence looks forward to the future. As a child of four years she crossed the plains in an ox team. Brother Taylor is the third of her family of fifteen children. The young people of today would open wide their eyes at a table normally spread three times a day for about twenty persons. Throughout her busy life she has exemplified high qualities of gentleness, serenity, self-control and love. The performance of duty was to her a joy. Life held within the confines of her home an abundant reward for high and unselfish service. With gentle words and loving deeds she filled the hours of a long, useful life and her reward follows her in the riches that are far above mere material things. In these days when we are attracted by so much that is shallow and unimportant in all of the activities of life it is restful and inspiring to remember the lives of those who have been earnest and joyous in the accomplishment of hard but worthwhile tasks. In addition to the performance of the labors of wife and mother, Rachel Grant Taylor has shared with her husband the duties and responsibilities of his missionary undertakings and other public callings. She, while in the Mission Field, presided over and worked with the Relief Society and experienced the satisfaction which comes from participation in the cultural and social activities of the mature womanhood of the Church. Since her return she has been the mother of the Missionary Home, and has thereby met thousands of young men and young women entering upon what to many of them is the greatest experience of their lives, the years spent in proclaiming the Gospel of Christ. She is a woman of strong character, having a high sense of duty, and shares with her husband a deep appreciation of the humorous situations of life. If an attempt were to be made to summarize the character of John H. Taylor it would be that he is dependable and faithful to the limit. He possesses strength and executive ability with unassuming and modest exterior, and depends for results upon calling forth from others their best service. He is considerate and has a deep and abiding sense of humor. He will always be found at the post of duty.
Anne Brent, Helpmate By Elsie Chamberlain Carroll ANNE opened her eyes in the darkness and lay listening. Yes, it was one of the twins crying. Jan's tooth must be aching again. She slipped from the bed, carefully not to waken Peter, and hurried up stairs to find the little fellow sitting up in bed holding a swollen cheek. She brought the hot-water bottle and cotton and oil of cloves from the bath room as she chided herself for neglecting to make an appointment with the dentist when the child had complained several days ago. Before she had Jan quieted, Jean was awake and she had to tell them the story of the little prince and the big white elephant before they were willing for her to turn off the light and go back to bed. As Anne started down the hall she heard the clock in the dining room strike three. A hint of dawn was coming in at the window at the head of the stairs. She had taken two steps down when she noticed that the door to Quint's room was open. Her heart came to her throat with a strange dread. If it had been any of the other doors along the hall—but Quint always kept his closed. He demanded privacy. He was the only one of the children that at times completely baffled Anne. Often she felt as if she would give the world to know what was going on back of his dark smouldering eyes. And since he was mixed in a gang escapade a few months before, she had wracked her brain to find some means of breaking down the wall of reserve he kept around him. Morris had passed through adolescence without giving them this kind of worry at least. Before she entered the room Anne knew she would not find Quint there. Where could he be? Was he with the gang again? Was it possible their lesson had not been sufficient? She felt as if she could not go again through the agony she had suffered over the boy's delinquency. The covers of the bed had not even been turned down. Anne's fingers gripped the cord of her faded bath-robe as she wondered what to do. Should she waken Peter? He had seemed so stern before and she wondered if that unwavering sense of right Peter always exhibited was one thing that kept Quint isolated from them. She knew that Peter loved the children as much as she did and was as interested in their welfare and was as willing to work and sacrifice for them. But she never had been able to acquire his philosophic way of looking at their mistakes and weaknesses over which she worried so much. He argued that if they did all they could for the children—they'd given them a good name, clean, healthy bodies, a comfortable home, training in decent habits, and better than average opportunities—then it was up to the children themselves to make good, and if they didn't, that he and she shouldn't spoil their own lives worrying over what they couldn't help. This sounded sensible, but she couldn't put the theory into practice. Now as she stood helplessly looking down at Quint's empty bed, she wondered how she could endure such anxiety and yearning as filled her heart. She decided not to waken Peter. Perhaps he would get up and scour the town because of her suffering, or he would call up the parents of the other boys, or even the police, and she felt that none of these things would help. She must find a way to Quint's confidence. That was the only solution. So she stole down stairs and back to bed and lay thinking, wondering, praying. She could hear the clock ticking off the slow seconds. It struck four, then half past. Then at last she heard the board at the foot of the back stairs creak. She held her breath to make sure. The next to-the-top step would creak also. The welcome sound came and tears of relief ran over her cheeks. Peter turned at her stifled sobs and asked sleepily. "What's the matter?" She lay perfectly still and soon his regular breathing was resumed. But Anne did not sleep. She saw the dawn creep in at the windows and outline the familiar objects in the room. There was Peter's traveling bag on a chair by the dresser, packed all but for his shaving things, for his trip to Layton. She wondered if this merger he was going to see about would bring all the advantages to their little mercantile business Peter thought it would. Might it not be just another of the big ideas that came to him frequently with a lack of feasibility he could not see? Well, she must not worry about that. If Peter thought it was a good thing, she was going to try to think so too. Anne thought of the heavy day ahead, the ironing to finish, the beans to pick and can, seeing about Jan going to the dentist, fixing Gloria's green dress so she could go to the class outing—trying to win Quint's confidence so he would explain. Oh, she must do that. She couldn't endure this nightmare of worry. She must get that box off to Suzanne with the books and sketches she had asked for. She wondered just how interested Suzanne was in the European professor she mentioned in nearly every letter lately. She didn't like some of the things she said about his philosophy—what was it, she tried to recall, in this last letter? Something about "individual emancipation," "courage to turn aside from time-worn conventions." Could it be that Suzanne was taking on some type of dangerous free-thinking? Anne sighed. One's worries with a family didn't end, as most young parents think, when the children are grown-up. No. Not even when they were married. Why she worried just as much over Morris and Phyllis and little Junior as she had worried over Morris when he was Junior's age. She wished Phyllis was a little more competent. Perhaps all mothers had that feeling about their daughters-in-law, but she had had a feeling lately that Morris was becoming indifferent to Phyllis. Why couldn't he have taken her's and Peter's advice and waited until he was through college before marrying? Then perhaps he would have chosen a girl with a little more depth and maturity. Well, she mustn't cross their bridges for them. ANNE was just dozing off when Peter awoke. He began to stretch and yawn and scratch his head. She wished he didn't make such a fuss about waking up. She felt sleepy now, and he had told her not to get up to fix his breakfast. He'd take a glass of milk and some fruit and eat later during the half hour the train stopped at Castle Junction. Of course she knew that Peter had known even while he was telling her that she would get up and cook his eggs and toast and cereal. She believed she would just take him at his word this time and try to get an hour's sleep. But as soon as Peter got into the bath room he began hacking and clearing his throat in that annoying way that had always provoked her, and she knew that she couldn't go to sleep now. As Anne dressed, she recalled how she used to suffer over that throat-clearing habit of Peter's. She had let it get on her nerves during the first year they were married, until she had felt she couldn't endure it. Then one day she had told Peter about it when they were having a little quarrel over something else, and he had retorted that he guessed she had some irritating habits too. But when she had demanded that he name them, he had gathered her into his arms and said "Let's forget it," and never in all their twenty-four years of married life had she been quite sure that she knew just which habits he had meant. She smiled now at the thought of how upset she had been over such a little thing as the way a man cleared his throat. SHE slipped into the kitchen through the dining room, went to the laundry room to wash and smooth her hair, so that when Peter came into the kitchen she had his breakfast ready as a little surprise. Once Mattie Daniels, a neighbor, had asked Anne what she considered the chief essential for keeping happiness in the home and Anne had answered, "Surprises." Peter had given her the hint which had developed into this surprise practice of hers, years ago when she used to make out menus for a week or a month at a time and hang them above the sink. "I wish you'd hide those things," he had said. "A man doesn't want to know what he's going to eat a month ahead of time." When he came out and exclaimed over the breakfast and told her she shouldn't have done it, Anne felt as pleased as if this same routine hadn't been repeated every time Peter had gone out of town for years. Although Anne was tempted to talk about Quint, or the disconcerting allusions in Suzanne's letter, she refrained. Instead she led Peter to talk of the merger and of the benefit this whole part of the state would receive from it. He glowed when he elaborated on the particular big idea he was fostering in his mind at any given time. And even though Anne couldn't find much enthusiasm in his plans—they had failed so many times— she loved to hear him and watch him when he was under the spell of one of them. Then he was magnificent and she saw him as he might have been had he not inherited his grandfather Lancaster's impracticability, along with his father's vision and enthusiasm. AFTER Peter had gone Anne started briskly on her day's work. She started a fire in the laundry range for the canning. Then she went out to gather beans. She should have called Quint to help her, but she knew boys of sixteen must have their sleep, and besides she hadn't decided what to do about his being out. She wished she could do or say something that would cause him to confide in her before he went to the service station. Both Quint and Gloria worked at thecombination store and service station owned by Peter. After picking a large basket full ANNE BRENT, HELPMATE of beans, Anne went in to get breakfast for the children. Quint was the first one to come after she had called. Anne was puzzled that he seemed more cheerful and less restrained than usual. He wasn't demonstrative as Morris had always been, but this morning as he passed her, he patted her arm and said, "Thanks Mom for fixing that rip in my coveralls.'"' Anne was on the point of asking him where he had been last night, when Gloria ~ came in, dressed in her new suit. "Mother, the Shriners are going to the Grange this afternon for their annual outing," she said in explanation of her costume. 'The other day when Mr. Meekin was in. The store he said if he got back from Castle Junction he wanted me to go with him. They're going to have dinner at the lodge and swim and dance afterwards. I though if I wore this I could leave right from the store if he did come. I'd phone and get Kate Ostler to come and help Henry." Anne stopped dishing cereal and looked at her daughter a bit discouraged.. "But you know, Gloria, that your father and I do not approve of your going out with that man—he's so much older, and we know so little about him." "You mean you don't know him, and you don't want to. I've known him for—months, and he's the swellest man whose ever paid any attention to me. He knows how to treat a girl, and has something to talk about. You and Dad never seem to want us to be happy." Anne busied herself with the toast she was buttering. "Perhaps you won't realize until you afe a parent yourself, Gloria that the biggest object in your father's and my lives is to try to 723 help you children find the greatest happiness possible. You know how we feel about your going with that man." Anne was glad of a call from — one of the twins. She wasn't an indecisive person, but she liked the children to learn to make right decisions for themselves. Before she was through helping Jean and Jan, she heard Gloria and Quint in the front hall. There was a touch of poutiness in Gloria's short goodbye. Anne sighed. She wasn't sure whether the girl would go or not. She hadn't changed her dress. And she would have Quint to worry about all day too. Then as she caught herself answering the twins questions in an absent way, she suddenly took herself to task. She had learned that often the things she worried most about turned out to be the things over which there should have been no concern. She remembered a little prayer her own mother had suggested to her once in the early days of her married life when it had seemed that the problems of being a helpmate were overpowering her. "You must pray for God to keep you from letting the little things of life shut out the big, beautiful wonderful things about your job." (To be continued) LATTER-DAY SAINT CHAPEL, WASHINGTON, D. C. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon OW may the Christmas candle burn in every window, and the light of love in every heart. GPP books are always acceptable and appropriate gifts. They hold treasures of the human mind, uplifting, pleasurable and indestructible. NANCY LEE SWAN in her book "Pao Chao" claims this great scholar was the first woman to plead for higher education of women. Had ancient China, which claims to be the mother of civilization, heeded her pleading and accepted her philosophy there would have been a far different story than the foot binding, physical and mental torture of the Chinese woman. Pao Chao lived the first century A. D. SUSAN ERTZ, English novelist, has written the epic story of the Mormon migration and early life among the settlers of Utah, entitled, "The Proselyte." The outstanding chapter is the vivid description of the sufferings and disaster which befell the ill-fated handcart company of 1856. Her characters are chosen from an ignorant and fanatical class giving an entirely wrong impression of the pioneers of Utah, who were a far different type. As a record of events, it is perhaps as true as any work of fiction yet written about the Mormon people by any one not of their faith. OLGA KNOFF, noted _psychiatrist, has written a new book "The Art of Being a Woman," in which she argues only by cooperation and not antagonism can women develop equality. SHEILA KAYE SMITH has again pleased her reading public with a story of Sussex life called "Gipsy Wagon." ELEANOR ROOSEVELT'S book, "It's Up to the Women," contains advice on home making and rearing a family, while incidentally she urges women to enter politics and public life. IRENA SKARIATINA, Russian exiled princess, has written another book on Russia. It is called "First to go Back." She is the only royalist yet given permission by the Soviets to revisit her native land. SIGRID UNSET?'S latest novel, "The Burning Bush," closes a trilogy with Paul Selmer the leading figure. The book is not at all equal to the wonderful books giving the life of Kristin Landsvatter, but is a colorful story of Norwegian life. MARY ROBERTS RINEHART'S latest endeavor is a crusade against crime by women. Her plan of organization if carried out might be both possible and effective. JSHBEL MACDONALD, beautiful M. P., in the midst of her campaigning, has succumbed to Cupid's darts and become engaged toa professor of Ethics at Montreal. WOMEN of the Philippines have been granted suffrage—the first among oriental women to have this privilege. Miss SOPHRONIA BECKENRIDGE the woman member of Secretary Hull's delegation to Montevideo is an outstanding authority on social and economic questions both local and national. Her appointment to this delegation is a distinct recognition of service and ability and a high compliment to the womanhood of the nation. Christmas Given over KSL December 23, 1932 By Elise B. Alder "Why do bells on Christmas ring? Why do little children sing? Once a lovely, shining star, Seen by shepherds from afar, Gently moved until its light Made a manger—cradle bright. "There a darling baby lay Pillowed soft upon the hay, And his mother sang and smiled 'This is Christ, the holy child.' So the bells for Christmas ring, So the little children sing." —Lydia A. C. Ward. CHRISTMAS as we all know C is a most delightful day. People all over our broad land, even those who do not recognize its beautiful religious significance, unite joyously in this time of gift giving and good will to all mankind. There is a legend that on every Christmas eve the little Christ child wanders all over the world bearing on its shoulders a bundle of ever greens. Through city streets and country lanes, up and down hill, to proudest castle and lowliest hovel, through cold and storm and sleet and ice, this holy child travels to be welcomed or rejected at the doors at which he pleads for succor. Those who would invite Him and long for His coming set a lighted candle in the window to guide Him on His way hither. They also believe that He comes to them in the guise of any alms craving wandering person _ who knocks humbly at their door for sustenance, thus testing their benevolence. In many places the aid rendered the beggar, is looked upon as hospitality shown to Christ. This legend embodies the true Christmas spirit which realizes with a rush of love to the heart, the divinity in every one of the least of these our brethren. Selfishness is rebuked, the feeling of universal brotherhood is fostered while the length of this holiday season, by encouraging the reunions of families and of friends, provides a wonderful rallying place for early affections. A wholesome and joyous current of religious feeling flows through the entire Season to temper its extravagance and regulate its mirth. Christmas is the birthday of One whose chief contribution to the human heart and mind was His message of boundless universal love. He brought to the world the greatest thing in the world and that is why the Season of His birth has won such an intimate place in our hearts and why its joyous bells find an echo there. IF the spiritual good cheer of Christmas Day were generally manifested throughout the year it would transform mankind. Love is still the greatest thing in all the world and winged messengers of joy carol these words: "So old and strange the Wise men seem, And yet, how well we know 'Twas your Dream and my Dream They followed long ago! "The camel bells sound faint and far, But though they fall so light, 'Twas your Star and my Star They followed through the night." —Nancy Byrd Turner. Like the Wise men of the East who brought gifts to the Christ Child, we make gifts at Christmas CHRISTMAS time. Let us choose wisely, give intelligently and not extravagantly. "A mother was watching on Christmas night Rocking her babe by the candle light And she lifted her eyes in the gathering gloom For the Christ Child stood in her lowly room. 'What shall I give to thy child?' He said, Softly caressing the sleeper's head— 'Nay! Said the mother, O angel guest, Give her what ever thou deemest best;' 'What shall I give her, O mother mild, Ask what thou wilt for thy little child. Shall I kiss her brow that her eyes may shine With a beauty that man will call divine? Shall I touch her lips that they may flow With songs the sweetest the world may ~ know?' 'Nay! Said the mother that will not stay Songs are forgotten and hair turng gray.' 'But what shall I give her?' He asked again, 'Ask and thou shalt not ask in vain.' And the mother lifted her eyes above 'Give her purity, truth and love;' and the Christ Child turned to her gentle and mild 'Thou has't chosen the best for thy little child; Be not afraid though life be sore I shall be with her forever more'." George McDonald says—"If instead of a gem or even a flower, we could cast the gift of a lovely thought into the heart of a friend, that would be giving as the angels must give." The most obvious lesson in Christ's teaching is that happiness is not in having or in getting but only in giving. HERE are many strange customs in celebrating the Yuletide. But one thing is the same everywhere, The Universal Christmas Spirit. It makes us feel more than ever that people all over the land are very much 'like one big family after all. It is a beautiful custom derived from days of 727 yore that this festival, which commemorates the announcement of the religion of peace and love, has been made the season for gathering together of family connections, and drawing closer again those bands of kindred hearts, which the cares and pleasures and sorrows of the world are continually operating to cast loose; of calling back the children of a family to assemble about the paternal hearth, that rallying place of the affections, there to grow young and loving again among the endearing memories of childhood. It seems to throw open every door, unlock every heart. 'Happy, happy Christmas that can win us back to the delusions of our childhood days." "Peace on earth, good will to men" is the message "In peace the earth grows kindly and benef icent: With good will men grow kindly and loving. In peace the earth laughs in its harvests; in good will men joy in their gifts. Henry Van Dyke says: It is a good thing to observe Christmas Day, but there is a better thing than the observance of Christmas Day, and that is, keeping Christmas. Are you willing to forget what you have done for other people, and to remember what other people have done for you; to ignore what the world owes you, and to think what you owe the world; are you willing to believe that love is the strongest thing in the world—stronger than hate, stronger than evil, stronger than death—and that the blessed life which began in Bethlehem over 1900 years ago is the image and brightness of the Eternal Love? Then you can keep Christmas. To give is to gain." And unless Christmas means sume sacrifice and some radiance of joy and comfort and hope to a human being, it will indeed be a dull and 728 cheerless Yuletide. Let this Christmas. Be one of happiness, and the new year will be radiant with hope and filled with the impulse of doing some thing for somebody every day. "What angels sang on that first Christmas morn, 'Good will to men', 'The Prince of Peace is born, Breakg once again in benediction clear, Sure song of God, the climax of the year. 'Good will and peace', the song is on the air, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 'Good will and peace,' I hear it everywhere— 'Peace on earth', in purpose divine, 'Good will to men'—and a good will to mine c Oh friends unseen, no gift is in my power;: Gold would be dross in this triumphant hour. Take, then, the strains the angels sing to me 'Good will and peace, I send it all to thee'." Happy Mothers By Marba C. Josephson INTER holds so much joy for. Children that parents ought to share it. Winter boasts the greatest holidays. Hallowe'en formally. Opens the season; Thanksgiving gives it a push;. Christmas is its peak; Valentine's Day and Washington's birthday help let down gradually from the intense excitement of the Yule season; and Easter formally opens the door to summer, Besides these holidays, think of the fun of winter; snowballing, skiing, skating, sledding. Instead of getting into the spirit of the season, mothers develop a dirt complex. They "see through a glass darkly" and think of the smoky, streaky windows, of the muddy floors, of messy galoshes and rubbers, and of clumsy overcoats. What mothers need to do is to cheer their souls by a very simple measure—by decorating the windows of their homes. Don't throw your hands up in horror at the idea. Put those hands to work getting cutouts, drawing pictures, finding blunt scissors for your young hopefuls, and then sit back to watch the fun. Magazines abound in timely pictures that can be copied, cut out, or easily traced. Save a copy of the pictures for use in succeeding years. Windows do especially try one's patience so sorely in winter. Whether the children go near them or not they have to be washed every week or two. The washing can seem so much more worthwhile and profitable by having fun with the windows during the time between washings. Children crave change. Unlike grownups who feel lost when anything is moved from its accustomed place, children like the new. Window trimming satisfies this urge without greatly disturbing timehonored arrangements for the older members of the family. This change will come about naturally and happily by using the holiday system of window decoration. Beginning with Hallowe'en, mothers should make the most of their windows. The cutouts for this holiday glued to the windows create an especially spooky atmosphere. Black cats, witches with their brooms, orange jack-o-lan- HAPPY MOTHERS terns show up beautifully against the clear light. The Thanksgiving window scene will very properly have Indians and their tepees, bleak black trees, the Pilgrim fathers with their muskets, mothers and children with their prayer and hymn books—and the great American turkey! Christmas decorations are legion. In one window, Santa Claus rides his sleigh with his "eight tiny reindeer." Beneath him the houses with their lights ablaze eagerly await "the prancing and pawing of each little hoof." In another window, the Christmas tree twinkles as St. Nicholas _ places the presents (sleds, dolls, trains—all cut outs or drawings) around it. In still another one, the family is seen coming into the room on Christmas morning. HE main attraction for Christmas, however, should emphasize the Christ story. Every home can easily accomplish this object by creating a scene from the Christ's birth. A small wooden box can be covered on the outside with tissue or Christmas paper. The stable can be a strawberry box with a smaller box for the manger. Over the top of the strawberry box, wisps of hay or straw can be placed to give the effect of a thatched roof. The manger also should be filled with hay. A few large rocks placed in the rear of the box gives the illusion of hills. Sprigs of dill create the impression of palms. Flat pebbles make the roadway, and straw scattered around resembles the stubble. Tiny animals of wood will help the scene. Good pictures of these can be drawn, cut out, colored, and by leaving a base one-half inch wide can be glued in place to the 729 base of the larger box. A picture of the three wise men and their camels can be placed at one side of the box, or shepherds can be grouped around the stable. Many stores sell small dolls at the rate of five for five cents. The youngsters can sfitch clothes to have these dolls represent Mother Mary, the Holy Infant, and Joseph. The children derive no end of joy from helping create this little stage. They can cut tiny gold stars to hang from the top of the box. Three Christmas tree icicles may represent the rays of the one wondrous star which, of course, must be larger than the rest. The true Christmas message can be portrayed in this way to teach a better lesson of humility than probably could be taught through many speeches about it. Often winter calls forth the thought of crowded noisiness. By careful planning and foresight, mother can make her winters a real source of happiness. If mother will take a bit of care in starting the children on an idea for decoration, she will find that they will move forward rapidly towards its accomplishment. They will work toward an end carefully and quietly. They will be developed individually. Most important of all, they will become conscious of how much better are the results that can be accomplished from unified group activity. If the youth of our land can learn the value of cooperation in such a small activity as home decoration, there will be less danger, when that youth grows to manhood, of unwillingness to work together on vital matters. MOTHER will be surprised at what even the youngest can 730 do with his cutting and pasting. She will discover that the children can do most of the work themselves if she will give occasional suggestions and a helping hand over some of the rough spots. When it comes to paste, nearly all children have an inordinate fondness for eating it as well as for using it. The following recipe answers both requirements satisfactorily. Paste 34 c, boiling water 2 tb. Minute tapioca 2 tb. Sugar A pinch of salt Place all ingredients in the double boiler and cook until very thick. Cool and use. The youngsters can use cheap paint brushes or flat sticks as paste spreaders. Mother's reading may be the inspiration for window decoration and may easily direct the children to a lesson activity of the greatest importance. After she has read the Joseph story, for instance, she can suggest that they make the picture of the brothers with their sheep, their cattle, and their tents. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE She may have a scene from Pharaoh's court. It may be that the children would like particularly well to draw the Ishmaelitish caravan of camels on its way to Egypt. An important part of the activity is the lesson of cleaning up after the fun is all over. Children will need a great deal of encouragement to gather the scraps. If they have brooms and dust pans of their very own, the collecting of the waste becomes sport. When there have been minor accidents such as spilling of paints or paste on the floor, their own mops are so much nicer for cleaning up the mess, Mothers must make the most of their opportunity to create happy purposeful children during. The winter months. Probably when mothers start the winter it will be a real effort to find the necessary patience to drop their work on the instant and run to cut an intricate pattern from a magazine. As the work progresses these same mothers will be so eager for more window space that, in spite of the old adage, and their aversion to smoky windows, they will probably be wishing for glass houses! Mary By Camille C. Nuffer She knew the bitter pain The agony of birth She suffered not in vain To bring her babe to earth She knew that joy so sweet— Her babe held to her breast — The shepherds at her feet, Her humble couch did bless And yet that pain of birth Was sweet oh! Sweet beside That she knew when He Her babe was crucified. Relief Society Conference By Julia A. F. Lund A CENTURY OF PROGRESS. Mary C. Kimball, Member of General Board NE hundred years ago Chicago consisted of a few huts, huddled about Fort Dearborn for protection from the Indians. Four years after it was incorporated as a village, it had only 4,000, today it has nearly 4,000,000. It is the second largest City in the United States and the fourth largest city in the world. It has thousands of acres of parks and supervised playgrounds; it has eighty-four miles of beautiful boulevards. It is one of the greatest railroad centers, grain markets, livestock and packing centers and has one of the most important ports. One hundred years ago trapping and fur trading was its only industry. Today it has 10,000 or more industries, with a wholesale value of $4,000,000,000. Born in the marshes, raised 12 to 14 feet by human skill and industry, it is now the commercial and cultural capitol of millions of people. It is noted as an art center, and for its prowess in medicine. It has great libraries and museums. Many go to the city to enjoy its grand opera and symphony orchestra. It is noted for its colleges and universities. Is it to be wondered at that in pride Chicago celebrates her Centennial? She was not turned aside because of the economic awryness of things, nor because progress seemed to be halted. She remembered that in 1893 she had invited the World to celebrate with her when unemployment was wide-spread, when there was a financial panic, and when she was still recovering from the fire of 1871, that had left 100,000 people homeless and destroyed $190,000,000 worth of property. On August 17, 1923, Mayor Dever appointed a committee to plan for Chicago's great Centennial. Mayor Thompson dropped the matter, but in 1927 he was urged to reconsider the question and a meeting of citizens was called. January 5, 1928, a Century of Progress was organized as an Illinois Corporation, having for its charter purpose, the holding of a World's Fair in Chicago in 1933. It was specified that no profits can accrue to members. If any funds are left, after the Exposition is closed, they will be distributed to organizations consonant with the purpose of the Century of Progress. On February 5, 1929, Congress authorized the President, on the assurance that $5,000,000 had been raised by the Corporations, to invite the Nations of the World to participate, and on January 10, 1930 the invitation was sent out. The theme of the Century of Progress is "ACHIEVEMENT AND ITS PROMISE." It is intended to bring assurance that "the steady march of progress has not, however, swerved aside, been seriously retarded, and that so called recessions are temporarv like the cloud that for a moment obscures the sun." As one visits the Exposition with whirling brain, palpitating heart and with bowed head, he exclaims, "What man has wrought." "Truly from darkness into night, the world rolls into light. It is daybreak everywhere." The buildings of the Exposition Jaz are unique. The architects had in mind that they were to be used for 150 days and not for many years, and they constructed them so that they could be easily torn down and the material salvaged. They also desired that the Exposition should serve as a laboratory for future builders. The buildings are largely windowless, but the interior lighting is so fine, that on the darkest day one can see the exhibits. One may here see all that man knows about lighting. The inverted, shaded, and color effects are varied and beautiful. The gas tube lighting in blue, green and yellow, when turned on at night, makes a fairyland beyond description. In the buildings also, one may experience the last word in ventilation and cooling effects. Either at the gate-way or within the grounds, stand more than $20,000,000 worth of permanent buildings. Among them are the Adler Planatarium, The Chicago Art Institute, the Field Museum of Natural History, and the Shedd Aquarium. The buildings house a most wonderful exhibit, showing what man has wrought during the last hundred years. It is like an encyclopedia come to life, telling the story of man's mastery over nature. 'New and unique methods of exhibition satisfy this generation's urge for animation and motion. Instead of mere rows of finished products or equipment, the exhibition presents a panorama showing how the products we use every day are made and assembled." In one building automobiles are made while people watch the process. Of all the buildings, the Hall of Science is the center of attraction. Two floors are devoted to the basic sciences: Mathematics, Astronomy, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Geology, and Medicine. The ground RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE floor is devoted to medicine and industrial applications of science. The stories of medicine, dentistry and pharmacology here depicted are most interesting. A giant transparent man that took eighteen months to make at-a cost of $10,000 is a constant source of interest. The United States, Italy, Austria, Holland and Canada all have extensive exhibits showing what has been accomplished in their countries during the last hundred years. The exhibits showing the work of Pasteur, Koch and Welcome are extensive, as is also the display of the American Medical Association. With interest and pride one sees what has been done to control fevers, tuberculosis, cancer, etc. In printing, movies, pictures, exhabits varied and startling, one sees the march of the Century and is led to exclaim, "Oh for a background that I might more fully understand the marvels displayed before me." The Hall of Social Science shows the adjustment of humanity to the changes brought about in living conditions through the medium of science and industry. There are exhibits devoted to child welfare, education, recreation, administration of criminal justice, and the contribution of religion. One sees the cave life of 50,000 years ago, the life of the Mayas, and is able to contrast the living conditions of the early American homes with those of the present day. The exhibit of the National Council of Women has a sixty foot Mural showing woman's march towards education, temperance, peace, and her entrance into business and professional fields. It also has books showing pictorially what women have been doing during the last hundred years. The developments in transportation RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE are graphically shown. Sixty-four years ago, May 1, 1869, two gangs of laborers met in Ogden in a race from the East to the West and drove the golden spike that completed the span of the Continent. On display in the transportation building one may see the small engines, crude cars, the first horseless carriages, the stage coach that were considered so wonderful many years ago, and contrasted with these, are the latest and most powerful engines, cars palatial in their finishing and equipment, automobiles of the latest make and airplanes of the finest workmanship. The displays of radio and communication are most interesting. The Hall of Religion shows what the great religions of the world are today doing for humanity. Our own exhibit shows in painting, sculpture and art glass windows the story of this great people, of their ideals and purposes. 733 The beautiful homes of today attract daily crowds. Agriculture, dairying, livestock, mining, all have most interesting displays. Many States have buildings of their own. There is an enchanted isle for the children. The Midway has its various attractions. As one leaves the Exposition for the last time and walks down the beautiful avenue of flags, he realizes that soon the Century of Progress will be only a memory. It has been a source of great education and pleasure. It has made those who have visited it realize how wonderful has been the progress of the last hundred years. It has set men dreaming of what may yet be. It has started them on a quest to make the future even more glorious than the past. It has made them look up and marvel at what man has wrought. It has given them a hunger to do more and to understand better the story of man's achievements. DISARMAMENT CONFERENCE Mrs, Annie Wells Cannon, Member of General Board ON the 15th of this month, there will be held in Geneva, Switzerland, a Disarmament Conference. In February, 1932, a great Disarmament Conference was called and held, but adjourned without accomplishing its objective. There is no crime so great as war. Any of you who sent your sons or husbands to the Great War realize that. Thousands of people go to the tombs of the Unknown Soldiers in the great capitals of the world and do homage in memory to the thousands of men who were slaughtered in the World War. Thousands of women visit the hospitals all over the different nations, to see the men who were gassed, shell-shocked and crippled, disabled, tubercular—all know of the dreadful things that come through war. This Conference will be held in Geneva on October 15th. On the eve of that conference a committee of women representing the organized womanhood of the world, with all of the influence and all of the pressure they can bring to bear, will urge the delegates from the different nations to insist that the great powers take action that this Disarmament Conference will not adjourn without some immediate steps for the abolition of war. Lady Aberdeen, who is the Pres- 734 ident of the International Council of 'Women, has sent a message to the Councils connected with the International Council. Through her message, Miss Lena Madesin Phillips, President of the National Council of Women, with which our Relief Society is affiliated, has sent to Sister Robison a very. Striking message telling her that during these weeks before the Disarmament Conference there will be one thousand meetings held in Great Britain and in France, and she hopes there will be one thousand meetings held in the United States, for the purpose of joining the organized women of the world to bring influence to this Conference that some immediate steps be taken against war. At the request of the President, I therefore present at this conference the following resolution: Disarmament Resolution I move that we, the women of the National Woman's Relief Society join the organized womanhood of the world in the effort to bring about RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE world peace and eliminate all wars by using our utmost influence to bear upon the delegates to the Disarmament Conference to be held this month at Geneva, Switzerland, and by urging upon these delegates the adoption of the plan submitted by the International Council Committee as follows: 1. Substantial reduction of existing armaments. 2. No re-armament. 3. Abolition of aggressive weapons within a definite period and with the immediate elimination of all bombing from the air, of the air weapon in general and of poison gas. 4, Limitation of expenditure to prevent rivalries in armaments. 5. Effective supervision of existing armaments and of arms manu facture and trade. 6. A permanent organization to carry out the above provisions and to carry on the work begun by the Disarmament Conference. This plan to be accepted by all the Great Powers of this Conference be cabled immediately to the Secretary of the Council Committee at Geneva. COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN THE INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF WoMEN—JuLy, 1933 HE International Congress of Women which met in Chicago in July this year was one of the most noted gatherings of women which has ever been held in the United States. Thirty-three nations were represented by leading women from these nations; and as they sat in general assembly beneath the massed flags of their various countries it appeared to be what it really was—an International gathering. The International Congress was sponsored by the National Council of Women of the United Statés of which the Relief Society and the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association are not only members, but charter members. The Relief Society was honored by having its President preside at one of the meetings, it being one of eight of the thirty National organizations thus recognized. Several years ago the National "Council decided to take part in the Century of Progress Fair at Chicago. Its plan was two-fold: First, to put ona display at the World's Fair and publish a book to demonstrate the progress and development of women during the last 100 years—this fea- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ture to be in keeping with the general spirit of the Century of Progress; second, to sponsor an International. Congress of Women, to discuss present day problems and their solution, and to formulate a program to guide the future work of the women of the world. Through cooperation with the Postal Telegraph Company the Council was able to secure funds to carry out this great project. The Congress was held in the down-town district of Chicago and covered one full week. The speakers on the program were women of distinction—famed nationally and internationally. There were lawyers, doctors, social workers, economists, educators and philosophers. Foremost among the American speakers were Jane Addams of Hull House—noted humanitarian and advocate of peace, and considered by many to be the greatest woman in the world today; Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt—famous suffragist and peace advocate, who during her twenty years presidency of the International Suffrage Association helped to secure the franchise for women in twenty-six countries; Frances Perkins, Secretary of Labor; Judge Florence Allen; Lena Madesin Phillips, President 'of the Council, who, with her keen intellect and ready wit won the hearts of everybody. Some of the foreign women speakers were: The Honorable Margaret Bondfield, the first English woman cabinet member, who served as Secretary of Labor; Dame Rachel Crowdy, England's War heroine, who saw three years active service in the World War, with the Voluntary Aid Detachment, and who is now connected with the League of Nations; Dr. Reddi, of India, a doctor by profession, and who presided over the all-India Women's Conference, and is a sympathizer with 735 Gandhi; a Baroness from Japan; a doctor and President of a College from China; an author from Turkey; a Romanian linguist; a French woman lawyer, etc. Incidentally I call attention to one of the interesting characteristics of the foreign women, which is their great linguistic ability. They all speak a number of languages. An Armenian woman told me that at her home recently at a dinner party of eight, twenty-four languages were represented. One interesting group was the woman writers and journalists, both foreign and American. Among the American group were: Emily Newell Blair, Associate Editor of Good Housekeeping; Miss Oglesby, writer of the Ladies' Home Journal; Mrs. Walker of the Pictorial Review; Mrs. Keyes of Good Housekeeping; Ann Steese Richardson, feature writer for the Woman's Home Companion; Marjory Schuler, Christian Science Monitor. These women all took active part in the discussions. The Congress consisted of general sessions and department session, or round table sessions. In the general sessions there were discussions on "The World As It Is," "The World as it Could Be,' 'Women in a Changing World," "Youth Plans for a Civilized World." In the department meetings the general theme was "Security and Opportunity"'—security through employment, through buying power and through the Government, security against destructive forces—war, Abies, disease, poverty, prejudice; opportunity through education and recreation. "The World As It Is?' In her opening address, Miss Phillips, President of the National Council of Women, said: "I am a militant. I hope that women have come to a time when they will not be so complacent about passing resolu- 736 tions and will put a little punch into work instead of words. I firmly believe that we must begin by electing women to office. If the women who attend this convention should go home and elect a woman to office in every one of their communities, to the school board, to the city council or to the legislature, then we would cease to be led around by the nose, politically speaking, and would begin to direct affairs ourselves. The next step is for everybody to learn something more than they now know about economic questions. Even our best people hardly know what to do. We must spread around this national wealth of which there is enough for everyone. The reluctance to do this is because each is afraid that he will lose the position he now has and emerge with a little less than his present wealth. This fear is what we must wipe out. "World friendship is not so well expressed by sending shiploads of food and clothing to less fortunate people in devastated areas as it would be through a world planning which would obviate the need of spasmodic generosities. A passionate desire for peace proves itself more clearly by curtailment of the manufacture and sale of arms than by the exchange of polite and superficial words. We cannot truly desire the welfare of all unless we are willing to participate in the changes necessary to secure that welfare. "We have mastered production; we have not mastered distribution. We have not learned how to make the machine the servant, rather than the master of man. We have not lifted the burden of fear under which parents must bring up their children. We have not lifted black despair from many an aged worker. We have not learned how to attain a settled currency or how to exchange goods among the nations. We have not yet learned how to keep peace between individualg or between nations. And yet these problems can and must be solved. To such endeavor we dedicate this Congress on 'Our Common Cause—Civilization'. 99 At an evening session economic security through Government was discussed under three headings; Under Communism, by a Russian woman; Under Fascism, by an Italian Professor; Under Democracy by Margaret Bondfield. While Russia RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and Italy were reported as being greatly improved by communism and fascism respectively, Miss Bondfield, speaking for democracy, created the greatest interest and sympathy. Under the subject "Women in a Changing World," it was reported from Latin Armenia that the women are advancing, but have not yet obtained suffrage. From Europe came the word that women have lost ground since the War, and are accomplishing very little today. In Turkey and Japan it was reported that the woman movement is growing rapidly. At the session devoted to "Youth," seventeen young women from as many colleges spoke. They stated that the older generation has handed down to youth a sorry world, which is in a terrible mess. They said in part that the youth of the world want no more war. However adults feel about militarism the youth of the country want no more wars. If called to the colors tomorrow they would refuse to go. Killing men is no one's patriotic duty. Youth says that all forms of militarism must go, drills and uniforms must go, R. O. T. C. Must go. It is as foolish for nations to fight each other as for individuals to fight duals. No war has ever settled problems; at the close of a war there are always more problems to solve than there were at the beginning. Slums must be abolished, rent must be lower or wages higher. There must be a new method of taxation which will include income tax. The tax system in vogue has been obsolete for thirty years, a new plan should spread more evenly with income taxes bearing much of the burden. 'Youth should go into politics. The older generation have led youth into a blind alley, and they will have to work themselves out on a new basis. Youth will demand RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE world peace, international under- ~ standing and security of life, work and reward of labor. Among the recommendations made were: That member organizations demand Congressional investigation of the private manufacture of arms and munitions in this country, including air-craft development, also traffic in arms with other 'countries; That they devise programs to _promote inter-racial tolerance and understanding; That they study ways and means of interesting their members in electing a high type of offcial; That they organize themselves into Vigilance Committees for the purpose of making the Recovery Act effective. 737 The first woman's movement was for sex-equality. This was featured at an International Congress held forty years ago at the World's Fair in Chicago. Women are still interested in this cause where it has not been attained. The second woman's movement decided upon at the great Congress of 1933, is against social systems. The slogan was: "We believe that every person, to whatever sex, race, nationality or creed he or she may belong, is entitled to security of life, work, the reward of labor, health and education; to protection against war and crime and to opportunity for self-expression." PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON THINK I shall never forget the beauty of that day in Nauvoo, so peaceful, so lovely! I have a letter here from a young woman who wrote to me later about it— "I think the spirit of that morning will never leave me. It was the uniting of the old and the new in a perfect harmony of blending." We have no members of our Church living in Nauvoo, but the people of the Reorganized Church were most gracious. We arose early, as we wanted to have a little rehearsal of the monument's unveiling, About six o'clock we were over on this beautiful spot, but the Fire Department was out before us. The thad taken the fire engine, put it into the Mississippi River, and were pumping water from the river to sprinkle the streets all around the monument. The next thing was the band with the Mayor walking at the head, going down to meet the delegation from the West. Dr. Frederick M. Smith, a grandson of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and now President of the Reorganized Church, came down 24 hours earlier than the ceremonies. He addressed us all as sisters. We could not help but contrast this time with that when our people were driven out, leaving their lovely homes and all behind them. We had already written to the Governor and asked him to be in attendance, but that morning a letter was handed to us saying that he was unavoidably detained. However, when the exercises began, in the shade of those lovely spreading trees, a gentleman came who introduced himself as a representative from the Governor of IIlinois. Again we were surprised, and we could not help but think of the difference between the Governor of nearly one hundred years ago and the Governor of the State of Illinois today. We have been asked, is it really a lovely monument? Well I am not an artist, but the spirit of it 738 is more beautiful than all the artistry that you can imagine. Hearts were made to rejoice, and there was a feeling of friendliness and happiness that I rarely have experienced. Brother George AIbert Smith gave a beautiful talk, and offered the dedicatory prayer. A great granddaughter of the Prophet and Emma Smith, Mrs. Bertha Hulmes, had come all the way from Detroit to officiate at the unveiling of the monument. Her little daughter, a great-greatgranddaughter of the Prophet and Emma Smith, and my granddaughter from Boston, unveiled the monument. We had a platform erected just a little distance from the monument, and when it~ was time to unveil the monument, Mrs. Hulmes left the platform, followed by the two girls, who walked in that formation until they came just opposite the monument, and then the girls stepped in front taking their places on each side of the monument. The veil which covered it was made of white material, with blue ribbons on one side and red on the other, a blue and red ribbon coming together in the front. Sisters Lyman, Child, Lund and Kimball stood back to receive this veil so that it would not fall to the ground. The ceremony was beautiful in its simplicity. We asked permission of the Reorganized Church who own the property, to fill in the basement and let us place the monument right over the spot where the store stood. This was granted, but later both Dr. Frederick M. Smith and Brother Bennion felt that it would be a splendid thing to keep that old basement as a landmark. So the Relief Society (you sisters) paid for having the old rock work RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the basement built up with cement, with a coping on the top, and steps leading down, so that it. Is made into a sunken garden, planted with grass and a number of fine young hardwood trees growing out of the basement, making it a very lovely spot. I have brought with me a gavel We do not use these in our Church, but: Brother Page, one of the Reorganized brethren in Nattvoo, gave this to me. The top of it is made from a piece of hardwood out of the Prophet Joseph's home. The handle comes from Brother Wright's home, the first house built in Nauvoo, making the gavel a very choice gift. There are so many reasons why we should look back into the past, and know what the people did for us. These fine men and women who not only proclaimed to the world that they knew that God had spoken from the Heavens, and restored the Gospel, but they had the courage to continue during the persecution and hardships, and they were true to their convictions in crossing the plains, and enduring all the privations without complaint or murmur. I often wonder what would have happened if they could have asked for Federal Relief as we do now, and if they had obtained it, and foregone trials, I wonder if they could have handed on to us that courage and strength which they have given us as an inheritance. There is an issue right now before us that I should like all the women of the Relief Society to consider. How would our parents and grandparents have met this issue? It is the issue of the Eighteenth Amendment. I am sure some of you have heard me speak of it before. I should like you all to think how can a family be RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE better off with the husband, sons and daughters drinking? How can a mother have more comforts in her home if the ten or one hundred dollars coming into the house goes for drink rather than shoes, bread and milk? Is it possible that a government, a county or state could be run more economically when men and women are using, not only their physical strength, but their intelligence, in defending liquor? They have told us it would reduce taxes. How can it reduce taxes to the laboring people if they have to pay out such a tremendous sum for liquor in order to get the taxes reduced? I would ' like to have you just consider it in your homes, and talk to your neighbors. Many of them have listened to the arguments of those men who are interested in having the working people pay the taxes instead of the great bond holders. This afternoon I should like to refer to our pioneers and their ideals, and what they did when it was not popular to be Latter-day Saints, and it did not make for favor to tell people that they were Latterday Saints. A few evenings ago a prominent business man in Salt Lake City called me up and said he was thinking of this, and wondered if I would like to have his thoughts as my contribution to you. I said I would like to have his name used, but he said, "It is not necessary, this is yours." I could not present it here today, however, without that much recognition. He seems to have been thinking just as I have been. Last Spring you heard me talk on Prohibition, and you may remember that I closed my talk with a quotation from Calvin Coolidge. May I today repeat this sentiment? "Laws 739 must be justified by something more than the will of the majority. They must rest on the eternal foundations of righteousness." I would like to have that thought carried through while I. Am reading this letter the gentleman sent to me. MINORITY OPINION "Advocates of the liqwor traffic defy us to stand out against majority opinion. They maintain that it is sheer madness and bold presumption on our part even to question the validity of the arguments, and resist the influences, to which people all about ug seem to have succumbed. How can they so easily ignore all the teachings and lessons of the past? What is it that has always proved to be the mainspring and genesis of human progress if not minority opinion? Can they cite a single case among all the achievements of man where the masses (the majority) have moved spontaneously and willingly in a body toward higher levels? When in all our history has truth been born into a receptive world? We look in vain for such an instance. Invariably a discovery that later was to revolutionize our mode of thought action has germinated in a single brain, nourished in a single soul, presented as a gift to a stubborn, reluctant world. Think of the few courageous souls that have dared fight so-called majority opinion, world opinion, if you please! "If Washington had followed the dominant opinion of his day there would have been no struggle for Independence. "Make peace with the mother country" was the cry of his fellows. Never at any time did he have the support of more than a fraction of the colonists. Yet the father of our country representing a militant, God-inspired minority opinion, gave birth to freedom and laid the foundation of the greatest government ever conceived by man. - "Respect majority opinion—they say? Did Columbus heed it when he went from court to court seeking aid to make his dreams come true? Did he allow himeelf to be swerved from his great purpose because he stood alone? How easily he could have changed the fate of mankind had he forsaken the truth in order to join the rabble. "Picture the courageous Galileo who 740 dared defy the opinions of the great, the mighty, and the powerful when he made known his discovery in the realm of science! "Luther! Did he reflect prevailing views when he nailed his theses to the church door? Would religious freedom have been born in his day if he had been cowed into silence by the threats of his opponents? Was he met with applause when he answered his enemies: 'Here I stand, I cannot do otherwise"? "Look at that great solemn Abraham Lincoln—the object of the bitterest abuses and slander because of his unshaken adherence to his objective: to maintain a united nation and to strike the shackles from the slave. We dare not contemplate what would be our fate today had the Great Emancipator gone over to majority opinion. "Let us go back to the day when the heavens were opened and the gospel of salvation was brought to the earth. Can we picture a more majestic figure than the Prophet Joseph Smith who was the constant object of attack from the moment he delivered his message to the world until his death? Listen to the words of the Lord as they came to our leader in Liberty jail urging him to stand by the truth even, as the Lord said, 'If all the elements combine to hedge up thy way; if the very jaws of Hell shall gape open the mouth wide after thee.' If Joseph Smith had gone over to majority opinion simply because men mocked and reviled him; because they used all their satanic devices to destroy him— what shipwreck would have been made of the attempted introduction of the light of eternal salvation into a world groping in darkness? "Did the Pioneers under that indomitable leader give heed to unfriendly world opinion respecting the destiny of this people? Recall the drab, forbidding picture painted by that master of oratory, Daniel Webster, when he described these valleys of the mountains, which today are dotted by the peaceful homes of the Latter-day Saints, where the desert has been made to blossom as the rose. Was Brigham Young expressing majority opinion when he said, 'This is the place'? And still they say we must yield to majority opinion. If this be true, then why do we who represent a mere handful in numbers penetrate into the farthest corners of the earth to deliver the message of the Restoration to an unfriendly world counting its hundreds of millions? The right with one or two'. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "We challenge the defenders of majority opinion to name a single benefactor of the human race who has not been forced to stand alone to face a hostile world—a world that later built shrines and monuments to his name. "And then to think that we, the bearers of. Truth, the advocates of clean living, the defenders! Of virtue, should be beguiled into silence or lulled into inaction because for the moment we seem to represent only minority opinion! How dare we even pause or hesitate to raise our voices against the corroding influences of the world and at the same time lay claim to be followers of the Master, who Himself was a victim of public opinion, popular opinion, majority opinion of His day? Will not history repeat itself in this gigantic struggle in which we are engaged? Dare we for a moment concern ourselves with the hysterical, fleeting passion of the hour which has inflamed and beclouded the public mind? What should determine our course of action? Shall we permit the present or the future to pass judgment upon us? What we do today will cause generations yet unborn to bless our memory and hail us as benefactors of the race. Dare we betray them? Dare we violate such a sacred trust? Let us here and now dedicate ourselves to the truth, let majority opinion be what it may. For this we do know—that eventually we shall win the respect and the lasting gratitude of those who now challenge our right to defy them. The course we are to pursue is described in these beautiful lines: "'Be noble, and the nobleness that lies In other men's sleeping, but never dead Will rise in majesty to meet thine own.' "It is with unquestioned faith in our ultimate triumph that we enter the contest undaunted and unafraid, for: "'*He is a coward who fears to be in x99 But we are not cowards. "The history of this people is a record of heroism. It is that heroism that we must now display, in the firm conviction that the justice of our cause will eventually bring victory to our banners." 'The history of this people is a record of heroism. It is that heroism that we must now display in the firm conviction that the justice RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE of our cause will eventually bring victory to our banner. I pray our Heavenly Father that we will carry this banner the pioneers have handed to us in doing the 741 right thing whether we are in the majority, or whether we are one or two standing alone on the side of right. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. The addresses of Dr. Bleekham and Mrs. Lund will be printed in a later number. Christmas Joys By Edna J. Gardiner I like to think at Christmas Time, That peace is in the hearts of men; That bells ring out in reverent chime And meekness is a diadem. I like to feel a great good-will Uniting all in friendship's band; Where friend greets friend through good or ill; To feel Christ's spirit in the land. I like to see, at Christmastime, The still stars shining up above, And read the message that they bring, Of hope, and peace, and wondrous love. INTERIOR OF THE L. D. S. WASHINGTON CHAPEL Candy for Christmas By Lucy Rose Middleton O recipes could be more appropriate at this season than those for making candies. A box of home-made candy constitutes a most acceptable and yet inexpensive gift. For those who are obliged to budget carefully their Christmas expenses (and that means everybody nowadays) we recommend making candy at home to save honest pennies for other purchases. Tests for Sugar Syrups Soft ball..........230 degrees F. Hard ball.........245 degrees F. Hard crack........282 degrees F. A candy thermometer is a great aid in obtaining accurate and uniform results in making candy. Place thermometer in water and bring to boiling point, then transfer to sugar syrup, to avoid heating too suddenly. When: removing it from candy, place immediately in very hot water and allow to cool slowly. Chocolate Fudge 2 cups sugar 1 cup milk 2 tablespoons corn syrup 2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon vanilla Few grains salt — 2 squares chocolate Mix the sugar, milk, corn syrup, and chocolate. Stir frequently until the sugar is dissolved and the chocolate melted. Cook to the soft-ball stage. Add the butter, remove from the fire, cool, and add vanilla. Beat until creamy then pour into buttered pans making a layer 34 inch thick. Cut into 1 inch squares. For variety, add 1 cup nuts, broken in pieces, or 12 marshmallows cut in pieces. Divinity 2 cups sugar 4 cup water 34 cup corn syrup 2 egg whites 1 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup nuts Combine sugar, water, and corn syrup. Place over low flame, and stir constantly until the sugar is dissolved. Continue cooking without stirring until a small amount of syrup forms a hard ball in cold water. While syrup is cooking wipe down the sides of saucepan with wet cheesecloth wrapped around the tines of a fork. Remove from fire. Pour over stiffly beaten egg whites, beating constantly. When the mixture begins to hold its shape add the vanilla and nuts. Pour into buttered pan or form into irregular pieces by dropping from the tip of a spoon onto waxed paper. Candied cherries and pineapple cut fine may be added instead of the nuts for variety. Penoche 2 cups brown sugar 34 cup milk or cream 4 teaspoon salt  2 tablespoons butter 34 cup cocoanut or chopped peanuts, walnuts or pecans Put sugar and milk in saucepan and stir until the sugar is well dissolved. Boil without stirring until the mixture forms a soft-ball when tried in cold water. Add butter. Remove from fire, cool, then flavor. Beat until creamy. Add nuts. Pour CANDY FOR CHRISTMAS out on buttered pan and mark in squares; or drop from teaspoon on waxed paper. For variety use chopped dates or raisins in place of the nuts. Fondant 2 cups sugar 1 cup water: 1/16 teaspoon cream of tartar or 1 tablespoon white corn syrup Mix the ingredients, stir, and heat gradually to the boiling point. While cooking wash down the sides of pan with pastry brush dipped in cold water or with a clean wet cloth wrapped around the tines of a fork. Cover and let steam for 3 minutes. The pan should not be shaken or moved while the syrup is boiling. Remove cover, put in thermometer and boil to 230 degrees F. Or until the mixture forms a soft ball when tried in cold water. Pour on marble slab or shallow tray wiped over with a damp cloth. Cool. Scrape and turn mixture toward center with spatula and work until perfectly smooth. Place in a bowl or jar and cover with wet cloth or glass lid. Let stand for 2 or 3 days before using. Cream Mints Melt fondant over hot water, flavor with few drops oil of peppermint, wintergreen, clove, or orange. Color as desired. Dipped Walnuts Melt fondant, flavor, and dip walnut halves. Pecans or almonds may be used. Bonbons Flavor fondant as desired. Shape in balls or surround pieces of nut meat or candied fruit; leave on board covered with waxed paper until firm, then dip. Melt fondant over hot water, flavor as desired and color with food 743 coloring. Do not allow fondant to become hot. If too thick add a few drops of cold water. Drop one center at a time into the melted fondant. Move gently until entirely covered. Put on waxed paper and make a coil over the top of bonbon. Stir fondant frequently. Decorate with bit of nut meat, candied fruit, or cocoanut. Chocolate Creams Melt the regular dipping chocolate over hot, but not boiling water. Beat gently until the chocolate feels slightly cool. Drop a center, made of the fondant, into the chocolate. Move around until covered. Remove to waxed paper. Decorate by making coils of the chocolate or top with nuts. Nuts, candied fruits, cleaned and stoned dates, raisins, may be dipped in the same way. Stuffed Dates Wipe dates with a damp cloth, cut open on the side, and remove the stones. Fill the cavity with the fondant, colored and flavored as desired. Press the dates into shape and roll in granulated sugar. Nuts or candied cherries may be used instead of the fondant, or chopped and mixed with it for the stuffing. Notes to the Field For Our Music Directors Music Helps (For Literary Lesson Dec. 19, 1933) In Utah Stake Mrs. Margaret Hull Eastmond is doing some delightful work in the music department. She plans so that music talks and the songs selected shall create the right atmosphere for the lessons. This little talk on Roman Music will precede the lesson, "The Roman View of Life." The part on Christian Music will give atmosphere to the Bible Lessons. Roman Music N Greece all art represented the ideal of beauty. Music was supposed to drive out all jealousy, pride, angry feelings, weakness of soul. The drama included dancing and song, and choruses often sang the themes of the play. In Rome the music was a reappearance of gay Grecian music and a blending with that of the pagans—drums of Syria, cymbals of Tyre, In the theatres were flutes and lyres, songs of Grecian chorus singers and bands of Egyptian musicians. "All the world's minstrelsy was there, in that great churning-press of nations which men called Rome." Music was presented in theatres, not in Temples as in Greece. These theatres were places of spectacle and amusement, not of worship. Tragedy had passed and pantomime took its place. Choruses took no part in the action of the play. All the religious element was gone. A kind of orchestra, vocal and instrumental, accompanied the gestures of the players. Roman music lacked the chastity of Greek art. Nero was the chief patron, but pagan music died with him. (For Literary Lesson, Jan. 16, 1934) Then came the Christians, and in their worshipping they sang their songs of praise in hidden places and in muffled voices. These songs unconsciously framed the new music of the world. Grecian music was born "amid the patter of dancers' feet and in showers of sunlight." But Christian music had its birth in underground passages, among desperate men, amid sorrow and fear. Their psalms were muttered rather than sung, The early Christians used the voice to praise the Lord. They did away with instruments. These, they said, paid honor to idols. "As David sang psalms on his harp to the Lord, so do we, too, sing, but on a harp whose strings are alive—our tongues are the strings; and more the Lord does not require." They sang, or chanted, their songs of praise as they worshipped or walked along to places of punishment or death. Pomp and worldliness crept in later and this music lost its simplicity. Great choruses, or choirs sang to and with large congregations. The first choirs were men, but later women were allowed to join. Y Suggested Songs: "The Doxology," L. D. S. Hymns, No. 26. "Thy Will Be Done," Sunday School Song Book, No. 237. fees PO THE FIELD (For Social Service Lesson, Dec. 26, 1933) The Discussion of Sleep Habits First Song, "Angry Words," Sunday School Song Book, No. 67. A short program of Cradle Songs. Will be appropriate. Or the whole Society may practice several of these songs—such as: "Cradle Hymn," Primary Song Book, No. 1; Sunday School Song 745 Book No. 214. "Rock-a-bye Baby," Primary Song Book, No. 53; Pioneer Songs, page 64. Brahms, "Cradle Song.". The Primary children can furnish a program and make the lesson very effective. On Social Service days, if the music creates the atmosphere of children, the lessons are more impressive, A Magazine Program HE LeGrande Ward featured for its opening meeting the Relief Society Magazine. Various speakers treated the following subjects. The Size and its Cover. The value of the Magazine to the Visting Teacher. The Theology of our Magazine. The Literature of our Magazine. Its Art Subjects and pages of interest to our Mothers. Its page about women. Its recipes. Some of the fine thoughts brought out were: That just as school is now beginning, we have 63,000 women beginning courses in adult education. As children need text-books, so do women of the Relief Society need the Magazine as a fundamental textbook for all their lesson work. The world needs Spirituality. People can get it from the Magazine. The magazine gives an opportunity for women to express themselves in print. Writers and readers have the same outlook on life. There is a harmony of soul between them. The art subjects are most helpful inbeautifying our homes. The Magazine breathes into the homes a wonderful spirit. Eight cents a month will put into the hands of the subscribers a textbook and good wholesome reading for every member of the family. After a harmonica orchestra had played "Our Maryland," a group of women sang the following song: and later all present joined in singing it. OUR MAGAZINE (Tune: Maryland) Oh, have you seen our magazine, Our magazine, our magazine, Its pages beam with lines serene, Our magazine, our magazine, Go North, go South, go East, go West, Our magazine leads all the rest, Within its covers you can trust, Knowledge abounds that will not rust. And when we find a gem so rare, Let us to our friends declare, It'is the help we need today, Come along and with us say: _Go North, go South, go East, go West, Our magazine leads all the rest, Now with these praises it will seem YOU should take our Magazine. —Mary Stevenson. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND THE GENERAL BOARD President Fee Coungelor - Second Counselor Canemil Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs.-Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M, Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: Manager - - - - - Assistant Manager: - Mary Connelly KIMBALL Louise Y. Rosrson Amy Brown Lyman VoL. XX DECEMBER, 1933 No. 12 EDITORIAL Joseph Smith OSEPH SMITH was born in Sharon, Windsor County, Vermont, 128 years ago on December 23rd. As the years come and go, the work accomplished by this Vermont youth and the widespread influence of his teachings are being more truly evaluated. With prophetic foresight he realized that his name should be known for either good or evil throughout the world. Thousands who have not accepted his message directly, have been influenced by his teachings, for they have appealed to the reason of thinking men and women, The truths he taught have been accepted by them, though they were all unconscious of their indebtedness to him. The lives of thousands have been changed through his ministry. Many have come to the New World, who, but for the voice of the Elders, would have remained in their old world homes, and all future generations have thus been changed. On this the natal month of this Prophet, Seer, Revelator, it is well to pause and consider our debt of gratitude to him. We pay reverent homage to this bringer of light, to this restorer, to this man who has changed so many lives. We are grateful for what he was, for what he did, for what his teaching will continue to do. With the poet we cry out: "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah. Jesus anointed that Prophet and Seer, Blessed to open the last Dispensation, Kings shall extol him and Nations revere.” EDITORIAL 747 Eighteenth Amendment Repeal WE thank those who labored so faithfully to retain the 18th Amendment. We regret that their efforts were not crowned with success but they will have the satisfaction of knowing they did all they could in a righteous cause. WE feel that a most serious mistake was made when the people decided to repeal the 18th Amendment. We had hoped Utah would stand for its retention, but she joined the majority of States in voting for its abolition. The L. D. S. Have come into unfavorable prominence through Utah's vote. The London newspapers say, "The Latter-day Saints did it," "Prohibition dead—Mormons killed it!' The Evening Star emphasized that the Latter-day Saints cast the deciding votes. Nothing better than the Prohibition laws done away with have up to this time been evolved and already from every quarter are efforts being put forth to make beer and liquor on a big scale. We have sowed the wind, we fear we will reap the whirlwind, Mobilization for Human Needs NEWTON D. BAKER, Chairman, says, "The National Mobilization for Human Needs is a union of the thirty-four leading national welfare organizations to reinforce all community efforts to secure adequate financial support of voluntary local welfare services for 1934. The Moblization raises no funds but employs all possible channels of national influence and publicity to back up local requests for voluntary support of the indispensable social services of each community." Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, the National Chairman, and her committee realize that unless the work of the "private" welfare agencies, supported entirely or partially by individual givers, is continued, the standards of living built up in America will be lowered, delinquency and crime will increase, institutions (hospitals, orphanages, homes and settlements) will be crippled or closed, and past efforts in establishing these plants and equipment will be lost and can only be regained at greater cost later. "Even a rapid improvement in business will not immediately put back on their feet families who have suffered three years of destitution. The social wounds inflicted by unemployment will take along time to heal. The Women's Crusade is not designed to serve any one agency or group of agencies but to stimulate the interest in and understanding of the functions of all welfare organizations and the imperative need for continuing these organizations." Wy OMENS leadership is indispensable in the present national task for recovery, just as it has been in all other crises in our national history. From October 15th to November 12th in nearly 400 American communities thousands of women styled "am bassadors of understanding" waged an educational campaign. They were an informing, inspiring and coordinating group. They were inviting the millions who 748 have work and the means of livelihood to become partners of the poor in every community of the land. The objectives of this women's crusade are to make the women whom they visit and talk to cultivate a sense of partnership in the community's efforts to meet the general welfare responsibilities, to place upon the women a definite part of the responsibility, to awaken all citizens to the seriousness of the social emergency and the vital necessity of continuing the success of all social welfare agencies. To unearth criticism based upon lack of understanding and let the criticism develop into support by presenting the real facts, To spread an understanding of the multiplicity of social work, and the community's dependence upon the whole wellrounded social work program. Women have great power in shaping public opinion and their financial power is well known, for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE they control approximately 40% of the wealth in the United States and in most families of large incomes, they decide their own expenditures or are consulted in regard-to giftsto charity. In homes of medium or small incomes, women generally determine whether or not money shall be given to welfare work. The National Recovery Act must be supplemented by intelligent social work if rehabilitation is to be accomplished successfully. These "ambassadors" have stressed the importance of maintaining all the agencies now engaged in welfare work and have shown the limitations necessarily put on the use of R. F. C. Funds, and the many vital needs for which these funds cannot be used. The people of the country have given to charity very freely during the last few years, and they may be called upon this winter to give as never before. Work of Agents Appreciated WE deeply appreciate the very fine work done by our Magazine Agents and those who assisted them. We are also grateful for the loyal response to their canvass. We are delighted with our present large subscription list. We remind our agents, however, that unless those whose subscriptions expire with the December number renew, that our lists will fall back again very materially. In soliciting for new subscriptions, agents might ask, "Where can you get a better magazine for one dollar? What could you give for a present that would be more appreciated than the Relief Society Magazine? ' While our intensive campaign is over, there is need for constant attention to see that expirations are renewed. Errata N our November issue two poems were printed with the wrong names. "Rebirth" was written by Claire Stewart Boyer and "Life Perfect" by Miriam Jeanne W. Wright. Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in February) RESPONSIBILITY OF CONVEYING THE TRUTH TO OTHERS 1. A Natural Impulse. It does not appear that truth belongs to any individual alone, but rather to the world as a whole. Moreover the possession of it is seemingly accompanied by an impulse to pass it on to others. The reason for this does not at first appear to be easily explained. Within the present week the writer - of this lesson was visited by a famous American scientist, now chief paleontologist to the Chinese geological survey. He had come to America on a short visit, after thirteen years' absence. Plans call for his return to China where he will continue his work indefinitely into the future. He has an obsession for work and is willing to sacrifice practically every earthly comfort therefor. Already he is the author of nearly a score of memoirs on the fossil history of China and purposes to publish many more. His chief urge is two-fold, namely, to discover the truth, and to make it available for others. 2. The life of this man offers a key to the understanding of others. It is doubtful if a human being exists who really loves the truth who is not anxious to pass it on to others. Indeed, this is so universally true that it may be used as a criterion by which to determine the degree of man's actual devotion to truth. It is hardly possible, for example, that the indifferent and careless Latterday Saint actually loves the gospel. The Savior has said that, "If a man love me, he will keep my words." It is similarly true that if a Latterday Saint really loves the truth he will industriously convey it to others, for there is something about the possession of truth that impels one to share it with his fellow beings. 3. Command to Teach. If God has implanted in the hearts of his children the desire to share with one another the more or less commonplace truths of nature, how much more fully he must have implanted the desire to share the truths of the everlasting gospel. Indeed, he has also commanded that this be done. To his disciples of old he said: ''Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized, shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned." (Mark 15:15-16.) He repeated the same injunction to his diciples in modern times. Here are his words: "Go ye into all the world, preach the gospel to every creature, acting in the authority which I have given you, baptizing in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost." (Doc. And Cov. 68:8.) 4. While it is true that these injunctions were given to a few especially authorized individuals holding the Holy Priesthood, yet the Lord exempts no one from doing likewise, for "whosoever will thrust in his sickle and reap, the same is called of God." Again, '"Behold, the field is white already to harvest; therefore, whoso desireth to reap let him thrust in his sickle 750 with his might, and reap while the day lasts, that he may treasure up for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God." (Doc and Cov. 11:3.) Special authority is required to perform certain missions and to officiate in the ordinances of the gospel, but no one is enjoined from teaching the truths revealed of God; indeed the Lord expects that such will be the case. In response to a desire on the part of John Whitmer to know what would be of the most worth to him, the Lord said: "Behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me, that you may rest with them in the kingdom of my Father."" (Doc. And Cov. 15:6.) "TI give unto you a commandment that you shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom." (Doc. And Cov. 88:77.) 5. Unused Gifts. For the purpose of explaining the necessity of using the gifts of God, Jesus gave the parable of the talents (which read; see Matthew 25: 15-30.) Its purport is as follows: A man gave unto one of his servants five talents, to another two, and to another one; "to every man according to his several ability." He that received the five talents traded with the same and made five other talents; likewise he that received the two talents gained two more; but he that received the one talent hid it in the earth. When the man returned he was so well pleased with the first two servants that he made them rulers over many things. But from the third servant who had secreted his tatent in the ground because of fear that he might lose it, the man took the single talent which he had given him. 6. The scientific accuracy of the principle herein employed is of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE course well known. It is axiomatic in the animate things of nature that intelligent use invariably results in progress; whereas prolonged inactivity is followed by decline. In the case of a musician, for example, decline is so rapid that a performer usually pleads "out of form” if he has not practiced within the last few days. For the same reason, the coach of a football team would not permit his men to go into a game if they had been out of training as short a time asa week. So far as we know, no human attainment is immune to deterioration when activity ceases. Among human beings intelligent activity is the advance guard of progress; similarly, inactivity is the forerunner of decline. 7. This being true, it is not difficult to understand how active Latter-day Saints become increasingly more enthusiastic in their work, and why inactive ones become less so. Both conditions are the result of well-defined law. The ability to improve with intelligent use is one of God's choicest gifts to man. It makes attainment possible. Indeed, it endows man with the ability to ascend to the very throne of God. Naturally, such a gift is guarded by Deity with the most zealous care To those who appreciate its worth, he gives with unstinted hand; and from those who neglect it, he withdraws that which he has already given. This is his means of reward and disapproval. 8. It is clear, then, that no Latterday Saint can hope to retain the testimony which God has given him if he makes no effort to pass it on to others. God has not intended that he shall share it alone, for truth belongs to the whole of mankind. 9. Fields of Teaching. It must not be assumed that the foreign mission field, or even the pulpit at home, LESSON DEPARTMENT is the only avenue open to the Latter-day Saint for spreading the truths of the Gospel. If this were the case, a large percentage of Church members would be left without anything to do. The Church is so organized, however, that every one who cares to "thrust in his sickle" may do so with profit, both to himself and the field which is "white already to the harvest." The Priesthood quorums and Auxiliary organizations command the services of nearly one-half of the Church membership, as officers and teachers. Aside from this, teachine in the home demands the attention of every father and mother. Finally, every member of the Church is continually in contact with individuals who need to be taught the gospel truths. Thus there is ample opportunity for all. 10. Teaching by Example. There must, of course, be no disparagement of the value of thorough preparation and experienced presentation in the matter of teaching—other things being equal they are the bases of success—but more essential than either of these is a life of unquestioned devotion. The ears are not the only avenue to the soul; the eyes often intercept thoughts which the ears never hear. Then, too, Deity has seemingly designed that the spirit of conversion shall not come from the teacher whose life belies his words. Conversion requires more than words, and dates, and sentences well framed; it requires the Spirit of God which never passes through the teacher who js insincere, or whose life is disharmonious with that which he is attempting to convey. On the other hand, familiarity with the subject and experience in teaching are an invaluable adjunct to teachers whose lives are not open to question or criticism. This is ideal. 11. Teaching in the Home. The 751 home is the most fruitful field of all. Conversions are not only more numerous here than elsewhere but more lasting. There appears to be a tendency on the part of some parents to assume that their children are amply taught in the Auxiliary organizations and elsewhere. This of course is a mistake; no agency will ever be able to replace the parent. All others are merely supplementary thereto. The Lord has placed the primary responsibility of training the child upon the parent. Here are his words: "Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord." (Doc. And Cov. 68:25-28.) The responsibility is thus fixed and clear. 12. It is widely agreed that the teaching of childhood is more effective and lasting than that of later life. The parent must not assume, however, that the child is influenced only by her words. He is impressed immediately by the slightest act of insincerity or lack of devotion. The parent must never lose sight of the fact that she is the child's ideal.. The child may be thoroughly taught, for example, in the matter of, say, loyalty to the authorities of the Church, but the slightest disparagement, either in word or in deed, on the part of the parent, may be sufficient to shatter it. The parent must ever be watchful. Oftentimes even a jest is interpreted seriously by him. If, however, the parent is wise and truly loyal to the cause of God, she will 732 be a power for incalculable good in the life of her child. 13. Joy with those Saved. It is not pleasing to think of the misery and sorrow that will come to parents who have neglected the training of their children or to Latter-day Saints who have failed to teach the gospel to those who are not familiar with it. (We are not speaking of those who have faithfully tried and failed, but of those who have wantonly neglected that which they knew to be right.) On the other hand, it is difficult to imagine the delight that will come to those who have been faithful in conveying the truths of the everlasting gospel to others. Deity has characterized this as the most important thing that man can do. (Doc. And Cov. 16:6.) 14. Speaking to Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, and David Whitmer, the Savior said: ''Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; for, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance. And how RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE great ts his joy in the soul that repenteth! Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people. And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father! And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me!" (Doc. And Cov. 18:10-16.) Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1, What is it in your judgment that impels research scientists forward in their work? 2. Why are those who really love the Gospel anxious to convey it to others? 3. Why is inactivity followed by decline? 4, Why is teaching by example often more effective than by words? 5. Why are children often seriously injured by acts of insincerity on the part of their parents? Teachers' Topic SELF CONTROL "He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city." —Proverbs 16:32. "A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger."—Proverbs 15:1. The strong man is he who by discipline exercises a constant control over his thoughts, his speech, and his acts. The lesson of self control extends to every department of our nature and affects every act and event of our lives. Self control means many things. The avoidance of hasty and angry words; the power to resist temptation when it comes; the power to be calm under provocation or insult; the control of temper; the power to compel yourself to do the things you ought to do, and which conscience approves. —LESSON DEPARTMENT Self-control is a very important quality in character-building, and is very much worth while. Happy is the home where all the members have learned the arts of self-restraint and self-direction. To be able to control the tongue is rightly esteemed one of the greatest of moral achievements. The Apostle James says that: "If any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man, and able also to control the whole body." Self control, once acquired, will be the most important factor in helping to shape our lives rightly in every phase. The greatest possible help to self control is to learn in the moment of temptation to seek our Father in Heaven for his help and guidance, and for wisdom. "Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding. For the merchan- 753 dise of it is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof, than fine gold. She is more precious than rubies; and all things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her. Length of days are in her right hand; and in her left hand riches and honor. Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her; and happy is everyone that retaineth her. The Lord by wisdom has founded the earth; by understanding hath he established the heavens."—Proverbs 3:13-19. The outstanding characteristic of the life of our Savior was self control. It is the outstanding thought of all great spiritual teachers. Buddha says: "Though a man conquer a thousand men in battle, a greater conqueror is he that conquers himself." Literature (Third Week in February) THE LITERATURE OF THE BIBLE "Gallery of sacred pictures manifold, A minister rich in holy effigies, And bearing on entablature and frieze The hieroglyphic oracles of old. Along its transept aureoled martyrs Sit; And the low chancel side-lights half acquaint The eye with shrines of prophet, bard, and saint, Their age-dimmed tablets traced in doubtful writ! But only when on form and word obscure Falls from above the white supernal light We read the mystic characters aright, And life informs the silent portraiture, Until we pause at last, awe-held, before The one ineffable Face, love, wonder, and adore." —Whittier. Man, face to face with the Eternal, has made his most elevated expression. Deepened in soul by his spiritual experiences, man, t h e Artist, in music, in sculpture, in literature, and in all the arts has expressed his concept of God. "Atheism writes no hymns, agnosticism does not burst into song, skepticism constructs no religions." Only a noble faith may be expected 754 to express spiritual truths with imperishable beauty. A Supreme Book The Bible has been accepted by the world as a supreme book; its "noblest classic." What, then, are the marks of a supreme Book? It is a living book. Living because it is made out of the experiences of life, the actions of men and women in their greatest moments, the permanent and abiding emotions and motives. A living book becomes immortal when its truths are expressed with beauty. The power of the message of a book is borne to us by its music, music created when the words fit like jewels in carved mountings and the sentences glide like arrows from polished shafts. Thought carried by "winged words" stirring with force the emotions bears to the soul of man an understanding of truth. Such books are supreme, supreme because being immortal they endure forever. The Bible, the literary record of the Hebrews, gives to the world Eternal truth expressed with beauty. Hebrew wisdom is embodied in the command "Know God." A small band of people in the mountains of Judea learned this wisdom through revelation. Reflecting upon the objects and experiences of life they learned eternal meanings; hence, they gave to the world no system of philosophy, the product of reasoning as did the Greeks. With a clear voice they proclaimed '"Thus saith the Lord—I am God and there is none else * * * Be ye holy, for I am holy—Behold I set before you Life and Death, therefore choose Life." "These people," said Mathey Arnold, "have a secret, they have discerned the way the world was going and therefore they have prevailed." The greatest theme of all time—God and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE his purposes—gave rise to such. Beauty of expression that the sublime standard of letters has not been equalled throughout the ages. Noble men under spiritual direction learned the secret and recorded the tremendous truth in words and sentences of unforgettable beauty. "Clear thought, simple words, striking imagery, genuine emotion; these are the gold of literature." Remembering the interesting story of "How We Got Our Bible," we are in a position to realize the debt we owe to the translators of the Bible. Saint Jerome's perfect Latin version became the model for the English translators. William Tyndale was the incomparable translator who made the English Bible the glory of our language. The spirit of the Bible he felt to the depths of his being. An artist as well as a scholar, Tyndale translated the sacred words into words of such charm that subsequent translators followed his example. Coverdale, a martyr for the Bible, continued the work of Tyndale, smoothing out rough places here and there as he found them in the phrasing. The contribution of these men in the matter of language is evident when one considers the purely scholarly translation of John Calvin. It also is extremely significant that the Authorized Version of the Bible was made when the English lan- ' guage was at the height of its development, the age that gave to English literature the monumental works of Shakespeare and Milton. As we pause to look at the diction of the English Bible we linger over sentences that reveal the simplicity and majesty of the Hebrew mind through the music of our own language: "The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handywork." "I, John, saw the LESSON DEPARTMENT holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride for her husband." "Consider the lilies of the field how they grow." "Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid." Walter Pater says of the divine appeal, "Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest,' "how can man explain the mystery of the surpassing beauty of it? There surely is a great call from the depths of a heart of infinite love, and such a call carries its own music with it." The gospel narrator caught the intense sorrow of Jesus as he stood at the tomb of his friend, Lazarus, but William Tyndale in two words "Jesus wept" gave us an unforgettable picture and made us feel pathos that is too deep for words. The English Bible has clad the wisdom of the ages in a beauty worthy of God, His Purpose, His Power, and His Glory. "The Bible connects holiness with beauty more directly and more closely than any other work of man * *. It says what is best worth saying in the best possible way. The Authorized Version of the Bible is a piece of literature without any parallel in modern times. Other countries have their translations of the Bible but they are not great works of Art."— A. Clutton-Brock. The Literature of the Bible Saint Jerome long ago called the Bible "a divine library." In the light of modern literary and _historical study the Bible is now recognized as not one book but a library, consisting of sixty-six books bound together in one volume. Practically every kind of literary interest is represented in it—folk lore, history, biography, essay, drama, epistle, allegory, oratory, romance, vision- 755 literature, lyric poetry, and law. In Genesis we have a composite book, the Book of Beginning, the beginning of the earth, of man, the Hebrew people, the origin of the Sabbath and other institutions; in Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy, we have the civil and ecclesiastical laws; in Joshua and Judges, the heroic legends connected with the early settlement in Canaan; in Samuel, Kings, Chronicles, Ezra, and Nehemiah, the national history of different periods recorded from different points of view. In Ruth, Esther, and Jonah, we find stories told with a moral purpose; in Psalms, the religious lyrics of the Hebrew race; in Job, a dramatic presentation of a world-problem—the mystery of evil; in Ecclesiastes, a discussion in form of an essay of the question whether life is worth living; in Proverbs, an example of aphoristic literature; in the Song of Solomon, a lyric drama with a pastoral background. The sixteen prophetic books are examples of oratory, vision-literature, and allegory. Coming to the New Testament, we find four biographies, stories of mission journeys connected with the founding of the Christian church, and collections of pastoral letters written by its organizers; and finally an allegorical vision, which Milton described as a drama "shutting up her solemn scenes and acts with a sevenfold chorus of hallelujahs and harping symphonies." The Hebrews wrote the world's first history. Four hundred years before Herodotus, the Greek historian called the Father of History, the Hebrews wrote an account of the beginning of the world. This fact has been a source of wonder since archaeology has revealed the long-buried records of the Egyptian and Mesopotamian civilizations. These peo- 756 ples left records two thousand years older than the earliest Hebrew documents. Their records were mere facts not chronicles or history. It was the Hebrew who became an historian in that he recorded facts, their evidence, explanation, and significance as he thought of the past, the present, and the future as a divine plan. Woven into and among the historical narratives of the Bible we find various literary gems as the compilers needed to illustrate or enrich the narrative. From the purely historical material of the Old Testament we gain a vivid account of Hebrew life and times while from the literary material we gain an understanding of Hebrew thought. To modern literary study of the Bible we owe also a debt of gratitude. The Authorized Version of the Bible gave to the translation a simple arrangement, thought units and unit groupings, planned in the main for reading, chanting, and responses for the existing method of church worship. The literary version of the Bible has not changed words, thoughts, or spirit, but merely rearranged the material in the form of literature. The modern reader is thus enabled to enjoy more completely the historical books of the Bible and more fully appreciate the significance of their message. The Stories of the Bible It has been said that fiction began when once upon a time a man told a story about another man. The Hebrews unconsciously discovered and developed this great art. Their stories were always fashioned out of life for a definite purpose not to indulge their imagination, nor to entertain their hearers, but always with didactic aim—to teach a lesson of tolerance, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to encourage patriotism, to give higher conceptions of life. The Hebrew stories may be classified as follows: hero stories, stories of friendship, illustrative stories. The hero stories include: Abraham and Isaac, the Joseph stories, Jepthah's Daughter,. Gideon and the Three Hundred, David and Goliath. The friendship stories include: The story of Ruth, David, and Jonathan, Esther, Judith. The illustrative stories were used to illustrate a spiritual or moral truth. The parables and allegories being the most lofty in purpose seemed most fitted to the Hebrew mind. The allegory was most frequently used in the Old Testament: Israel and the Vine (Psalms 8); The Lion's Whelp (Ezekiel 19:2-9); The Boiling Caldron (Ezekiel 24:1-14); The Olive and the Branches (Romans 11: 16-24.) The parable was the most characteristic form of the teachings of Jesus, the most significant being: The Mustard Seed to illustrate The Growth of the Kingdom. The Corn and the Ear to illustrate The Principle of Development. The Hidden Treasure to illustrate Life's Highest Goal. The Virgin to illustrate Life's Tests. The Talents to illustrate Use or Lose God's Gifts. The Good Samaritan to illustrate The Value of Service. The Prodigal Son to illustrate Life's Values. Some literary scholars classify the "Book of Jonah" as an allegory and some as a parable. Whatever the classification we accept Charles Read's statement: "Jonah is the most beautiful story ever written in so small a compass." The Story of "Ruth" is consider- LESSON DEPARTMENT ed one of the best stories ever written. It is idyllic in tone. Goethe called it "the daintiest of love idylls." It is a plea for tolerance. Ezra and Nehemiah had been seeking to prevent the intermarriage of their people with the neighboring tribes. The author, unknown but a great humanist, wrote the story of a woman of Moab whose blood flowed in the veins of Israel's most famous king, David. The Love is that of a daughter-in-law and a mother-inlaw. The delicacy of the scene between Ruth and Boaz is the work of an artist refined in spirit. The passage "Intreat me not to leave thee if aught but death part thee and me" is immortal because of its perfection. The Book of Esther is a brilliant historical romance. Into the story is poured the passionate hatred of the Jew for his enemies and oppressors. It exalts racial intolerance; the tone of the book is patriotic. The characters are skillfully depicted. And the setting of the Oriental court with its splendor and intrigues is worldly. Esther, a Jewess, married to the king of Persia, saves her people from destruction by thwarting the plans of the wicked Haman. The Book of Jonah is a protest against religious intolerance. One writer has said: "In this book the religious spirit of the Old Testament reaches its purest and amplest expression." As anallegory it displays the narrowness of the Jews. Israel, like Jonah, thought that Jehovah was only the God of Palestine. Israel like Jonah, was swallowed up by the Babylonish captivity and there learned to sing songs of God. After their return from Exile they were repeatedly complaining to God for his patience to the Gentiles. The story aimed to teach the Jews the lesson so beautifully expressed in t he hymn: 757 "The love of God is broader than the measure of man's mind And the heart of the Eternal is most wonderfully kind. And we make his love too narrow by false limits of our own, And we magnify his strictness by a zeal he will not own." The life story of Joseph written when it was is the world's first biography. A marvel of literary artistry it combines a large cycle of stories into a masterpiece just as Tennyson did with the Arthurian legends in the "Idylls of the King." As we see the incidents in the life of Joseph, the many colored coat, the boyhood dreams, the jealous brethren, the slavery in Egypt, the confidence of Pharaoh, the temptations of Potiphar's wife, the famine administration, the reunion with his family; we have details so artistically bound together that they reveal not incidents alone but growth of character is traced, motives are revealed, conversations are recorded, and always an expected climax eagerly awaited. The story fabric of this Bible masterpiece saturated with the pride of many generations of the Hebrew race in the hands of an artist gives to the biography of Joseph an universal appeal. - The Books of the Prophets It has been said that the quality of a people can be meastted by the kind of men they honor. It is a fact that Greece honored poets, philosophers, sculptors, orators, and athletes; Rome gave her greatest honors to emperors, military leaders an d poets; while Israel revered most of all her prophets. Israel's prophets, the mouthpieces of God, explained and justified God to his people. Only with great brevity can we pause and comment upon the leading prophets 758 of Israel: Amos (750 B. C.,) the prophet of justice, in splendid expression issued to his erring people the message "God is not mocked, neither is he propitiated by feasts and offerings. Hosea (740 B. C.,) the prophet of pity, saw the loving heart of God waiting to forgive his prodigal people. Isaiah (737-701 B. C.,) the statesman prophet, for fifty years tried to keep his people's faith. His magnificent intellect, his abundant energy, and his splendid faith made him one of the great writers of the world: His best expression is in Chapters 1, 6, 11, of the book that bears his name. Micah, the Socialistic prophet, in a terriflc message denounces the oppressor. Jeremiah, a man of tender spirit, saw religion as an individual influence rather than a national product. The prophets of Israel gave to their people the understanding that it is man's responsibility to do the will of God. An acquaintance with the Hebrew prophets—their enduring hope and faith—enriches us. Let us listen to the words of Amos the herdsman of Tekoa as he preached in the streets of Bethel: "Prepare to meet thy God, O Israel. For, lo, he that farmeth the mountains, and createth the wind, and declareth unto man what is his thoughts, that maketh the morning darkness, and treadeth upon the high places of the earth, The Lord, The God of hosts, is his name." New Testament and Christianity The New Testament has been called the Magna Charta of Christianity. Jesus, the center of interest of the New Testament, brings a new message, not for a nation but for mankind. The Gospels, a new type of literature, herald this new message RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sage not by narrative and not by argument, but by establishment of divine evidence, Jesus the Son of God. The New Testament historians follow the Hebraic tradition writing for a purpose. Their purpose being to promulgate a new religion, Christianity. The Book of Acts written by Luke, a Greek and a master of rhetoric, is a graphic account of the missionary activities of the early Christian Church. Jesus, the Christ The greatest narrative ever written is the life-story of "humanity's divinest figure," Jesus, by his loving disciples Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Jesus left no written record of his teachings. The evangelist Mark shortly before the death of Peter wrote a vigorous account of the activities of Jesus (65-70 A. D.) Matthew a few years later revised and refined Mark's record (75-80 A. D.) while Luke, the cultured Gentile friend of Paul, wrote the third account adding new material and writing more accurately. The writers were not literary artists, each gives a different point of view of their Master. The Book of Matthew deals with the fulfillment of prophecy; the Book of Mark with the miraculous power of Jesus: Luke with his humaneness; John with the significance of His words. "My words shall not pass away," said Jesus, the Master; ''Be ye perfect" are the words of Jesus, the Teacher; "I am the Way, the Truth, and the Light,' announces Jesus, God's immortal Son. Truly men have spoken of Jesus. "Never spake man like this man."" Many explanations have been offered by literary scholars for the "words" of Jesus. "Tn him all fullness dwelt—fullness of the prophetic spirit, fullness of wisdom, fullness of poetic utterance; LESSON DEPARTMENT supreme in spiritual glory, supreme in glory of speech" seems to be one of the best of the many estimates. Being a Hebrew, He used the mode of expression so effectively used by Hebrew poets, parallelism: "He that findeth his life shall lose it And he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it." Being a Hebrew and not a Greek, He made simple statements without argument. "In my Father's house are many mansions. I go to prepare a place for you." Being a teacher of men, He used simple terms; "your father," "lilies how they grow;" or parables about prodigal sons, sowers, and merchants; or proverbs as in the "Sermon on the Mount." While writing nothing himself the sayings of Jesus have entered the lives and speech of all men wherever Christianity has prevailed. The Letters of Paul Paul's great contribution to the world was the interpretation of Christian doctrine in the terms of the thought of his age so that it was acceptable to the keenest and best minds. This work wa s done by letters written to the early churches and to Christian missionaries. Paul of Tarsus, a Jew, educated to become a rabbi under the great teacher Gamaliel, knew both Hebrew and Greek thought. A Pharisee, a member of the Sanhedrin, Paul was intrusted with the task of uprooting Christianity. As a persecutor he took part in the stoning of Stephen. After his miraculous conversion to Christianity he directed the missionary activities of the early Church. As a theologian, Paul molded the thought of early Christianity. Religion to him meant Christ—a personal fellowship with 759 Him. His theology has been summarized in four words: Grace, Faith, Peace, Power. The source of Paul's greatness was his spirituality. "It is no longer I who live, Christ lives in me." The study of the letters of Paul is a life task. The volume of commentary on Paul is greater than on any other writer except Shakespeare. Of the letters "The Lyric of Love," Corinthians 13, "The Resurrection," Corinthians 15 are literary masterpieces; while the essence of Paul's sublime faith is expressed in his last words to Timothy, when feeble, old, and lonely in a Roman prison as he awaits martyrdom. "I have fought the good fight, I have finished the cause; I have kept the faith; henceforth, there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness." Apocalyptical Writings. Just as the thought of one age differs from that of another so often does the form of expression. For about three hundred years—168 B. C. To 150 A. D., we find that apocalyptic writing was prevalent. These years were marked by change, suffering, and martyrdom. The Book of Daniel in the Old Testament and the Book of Revelation in the New Testament are the apocalyptic books. The Book of Daniel was given to the Jews during the period of persecution and martyrdom by the Greeks. Its purpose was to strengthen the Jews dvring the period of persecution and martyrdom by the Greeks. Its purpose was to strengthen the Jews in their loyalty to the faith of their fathers. It gave to the Jews assurance of immortality: "And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life. And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firma- 760 ment; and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars forever and ever." During the period of the most extreme suffering of the early Chritians, the Book of Revelation was written, to encourage the members of the church to be faithful. Recording a vision of the solemn scenes and acts to take place in the fullness of time, we find the most beautiful expression in the Bible: "Be thou faithful unto death and I will give thee a crown of life.". Suggestions for Study. A. Materials: 1. The Story of the 'World's Literature—Macy. Chapter 4. 2. The Modern Reader's Bible —Moulton. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 3. The English Bible As Literature—Dinsmore. 4. Creative Religious Literature —Culler. B. Program: 1. Music Selections from the Psalms. 2. Discussion The Bible as Literature. A. The Narratives. B. The Prophetic Books. 3. Readings Selections from the follewing: a. The Old Testament Nar- - ratives., b. The New Testament Narratives. C. The Writing of the Prophets. C. Method: The purpose of this lesson is to bring a greater appreciation of the Bible through an understanding of its literary beauty. Social Service (Fourth Week in February) AFFECTION—-SEX AND EMOTIONAL MATURITY LESSON XIV In the reading material of this lesson is found the following sentence: "We have made little progress in setting up standards of emotional maturity." Such standards are not of human make. They are already provided in each individual and cannot be stopped. In earlier times it was thought a desirable life if the expression of emotions was all suppressed. Modern psychology has discovered the ill effects of such widespread inhibitions. Life in the face of present knowledge must be an emotional life. But emotions should be stimulated by desirable stimuli and be expressed in socially acceptable methods. To guide such a process requires thorough understanding of the appearance and expression of the important elements of emotional life. The aim of this lesson is to give the class members an introduction to this understanding and to stimulate further sympathetic study of the emotions and their relation to conduct. The subject canot be completely treated in such short space and time. Suggestions for Procedure: The topic is so big and the material is so rich for study that the best that can be done is to open up the field to the class from many approaches and let them feel its importance. This can best be done by LESSON DEPARTMENT means of topical reports or lectures. If the topical method is used the following outline is suggested. 1. Effect of a normal emotional life of parents and other adults in the home-——White House Conference 1930, p. 140 and topic 4 in the supplementary material. 2. Provide the opportunity.— Topic | in supplementary material. 3. Emotional elements of school organization and management.— White House Conference, 1930, p. 171. 4, Social Hygiene instruction in school and home.—White House Conference, 1930, p. 176. 5. Motion pictures and other commercialized amusements, and the emotional life of children—-White House Conference, 1930, pp. 255- 260 and topic 3 in the supplementary material. 6. The approach to the problem through mental hygiene——White House Conference, 1930, pp. 304- 308 and topic 5 in the supplementary material. 7. Social welfare and the maintenance of the homes.—White House Conference, 1930, pp. 322- 323. The reading guide should be studied carefully by each classmember as a background for hearing and discussing the reports. Reading Guide: Growth pp. 31- 34, The Material while brief expresses clearly the two fundamental ideas involved. 1. Sex interests should appear normally. 2. The expression of these should be guided and directed, not inhibited. While keeping in mind the first of these basic assumptions note what the pamphlet says about the following ideas: 761 The tendency toward specialization of longings for affection. Time or age for maturing of capabilities for reproduction. Time for reaching the ability to support self and children. Definition of "maturity." The problems involved in the second general idea stated above are discussed under the following topics. Make a note of what is said about each. 1. Postponement of mating. 2. Free contact with members of the opposite sex. 3. Dangers of delaying such contacts. 4, Over-idealized womanhood. 5. "Protecting oneself" from men. 6. The mother-sister analogy. 7. Coeducation. 8. Travel during adolescence. Problems 1 and 2 are to be answered from Part 2 of the supplementary reading and from experience. Problems 8 and 9 are discussed in the reading material outlined above: Problems 3, 4, and 5 call for a review of the lesson on Developing initiative and independence. Problem 7 calls for the experience of the class members. Problem 6 is answered in part 6 of the supplementary material. Supplementary Material: 1, Miss Caroline B. Zachry in a recent article in the Journal of the National Education Association, January, 1930, states that children pass through the following stages of emotional development: 1. Period of mother love based on physical care and comfort. Later this is extended to include the father and others. 2. Run-about period of selfishness and interest in I, me, mine. 762 3. Love of people most like himseli—same age and sex—authority shifts to the gang. 4. Close friendship for one or two people of the same sex and marked hero worship. 5. Interest in the opposite sex with a strong desire to be independent. Discussing the stages she says: "The social stages just described are the normal ones through which each child should have an opportunity to pass. The home and school need only provide the opportunity, the child will take care of the rest. Many serious mistakes are made by parents and teachers who do not understand these periods and try to superimpose on the child behavior that belongs at a different level. The child who is normally self-centered at an early period may have far too much attention paid to this condition and because of the satisfaction attained through the attention prolong the behavior. The gang stage causes great over-anxiety to adults. They despair of dirty hands, poor table manners, and discourteous behavior to children of the opposite sex, failing to realize that if they will bear with a minimum of manners for a few years the whole picture will change with the normal development of interest in the opposite sex. It is important to realize that the crush stage is normal though it must be handled very intelligently. Understanding parents and teachers will accept the development of interest in the opposite sex calmly and without comment, realizing that their development will do much to reassure the young person at a very emotional period that is all too often, through the misunderstanding of adults, an anxious period." 2. By what age would you expect the average child to have outgrown RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE telling "tall tales" and stories which he half imagines to be true? In answer to these questions Thom says: (Every Day Problems of the Every Day Child). "In dealing with fabrications that have no basis in fact or that serve no apparent, useful purpose—that is, the so-called products of day dreaming—it is neither necessary nor desirable to make the child admit the lack of reality in his dreams. It is much better simply to impress him with the fact that you, as an adult, are taking it for granted that he is making up an interesting story which amuses you as any story might and that the possibility of accepting it as truth has never occurred to you. There is less danger in encouraging these make-believe stories in children, if they are given to understand that you accept them as such, than there is in trying to inhibit them by constantly denying their existence or by punishing the narration? Such punishment is apt to increase the romance the child derives from his stories, fill him with selfpity, make him introspective, and drive him further away from reality." p. 251. The exaggerations of adolescence will be temporary. Self-convicting testimony and over-severe punishments lead to wilful lying. The compensating absences of incentives and opportunities for falsehoods will give a chance for positive truthtelling habits to be built up. 3. Mary Lue Chochian in an article on Movies and Life in Child Welfare—April, 1932, pp. 455-459, discusses the vivid and direct appeal of the movies in portraying crime, in giving a strong emphasis to sex stimulations, the lure of happy endings based on physical attractiveness and clothes, and the fearful effect of the horror pictures recently portrayed LESSON DEPARTMENT—Based on Clinical experiences the author gives two practical suggestions: A. "TI have repeated proof that children who are still in the formative stage are satisfied with the better pictures." Parents "can start with their own child. They can carefully select the pictures he sees and try to supply other types of recreation so that he will not have to go to the movies for all his thrills and adventures." B. "We shall fail if we take the pose of self-righteous reformers and rant and rail in excited fashion. If fathers and mothers would calmly and thoughtfully make their opinions of pictures felt through patronage or lack of patronage in the theater, the result would be far reaching in its effects." 4. Groves (The Child from Six to Ten) says: "The child needs above all things to be happy. He craves affection and stability. No amount of material luxury can make up to him for lack of affection. Affection must not be spasmodic. A moderate love that flows gently on, uninterrupted by outbursts of emotion, is surely best for the child." p. 142. 5. The dangers to mental health of continued inhibitions of expression of such basic emotions as fear, anger, and love are emphasized in modern » psychology. Yet it is necessary that such uncontrolled expressions be inhibited and redirected. Parents need to be conscious of the methods of control and redirection of emotional expression. On this point Blanchard (The Child and Society, pp. 26-27) says: "The inhibition of the natural emotional responses from fear of conseqtiences or other motives growing out of the social experiences of the child, is called repression in 763 psychoanalytic terminology. Many forces unite to act in the repression of the different emotional responses. Fear must be controlled and concealed because one is ashamed to appear cowardly before one's comPpanions. Outbursts of anger must be conquered in order to escape the disapproval of the group and to retain friendships. The social demands for the repression of the love responses, especially at a crude sex level, are particularly powerful. But repressed emotions produce in the organism a state of tension because of their need for some motor outlet. Other activities are therefore, substituted for those which are socially unacceptable. These may be of motor or verbalmotor nature; the latter provides for substitute expressions in a great many instances. The boy who cannot hope to whip a playmate much larger and stronger than himself, however angry he may be, finds it advisable to control his anger. Then he may find relief from the pent-up emotion by wreaking it upon an innocent victim in the person of a smaller child or an animal, or he may talk of what he would like to do to his enemy or indulge in vivid day dreams of revenge. The youth who cannot follow his love impulses to caress the girl who stimuates him to desire this expression, can send her candy or flowers, or write a love sonnet to her charms. The tendency of the emotions to cause some kind of activity has been described under the term of sublimation by the psychoanalysts. It is important for the proper socialization of the child that he learn to repress many emotional responses which, in their natural manifestations, would be ill-adapted to life in the group. It is equally important that desirable sublimations, or substitute expressions, be provide 764 ed for the emotions which are thus inhibited. Without these sublimations, the emotional tension is likely to become too great to be endured without some sacrifice of physical or mental health. To some extent, the type of sublimated responses will be determined by the inherited traits of the individual, but the social and environmental opportunities are a live factor in this determination." 27-28. 6. Why are not young children grateful for all the sacrifices their parents make?; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The answer is two fold. 1. The children have become habituated to parental devotion, have received care constantly and have not been made to feel that the parents were sacrificing; it has seemed the customary thing. 2. As the spirit of independence has developed the parental help has been soomewhat resented instead of welcomed. The parent's satisfaction in doing has been met by disapointment in the child in his effort to do for himself. Opportunity Dedicated to the Paris Second Ward Relief Society by Lizzie H. Welker To be sung to the tune "Truth Reflects," Page 246 Sunday School Song Book. Let us change this word called duty, Make it Opportunity, 'Tis a joy to serve the Master, Happiness His truths to see. So the task I call a duty, In good time may prove to be Not a trial and not a burden, But an Opportunity. Father we will gladly serve Thee, Learn Thy Truths, Thy Laws obey, And call it not a task, a duty, But an Opportunity. Tis a joy to serve a neighbor, Sister, Brother, Friend of mine, Though the task be low and humble, If a service 'tis divine; And its dividend is priceless, Heaping blessings back on me; Any service, ere so lowly, Is an Opportunity. Sisters, our Relief Society Was established for a cause, To direct this work of Service, And to help us learn God's laws; So all service, freely given, In our lives will surely be Not a task and not a duty, But an opportunity. X 12 POINTS OF SUPERIORITY! SELECT YOUR while Our stock is complete, You will find here just the card Values A SERIOUS QUESTION AND THE ANSWER MOST VITAL TO THE FUTURE OF YOUR ENTIRE FAMILY IF IT’S A BENEFICIAL POLICY IT’S THE BEST INSURANCE YOU CAN BUY More hardships have Been Prevented and More comforts Provided by Life Insurance than by Any Other Form of Financial Provision. Beneficial Life Insurance Company. DIRECTORS HEBER J. GRANT GEO. J. CANNON A. W. IVINS E. T. RALPHS J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. B. F. GRANT JOS. F. SMITH DAVID. MCKAY A. B. C. OHLSON
