More than 50,000 Subscribers WOMEN OF THE CHURCH May take pride in the growth and increased circulation—and in the character of the Relief Society Magazine which makes this growth possible. Gin Toast acclaimed by thousands for its delicious goodness, its golden-brown crust. Fisher's Dutch Bread is an excellent Energy Food, highly beneficial to active youngsters. BIG DUTCH LOAF A Product of the Fisher Master Bakers When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine "L. D. S. Training Pays!" Index to Of Increasing Advertisers Value... Give your son or daughter increased ability — greater chance to win life's battles. L. D. S. Business College.. Fly-leaf Write today for information courses. L. D. S. BUSINESS Fisher Master Bakers. COLLEGE Inside Front Cover Salt Lake City, Utah "When men have no faith in God, there is no rhythm, pulse or power in LARKIN MORTUARY LARKIN & SONS - 260 East South Temple LARKIN MORTUARY CO. 6003 Compton Avenue Los Angeles, California Jefferson 1244 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine earning capacity — a better about our intensive, practical ° ins 7 gat Leake City Phone 4-9126 Larkin Mortuary..... Fly-leaf The Deseret News Press. Outside Back Cover —John Philip Sousa. 466 24th Street, Ogden Telephone 821 The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. XXVIII JANUARY, 1941 No. 1 Contents Special Features Greetings—Executive Officers of the Relief Society General Board...... Frontispiece Picture—Executive Officers of the Relief Society General Board............ 2 What a Prophet Means to Latter-day Saints (October Conference Address)..............Elder Joseph Fielding Smith 3 Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Announcement........ 9 Gambling—Judge' Rulon WW. Clark,. A ee 14 Pageantry— Karl. Wood....26 Home Points the Way (October Conference Address)................Anna B. Hart 44 First Things First (October Conference Address)......Luella N. Adams 46 Habits of Happiness (October Conference Address )...................... Pauline T. Pingree 48 Fiction The. Benediction: Maryhale Woolsey 19 Genuine American Reduced:.....Norma Wrathall 33 General Features Some, Literary, Friends ("Popularity")... Florence Ivins Hyde 30 Happenings...Annie Wells Cannon 39 Editorial: "The Power' of Adversity” 40 Notes to the Field:..Pamphlets To Be Distributed...... Honor Roll—Corrections:  42 "The Jesse Knight Family” Bound Volumes. Notes from the field Excerpts From "Life of Joseph Fielding Smith"'............ Selected by Marianne C. Sharp 54 Lessons Theology and Testimony—Family Life, An Eternal Unit—Joseph F. Smith.............. 55 Visiting Teacher—The Law of Tithing and the Home.................. 58 Work and Business—Food Facts and Food Fads........... 59 Literature—Song Of Years  62 Social Service—Home Owning or Home Renting.......... 67 Mission—The New Home in the Mountains Winter…Beatrice Rordame Parsons  8 Grains of Life Helen Candland Stark 10 Three Gifts Mrs. La Verne Stallings 12 Restoration…Elsie F., Parton 13 I Love You, Snow Edna S. Dustin 18 Definition Of a Word Lael Woolsey 29 Shining Lights............... Courtney E. Cottam 49 Give Me Melodies...... Ivy H. Woolley—Inside Back Cover PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 83-2741, Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1. 00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in. Section 1103, Act of October 8. 1917. Authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. Greetings to Our devoted and faithful co-workers—Relief Society women throughout the Church—we extend, in behalf of the General Board, love, greetings and sincere good wishes for a peaceful and blessed New Year. We are deeply grateful for the untiring efforts you have put forth during the past year in the great Relief Society cause—for the splendid growth and progress which have come to the organization as a result of your efforts, and for the faithful service you have rendered so unselfishly to your fellowmen in connection with, and as a part of, the Church welfare program. We have grown not only in numbers, but in strength and efficiency, and in spirituality. 'The good you have done to others has been a blessing to them, and because of this work your own lives, as well as the lives of all others concerned, have been enriched spiritually. And brought in closer touch with our Heavenly Father. We are sure you have felt in your ministrations that "It is more blessed to give than to receive." We are grateful to our Father in Heaven for mercy and for His many blessings to us, and, above all else, we are grateful for the Gospel which has been restored in these latter days and through which we receive cur greatest comfort and solace. We realize that your year of service has been marked with real work and toil, but we are sure that it has been blessed by the lessons learned, the development received, and by the loving friendships and comradeships which have been formed and which come while working unitedly in a noble and righteous cause. 'These close personal and spiritual associations which are outstanding features of Relief Society work are no less important than other things acquired and accomplished. While we rejoice in our work and achievements and in our many blessings, our hearts are heavy and sad at this sacred season because of the spirit of strife and bitterness and hate that is abroad in the world, and because of the suffering and sorrow of thousands of innocent, Christ-loving men, women and children who, through no fault of their own but through the selfishness and greed and sinfulness of others, are victims of this tragic situation. Let us keep these unfortunate children of our Heavenly Father in mind, let us appeal to Him daily for their deliverance, and for the peace of the world, which Christ came so many years ago to bring. And now, dear sisters, let us begin the New Year with a desire in our hearts for guidance and inspiration, for faith and courage; let us seek the fellowship of our Heavenly Father and live according to His teachings, that the fount of His spirit will be open to us. Let us treasure our testimonies and hold fast to our convictions and live so that we can claim the blessings which are promised to those who are faithful. May we realize that "the world passeth away and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever." Amy Brown Lyman Marcia K. Howells Vera White Pohlman Donna D. Sorensen General Secretary-Treasurer _ General Presidency RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL PRESIDENCY AND GENERAL SECRETARY-TREASURER Front row: Donna D. Sorensen, second counselor; Amy Brown Lyman, president Back row: Vera W. Pohlman, secretary-treasurer; Marcia K. Howells, first counselor The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXVIII JANUARY, 1941 No. 1
What A Prophet Means To Latter-Day Saints Elder Joseph Fielding Smith Member of the Council of the Twelve (Relief Society Conference Address, October 2, 1940)
I AM asked to discuss the question, "What a Prophet Means to Latter-day Saints." In order to get this question before us, perhaps it would be well to first discuss the question, "What is a prophet?"
The idea prevails quite generally in the world, and has come down through the ages, that a prophet is a man who keeps himself aloof from the rest of his fellow-beings, a recluse, dressed perhaps in camel's hair or in some other garment that would distinguish him from the rest of humanity; that he mingles with humanity only when the spirit of prophecy is upon him; moreover, that a prophet is one who speaks by inspiration and reveals the future.
But this is only one of the qualifications of a prophet. Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, Hosea, Malachi, and others have prophesied of the future, and have given us a great deal of information beneficial to the world. But we have no revelation given to us concerning Melchizedek, and yet it is said of Melchizedek that there was none greater before him. So great was he that the Lord honored him by having the Priesthood after the order of the Son of God called after his name, and so we call it the Melchizedek Priesthood. We have no prophecies except the statements that were of local color coming to us from Elijah, and yet Elijah is referred to constantly throughout the Scriptures and by us today as Elijah the Prophet, because of the greatness of his work. The Lord said of John the Baptist that there was none greater. No prophet had been born into this world greater than John, and yet John's prophesying was limited to the coming of Christ.
Then, what is a prophet? A prophet, as I understand the term, is one who teaches by the voice of inspiration the words of eternal life, and who officiates in the saving ordinances of the Gospel. Predicting is only one, I say, qualification of a prophet.
When John was on the Isle of Patmos, a messenger came to him, and John fell to his knees and was about to worship him. But this messenger said unto him, "See thou do it not: I am thy fellowservant, and of thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus: worship God: for the Testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy." In other words, every person who is baptized and confirmed should have the spirit of inspiration and should know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. Every person should live in harmony with the revealed truth; and in doing that, and receiving the testimony through the Holy Spirit that Jesus lives and is the Son of God, he or she becomes a prophet or prophetess, and is entitled to the guidance of the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, who is the spirit of prophecy.
Now to understand the nature of a prophet, and the need of prophecy, it is necessary for us to discuss the nature of life, life in its fullest sense, not life merely here in this world, but life in all of its existence and throughout all eternity. We lived in the presence of God in the spirit before we came here. We desired to be like Him, we saw Him, we were in His presence. There is not a soul in this building today who has not seen both the Father and the Son, and in the spirit world we were in their presence; but it became necessary for us to gain experiences which could not be obtained in that world of spirits, and so we were accorded the privilege of coming down here upon this earth. And the Lord, as he stood there in the midst of the spirits, said that they would go down and prepare an earth upon which they could dwell, and He said:
"And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them;
"And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads forever and ever." (Pearl of Great Price, Abraham 3:25-26)
SO we were placed here upon this earth for the purpose of gaining experience. When Adam was placed in the Garden of Eden he was innocent; he knew not the difference between right and wrong; he was immortal; he was not subject to death, and it became necessary that he should transgress the law under which he was living so that mortality could come upon him, and thus from him to all of his posterity. The fruit of the knowledge of the tree of good and evil was placed before him in order to bring to pass that very condition. We read in the Scriptures that "Adam fell that man might be, and men are that they might have joy." He knew nothing of pain, nothing of sorrow; in fact, all the vicissitudes of mortality came into existence through the fall of man, but the fall of man, of course, of necessity shut Adam out of the presence of God. It also shut his posterity out of His presence. Therefore, it became necessary that someone be sent from the heavens to teach Adam that he might know and understand the plan of salvation and exaltation, and the means by which he could overcome the difficulties of mortal life and come back again into the presence of God the Father. So an angel was sent to him to instruct him and, among other things, the angel said unto him, "Wherefore, thou shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son, and thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son for evermore." And the principles of the Gospel were made known to him and to Eve.
Mother Eve has preached one of the finest discourses that was ever delivered by any preacher upon the earth. It is very brief, and I am going to read it to you:
"And Eve, his wife, heard all these things (that is, the things which the angel declared unto Adam) and was glad, saying: Were it not for our transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient." (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 5:11)
And all that came by reason of the fall. If it had not been for the fall, we would not be here. Adam and Eve would have remained in the Garden of Eden; they would not have known good and evil; they would have learned nothing about the redemption which was prepared before the foundation of the world; for Jesus was chosen and the redemption was prepared before the foundation of the world to bring Adam and all his posterity back to life through the resurrection, to give unto them immortality and, if they would keep the commandments of God, eternal life.
So it was necessary that these principles of salvation should be taught to the children of men. The Lord sent prophets among them, and these prophets preached the word of the Lord to the inhabitants of the earth. We read further:
"And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and their daughters.
"And Satan came among them, saying: I am also a son of God, and he commanded them, saying: Believe it not; and they believed it not, and they loved Satan more than God. And men began from that time forth to be carnal, sensual, and devilish." (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 5:12-13)
That is the condition that has prevailed in the world since the fall of man. Nevertheless, the Lord has sent His angels; He has spoken unto man by His own voice, and has given unto man inspiration so that the human family might know the plan of salvation and might have the privilege of living in the light of truth and walking before the Lord in righteousness.
In Section 1 of the Doctrine and Covenants, we have a very significant statement. The Lord says:
"And the arm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of his servants, neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people;
"For they have strayed from mine ordinances, and have broken mine everlasting covenant;
"They seek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own God, whose image is in the likeness of the world, and whose substance is that of an idol, which waxeth old and shall perish in Babylon, even Babylon the great, which shall fall." (Doctrine and Covenants, 1:14-16)
NOW because of this condition, because of the agency of man, and because Satan came among them, the majority of mankind has turned away from the teaching the Lord has given. They have refused to hearken to the counsels of prophets and apostles; but the Lord has sent to them, notwithstanding these conditions, down through the ages, His servants, the prophets, to teach them. Let me read further:
"Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments;
"And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets—
(This is very significant)
"The weak things of the world shall come forth and break down the mighty and strong ones, that man should not counsel his fellow man neither trust in the arm of flesh—
"But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world;" (Doctrine and Covenants, 1:17-20)
That is the reason for the restoration of the Gospel through prophets. That is the significance of prophets among Latter-day Saints.
"But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world;
"That faith also might increase in the earth;
"That mine everlasting covenant might be established;
"That the fulness of my gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers." (Doctrine and Covenants, 1:20-23)
According to this, not only Joseph Smith was to be a prophet, not only his counselors and the Council of the Twelve were to be prophets, but every person who would be willing to accept the truth, who would humble himself, and come into the Church, might speak in the name of God, the Lord, even the Savior of the world. The purpose of prophecy, in the sense in which I have interpreted it, is that faith also might increase in the world. If we had no revelation, if there should be no opening of the heavens, no guidance by inspiration or revelation, then we ourselves would drift into forbidden paths, and it would only be a short time until we would be just as bad off as the rest of the world.
We look upon the writings in the Bible as scripture, and have accepted them as scripture. We look upon the writings in the Doctrine and Covenants, Pearl of Great Price, and Book of Mormon as scripture; we have accepted them in that way. But have we realized that these prophets of old spoke under the inspiration of the spirit of the Lord just as elders of Israel are entitled to do today? Let me read this to you. The Lord, speaking to one of his servants who was to go forth and preach the Gospel, told him to go forth and preach among the congregations of the wicked by the spirit of the living God:
"And, behold, and lo, this is an ensample unto all those who were ordained unto this priesthood, whose mission is appointed unto them to go forth—
"And this is the ensample unto them, that they shall speak as they are moved upon by the Holy Ghost.
"And whatsoever they shall speak when moved upon by the Holy Ghost shall be scripture, shall be the will of the Lord, shall be the mind of the Lord, shall be the word of the Lord, shall be the voice of the Lord and the power of God unto salvation.
"Behold, this is the promise of the Lord unto you, O ye my servants.
"Wherefore, be of good cheer, and do not fear, for I the Lord am with you, and will stand by you; and ye shall bear record of me, even Jesus Christ, that I am the Son of the living God, that I was, that I am, and that I am to come." (Doctrine and Covenants, 68:2-6)
THAT is what the Lord said. When one of the brethren stands before a congregation of the people today, and the inspiration of the Lord is upon him, he speaks that which the Lord would have him speak. It is just as much scripture as anything you will find written in any of these records, and yet we call these the standard works of the Church. We depend, of course, upon the guidance of the brethren who are entitled to inspiration. There is only one man in the Church at a time who has the right to give revelation for the Church, and that is the President of the Church. But that does not bar any other member in this Church from speaking the word of the Lord as indicated here in this revelation, but a revelation that is to be given as these revelations are given in this book, to the Church, will come through the presiding officer of the Church; yet the word of the Lord, as spoken by other servants at the general conferences and stake conferences, or wherever they may be when they speak that which the Lord has put into their mouths, is just as much the word of the Lord as the writings and the words of other prophets in other dispensations.
Now the reason for prophets in this day is that we might be guided in all truth, that we might draw near unto God, that we might know His ways and walk in His paths in righteousness. I want to read another passage of scripture. This, I think, is one of the finest things the Lord has given:
"Wherefore, he that preacheth and he that receiveth, understand one another, and both are edified and rejoice together." (Provided the one who speaks is speaking under the inspiration of the spirit of God.) We have a great many speakers who speak among us who are not guided by the spirit of God. They are guided by their own inspiration—the inspiration of men. They have put their trust in men rather than in the Lord. The Lord says, in cases of this kind,
"And that which doth not edify is not of God, and is darkness.
"That which is of God is light; and he that receiveth light, and continueth in God, receiveth more light; and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day.
"And again, verily I say unto you, and I say it that you may know the truth, that you may chase darkness from among you." (Doctrine and Covenants, 50:23-25)
Now it is the privilege of every member of this Church to be a prophet; it is the privilege of every member of the Church to know the truth, to speak by the truth, to have the inspiration of the Holy Ghost; it is our privilege, individually, as stated here, to receive the light and to walk in the light; and if we continue in God, that is, keep all of His commandments, we shall receive more light until eventually there shall come to us the perfect day of knowledge. I will read another passage:
"The Spirit of truth is of God. I am the Spirit of truth, and John bore record of me, saying: He received a fulness of truth, yea, even of all truth;
"And no man receiveth a fulness unless he keepeth his commandments.
"He that keepeth his commandments receiveth truth and light, until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things." (Doctrine and Covenants, 93:26-28)
To an ancient prophet the Lord said: "Where there is no vision, the people perish: but he that keepeth the law, happy is he." (Proverbs, 29:18)
Again: "Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but (until) he revealeth his secret to his servants the prophets." (Amos, 3:7)
Men are entitled to receive a warning that they may repent and gain knowledge of the things of God. To Hyrum Smith, who came to his brother, the Prophet, to know what the Lord would have him do even before the Church was organized, the Lord said:
"Deny not the spirit of revelation, nor the spirit of prophecy, for wo unto him that denieth these things;
"Therefore, treasure up in your heart until the time which is in my wisdom that you shall go forth.
"Behold, I speak unto all who have good desires, and have thrust in their sickle to reap." (Doctrine and Covenants, 11:25-27)
So through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, the guidance of the Lord, which may come to any one of us, the privilege is granted that we may walk in truth until eventually, not now, we shall know the truth in its fulness; we shall stand before the Lord in righteousness, and shall be like Him. Without the guidance of inspiration and revelation these things could not come. The Lord bless you, I pray, and guide us all that we may walk in the light and follow the inspiration of those who speak and teach among us, who in humility and faith endeavor to put before the people the will of the Lord rather than their own commandments, and so I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

WINTER
Across the fields and gardens that we knew, To sweep the summer glory from our sight, To blot away the red, the green, the blue, Cold Winter weaves a shroud of snowy white.
Against the sunset of a gray-blue sky, The birches and the aspens rise to fling Their leafless branches in a pattern high, That on this harp a winter wind may sing.
What is this Law—this quiet death to keep The roots close folded in the land's sweet breast, The small, brown seeds within their span of sleep, That sends wee birds away to search a nest?
There is no death in Winter's glistening snow! God's purpose lingers in the earth's dark womb. Fruit, flowers, gladsome things the world shall know, When Spring, in all her wonder, wakens from the tomb.
—Beatrice Rordame Parsons.

Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest
The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three award winners in the 1940 Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest. The first prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Helen Candland Stark, Faulk Road, R. F. D. No. 2, Wilmington, Delaware, for her poem "Grains of Life." The second prize of ten dollars is awarded to Mrs. La Verne Jensen Stallings, 1393 South 13th East Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Three Gifts." The third prize of five dollars is awarded to Mrs. Elsie F. Parton, 34 Dumbleton Road, Hurstville, N. S. W., Australia, for her poem "Restoration."
This memorial poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1923. It is held in honor of Eliza Roxey Snow, second general president of the Relief Society and one of the most gifted of our early-day poets. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women and is designed to stimulate and encourage them to write poetry and to appreciate the beauty and value of poetic verse. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates.
There were 101 poems entered in this year's contest. The General Board commends the entrants on the general excellence of the poems submitted. The selection of prize-winning poems required very careful, painstaking analysis on the part of the judges. It is a distinct recognition to be an award winner among so many gifted contestants. We congratulate those who achieved this recognition. We appreciate the wide interest evidenced in the contest and thank all who have contributed to its success—the entrants for the high quality of work submitted, the General Board Poem Contest Committee for its interest in the success of the contest and for its devoted and tireless efforts, and the three judges for their willing service, careful consideration of poems submitted, and for the excellence of their judgment in selecting prize-winning poems. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs of the prize-winning contestants, are published herewith.
HELEN CANDLAND STARK MRS. LA VERNE JENSEN STALLINGS
Grains of Life Fragments Of A Sonnet Cycle Helen Candland Stark (Awarded: First Prize, Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest)
I Planting
If I could give to you a dew-wrapped day, You have no need to tell me—I should know That you would use it all to make things grow. The furling bud, the fruiting branch are pay More than enough for loam from stubborn clay. If noon wilted or harsh rains turned to snow, If whir of locusts darkened skies to mow Earth naked—plant again. Thus you would say.
But love, our love, can have no second root. We gardened well and won a tall white flower From a bud that burgeoned from a bitter shoot Rooted in sullen soil. Let come no hour When we neglect to guard that tall bright tree Whose harvesting must be our destiny.
II Blight
August is the month of broken dreams: The amber pear splits in the grass, worm-eaten; The fish drift sideways in the shrunken streams; And in the fields the fecund shocks lie beaten With hail. What are those puny stalks of gray Seen through a mid-day dusk of drifting soil? Listen! The crickets work on stubbled hay, And canker takes the perfect rose as spoil.
And I who kept my body for this fruiting, Know now the wandering seed can find no rest— Part of the waste of August's heavy looting, Part of the waste of nature's heavy jest. September, can your gentler hands redeem The scattered fragments of the broken dream?
III Birth
Let this then sober you about to wed: Your loins and hers are living woof and warp For special patterning. That tilt of head, The tall bone, the laugh-closed eye, the sharp Strength of hand—lovers made these belong To us. Through them still other lovers sent Our strand of silver words, our love of song— Once more designing new experiment.
Let this then sober you about to wed: That pattern, broken, now begins anew; Here is the snapping of the ragged thread, The family pattern rent of us and you. Yet part of you goes with us past your place, And Mother looks again from your son's face.
Three Gifts Mrs. La Verne Jensen Stallings (Awarded Second Prize, Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest)
I SONG
A small bird flew into a waiting world... And Song was born! Each feathered throat took up the note and sang a Song of Morn! Ten million busy beating hearts joined in a Song of Day! Sweet children skipping down the street tossed up a Song of Play! A grandame knitting in her chair rocked out a Song of Ease! Wild surging waves upon the shore called forth a Song of Seas! Great anvils hurled on towering steel forged in a Song of Might! Celestial Symphonies of Spheres flashed down a Song of Light! Two lovers singing in the rain sent happiness along.... The whole world heard the small brown bird that came and brought a Song!
II BEAUTY
Ah, Beauty, with your brush of wings across my eager eyes, What loveliness you bring along in joyous quick surprise! Gay butterflies that flash their rainbowed fans above the lawn Where dusk winds play and night winds play and the gentle winds of dawn. A myriad meadow creatures small, swift fleeting down the lea.... To dip their faces in the brook that ripples toward the sea; The curling, swirling, crimson leaves that hurry past my door And clear the way for winter snows adrift on earth's brown floor, Soft mists that rise from lake and land to homing in the sky That tall tree's hands might brush them on against the boundless High! Come, take me with you, Beauty, to your kingdoms fair and far, Perhaps there I can gather silver from the evening star, Bright golden apples from the moon and countless other things, Oh, Beauty, take me with you.... I have always wanted wings!
III LOVE
The silent rush of thankfulness that comes at break of day When I awake and rise again to work and laugh and play, Oh, this is love... Glad love of life! A swift unbidden sorrow with its sodden beat of pain, The urgency of welcome tears that fall like cooling rain, This, too, is love... Strange love of strife! All patient labor of my hands from dawn till day is done, Green gardens growing in the shade, clothes swinging in the sun, Yes, this is love... My love of sod! The deep and aching tenderness for babes upon my breast, Sweet heady wine of lover's arms in ecstasy and rest, Ah, this is love... 'tis love of God! For God has sent His holy flame through every living thing To quicken life and gladden life, and make it leap and sing! Then, may my soul's small candlelight lit from that flame above Burn ever with a steady prayer.... "Thank God, thank God, for Love!"
Restoration Elsie F. Parton (Awarded Third Prize, Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest)
The once green breast of the outraged earth Lay bare and black and scarred. The stiff gaunt trees stripped of leaf and branch Stood naked, worn and hard.
A gaping hole from a bursting shell Was strewn with mangled dead, And structures fell 'neath the battering guns Where smouldering waste was spread.
The crimson dawn lit the eastern sky When day was born anew. A single bloom curved its petals bright To cup the morning dew.
A small bird hopped on a broken spar To chirp its roundelay: An infant crawled from a stiff cold arm And toddled on its way.
Gambling Rulon W. Clark Judge of the Juvenile Court, Salt Lake City, Utah
IT is our duty and responsibility as leaders in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to assist the young people who come under our direction to develop strong characters which will make them good members of the Church and good citizens of the state and nation to which we belong. Character is the sum total of an individual's inner traits, as represented by his conduct. The thing that makes a man strong in character, as we usually consider it, is not merely an accumulation of integrated traits, but also a worthy and desirable motive, purpose, or ultimate objective judged from the point of view of society as a whole. We must have the traits, of course, but they must be used in the proper direction. A man possessed of a fine array of abstract virtues may be likened to a loaded gun which may be used either in defense from an attack of a vicious animal or to assassinate a president. The direction in which the gun is fired is certainly as important as the fact that it is a loaded, efficient weapon. Also, a worthy or desirable objective without the traits that assist in its realization is as useless as an unloaded, defective weapon pointed at a vicious animal.
One of the fundamental elements of good character is that of honesty. A child should be given an opportunity to practice honesty as well as to be taught the principles of it; to employ it in many and varying situations. Honesty denotes honesty in speech, actions, correspondence, dress, relationships with self, one's own family, one's own group and with outside groups. Too often, children are allowed to conceive the idea that it is not the violation of law nor the commission of a delinquent act which is really vital, but the being caught for the commission of such act. And with a development of this attitude, a child may allow himself to commit acts of delinquency or crime feeling that he is justified. He may see his elders or prominent persons in a civic or religious organization performing the same or similar acts, or he may feel that because others speculate or resort to unfair practices he is justified so long as he is not apprehended.
One of the outstanding urges in character education is that of curiosity. Plato says, "Curiosity is the mother of all knowledge." The mind of the youth is continuously searching for information, and is receptive to information, and the answer to his sincere yearning is of great importance. The teacher who says to the child, "You must keep still," is failing to recognize the high principle of teaching which should characterize a real teacher. Sometimes children are taught that they should not be so inquisitive or curious—that "curiosity killed the cat." The present-day child is not satisfied with such an admonition. He wants to know what the cat was curious about. With this idea burning within him, the child is often led to speculate, experiment and often to gamble.
THE element of chance enters very largely into everything we undertake, and it should be remembered that the spirit in which we do things decides very largely whether we are gambling or entering into a legitimate business enterprise. There is also a very close similarity between gambling and games of skill. In fact, they are sometimes so closely associated that superior courts have been called upon to render decisions where prosecution has been attempted.
Gambling as distinguished from a game is defined in Nelson's Encyclopedia as follows: "Gambling, according to law, is an agreement between two or more persons whereby they risk money or anything of value, upon the result of a game of chance, in which one or more may win, and the other or others lose. The term, 'game' includes every possible scheme or contrivance for amusement which involves a test of skill or endurance or any element of chance."
Regardless of one's attitude as to gambling, there are two paramount questions which arise in our minds: First, is one violating the law of the state by gambling, thereby making himself a criminal in the eyes of the law and subjecting himself to criminal prosecution? Second, is one injuring himself or others by gambling or permitting gambling devices to be available to people who cannot afford to gamble, or to young people who might acquire the desire for gambling?
Gambling is unlawful in the State of Utah, and the persons participating are subject to punishment. The statute provides:
103-25-1—A Felony—Seizure and Destruction of Paraphernalia: "Every person who deals or carries on, opens or causes to be opened, or who conducts, either as owner or employee, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, roulette, lansquenet, rouge et noir, rondo, or any game played with cards, dice or any other device, for money, checks, credit or any other representative of value is guilty of a felony, and it shall be the duty of all sheriffs, constables, police and other peace officers whenever it shall come to the knowledge of such officer that any person has in his possession any cards, tables, checks, balls, wheels, slot machines or gambling devices of any nature or kind whatsoever used or kept for the purpose of playing for money, or for tokens redeemable in money, at any of the games mentioned in this chapter, or that any cards, tables, checks, balls, wheels, slot machines or gambling devices used or kept for the purposes aforesaid may be found in any place, to seize and take such cards, tables, checks, balls, wheels, slot machines or other gambling devices and convey the same before a magistrate of the county in which such devices shall be found; and it shall be the duty of such magistrate to inquire of such witnesses as he shall summon or as may appear before him in that behalf touching the nature of such gambling devices, and, if such magistrate shall determine that the same are used or kept for the purpose of being used at any game or games of chance described in this chapter, it shall be his duty to destroy the same."
The statute not only makes it illegal, but makes it a felony to own or operate or permit to be operated gambling devices in the State of Utah. It also provides that persons who own buildings or rent buildings are guilty of a misdemeanor when they permit a gambling game to be played upon the premises:
103-25-2 — "Every person who knowingly permits any of the games mentioned in the preceding section to be played, conducted or dealt in any house owned or rented by such persons, in whole or in part, and any person who plays at or against any of said prohibited games, is guilty of a misdemeanor."
One of our greatest difficulties in enforcing the statutes regarding gambling devices is that the devices are constructed so nearly like games of skill or like those for the sale of merchandise that they are classed as games of skill or vending machines and are licensed to be operated. There have been some decisions of our Utah Courts which make clear the distinction. In the case of Utah State Fair Association et al vs. Green et al, the Utah Supreme Court said: "But games of cards do not cease to be games of chance because they call for exercise of skill by the player, nor do games of billiards cease to be games of skill because at times, especially in the case of tyros, the result is determined by some unforeseen accident, usually called 'luck.' The test of the character of the game is not whether it contains an element of chance or an element of skill, but which of these is the dominating element that determines the result of the game."
IT is argued by some that if people have the money and wish to gamble or spend it for entertainment, it is their own affair and the business of no one else. They know, or should know, when they gamble with commercial devices or in commercial gambling places that the chances are greatly against them, and in most instances they will lose their money. In the American Magazine, Volume 120, page 102, there is an article by a professional gambler, entitled "Some Folks are Lucky," written by J. B. Creswold. In part, he says: "Nine hundred ninety-nine people out of a thousand have no business gambling big money. The thousandth is the person I usually get at my table. The other 999 are suckers and lose more than they can afford. My first indication is to figure they are getting what is coming to them, but I despise more than suckers the cheap gambler who trims them, and I shall be glad if I can do anything that will cut into his profits." Gambling in itself is serious enough, but the development of the idea within a child that he can get something for little or nothing is wrong. In many instances which have come before the Juvenile Court, the children who have been found to be delinquent by reason of theft have attempted to justify themselves with the thought that they could "get by with it" without being caught, and it appears evident that this attitude *might be developed from the gambling spirit. In the days when slot machines were so prevalent in our state, our attention was called to one child who had been given five dollars by 16 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY, 1941 GAMBLING his parents to purchase books and pay his student-body fee, etc., at school, and enroute stopped at a drug store. The girl who waited on him suggested that there was a slot machine in the basement which was about ready to "kick in," and the boy changed one of his dollars into nickles and proceeded to play the slot machine. Out of the entire five dollars played into the machine, he received twenty cents back. After spending his money, and realizing what he had done, he took an ice pick which he found in the basement and smashed the glass and removed the nickles from the machine. He was apprehended by the owner of the store, the money taken from him, and he was turned over to peace officers for handling. Instead of bringing the boy into Court, a complaint was filed against the owner of the store for contributing to the delinquency of a minor, but it appeared that before the case was brought to trial, the mother, signer of the complaint, withdrew the complaint and refused to testify, stating that the matter had been made night with her and that she had received ten dollars from the manager of the store to settle the matter. I might also be urged that we cannot legislate our morals, and that no matter how severe our legislation and strict the enforcement of our laws, we still cannot overcome the dangers of crime and delinquency without teaching and practicing correct principles in the home, the school, and the church. These institutions play a very important part in the formation of character of young people. From them should come the teaching, the training, and 7 the establishment of ideals in the minds of youth. Those who are given the responsibility of teaching and training young people should be equipped with a knowledge of materials and the technique of building just the same as should the mechanic who attempts to build a building. Above all, youth should be stimulated with a desire to live up to lofty and noble ideals. The practice of lottery and gambling has long been denounced by, leaders of our Church. President Joseph F'. Smith said in the Juvenile Instructor of October 1, 1902: "The desire to get something of value for little or nothing is pernicious; and any proceeding that strengthens that desire is an effective aid to the gambling spirit, which has proved a veritable demon of destruction to thousands. Among the vices of the present age, gambling is very generally condemned. Gambling under its true name is forbidden by law, and is discountenanced by the self-respecting element of society. Nevertheless, in numerous cases the demon of chance is welcomed in the home, in various groups, and the entertainments for worthy charities, even within the precincts of the sacred edifice; devices for raising money by appealing to the gambling instincts are common accessories at church sociables, other affairs, and the like. Whatever may be the condition elsewhere, this custom is not to be sanctioned within this Church; and any organization allowing such is in opposition to the counsel and instructions of the General Authorities of the Church." Since the law of our state prohibits gambling and our Church authorities denounce it, our responsibility 18; 5 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY, 1941 as members is to obey the law and sustain the Church authorities. We, as adults, should take the lead and set the proper example, and the youth, seeing our good works, will have a greater incentive to develop into worthy members of the Church and respectable citizens of the state. Gambling still exists in our city and state. The peace officers are making an attempt to control it, but they, without the support of public sentiment, cannot stop it. Arrests and convictions may be made, but until public sentiment is strong enough to demand it, the police cannot and will not stop it. We, as a Church and a people, can greatly reduce the amount of gambling by helping to create public sentiment and urging law enforcement officers to enforce the law. However, the surest means of curtailing the evil among our own Church members is to see that all of our young people become and remain active in the Church program— to follow the admonition of the wise man who said, "Train up a child in the way he should go and when he is old he will not depart from it." 3 LOVE YOU, SNOW Edna S. Dustin I love you, snow; you, too, I've truly missed, For you were near the day I met her there; You melted on those lips I never kissed And clung like diamonds in her hair. And you were present when she went away, And for her grave you wove each lacy flake Into a counterpane where flowers lay,. And walked with me, sensing my heart must break. And you are here again. I love you, snow; My waiting cheek now feels your lambent touch; It freshens tender memories—long ago, And fills a heart with joy that's ached too much. I never say that clouds are silver lined For in each somber cloud, there you I find. The Benediction Maryhale Woolsey ATIENTLY, Hester sat in the small, straight chair. Her hands were folded in her grey silk lap; her feet, in fine kid slippers, were set neatly on the carpet. Her tired eyes sought, in turn, a narrow vista of garden through a window on her left, a photograph of her granddaughter, Sara Mae, on the desk opposite, or wandered aimlessly about the room, still strange after three long days and longer nights. Now and then, she moved slightly to ease her position. It was wearisome, sitting in the small, straight chair. There was a more comfortable one, a cushioned armchair; but it was in full view of two great mirrors, which Hester did not like. Mirrors were not kind to an old woman, bent and wrinkled and gray. _ Besides, from the armchair she could not see the garden, which was her greatest interest. She hoped it would be dry enough tomorrow for her to walk in the garden. It had trim beds and borders, with careful little walks between, exquisite pools and statuary, seats in delightful nooks. It had many flowers whose names Hester did not know, but it also had many of her old favorites—particularly, at this season, the iris. "Flags," she used to call them. 'The sight of them always brought memories of those other days, when her garden was a tin plot of ground close by the kitchen door; she could run out between pot-watchings to pull weeds or to transplant something. She'd always loved flowers.... Perhaps tomorrow she could be out, among them.... This was the last day she would have to spend in the big guest room, Renee had said. Her own room would be ready for her tonight, the cleaning and redecorating over with for another year. Hester sighed. 'The time had been so long. She hoped they hadn't made many changes to which she must become accustomed. She'd have the same furniture, anyway; Renee had said so, half apologetically, as if half ashamed. And there would be the wide window with her rocking-chair beside it, and, of course, "The Blessing." 'There would always be "The Blessing," which, ever since John died, almost forty years ago (she always remembered that with a sense of shock), had been her daily renewal of peace and faith. John had given her ""The Blessing" on their twentieth wedding anniversary—the "God Bless Our Home" motto, wreathed in red roses with blue forget-me-nots and feathery green ferns, behind a convex glass with a wide, gilded frame. It was John's unceasing message to her that all was well. It would be good to lie in her own bed tonight, knowing that "The Blessing" was shining down on her through the darkness. Three days... She'd felt like a prisoner in the awesome guest room. Two days had been stormy; her rheumatism had been worse, and she couldn't go downstairs at all. Not that it mattered; except for her own, the downstairs rooms were not friendly to Hester. They were designed for people like Renee—well-dressed, busy, capable persons with complicated interests. People of this type, though always kind and polite, made Hester feel exceedingly inferior. So, as Renee had pointed out, staying upstairs really was best—best, even with the mirrors and the strange, modernistic furniture and the loneliness. The loneliness was worst. Hester's life had been hard, but never lonely. There had been so many things to do; time flew. Now, no tasks demanded accomplishment; everything was done for her. "You've worked too hard all your life, Mother," Renee often said. "Now you can take things easy." Take things easy! A maid looked after her every need. She brought fresh clothing every morning, turned water into the shiny tub for her bath, fetched towels, fragrant powder, silky underthings; carried her meals, savory and faultlessly served on big trays; asked solicitously, many times daily, "Don't you wish something, Mrs. Page?" She made her bed each morning, removed the satin spread and turned down the covers each evening. Hester had all her time to use "as she pleased"—but there was nothing to do. She sat alone with her memories, waiting for the end. OUTSIDE, below the window, sudden activity drew Hester's attention. One of the cleaners had come out of the service door and started down the back path. Carelessly swinging from one hand was something that flashed in the sunshine. Hester caught her breath. It was ""The Blessing"! What was that young man doing with it? She stood up for a better view. The young man was heading straight for the service alley... Setting "The You want to keep it. Blessing" down by a tall ash can. He was throwing it away—trash, to be carried away with ashes and tin cans! The only treasure she had left of all the little treasures John had given her! With a sobbing cry, Hester hurried out into the hall. Polished stair treads gleamed at her tauntingly; she dared not try to descend. She called down, her voice quivering: "Renee! Renee!" Slim and energetic at fifty-one in her dark frock, Renee appeared below. "Yes, Mother?" "Renee! They're throwing away my 'Blessing'! I saw...." "Oh.". Annoyed, Renee came briskly up. "Yes, I know, Mother. An accident... It's... Broken." Swiftly Hester answered, "But... we can get anew... Glass. Renee,.. Make him bring it back!" "But you see, the picture is... Damaged, too. I'm sorry, Mother,... But we can't... Repair it. Accidents will happen." Renee's arm around Hester's shoulders, she began to lead her gently but firmly back into the guest room. Hester quivered with indignation. Renee was not sorry, she told herself. Renee considered "The Blessing" a "gaudy hold-over from an age of sentimentality"; she'd said so. Renee was glad of an excuse for getting rid of the too-bright roses, the too-ornate lettering. "That 'Blessing'," Hester protested weakly, "was the only thing left that your pa gave me." "I know. Also, it has belonged to you for more than forty years. I know all that, Mother," Renee said, mercilessly kind. "But... Accidents will... 20 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY, 1941 THE BENEDICTION please do be sensible. You'll get over it in time." She patted Hester's trembling shoulders. "Please excuse me, Mother. I have to give directions...." The door closed behind her capable back. Slowly Hester returned to the small, straight chair. Biting her lips, once more she folded her hands in her lap. She could sit with folded hands... And remember. Only remembering was left to her. O swiftly the years seemed to have gone, now that she looked back —three-quarters of a century of memories, in a long, hurrying parade. Hester could look down a broad, paved street and see a stretch of gray sagebrush among which she'd gathered sego lilies and Indian paintbrush and sunflowers by the armful. She could remember tall trees as spindling little saplings, brave in their first year's growth. She could gaze at a great office-building and recall a rough-lumber shack that once had occupied the same location. Sometimes she longed for the old space and freedom and peace, yet she liked to remember that she and John had helped build this fine, new world. But John, she thought, would not have enjoyed this hectic new century. John had loved the wilds—the wide free range, long still trails, starlit nights, the smell of sagebrush after rain. He'd be shocked at the modern devotion to luxury, the craze for speed and excitement. He'd never be contented in a small room or a formal garden. Maybe it was as well he had gone, before the coming of these things. It hadn't been easy for Hester 21 afterward. But John's foresight had provided means for educating his children. And they'd made good, all of them! John Junior was vice-president of a flourishing chain of banks, Robert a prominent surgeon, Ruth a well-known artist. And Renie, the baby—having changed her name to Renee—had gone in for service clubs and politics and was widely known as an ardent worker for "the public good." Duty to "society" was her life's motive. She had finally married, at thirty-two; it was a woman's duty, she'd said, to marry and have children. Hester had been deeply shocked then, and many times, by Renee's views. Sometimes she was almost afraid of her youngest daughter. It had been Renee who'd insisted on "taking care of Mother," when the children had decided she must no longer be permitted to stay alone in the little half-century-old adobe house. They'd meant to be kind, and Hester knew that it hurt her sons' and daughters' pride to have her live in the "old shack," but the leaving of it marked the end of her happy years. At that time, Hester had given up all the old possessions that had been dear to her—all, that is, except "The Blessing," with which she had stubbornly refused to part. "But, Mother," Renee had argued, "it just doesn't belong in our decorative scheme." "No more do I," Hester had answered. "I'll be a stranger in a strange place, the rest of my days. But this and me—we stick together. It's all I've got that ever was touched by your pa's hands...." Finally, Renee had given in, and "The Blessing" came to her big, fine house to hang conspicuously in the room she'd built, with its own shiny 'bathroom, for Hester. Oh, Renee had been wonderful to her mother. And the others had been kind, too; everyone remarked how devoted to their mother the Pages were. She should have been perfectly happy, Hester told herself, but there was the loneliness. Everyone had so many things to do; their visits were so short, with such long times between. The grandchildren were busy, too. Young folks nowadays seemed to have more activities and interests than days had hours to indulge them. Hester hardly knew her grandchildren. Even Renee's boy and girl, though living beneath the same roof, were almost strangers to their mothers mother. 'The boy, Bob, usually rushed off to school, picked up breakfast and lunch at a cafeteria, and might or might not come home to dinner. He was seventeen, had his own car, his allowance, and his "crowd" of friends, who never seemed to stop in their hectic race. "Gotta go" seemed to be their favorite saying. The girl, Sara Mae, Hester thought she could love dearly if given a chance to get acquainted. Sara Mae was twelve, a tall slender child with a face which Hester thought the most wistful she had ever seen. Her big brown eyes looked shadowed and unhappy. Yet she had everything, from her own shelves of books and a kitten in the comer of the garage, to a pretentious playhouse at the end of the garden. She played the piano well, sang well, danced a little—swift, exact tap-tap-taps on the hardwood floors. But between her and her grandmother there was little contact. And so, for the most part, Hester was alone—with folded hands, patient, useless. And now, even ""The Blessing," which had for so many years been to her the voice of her beloved husband lingering to comfort her, was gone, too—gone with the rest of the "trash." THE little downstairs room was not the same. It was beautiful, yes—but strange, as she had feared. Hester was grateful when darkness veiled the changes, when she sat in her rocker and rocked herself to drowsiness. And she was glad to snuggle at last into her bed, to close her eyes on the night. But she could not sleep. There was an emptiness around her, a hollow sort of silence that seemed to drive away slumber. Hester lay wide awake, thinking of "The Blessing" lying out there against a pile of trash. At last she could stand it no longer. Rising, she struggled into a fleecy robe and put on her slippers. Their cushioned soles made no sound as she stole to the side door and opened it. The well-oiled bolt yielded silently as she turned the key. Out under the stars, Hester felt a gleeful sense of adventure. She had never been afraid of the dark, and her only fear now was the fear of being discovered, or failing to find her way to the alley. She was unconscious of the chill dampness in the air and underfoot. She stopped short, her heart throbbing. The alley light revealed no oval frame anywhere. A moment Hester stood still, then frantically darted ahead, groping this way and that, shuffling her feet along the ground in the hope that "The Blessing" might have been shoved aside and would be lying there in the shadows, invisible. But there was no use. It was gone. Gone!
Slowly, she crept back to the house. Her feet were cold and her teeth chattered, as she felt her way back to bed. She lay trembling, shivering, until the shivering gave way to a burning and a pain in her chest.
"I can't imagine how you caught such a cold," Renee said to her the next morning. There was concern in Renee's voice, but also there was vexation. Later, Hester heard her saying to her husband, in the hall, "I'm afraid we'll have to watch her more carefully at night, Justin. Her slippers are wet; she must have wandered outside last night, maybe in her sleep!"
Hester turned her hot face to the wall. Renee thought she was getting childish.... But Hester couldn't tell what she had done. Renee couldn't, nor could Renee's husband, understand an old woman's need for a rose-wreathed "Blessing" that was broken and lost.
It was many days before she could go out again. Days when a white-clad nurse hovered constantly near; when Robert and John Junior came and stood gravely beside her bed, and once she heard them discussing with Renee the advisability of sending for Ruth. She paid scant heed. She seemed to be listening, longing for a voice—John's voice, which would say to her, "Up-a-girl, Hester! Away we go!" and there'd be a trail shining ahead.... But John did not call. Hester wondered why. It was such a long, useless wait!
THE day came when she could once more go out and wander about in the garden. It was June, and the roses were out, a wealth of color. How beautiful they were! Hester wandered among them, delighting in them. She had been unaware how far she walked, until suddenly she realized that she had come to the very farthest edge of the garden. And she was tired. Her legs had become all at once weak, as if they would give way beneath her. There was a seat a few steps away. She stumbled over to it and sat down to rest.
There, after a few minutes, she became aware of the soft, sweet voice of Sara Mae, singing—not a popular song such as she sang for guests, but a Sunday-School hymn! Hester was surprised. After a moment or two, she, too, began to sing very softly, for it would never do to let Sara Mae be startled by hearing her grandmother's cracked old voice accompanying hers.
The song ended. Sara Mae's voice had come from the playhouse, which was almost hidden in a group of shrubs not far away. On a sudden impulse, Hester decided to pay a call.
It was a wonderful playhouse. It had electric lights and a small range, hot and cold water at a tiny sink, cabinets for dishes and cooking utensils and foodstuffs, a table with chairs for four. There was a bedroom for the doll family, and the living-room had upholstered furniture, a piano and a radio. And there was a telephone, which connected with the house phone so that Sara Mae could be readily summoned. All these things Hester was thinking of as she approached the playhouse door. When Sara Mae appeared in answer to her light tapping, Hester said, formally, "How do you do? I... I thought I'd drop in, if you're receiving callers today."
Sara Mae's brown eyes widened, but she smiled shyly. "I'm happy to see you. Won't you come in?"
Hester came in. She said, as she sat on the sofa, "I haven't seen your lovely home for such a long time. You've been redecorating, haven't you?"
Sara Mae, a puzzled frown wrinkling her young brows, followed Hester's conversational cue: "Yes, just a little. And isn't it a task! I thought we'd never be finished!"
Hester had to smile—the words and tone were so like Renee's. She commented, "But it's very lovely, when you are...." Her admiring glance went around the room but suddenly stopped, words dying on her lips. There above the toy piano hung a gilded, oval frame that seemed to take up half the wall. Great roses, ludicrously oversized among the miniature furnishings of the room, looked over at Hester in a blur of red and pink, wreathing gold-lighted words: "God Bless Our Home."
Hester's role of make-believe slipped from her. She got up and went over to touch "The Blessing" lovingly, hungrily. "Why," she said, "it's only a wee bit broken. She said...."
Sara Mae stood beside her. "What's the matter, Grandmother? Didn't you want it to be thrown away?"
Hester managed to smile. "I'm... SO glad you saved it, darling! I thought it was... Lost... For certain."
"You didn't want it thrown away, did you?" Sara Mae persisted.
Hester struggled for the right words. She fingered the glass. It was broken, all right; a piece about half as big as her hand had fallen out of the frame, and there was a torn place, ever so small, in the picture itself. Hester could hardly see it. She wanted to cry, and she wanted to laugh, thinking how Renee had seized such an opportunity to get "the gaudy thing" out of her grand house.
Sara Mae was waiting. Hester turned to her at last, and said slowly, "I... Miss it, dear. I... Love it so much, because your grandpa gave it to me, and because... Well, I like what it says."
Sara Mae nodded gravely. "I do, too."
"But, of course," Hester went on with great courage, "it doesn't exactly belong in your mother's big beautiful house."
"But I liked it in your room, Grandmother," Sara Mae said. "It belongs where you are."
A warm little glow filled Hester's heart. "You're sweet, child. I'm so glad someone else loves it."
"I do." Sara Mae's head moved up and down with emphasis. "And, Grandmother, when I grow up, I'm going to have a house that will let the things I love belong in it—not just what a decorating scheme says, but what my heart says."
The small, earnest face reddened beneath Hester's startled gaze, but she went on resolutely: "Mother's house is beautiful, Grandmother. But it isn't... Blessed."
"Why, child!" Hester took her tenderly by the shoulders. "What do you mean?"
"Well, if it was blessed, it wouldn't be.... Lonesome, would it? I mean, there can be lots of people in it, but you're lonesome anyway. Oh, I don't know how to say it, but...."
"But I understand!" Hester exclaimed. She sank down again onto the toy sofa, and drew Sara Mae onto her lap. To her surprise, Sara Mae did not withdraw. She lay against Hester's heart, and the ache that had been within it was miraculously healed.
"Oh, and I know now!" Sara Mae said after a little, suddenly rising up. There was a shining something in her eyes. "It's... Love, Grandmother. Of course, I know Mother loves me, but she just says it with words, because she's so busy, you know, with duties to attend. She doesn't have time to... To say it this way—and I like this way of saying... 'loving'."
Her head came down again, to Hester's breast, which had ached for the warmth of a childish form close against it. Sara Mae's face was flushed, but her small arms clung tightly around Hester's neck.
"Bless you, darling child. And I've been needing you so!"
"Needing me? But what for?" Sara Mae asked with wonderment.
"To love me, I suppose." Hester's eyes twinkled.
"Oh!" The small figure pressed closer, and long blissful moments passed. After awhile, Sara Mae said, "Grandmother, tell me about when my mother was little. Did she look like me?"
Hester caught her breath. Oh, to have a listener who wanted to hear about the old days, the old loved times and places and persons! She opened her lips to answer, but at that moment the telephone rang. Sara Mae answered, and after a few brief words, she turned to Hester with: "We have to go now. They didn't know where you could be, Grandmother. And you were just going to tell me interesting things, weren't you?"
"Yes, dear, but we'll save them for later. You come and sit with me any time you want to, and I'll have lots of things to tell you."
"And I won't be... Pestering you?" Sara Mae asked, wistfully—revealing much, much more than she knew!
"Not a bit! You!" Hand in hand they walked slowly along the path towards the big house. There was, after all, Hester told herself, a reason why John had not called her. There was still something she could do, a child's hand she could hold, a child's heart she could help to gladden. And as long as that could be, there would be something to live for—something truly "blessed."
I'll be... Needing all
Pageantry J. Karl Wood
PAGEANTRY, well done, is one of the most effective means of emotional stimulation. As a teaching device, it is unequaled. However, if abused, it becomes a bore and defeats its own purpose. Despite the fact that its use is increasing, pageantry is very much in disrepute in many places. The reason for its failure is usually not hard to find. Poorly written, hastily prepared or stereotyped pageants will fail. Pageants that are simply a series of static stage pictures accompanied by long-drawn-out readings will drive any audience away.
More care should be given to the pageant script. The same laws that govern drama also apply here. We would not think of having an untrained or inexperienced person write a play for presentation by our organization, but we seem to think that anyone can write a pageant. We fail to appreciate the careful preparation needed in the use of the pageant as a soul-stimulant.
The use of art in religion is very important—not for art's sake, but for its use in lifting the soul into spiritual realms. Compare the use of art in religion to a wheel whose spokes lead to the hub in the center. Music, drama, poetry, color, costume, stage-picture, etc., are the spokes, while the human soul passing through a religious experience is the hub. The pageant is especially suited to this soul-lifting, because it employs so many of the arts. In a well-written pageant, there should be a proper balance and blending of all the arts. One art overdone will unbalance the wheel.
Since pageants suitable for use in the Relief Society must be specially written, a few suggestions may help.
Writing the Pageant
1. Carefully select the theme. Among the Relief Society organizations this will likely be the history of the national or local organization, or the development of some idea in connection with it. Caution: Carefully restrict the theme so as not to cover too wide a field. Many pageants fail because they cover everything from "Dan to Beersheba." In any event, time the production so that the total time of the meeting in which the pageant is presented will not exceed one hour and ten minutes. This will take into account the time it takes for other phases of the meeting—opening and closing prayer, etc. Don't tire your audience.
2. Block out your pageant into episodes—from three to not more than seven. If the field is wide and there is much to cover, pick out important episodes and treat them in detail, connecting them with short, crisp transition readings.
3. The methods of developing the episodes may be dramatic dialogue, readings (poetry or prose) accompanied by moving stage pictures, dancing, music, etc. Each episode should contribute directly to the theme. To include a dance or any other art just because it is beautiful has no justification. Each art used should contribute to the theme just as much as does a reading or dialogue. Any one art should not be over-worked. It is best to have variety. Each song should not require more than three minutes and a dance should use about the same length of time; dramatic dialogue needs about ten minutes for each episode, while each reading should not require more than two minutes. By alternating these various methods, the audience will not be worn out.
4. The pageant should not be simply a series of static pictures or tableaux. All episodes should be arranged to move forward to a climax, each heightening the interest as it approaches the grand finale. If a stage picture is to be used, it should evolve or build into the story. Don't allow it to remain static too long. Every movement, every shift, should contribute to the enrichment of the theme.
5. As the grand finale or climax is approached, the tempo should increase. Don't drag the pageant out. Tell the story and quit.
6. A number of miscellaneous items may be mentioned in connection with writing the pageant. Write everything out—readings, suggested songs, stage directions, dialogue, required lighting. Have the script complete and enough copies prepared so that all concerned may have one. Leave no questions unanswered. Make every direction clear. Don't write directions that are impossible to carry out, such as calling for a giant spotlight when one cannot be found in your neighborhood. Be careful about requiring impossible stage sets or changes of scenery. If a change is required, provide for time to make the change by including a reading, instrumental music or song.
Accompany all readings with music. Use the organ, violin, string ensemble or other quiet and subdued music. The piano is a little harsh—be careful in its use in accompanying readings or progressive pictorial effects. Phonograph records used over a good Public Address system are helpful when other means fail.
Keep symbolism fresh and sufficiently clear so that the audience will "get the idea" of the symbol without explanation. The day when the symbols of "truth," "faith," etc., were distinguished by placards or sashes with the names printed on them, is past. These symbolic characters should be made clear to the audience by actions and words so that no sign need be used to tell whom or what they represent.
Producing the Pageant
The pageant script now having been written, and every detail outlined on paper, the next step is the production. In this, there should be orderly, business-like procedure.
1. A director should be appointed. This person need not be a thoroughly-trained dramatic director, though this would help. It does require, however, a person with a pleasant disposition who can get along with people and who is a good executive. The technical directors—drama, music, stage, costume, etc.—form the staff. All these should work cooperatively. If an interpretive dance is to be used, a dance director with ability to create an interpretive dance that tells a story in harmony with the theme should be engaged.
2. Casting the pageant is the next step. The directors should constitute the casting committee. Try to pick characters who can act. Just because a person is willing and attends to his religious duties, important as this is, is not full guarantee that he fits the part and can "put it over the footlights." Avoid the very bad practice of casting women in men's parts. True, the Relief Society sisters like to do the whole job themselves, but ofttimes an otherwise good production is made into a burlesque when some good sister, sloppily dressed in the much-too-ample suit of her husband, tries to act the part of a man. What should have been a soul-inspiring, religious experience becomes a hilarious farce. The following is a good rule in choosing characters: first, worthiness; second, ability; third, willingness. If the pageant is kept on a high religious and cultural plane, plenty of qualified people are usually willing to take part.
3. Rehearsals come next. Take plenty of time. Don't go before the public poorly prepared. The amount of time spent on rehearsals will depend on the production, of course. If the director has properly organized the work, the dramatic dialogues, chorus, readings, dances may all begin simultaneously under a separate director. This will conserve the time of the participants. It is a poor policy for a whole cast to go to rehearsal night after night and wait while each separate part is being practiced. If the separate rehearsals are carried on consistently, there need be only three or four ensemble rehearsals just before the presentation. It is the duty of the director to see that each part progresses at a rate that will assure a finished production when all are finally assembled.
4. Lighting is very important in pageantry. The lighting should contribute to the theme just as do the other arts. Spotlights should pick out important figures in a group, light areas where action takes place, or color a scene in harmony with the mood of the episode. Small spotlights of 150 or 300 watt capacity may be had at very nominal cost and are handled by local dealers. Color may be obtained by covering the light with cellophane. "Spots" and "floods" are for enhancing or building up important features of the act and in no way eliminate the general illumination in our meeting houses or stages. If all the light can be controlled by "dimmers," the effectiveness is increased many fold. With this method of control, light can gradually illuminate or fade out any picture, reader or symbolic figure very beautifully. This is much more effective than merely snapping the switch on or off.
5. The Relief Society sisters shouldn't have to be told anything about costuming. There are one or two things, however, that they should be reminded of: first, let's get away from the use of lining or cheesecloth for costumes—much better and more desirable materials are available nowadays; second, be careful to choose the costume that fits the character. For instance, don't dig out a fancy, old-fashioned wedding dress for a character who is crossing the plains. This type of costume may be all right for some scenes, but not for those depicting the struggling pioneer. The costumes should be characteristic of the scene, colorful and harmonious.
6. Have the stage so arranged that the pageant can proceed without interruption through the entire performance. A stage wait while a new scene is being arranged is very irritating. If the stage must be changed, have a reading or song while this is being done. A draw-curtain half way back on the stage helps greatly. With the use of this curtain, one scene may be set while another is going on. A stage built with various levels is helpful in balancing pictorial effects.
7. Finally, avoid static. By this is meant announcements, explanations, peeking through the curtain, rushing around the last moment with properties, a character dressed for a part coming up through the audience, swishing the curtain, and a thousand other little irritants. Have everything ready in advance. Don't allow anything to go undone. Start on time. Don't run over time. It isn't necessary to have visitors speak after the pageant is over. Send your audience away uplifted, inspired, and satisfied with a beautiful religious experience, and with the message of the pageant ringing in their souls.
Some of these things may seem trivial, but success or failure may depend upon them.
Note: Those who are further interested in the technique of pageantry production will find detailed information in the book Religious Drama and Pageantry Techniques in the Seminary, by J. Karl Wood. The book may be secured by writing to the L. D. S. Department of Education, 47 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, or to J. Karl Wood, Hyrum, Utah. The price of the book is fifty cents.
DEFINITION OF A WORD Lael Woolsey
A word is a sound By which silence is broken, A symbol said, causing A thought to be spoken;
A message of danger Or faith ever healing, A vow and a promise Eternally sealing.
A strange thing, a word... Like a small, bright jewel hung In the dark robe of stillness, A song not quite sung.
Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde No. VI
Popularity
A BOOK which I believe will interest every growing boy and girl has been written by Regina Westcott Wieman under the intriguing title, Popularity. Whether we are young or old, this word attracts us, for we all seem to have an innate desire to be popular. Particularly is this true of young people during high school and college days. Most of them would rather be called "popular" than anything else that might be said of them. So important has it come to be that the business of charm has become a profession. Advertisers appeal to this desire to be popular by putting out wares that are supposed to give us charm, personality, glamour—words that immediately attract our attention.
Unquestionably, the development of personality has much to do with success or failure in life. Whether we have approached the study in the best way is a question. There is a growing tendency for people to want to appear like someone else rather than to capitalize on their own best qualities. There is wisdom in an expression of Emerson Fosdick which reads, "The most interesting game in the world—making the most of one's best."
The thing which, in my opinion, makes Mrs. Wieman's book worthwhile is the fact that it is far more basic than most books in its method of attacking this important subject. The author says, "The problem of popularity is that of relating ourselves satisfactorily to the groups we feel are socially worthwhile," and she attempts to show how we may adjust ourselves to group life in the "presence of powerful and often objectionable social patterns." She discusses the things we do to make ourselves unpopular, the defense mechanisms we use, the types and qualities of popularity, the things we must do to become popular, and finally the way out when the groups we live among do not measure up to our ideals.
All of us, perhaps unconsciously, do things that make us unpopular. Some of the unpopular types Mrs. Wieman describes are: the highbrow girl who patronizes her friends; the honest girl who prides herself on being perfectly frank; the "cat" who scratches every superior person; the "snake-in-the-grass," and many others. Most of these, she says, want popularity so urgently that they have gone to queer extremes to win it.
There are many reasons why people are at odds with each other. Great effort should be put forth to overcome faults which interfere with friendships, for we lack the richest experiences of life if we have no friends. If we could develop the faculty of truly knowing ourselves and of comparing ourselves with others, we would stand a much better chance of being interesting to others. We sometimes forget that we often rate ourselves much higher than others rate us.
It is often tragic when people feel that they do not "measure up." Some become bitter and do wrong; others retreat within themselves and live alone. Both of these are undesirable escapes. "The thing we must work for is not an escape from life, but an understanding of it."
The desire to be popular is a perfectly legitimate desire, because without it our personalities cannot grow as they should. "There are all types and qualities of popularity. Your age, your special interests, your cultural background, and the sort of people you live among, all affect your idea of what being popular means. One girl feels popular because she has lots of dates, while another feels it is her liberal petting licenses and not the girl herself which are popular. One person thinks popularity hinges upon the number of activities he participates in. Some older people want to hold as many offices as possible. All people work to gain approval and invitations from certain groups. They develop the 'line' they feel will help them reach this place. Some smoke to get approval, some give sporty dinners and teas.... Girls are regimented until they all look alike. They dare not be different. They must be popular by type rather than person."
We find our own ways of finding our group. If we fail to fit into one group, we set out to find another. This is as it should be, provided we do not drift into a lower group—this sometimes happens with tragic results. For the person who is left out of the "most-talked-of" groups, there are always groups that are engaged in working out worthwhile projects, either social or personal, which may be sublimating.
MRS. WIEMAN discusses what makes a person popular. "It is easy enough to be popular," she says, "if that is the only objective." But when the standards of the social group do not meet with our approval, a problem is presented. Too often the group which calls itself the "elite," and which has a large following, establishes patterns undesirable to us. We feel we must conform to the standards of the group in order to "rate" with it; we believe we have to be like the group or we will not long belong to it.
The author makes the surprising assertion that group patterns are practically always the standards of the less cultured of the group. Sometimes they make an effort to maintain low standards; for example, at one university for men, a certain group had the slogan, "Three is the gentlemen's grade." The purpose was to make third-graders rate with first-graders. Members of some groups believe in such standards as smoking and drinking for both men and women. We have to admit that such standards lower the cultural level of the group. It is important that we choose our groups wisely.
Group pressure has a tremendous influence over young people. They accept patterns without discrimination as to whether in the long run they are desirable. It is important that young people (and adults also) come to realize that the "requirements which place a heavy mortgage on the future are the ones to avoid; for example, making fun of the habits of self-control, indulgence in sexual intimacies as an expected feature of dating." Often young people feel that unless they conform, they must pay a painful penalty, not realizing that if they do conform, they must pay a much heavier penalty.
No one rates one hundred per cent in every group. There are groups to which we would never want to belong, and there are other groups which would never want us to belong. "The unthinking group will not tolerate the exceptionally superior. This attitude occurs in adult as well as in student groups. It is human nature." This attitude sometimes makes it difficult for superior, well-bred children who would like to belong to certain groups and still live up to the standards of their heritage.
Mrs. Wieman claims that it is not imperative that we conform and belong to the crowd or refuse to conform and be left out. There is a way out. She says, "We must organize a new group pressure which will challenge the despotism of the present one." Without criticizing others, we can build up a powerful minority to establish better patterns. It takes a long time to change group patterns, but it can be done. We must first get people thinking by organizing groups, by making speeches; if we are students, by having discussions, writing editorials for school papers, and by putting our ideas into practice. "Those who have held a monopoly on popularity will disapprove—but as the thing works out, they will often join in the project. It is a long way out, but it will bring lasting satisfaction. A few persons alone cannot accomplish much. It takes group organization to change social patterns.
IN concluding her discussion, the author says, "Looks, luck, and lucre are desirable in life. But none of them, nor all of them together, can bring the kind of popularity which is of most value. This popularity is dependent upon understanding and creativeness in working with others. It is earned, and always brings satisfactions. Popularity that just happens is not dependable. Anyone who wishes and works hard enough can earn strong and genuine popularity. It comes only through enthusiastic, intelligent, sincere, creative investment of the real self and the whole self in our social relationships, in cooperative effort with others to promote the right kind of social conditions.
"This leaves the question of whether we want to be popular, to our own choosing. There are several choices to be made:
"Do I want to be popular?"
"Am I willing to pay for it?"
"What do I expect to get out of popularity—the assurance that I shall be in frequent demand, or the reinforcing security that comes from true friendships that have grown steadily through sharing genuine interests? One is secured through stock market tactics and the other through growth in personality itself.
"Would I rather mortgage my future than be left out now?"
"With whom do I want to be popular?"
"Our speedy ways of living and our constant shifting of population encourage the wide, shallow types (Continued on page 74)

"Genuine American Oriental—Greatly Reduced" Norma Wrathall
LYING on her bed in the cool semi-darkness of drawn window shades, a handkerchief over her eyes, Helen Curtis was able to think back over the events of that day; but not without, even now, faintly shuddering. It had been the most harrowing day of her marriage of eighteen months, although it had started innocently enough. Drawing her shawl up until only a tangle of blonde hair could be seen on the pillow, she tried to sink more deeply into oblivion, even to shutting out the sound of Harry's mumbling as he attempted to rebuild the fire in the kitchen range.
Helen had wakened that morning with the throbbing headache that had come to be the usual thing lately. She lay there for a few moments wondering why Harry was so determined to get up at daylight, and trying to shake off the feeling of oppression that seemed to fasten her to the bed. Her husband had left the kitchen door slightly open, and she could hear him grumbling as he poked in the stove. Presently she realized what was the matter; she had put the peelings from half a dozen oranges into the cold stove the night before. After a few minutes, she heard him bang the stove lids triumphantly and depart for his chores, so she dressed and began to prepare breakfast.
A number of irritating little things had contrived to give the day a bad start. First, there was the trouble with the stove. And she had forgotten to buy a new can of Harry's
favorite breakfast drink (which she privately thought had the flavor of burnt toast soaked in hot water), so she made hot chocolate instead. He sat tasting it grimly. Then, when he cracked the egg, it came from its shell in a solid lump instead of the soft jelly which he preferred. "H'mm," muttered Harry, "can't you remember to take an egg out on time, Helen, when all you have to do is lift it from the water? 'There's something about a_ hard-boiled egg...." "Boil you another?" queried Helen. "No time, no time. Late now," he answered hastily. His jaws worked vigorously as he ate. 'Got to help Tom Billings today. He's coming to help me a day next week. And you know what Billings is—up vetoed daylight and out to see if the neighbors are about." He sliced off a piece of bread and buttered it thickly, running his tongue around under his lips as he did so. "Yes, I know," laughed Helen, glancing at the clock. "It's 6:30 now, and by the time you get over there, he'll say it's the middle of the forenoon." "Sure. And now listen, Helen, I'll be back early enough for all the chores, but you might just slip out and turn some water into that trough in the sheep corral. Go out a little before noon. I've got a few rams in there. A fellow wants to buy one or two, and I don't want to keep all of them to feed anyway." He gulped down the rest of his cocoa, making a face. "But don't go near that pen where I put Nimrod—he might jump out." Harry's weather-tanned face stared earnestly into hers. A light crease had formed between his eyebrows, for he was one who took his work seriously. Helen nodded agreement as he went out. Wearily, she finished her orange juice, feeling a little peevish that Harry had not noticed that she was not eating breakfast. Then she began to clear away the dishes. A pot of Persian violets stood on the round flower-shelf above the sink window, where the rising steam would keep the flowers and foliage fresh, and their faint fragrance wafted down to her as she worked. Her kitchen work finished, Helen progressed to the living room. Somehow, after they had furnished the rest of the house, they hadn't much money left for the living-room. So Harry had brought his desk and a few odd chairs from his mother's home; Helen had found the leathercovered rocker which her mother had put in the attic when her father bought the new. Living-room suite. And, because they couldn't afford a good rug, they had painted the floor. Harty had said he would buy a rug in the spring. But spring had come, and fall, and now it was spring again, and still there wasn't a rug. Helen sat down drearily in the leather rocker and viewed the room. The months had taken their toll of brightness from the paint, and one of the small rugs was beginning to fray at the edges. Dusty footprints showed up plainly on the worn floor. Helen was warm from hurrying with her work. As she thrust her damp fair hair back from her forehead, suddenly she felt too tired to clean the floor. She leaned back in the old chair and closed her eyes, thinking of Mrs. Mainwaring's rug. That rug would be perfect on this floor. Mrs. Mainwaring was moving. To Chicago and had to sell a number of her things. Among them was the rug, a genuine American Oriental. Helen could hear the soft, aristocratic voice assuring her that, although she had paid more than twice that amount for it, she would sell it for fifty dollars. "A buy, my dear. Simply a buy." Helen teflected drearily that it might as well be twice the amount as far as she was concerned. Her mood deepened as she considered that soon there would be more expenses. She visioned the living-room floor growing more and more shabby as spring and fall and spring again followed each other in swift succession... Her lips drooped at the thought of it. It was some time later that she left the house to do the chores Harry had directed. HELEN had lived all her life in the country but was really not accustomed to farm problems, for her father had always worked at the mill ten miles out of town. His only concession to country life had been a garden which he tended after working hours. Try as she would, Helen could feel no real interest in the farm, and she was secretly afraid of the animals on the place. When she walked about with Harry, listening to his enthusiastic explanations, the livestock seemed docile enough. But when she went alone to do some small chore, the animals 34 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY, 1941 viewed her with surprise and with faintly disturbing suspicion. And if the cows ever found a weak spot in the fence it was when Harry was away, never when he was at home. Too, there was the time when Old Matt, the plow mare, had tangled her front feet in the wire fence, so that Helen, afraid to go near the agonized creature, had run to a neighbor for help. Only, in her excitement, she had forgotten to close the gates, and some stray animals got in, trampling the hay in her absence. It was with some trepidation, on this warm spring forenoon, that she approached the barnyard. Everything looked peaceful enough. The rams were resting at the far end of a small pasture opening from the corral. Helen finished her work of turning cool water into the trough. Then, as she turned to leave, she heard a plaintive "baa." Glancing toward the pen where Harty kept his prize ram, she saw that Nimrod had overturned his trough. "Poor thing. "You're thirsty," she murmured. Cautiously, she went nearer to the pen. Nimrod viewed her placidly, breathing with regular, little gasps as he chewed his cud, his eyes peering out from under the thick wool. Helen looked about, found a bucket hanging on a peg and filled it with water. But she would never dare go into the pen; so, armed with a long stick, she mounted the gate, leaned over, and tried to right the trough. There! At last she had accomplished it. She straightened up. Click! In some way, she had loosened the catch. Impelled by her weight, the gate suddenly swung open. And Nimrod, with a sprightliness unlooked for in his erstwhile docility, leaped through the opening with a wild "baa!" and cavorted to the other end of the pasture to join his comrades. Taken aback, Helen stared for a moment at the departing Nimrod, then decided not to risk trying to get him back into the pen. A few hours of freedom would not hurt him. She started toward the house. A ROW of old apple trees divided the lower part of the lot from the dooryard, partially cutting off the view of the corral. As Helen paused a moment to break off a blossoming branch, she saw a man standing near the back porch. Helen recognized him as a livestock buyer, but not one with whom Harry did — business. "Good day, lady. At home?" Helen replied that he was not. "Heindmann is my name. Any livestock to sell? Any sheep, rams, lambs, or pigs? No beef today." The last part of his remark was a statement. "Well, I don't think so. He said something about selling some sheep, but I really don't know—you'd better wait until some other time." "Mm-—sheep, is it? I got a order for one ram. Give you a good price, lady." His eyes traveled carefully over Helen's face. Suddenly, a wild idea leaped into her head. Well, why not? Surely she could make a decision once in a while without consulting Harry. ~"How—how much do you pay for rams?" "Oh, I have to see him first." A shrug rippled the engulfing folds of his brown suit. "I treat you fair." "Well, there's a bunch of rams down in that pasture by the corral. Is the mister "GENUINE AMERICAN ORIENTAL—GREATLY REDUCED" 35 36. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY, 1941 You go down and look at them. I'll wait here—it's so hot." She sat wearily on the step as he hurried toward the barnyard. Presently he returned, a satisfied expression on his sharp little face. "I pick out fine ram. Pay you fifty dollars. Spot cash." Helen remembered dimly having heard Harry and 'Tom Billings talk about how you had to haggle to get a fair price from these buyers. But she didn't believe in haggling. Besides, it was such a coincidence. Fifty dollars — just the amount she needed for the rug. "Well..." she hesitated. I guess it will be all nght. Do you want me to help you catch him?" His teeth flashed. "Oh, no. I run him in easy. I just back my truck up by the gate, and put down a chute." He counted the bills into her hand, licking his thumb as he peeled them off, his fingers lingering over each one as if he hated to part with it. "I’ll drive around front, so you see when I get him loaded." Helen went into the house, the money a soft wad in her hand. Her throat was hot and dry, and her head spinning with excitement. She felt a little guilty; but now that she had gone this far, she didn't intend to turn back. And when Harry saw the rug, and how nice it was, he wouldn't care. Or, at least, she hoped he wouldn't.. She would have to. Hurry to get the rug down before Harry got home. Luckily, he was to have his noon meal at the Billings'. That would leave the rest of her day free. For once, the old car started without any trouble. Just as she was ready to drive out, she thought of Heindmann. Then she saw him on the street in front of the house. He honked and waved, then spurted off down the road in a cloud of dust. As speedily as she dared, Helen drove the two miles to Mrs. Mainwaring's home. She did not know until later that while she feverishly pursued the purchase of her rug and drove home with it, Heindmann drove as fast in the opposite direction. He had a few more errands before he could leave town, and he was in a hurry to leave. Eventually, his business led him to the farm next to Tom Billings' field, where two men were repairing a bridge near the gate. 'To Heindmann, the plaintive "baa" from the ram in the truck sounded no different from that of any other sheep. But the two men who heard it, looked at each other, then toward the truck. Then simultaneously they scrambled over the fence. RS. Mainwaring's son, Jack, had come to help Helen with the tug.'Together they tugged and pulled it into the room. "'Ill move all this furniture aside, or into the kitchen, Jack, while you spread. The papers over the floor. Put the blinds clear up so you can see well." The newspapers slipped and slid about on the floor, and Jack had to stop frequently to read something from one of them. But at last they had the rug in place, and stood back to view the result.. Helen pursed her lips; her left hand lay speculatively along her cheek. "It's lovely, isn't it? Just pull it a little more to this corner. There!" © She sighed with satisfaction, pressing her foot over the thick nap. "Well, uh—I guess I'd better be getting on home," said Jack, dusting off his "cords," after he had helped Helen move the furniture back into the room. "Might be able to pick up a ride." He ambled out. Helen felt exhausted. With a sigh, she thrust her hands through her hair and clasped them back of her head, slumping down into the leather chair. She closed her darkcircled eyes. Now that it was over, reaction began to set in. Fear beset her. Here she had sold something of Harry's and had spent the money without consulting him. 'True, he had said that he intended selling some of the rams, and fifty dollars seemed to her a fair price for one of them. But what would Harry think? Well, she would have to stop worrying and start to cook dinner—the meal she had been unable to make Harry stop referring to as "supper." She pulled herself from the chair and adjusted the window shades so that just the right amount of late afternoon sun fell across the rug, revealing. Its jewel-like colors. Then she hurried to the kitchen to prepare the vegetables. A few minutes later, attired in a fresh pink house dress, her hands and face washed and her bnght blonde hair again combed into soft waves, she began to peel potatoes. Her fingers slipped in nervous haste, and the old sick headache was beginning again. She remembered that she had not eaten any lunch. But there was one orange left lying by the sack in which she had carefully placed the morning peelings. Hastily, she gulped down the orange, adding its peeling to those in the sack. 'Then she heard a familiar step on the graveled walk. In sudden confusion, she stuffed the sack into the stove, dried her hands, and ran into the living-room. She felt that it would be easier to tell Harry about the rug if he could be looking at it in all its glory. A warm flush rose to her cheeks, but her hands were clammy, as she turned to face him. Then her left hand flew to her cheek. Harry strode to the middle of the room and stood with his legs slightly apart, glaring for a moment, first at her and then at the rug. "Helen!" he barked at last. "Did you—did you sell Nimrod to that— that scumdullion—just to buy this rug?" A muscle in his cheek jerked spasmodically. She swallowed. "No, Harry. Not —not Nimrod. One of the others. Nimrod got out of his pen." "Got out? Yeah. You let that— that scamp take him out." He groaned. "Prize-winning stock! Pedigreed! Listen, I've weighed his food —weighed it, mind you. So many pounds of this or that. Fed him on schedule. Why he'll be worth hundreds! Thousands, even!" Harry ran one hand back and forth over his sparse, sandy hair, so that it stood up in a frenzied fringe. "How could you do such a dumb thing? Don't you take an interest in anything I do?" Helen sank weakly into a chair. A sudden cold feeling hit the pit of her stomach. "Harry—I didn't. I sold another ram. Harry, you said you were intending to sell one this morning." She licked dry lips. "Harry, is—is Nimrod gone?" Automatically her foot moved back and "GENUINE AMERICAN ORIENTAL—GREATLY REDUCED" 37 forth across the thick pile of the rug, which she suddenly hated. "Stop saying 'Harry' so much! No, he isn't gone, but he would be if Billings and I hadn't see him in that truck. Lucky that old rapscallion parked right by Billings' field." Helen opened her mouth to say something, but he interrupted. "We 'made short work of that shyster, though." His voice lowered in a note of pride. "None of his lies for us. Why, I'd have—I'd have wrung his neck if he'd said another word." The whole horrible truth had dawned upon Helen. She leaned forward, her voice coming weakly from trembling lips. "Did you.... Harry, you mean you—got Nimrod back?" "Yes, I did! And twenty-five dollars more, too. Oh, I gave him another ram. Shouldn't've, though. Should've thrashed him out of town." Helen noticed dully that straw and dirt from the barnyard were falling unheeded on the rug as he ranged about the room. Then he began shouting again. "But what if I'd lost him? Whatever struck you to do such a thing as to let that Heindmann go down there, and.... Oh, I can't understand you!" Helen sat looking up at him as he waved his arms and shouted, his hair standing up all over his head, and suddenly her nerves snapped. "No, I guess you can't understand me, Harry Curtis. Why, you think more of that—that sheep than you do of me!" She saw him wince at the word "sheep." 'Tears came into her eyes and rolled unheeded down her pale cheeks. "Why, you pamper that thing worse than a baby. You think more of it than—" she gulped—'"'than you will of your own baby when it comes." She buried her head in her arms and sobbed convulsively. Harry's jaw relaxed. He swallowed twice before words came. "Say, Helen, you don't mean.... Aw, honey." He knelt beside her and began patting her hair awkwardly, as she continued, "Just because I want to have things look nice. I work so hard to fix things up, and then you come and yell at me like a lunatic!" Her sobs broke out anew. "Honest, I'm sorry I said all that. Why, it wasn't your fault. That— that rapscallion, to take advantage of a woman! And the rug's real nice. I intended to get one anyway." "Oh, Harry, I just felt so miserable trying to clean that old bare floor. And Mrs. Mainwaring had told me about her rug, and then he came, and I...." Helen spoke through her handkerchief as she dried her eyes and nose. "Never mind, honey." He stemmed the flow of words with a kiss. Then he pressed a small wad into her hand. She knew that the bills had come from the same purse which had parted with fifty dollars earlier in the day. They had the same limp feeling of having been squeezed too much. "You take this twenty-five as a starter to get what you need for the baby. Gosh! It's wonderful! Why didn't you tell me sooner? Been working too hard." His voice deepened with tenderness. She rose. "I'll have to see about supper," she began. (Continued on page 74) 38 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY, 1941 HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon JANUARY—Each day brings its tasks, delights and sorrows. Grieve not for the yesterdays nor dread the dim tomorrows. Mrs. CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT, in her address at the Woman's Centennial Congress held in New York last month, urged the women of the Congress to go forward more rapidly, to gain office and recognition, to utilize the rights women won two decades ago, to help free mankind from totalitarianism. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, president of the Relief Society, and Mrs. Lucy Grant Cannon, president of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, were among the delegates from Utah to this Congress of distinguished women. MATILDA R. WILSON has received the appointment of Lieutenant Governor of the State of Michigan—the first woman to receive this high honor.  DOROTHY TAGNEY, a school teacher, is the first woman senator in the Australian parliament. MRS. AUGUST BELMONT, for her contributions to the theatre, the opera and the fields of social service and philanthropy, has been awarded. The medal for eminent achievement given by the American Woman's Association. NANCY ASTOR, American-born viscountess, declared in Parliament recently that English women were showing more courage than men during the distressing conditions of the incessant bombing of London and other cities. THE DUCHESS OF ATHOL, another woman member of Parliament, is known as an ardent Red Cross worker and strong supporter of the policies of Prime Minister Churchill. HERMAN women are replacing men in the postal service and are now uniformed and driving trucks, as the men are all engaged in the war against Britain. MISS LYDE WELLS, 81, sister of President Rulon S. Wells of the Council of Seventy, died last month. She was a woman of brillant mind with a keen sense of humor, both of which stood her in good stead through long years of enforced invalidism. GIGRID UNSET, Norwegian novelist, is now a refugee in the United States. She lost a son during the Nazi seizure of Norway. LILY PONS, Metropolitan opera star, expresses great happiness because of the fact that she is now an American citizen. A number of foreign artists have also learned that here only is real democracy. HELEN HAYES has gained another triumph in histrionic art, in Shakespeare's "T'welfth Night." She plays Viola in a humorous and captivating manner. 'The historic London theatre, where "Twelfth Night" was first played 350 years ago, was destroyed by German bombs last month. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Amy Brown Lyman - - - Marcia K. Howells - - - Donna D. Sorensen - - Vera W. Pohlman - Belle S. Spafford Nellie O. Parker Vivian R. McConkie Anna S. Barlow Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Achsa E. Paxman Mary G. Judd Rae B. Barker President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Luella N. Adams Gertrude R. Garff: Leona B. Fetzer Marianne C. Sharp Edith S. Elliott Anna B. Hart Pauline T. Pingree Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - -  Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Vol. XXVIII JANUARY, 1941 No. 1  EDITORIAL 9 — She Power of Adversity HE year 1940 has passed into history, and the bells have rung in a new year. With the advent of a new year, a feeling of "beginning anew" pervades. Ambitions are stirted, hopes are raised, and a determination to make the new year profitable exists in the heart of nearly everyone. Each of us would ask many choice gifts of the future, earnestly desiring that the path be made pleasant and that he be spared trial, hardship, disappointment and other difficult experiences. How fortunate it is that the desires of our hearts are not always granted! The easy road is not always the profitable one; the pleasant experience is not always the one that contributes most to one's well-being. The Lord has said, "My people must be tried in all things that they may be prepared to receive the glory that I have for them, even the glory of Zion; and he that will not bear chastisement is not worthy of my kingdom." (Doctrine and Covenants, 136:31) It is a proved truth that "the pursuit of easy things makes men weak" while a mastery of the difficult makes men strong. "The reward of struggle is strength: muscle, nerve, grit, skill, integrity, intelligence; and all this is character—manhood." The development of strong character—manhood—is the goal of life. He who achieves this goal, difficult though his experiences may have been, is indeed blessed. The same experiences are not equally difficult for all people, nor do they try everyone to the same degree. What would be hard and bitter for one might not be so for another. But to each, there seems to come some experiences which are particularly difficult for him and which peculiarly try him. As he masters these difficulties, he grows to his fullest stature. Opportunities for character development come to everyone through the same channel—experience. Even the chosen of the Lord have not been spared trial. When the Prophet Joseph Smith was incarcerated in Liberty Jail, he was called upon to endure hardships which were extremely revolting to his refined and EDITORIAL sensitive nature. Not only were high-handed injustice and cruelty practiced upon him, but the food was filthy, he was compelled to hear nothing but blasphemous oaths and to witness scenes of drunkenness and debauchery of every description. Out of the midst of his tribulations, he called upon God in passionate earnestness: "O God! Where art thou? And where is the pavilion that covereth thy hiding place?... How long shall thy hand be stayed, and thine eye... Behold from the eternal heavens, the wrongs of thy people, and thy servants, and thine ear be penetrated with their cries?... O Lord... Stretch forth thy hand;... Let thine heart be softened, and thy bowels toward us." And God answered the cries of the Prophet, and said:. "My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; and then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high... If thou art called to pass through tribulation, if thou art in perils among false brethren, if thou art in perils among robbers, if thou art in perils by land or by sea, if thou art accused with all manner of false accusations, if thine enemies fall upon thee, if they tear thee from the society of thy father and mother and brethren and sisters, and if with a drawn sword thine enemies tear thee from the bosom of thy wife and thine offspring... If thou shouldst be cast into the pit, or into the hands of murderers, and the sentence of death passed upon thee, if thou be cast into the deep, if the billowing surge conspire against thee, if fierce winds become thine enemy, if the heavens gather blackness, and moved with compassion 41 all the elements combine to hedge up the way; and above all, if the very jaws of hell shall gape open the mouth wide after thee, Know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good." Those who have achieved true greatness in this world have not done so because the way was made easy, but rather because they could rise above the dull level of yielding and master the stern things of life. Paul Speicher has said: "Cripple him and you have a Sir Walter Scott. "Put him in a prison cell and you have a John Bunyon. "Bury him in the snows of Valley Forge and you have a George Washington. "Have him born in abject poverty and you have a Lincoln. "Deny her sight and speech and you have a Helen Keller. "Bind him down with bitter racial prejudice and you have a Disraeli. "Put him in the grease pit of a locomotive roundhouse and you have a Walter P. Chrysler." And we might add: "Have him reared by a widowed mother under the hardships of pioneer life and you have a Heber J. Grant." The hardships of life are sent us not by an unkind destiny to crush us, but rather by a kind destiny to challenge the best that is in us. Being children of the Father, we have within us resources of strength and power great enough to enable us to rise above adversity. Our prayer for the new vear should not be that the road be made easy, but rather that we be made strong. No TO THE FIELD PAMPHLETS TO BE DISTRIBUTED AN interesting and informative article entitled "The Injurious Effects Resulting from the Moderate Use of Alcohol" is now being published by the General Campaign Committee on the Non-Use of Liquor and Tobacco. The article is by L. Mervin Maus, Colonel, U. S. Army Medical Corps, Department Surgeon, who graphically and convincingly presents the evils resulting from the moderate use of alcoholic beverages. Condemning the constantly increasing popularity of social drinking, Doctor Maus reports its effect upon thousands of the most progressive intellects of the country. He refers to these people as "the brilliant handicapped." Of particular interest to mothers are the startling statistics with regard to children born of parents who are alcohol addicts. These statistics are alarming in view of the presentday increase in the use of alcohol among women. The pamphlet containing Doctor Maus' article will soon be off the press and will be distributed by the Relief Society. We urge that those who are assigned the responsibility of distributing this pamphlet be not only diligent in placing it in the homes, but also in impressing those to whom it is presented with the importance of carefully reading the article. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL CORRECTIONS THE following reports were inadvertently omitted from the Relief Society Magazine honor roll, published in the December issue of the Magazine: Stake Ward Nevada McGill Twin Falls Filer Branch Union LaGrande First Wells Whittier Subscriptions Enrollment Magazine No. Pct. Representative 75 110 147 Louise Johnson 19 20 105 Mrs. Luna Cazier 52 71 137 Emma Stringham 138 108 78 Catherine Sturgell In printing the name of the Magazine representative of the North Shore Ward, Chicago Stake, an error was made. This ward is Oveile Olesen. The representative of An error was made in publishing the name of Thelma Anderson as Magazine representative of the Avenal Branch, California Mission. Ruth Beckstrom is Magazine representative of this branch. The General Board greatly appreciates the services and splendid accomplishments of Magazine representatives and is very proud of the achievements of the stakes and wards, missions and branches. We sincerely regret omissions and errors occurring in the honor roll. NOTES TO THE FIELD 43 "THE JESSE KNIGHT FAMILY" A BOOK entitled "The Jesse Knight Family," by J. William Knight, is a new publication of local interest. The book is a short biography of the late Jesse Knight, with sidelights on his forebears and family; his daughter, Inez, was for many years a member of the Relief Society General Board. That such a book should have been written is important. Jesse Knight is perhaps one of the most unique figures in the history of the Church and state. As a churchman, his religion expressed itself not only in individual observance of Latter-day Saint standards, but in conducting the many communities which he established in harmony with these standards. He contributed generously of his wealth to the Brigham Young University and to furthering other work of the Church. Healso assisted individuals within the Church. As a publicspirited citizen, his clear vision enabled him to see the needs of pioneer communities. His great foresight, coupled with the mental capacity to grasp a situation in its entirety, his inexhaustible energy, and his generous heart enabled him to realize most of his ambitions for the development of the country. As a boy, Jesse Knight knew nothing but hardships; as a man, he amassed a fortune. He attributed his ability to accumulate wealth to spiritual guidance and regarded himself as merely the custodian of this wealth. He believed it to be his responsibility to dispense the wealth which came to him for the advancement of the Church, for the development of the natural resources of the country, to provide employment for the needy, and to help mankind generally. His biography acquaints the reader with a genuinely great soul. It leaves one impressed with the fact that the noblest life is the one devoted to working for the good of mankind; that the greatest wealth one can leave his posterity isan honored name. The author, J. William Knight, is the second son of Jesse and Amanda McEwan Knight. He was closely associated with his father in most of his business enterprises and enjoyed a close companionship with him. He presents Jesse Knight to the reader as a far-sighted humanitarian. The book is a valuable addition to the historical biographies of the Church and state. BOUND VOLUMES THOSE desiring to have their 1940 issues of the Relief Society Magazine bound, may do If Magazines are furnished with the so through the office of the General Board. Order, the cost of cloth binding, including index, is $1.50 and the cost of leather binding, including index, is $2.00. There will be an additional charge of $1.00 if Magazines are furnished by this office. Those desiring to bind Magazines themselves may purchase materials through this office. A package containing enough material to bind 12 books sells for $3.15; these packages will not be broken in order to sell smaller amounts. Indexes will be furnished free of charge upon request. Address all orders to Relief Society General Board, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. "Home Points The Way"' Anna B. Hart Relief Society General Board Member (Relief Society Conference Address, October 3, 1940) E know what the home is to true Latter-day Saints. It is a divine institution. "In it the father and the mother should stand as God's representatives, to guide and protect and rule the children and the household for God, in his stead." It is logical that the home should point the way, because its mission from the earliest times has been ordained of God. It is the oldest unit of civilization. In the home, mothers of ancient China taught politeness and obedience to their children. The children of the golden age of Greece practiced courage, temperance, wisdom and justice. "Christian parents have taught faith, hope, and love. Modern life magnifies industry, service and cooperation." Nov, I should like to list and discuss, briefly, a few signs on the guidepost which point the way. The Latter-day Saint home points the way, ultimately, to eternal life. It points the way of courage. From a mother, portrayed in a recent novel, we have these words: "There were three ways one could meet life: One could yield to it, one could run from it, or one could fight it" and win when honor, duty and religion. Were used for defense. The Latter-day Saint home points the way of faith; not only the "fairweather kind of faith, but faith that faces the blackest sky and says, 'I Trust.'" Emily Dickinson said: "T never saw a moor, T never saw the sea; Yet know I how the heather looks, And what a wave must be. "I never spoke with God Nor visited in Heaven; Yet certain am I of the spot As if the chart were given." (I Never Saw a Moor, by Emily Dickinson) In a thousand ways, we, as mothers, can plant seeds of faith in our own children, that faith "which consists of belief, plus determination on the part of the individual to respond to the requirements of God, plus an added strength and power and force for righteousness from God Himself." Man's best inheritance comes from his parents. The faith of parents in Him is one of the sublime and precious things in life and a powerful influence in the world. The Latter-day Saint home points the way to soul illumination. Many homes are shattered because the - members in them have self-blinded eyes. Soul illumination often comes through our appreciation of our Scriptures and other good literature. "Teaching a child to love books is bestowing a great gift upon him. Happiness is then always within reach of his hand. If he is lonely, he has but to turn over his hand and the richest treasures of a friend's best mood are his. If he would forget, if he would remember, if he would learn, if he would laugh or weep or exult, he has but to turn to his book shelf." (Angelo Patri) The members of every family have "HOME POINTS THE WAY" periods of perplexity. Yet, there comes a time of illumination—a time when we feel that we are in harmony with a universal purpose. Wordsworth tells of a great illumination of the soul, when after climbing a mountain for hours, he suddenly reaches the top: "Thus might we wear a midnight hour away, Ascending at loose distance each from each, And I, as chanced, the foremost of the band; When at my feet the ground appeared to brighten And with a step or two seemed brighter still; Nor was time given to ask or learn the cause, For instantly a light upon the turf Fell like a flash, and lo! As I looked up, The Moon hung naked in a firmament Of azure without cloud, and at my feet Rested a silent sea of hoary mist." (From The Prelude, Book 14, Wordsworth ) The poet is ever in search of an experience that will "lift the veil from the hidden beauty of the world," and so are we. Home points the way to peace— the kind of peace that "involves the overcoming of selfishness, unfairness and mistrust among mankind." Bryant saw in the unerring flight of the water fowl an assurance that in some way the human spirit, through all life's bewilderments, would find its haven of peace and understanding: 45 "He who, from zone to zone, Guides through the boundless sky thy certain flight, In the long way that I must tread alone Will lead my steps aright." Life need never be drab; no cloud so dark but has a bright lining; no night so dark but ends in day; no period of the world so troubled but eventually ends in peace. Home points the way to giving. The president of our great nation said, "These dark days will be worth all they cost us if they teach us that our true destiny is not to be ministered unto, but to minister to ourselves and to our fellow men." There is no greater giving than that which converts the home into a divine institution, and which promotes and upholds family life. It was through the virtue of unselfishness that "the Master made conquest of the hearts of men and drew ail men unto him. Nothing warms the hearthstone and glorifies the home more than unselfishness." Home points the way to eternal life. It is our Gospel of Jesus Christ that gives meaning and substance to all the other home virtues; in fact, they become a part of our religion. We do believe religiously in the home, and in the eternal ties, and all "the obligations and rewards" of this relationship. Yes, the Latter-day Saint home does point the way of eternal life. Oii back to Relief Society's head-waters, and following its course growth and achievement, we are stirred by a keen desire to travel on i, tte rising stream. As our numbers steadily increase, Relief Society will, like the river fed by new rains, grow from strength to ever greater strength."—Rae B. Barker, Member of Relief Society General Board. First Things First Luella N. Adams Relief Society General Board Member (Relief Society Conference Address, October 3, 1940) OUR Heavenly Father has created a beautiful world for us in which those things necessary for our wellbeing have been generously provided. A flood of light has covered the earth in the last 100 years. The enlightened minds of men have ingeniously applied the truths of science and the universe to bring us the abundant life in a material way. Two thousand years ago, Christ came and by word and precept gave man the perfect example of the truly abundant life. In spite of all the light and knowledge that has been showered upon our generation, we find ourselves living in a very disturbing and chaotic time. What can be wrong? Why so much strife and hate? From history we learn that great civilizations in the past have been destroyed when the people became ripe in iniquity. Think-. Ing people today are concerned with the necessity of a spiritual awakening. "The fundamental teachings of Christianity should be instinctively in the blood of Americans. Men and women of deep religious convictions settled this country. Christianity is woven into its very fabric. The Pilgrims and Puritans who came to this choice land were deeply religious people who desired that everyone should have an opportunity to serve God according to the dictates of his own conscience. The early colonists of Virginia were God-fearing people. Washington had a fervent belief in God and a trust in an ever-ruling power. We know that our Constitution was divinely inspired and that our democracy is based on Christian principles which recognize the dignity of the human soul. Lincoln was richly endowed with spirituality. It was undaunted faith in the Lord and in the Gospel that brought our pioneer parents and grandparents to these valleys of the mountains and enabled them to accomplish so much. Too many of the descendants of these pioneers, however, have forsaken the faith of their forefathers. Though conscientious and honest, believing in the Golden Rule, they feel that the formality and requirements of religion are not necessary. They do not want to be tied and restricted by religious activity. They are of the opinion that to be orthodox is to be old-fashioned. Reverend Shoemaker, a Protestant minister, said, "People are getting the roots and fruits of Christianity confused. The fruit of Chnistianity is service, but the root is touch with the living God which brings spiritual power into life. 'The greatest mistake which has been made in our times is the substitution of human service for spiritual power and the confusion of Christianity with mere human good works. Service, ideals, and character are the fruits of Christianity." People are moved to good works after they have been touched with the spirit of the Master. The first great commandment, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy FIRST THINGS FIRST heart and all thy mind," is as binding as ever before. "If ye love me, keep my commandments" is still imperative. Our Heavenly Father expects more than just living clean, upright lives and doing good deeds toward our fellowmen. Living the Golden Rule is commendable, but not sufficient. WHY are there so many indifferent Latter-day Saint parents, failing by example and precept to train their children in the truths of the Gospel? The individual with strong religious convictions and an understanding of the Gospel is far better fortified to resist the many temptations in the world and to undergo sorrows, trials, and hardships without becoming disillusioned and embittered, than the person without a substantial religious foundation. Someone has said, "Parents are assuming a tremendous responsibility in rearing children without the help of the Church. Religion sustained and comforted our parents in their quiet, simple lives. How much more do we need it in this troubled, complex, and fast-living age." There probably never was a time when children received the same intelligent, thoughtful care they now receive. Babies are weighed, measured and checked periodically. The young mother is concerned in seeing that her growing child receives a well-balanced diet conducive to growth and vitality. Calories are counted, vitamins necessary for growth are given, and perfect physical specimens are the result. Children are given opportunities for cultural and educational development. Many parents are workin and sacrificing to send children to 47 school. High schools, colleges and universities are crowded. But we must remember there is a spiritual as well as a material side to human beings, and the spiritual self can be undernourished. Great credit is due parents for recognizing the importance of body-building foods and Vitamins A, B, C, and D. But are children getting a balanced diet when religious training is neglected, when vitamin R, the vitamin of religion, is ignored? Angelo Patri, the noted child specialist, says, "Children need religion, because all human beings need it. We are spiritual beings first, material creatures afterward, and we can starve neither part of ourselves without dying. We have fed our material body well, and we have discovered that we have starved our spiritual selves to the brink of death." It is regrettable that some parents fail to understand that a son or daughter is prepared to face life competently only when he or she is well grounded in spiritual and cultural values, that the stabilizing influences of early teligious training and faith in a Heavenly Father fortify children as nothing else can. We are told in the Doctrine and Covenants: "Inasmuch as parents have children and teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ, and baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands when eight years old, the sin be on the heads of the parents." May we understand that the first requirement for abundant living here and exaltation in the life to come, is to serve the Lord and keep his commandments. May we always place "first things first." Habits of Happiness Pauline T. Pingree (Relief Society General Board Member) (Conference Address, October 3, 1940) HAPPINESS consists not of having, but of being; not of possessing, but of enjoying. It is the warm glow of a heart at peace with itself. Happiness is paradoxical because it may coexist with trial, sorrow and poverty. It is the gladness of the heart, rising superior to all conditions. It is the essence of a life lived in harmony with high ideals. We are creators of our own happiness. For what we have, we may be. Largely dependent upon others; but what we are rests largely with us alone. The first ingredient of happiness is love. If we truly love one another, we will be patient with one another, charitable, kind, generous, courteous, unselfish, and we will try to cultivate good temper. We will be sincere and honest with each other and with ourselves. We will be humble before God and try to do His will. Have you ever noticed how much of Christ's life was spent in doing kind things? He spent most of his time in making people happy, and yet some would have us believe that He was a man of sorrows. I never read about Him or think about Him without picturing Him comforting the sorrowful, healing the sick, making the blind to see, the deaf to hear. It is impossible for me to believe that anyone who could create so much happiness and do so much good could be unhappy. Christ taught us that the fruits of the spirit are love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, and temperance. If we would follow in His footsteps, we must go about doing good. Service is the measure of greatness, and he is greatest and happiest who does the most good. Happiness is largely an interior matter, and the more you give, the more milk of gladness bubbles up from the depths within you. There is no way by which a person can be truly happy without being good, clean, square, and true. This does not mean that a person is assured happiness just because he does not use tobacco, drink liquor, gamble, use profane language, or does not do other such things. He may observe all of these laws and still be unhappy because he is uncharitable, jealous, envious and trevengeful. He may slander and cheat or be cunning and underhanded. No person can be truly happy who has a small, bigoted, narrow, uncharitable mind or disposition. Generosity, charity, and kindness are absolutely essential to real happiness. William George Jordan says, "If you would hit the bull's eye of happiness of the target of life, aim above it. Place other things higher than your own happiness, and it will surely come to you." You can buy pleasure, you can acquire contentment, you can become satisfied, but nature never puts real happiness on the bargain counter. It is like wheat or corn—it must be planted and grown, and we reap as we sow. Real happiness without achievement of some worthy aim is unthinkable. One of the greatest satisfactions HABITS OF HAPPINESS in this world is the feeling of growth, of stretching upward and onward. We must feel our expanding-power lifting, tugging away at a lofty purpose or we miss the joy of living. Material things and conditions bring passing pleasures; such as, money and what it will buy, or what it will give you in the way of power, influence, comforts and _ luxuries. Sometimes, however, the heart starves amid the greatest luxuries. Happiness has little to do with material things. It is a state of mind. It cannot be found in mere temporary things, because its roots reach deep down into eternal principles. There are numerous ways in which people expect to find happiness. Some expect to find it in books, others in travel, others in association with friends, others in the study of the arts and sciences, others in coarse dissipation of various kinds. Many expect to find their greatest happi- 49 ness in marriage. We quickly discover that real happiness cannot come from anything outside of us, but must be developed within us. Married couples soon learn that domestic happiness depends upon what they mutually contribute to the partnership—that no one can take out a great deal without putting a great deal in; selfishness reaps a mean, despicable harvest. It is only the generous giver who gets much. Unhappiness is the hunger to get. Happiness is the hunger to give. Where can the people of a bemuddled world turn to find a dayby-day plan for developing "Habits of Happiness'? 'There is only one answer—through the Gospel of Jesus Christ. He has pointed the way. May we so live that we may have that inner peace which comes from right thinking and right doing, that we may have everlasting joy and happiness. SHINING LIGHTS Courtney E. Cottam Stars shine Through the shroud of deepest night, Crystal clear, penetrating The darksome mystery of the firmament. Truths shine Through the bitter night of doubt, Star like, bringing Faith Into the paucity of man's understanding. Notes FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Wherever the name does not readily indicate the geographical location of the stake or mission, the location of its headquarters is designated in parentheses. Regulations governing the submittal of material for '"'Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April 1940, page 275. Relief Society Anniversary Programs Juarez Stake (Mexico) NELLE S. HATCH, president of Juarez Stake Relief Society, reports that the 98th anniversary of the Relief Society was observed in every ward in the stake, at the sacrament service on Sunday, March 17. "The program was planned by a member of the stake board, and a board member was present at each ward. The outstanding accomplishments of the Relief Society welfare work throughout the organization were featured, and also the duties, privileges, and rewards of the visiting teacher. The program was creditably presented in every ward and enthusiastically received. We feel proud to have been able to accomplish this under the unfavorable conditions of widely-separated wards and bad _ toads, but we could not have done it without the splendid and thorough support of the Priesthood. The stake president took his own car and with his counselors, who in this case were the husbands of the delegates, accompanied the board members to the mountain colonies." Franklin Stake (Preston, Idaho) THE Weston Ward of Franklin Stake observed the 98th anniversary of Relief Society on Sunday, March 17, 1940, by presenting the pageant, "The Key of Promise," depicting the growth of Relief Society from its beginning in 1842 to the present. The cast appears in the accompanying photograph. This proCAST OF PAGEANT "THE KEY OF PROMISE," WESTON WARD OF FRANKLIN STAKE NOTES FROM THE FIELD. Duction was enthusiastically received by a large audience. Sara Nelson is president of this ward Relief Society, and the stake president is Alice S. Merrill. Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho Falls, Idaho) ORA M. CHRISTENSEN, president of Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, submitted the accompanying picture and account of the Relief Society anniversary observance in the Sixth Ward, of which Clara Jenkins is Relief Society president. "Using the theme, "The Light of Relief Society,' as suggested in the Relief Society Magazine for February, 1940, (page 101), the Sixth Ward of the Idaho Falls Stake presented a candlelighting program at the Sunday evening service on the 17th of March, 1940. Gold candles were placed on a large blue birthday cake, with the president's taper at the top. There was a candle for each of the seventyfour members of our ward Society. CANDLE-LIGHTING SERVICE, SIXTH WARD OF IDAHO FALLS STAKE 51 Each candle was lighted from the president's taper which had been lighted by the bishop of the ward, symbolizing that our authority for Relief Society comes through the Priesthood. The president first gave a talk on the light or worth of Relief Society work. A reader reviewed the various activities of Relief Society as each leader lit her taper. Appropriate music was played throughout the service, which ended with all the women singing 'A Hundred? 99 Thousand Strong'. San Bernardino Stake (California) VERA B. CLARK, president of San Bernardino Ward Relief Society, submitted the following program of the anniversary celebration which was held by the ward on Friday afternoon, March 15, 1940:
Ruth Arbuckle Song "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning"...........................Congregation (This song was sung at the organization meeting in 1842.)
52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY, 1941
Prayer:............................Ethel Blomquist Welcome Address, Introduction of Theme "Widening Horizons"............Vera Clark "Everyday Horizons"..........LaPriel Baird "Future Horizons".....................Iris Brown "Spiritual Horizons".....................Josie Bay "Gay Horizons"..........................Arla Peterson "Changing Horizons"..........Evelyn Heath "Distant Horizons"............Verna Carter "Friendly Horizons"..............Flora Harber Sue Powell Nettie Miller Bessie Bryant Connie Biggers Merle Tibbitts
The president reports that this program was both unusual and inspirational, and that the theme development of the "horizons" brought out past activities of the Relief Society and future possibilities. The number designated "Gay Horizons" was a very funny doll show, with Relief Society members acting as dolls. "Changing Horizons" was a pageant in poetry and song depicting Relief Society history and honoring the eight general presidents of Relief Society. "Friendly Horizons" was the refreshment hour when a huge birthday cake was cut and served. Josie B. Bay is stake Relief Society president.
Kanab Stake (Kanab, Utah)
The following report was written by Ella H. Palmer, secretary-treasurer of the Alton Ward Relief Society, of which Afton J. Heaton is president: "The Alton Ward Relief Society of the Kanab Stake had a very enjoyable anniversary celebration in March, 1940, where every member was given an opportunity to take part and demonstrate her ability in a poetry contest, using the letters e-v-e-r-y m-e-m-b-e-r at the beginning of the lines. Some very interesting contributions were made. The prize-winning verse was composed by Charlotte Hoyt. A booklet containing all the poems was given as a prize. A lovely birthday cake, decorated
ALTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, KANAB STAKE GARVANZA WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, SAN FERNANDO STAKE
in the Relief Society colors, was served, and original membership songs were sung. The accompanying picture was taken that day and shows the lilies which were given as favors to the three oldest members, the three newest members, the oldest officer, the visiting teacher who had served longest, and the present presiding officers." Lillian C. McAllister is the stake president of Relief Society.
San Fernando Stake (California)
RUTH CHRISTENSEN, first counselor of the Garvanza Ward Relief Society, sent the report from which are taken the following excerpts: "One of the most successful anniversary programs ever held in this ward was presented on March 13, 1940, by the Garvanza Relief Society of the San Fernando Stake. Eight women portrayed the characters of the eight presidents of this great organization, giving the highlights in their lives and the part each one played in the progress of Relief Society. The ward Relief Society president, Emma Smith Dewey, is a descendant of the Smith family, and was named for Emma Smith, the first president. It was, therefore, very proper that Sister Dewey be persuaded to represent her namesake on this occasion. Refreshments were served following the program. The accompanying picture is of the group of 100 women who attended the anniversary celebration. Sadie E. Williams is Relief Society president of this stake.
"WE look forward to 1942 with eagerness and enthusiasm. A glorious centennial awaits us.... The strength and beauty which is ours because of one hundred years of worthy endeavor will arouse our deepest gratitude and give us courage to meet whatever tomorrow may bring. With faces set resolutely toward the future, a new determination will come to us to do our part in an organization which will wield an ever increasing influence for good. The occasion should be a rich experience in the life of every member, stimulating her to go forward and create for her successors patterns of enduring worth."—Mary Grant Judd, Member of Relief Society General Board.
EXCERPTS FROM "LIFE OF JOSEPH F. SMITH" Joseph Fielding Smith (Selected by Marianne C. Sharp)
"Always thy duty well perform, whate'er may threaten in thy way; Nor ever fear to meet the storm of human hate, or passions sway; But calmly trust in God above, and bend thy course at His command; Nor swerve, to gain or lose the love of friend or foe, but with firm hand, And nobly, to thy duty stand." (Page 279)
"Teach your children to pay tithing, so that it may be perpetually observed. If we observe this law, no matter what our enemies may do, the Lord will preserve us. Because we are His sons and daughters, He loves us, and He has forgiven our forgetfulness of this holy law in the past, but He will not forgive you and me any longer. I say it in the name of the Lord. He will not forgive this people any longer." (Page 408).
"Furthermore, I want to say to you, we may not be able to reach it right away, but we expect to see the day when we will not have to ask you for one dollar of donation for any purpose, except that which you volunteer to give of your own accord, because we will have tithes sufficient in the storehouse of the Lord to pay everything that is needful for the advancement of the Kingdom of God." (Page 429)
"Virtue is a priceless gem in the wife, she has a right to demand the same of her husband. There is no true happiness where virtue and purity do not dwell." (Page 258)
"I would rather take my children to the cemetery, and see them buried in innocence, than I would see them corrupted by the ways of the world.... Some people feel that it does not make very much difference whether a girl marries a man in the Church, full of the faith of the Gospel, or an unbeliever. Some of our young people have married outside of the Church; but very few of those who have done it have failed to come to grief. I would like to see Latter-day Saint men marry Latter-day Saint women.... There is nothing that I can think of, in a religious way, that would grieve me more intensely than to see one of my boys marry an unbelieving girl, or one of my girls marry an unbelieving man." (Page 404)
"We can make no advancement only upon the principles of eternal truth. In proportion as we become established upon the foundation of these principles which have been revealed from the heavens in the latter days, and determine to accomplish the purposes of the Lord, will we progress, and the Lord will all the more exalt and magnify us before the world and make us to assume our real position and standing in the midst of the earth." (Page 31)
"I would rather die any moment than to do aught that would forfeit the confidence and the love of my friends and my brethren." (Page 31)
"It is error and the lack of knowledge of God's laws and God's will that leaves men in the world on a par with the brute creation; for they have no higher instinct, no higher principle, no higher incentive, no higher aspiration than the brute world if they have not some inspiration that comes from a higher source than man himself." (Page 372)
"When we receive the Gospel, we enter into the truth, and we enter into it through the door that was opened by the Son of God. We do not give anything for it except obedience. We have nothing to give except obedience, and for that obedience we get everything, even life everlasting, and exaltation in the presence of God, a perfect knowledge that we will be joined together as kinsfolk in the bonds of the new and everlasting covenant...." (Page 398)
LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony Lesson 7
Family Life, An Eternal Unit—Joseph F. Smith (Tuesday, April 1, 1941)
"... If a man marry a wife by my word, which is my law, and by the new and everlasting covenant, and it is sealed unto them by the Holy Spirit of promise... it... shall be of full force when they are out of the world;... therefore shall they be from everlasting to everlasting." (Doctrine and Covenants 132:19-20)
SPEAKING at a conference of the stake in Juab in 1869, President Woodruff said of Joseph F. Smith, "Look at him, my children, for he resembles the Prophet Joseph more than any living man. He will become president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." When he did become its president thirty-two years later, in October, 1901, he was the first person to achieve this position who had been born and reared within the Church. Of the sixty-three years that he had lived, thirty-five had been devoted to Church work as an Apostle; and during more than twenty years he had served as a counselor to Presidents Taylor, Woodruff, and Snow.
ABILITY AS A LEADER IN TEMPORAL AFFAIRS
Prior to his elevation to the Presidency, Joseph F. Smith had devoted the major portion of his Church service to the promotion of spiritual matters in the wards, stakes and missions. However, he soon gave evidence of keen insight into temporal matters as well as spiritual concerns. He continued the financial policies of President Snow with such success that by 1907 the bonded indebtedness of the Church had been paid off, and he could announce that the Church was able to meet its obligations as they arose. The continued wisdom in the expenditure of Church funds enabled the Church to commence a more rapid expansion of its influences throughout the world. Numerous ward and stake houses were erected, mission homes and mission chapels were acquired, and missionary work was augmented financially in keeping with the changing economic conditions of the missionaries and the demands of the mission fields. Numerous shrines of early Church history were acquired in Vermont, New York and Missouri. The Church undertook the construction of its first hospital in Salt Lake and erected its Bishop's Building and magnificent Church Administration Building to house the various offices of the rapidly growing Church. In addition, President Smith selected and dedicated sites for Temples in Hawaii and Canada.
Much adverse criticism was heaped upon the Church in general and President Smith personally for this apparent outward show of what was termed a growing "worldliness" on the part of the Church. President Smith, however, had a broader vision than his small-souled critics. He made little distinction between the temporal and spiritual, or the earthly and the eternal, and viewed them as being integrally associated. He replied, "It has always been a cardinal teaching with the Latter-day Saints that a religion that has not the power to save people temporally and make them prosperous and happy here, cannot be depended upon to save them spiritually and exalt them in the life to come."
OUTSTANDING CONVICTIONS OF HIS LIFE
As one reads extracts from the numerous sermons and writings of this sixth President of the Church, it becomes apparent, because of the frequency with which they are stressed, that two convictions actuated him in all of his conduct and teachings: first, his testimony of Jesus and His atoning work; second, the unwavering certainty of the divinity of the Prophet Joseph Smith's mission and the reality of the truths that were revealed through him. In these revelations of God's plan of salvation, he saw that human personality and human relationships were the fundamentals that would survive in the eternities, if obedience to God's will had been shown during mortality.
FAMILY LIFE
Those who personally remember President Smith can recall that one of the outstanding characteristics of his life was the love he manifested for his family. He was never too busy to be of assistance to a little child, or to counsel someone concerning home and family life. He believed that the home was the best possible place for the training of children and stressed the responsibility of parents to win the love, admiration, and confidence of their children. His writings reveal that he considered his wives and children as his most worthwhile possessions, and felt his eternal happiness would be dependent upon their faithfulness to the Gospel. He was confident that marriage was a God-ordained and God-sanctioned institution, not something that man or society had created. The marriage relation was, he taught, one of holiness—a relation into which every capable soul was expected to enter. The obligation of bringing children into the world was a responsibility that God placed on every mortal. He was firm in his view that no man should rule his wife or children by force or tyranny. Love was to be the only power used for control. Throughout his long and active life, he constantly placed his obligation toward his families as paramount, and he left behind a numerous posterity which manifests that he practiced within his own family the principles of kindness, love and consideration which he so often preached in public.
THE ETERNITY OF FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS
Not only did President Smith hold lofty conceptions of the place of family life in society and the Church, but he also was firm in his conviction that family relationships should have eternal existence. He had the prophetic ability of gaining a long-range view of the eternities
56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT
and saw that earth life was but a temporary halting place in the onward march of personal existence. In answer to the query, "Why did God teach us the eternal union of man and wife?" he answered: "Because God knew that we were... to remain His children forever and ever, and that we are just as truly individuals, and that our individuality was as identical as that of the Son of God, and would therefore continue, worlds without end, so that the man receiving his wife by the power of God, for time and for all eternity, would have the right to claim her and she to claim her husband in the world to come. Neither would be changed, except from mortality to immortality; neither would be other than himself or herself, but they will have their identity in the world to come precisely as they exercise their individuality and enjoy their identity here."
This concept influenced his teaching. He taught that the ultimate happiness of immortality would depend upon the success with which a family was able to train its members to obey the laws of God and thus gain salvation. This made him solicitous of the welfare of all those connected with him. In respect to this, he said, "Nobody has more interest in the welfare of my own children than I have. I cannot be satisfied without them. They are part of me. They are mine. God has given them to me, and I want them to be humble and submissive to the requirements of the Gospel. I want them to be... worthy of the distinction that the Lord has given them in being numbered among his covenant people...."
It is interesting to read his state-
57
ments concerning the motives that prompted him in selecting and dedicating the sites for the temples in Hawaii and Canada. It is true, of course, that he was thinking of salvation for the dead as part of the augmented temple program. However, he publicly said that for many it had been impossible to make the long and expensive journey to one of the Utah temples in order to be properly married. These new temples—to be followed by others, to serve remote sections of the Church population—would make temple marriages, the only valid form of marriage in God's sight, more readily available for great numbers of the young people.
HIS VISION OF THE REDEMPTION OF THE DEAD
On October 3, 1918, shortly before his death, President Smith received a vision in regard to the method of missionary work among the disembodied spirits. This vision indicates that he had long pondered the problems connected with making family ties complete in the patriarchal lineages. Shortly before he closed his mortal career, the Lord granted him this vision to enlighten the world concerning this process. It was submitted to and approved by his counselors, the Quorum of the Twelve, and the Presiding Patriarch, on October 31, 1918.
THE MARKS OF A TRUE SERVANT OF GOD
For many years, President Smith was the target for some of the vilest newspaper and periodical attacks to which any person has been subjected. In addition, his family life was openly ridiculed, and he was personally insulted and annoyed by forces that were arrayed against him and the Church. Through it all, he manifested the Christ-like qualities of impersonal justice, absolute honesty, absolute sincerity, unselfishness, freedom from the spirit of retaliation, unfailing love for all men, and a calm self-control. Before he died, those of his former opponents who had once bitterly maligned him had come to see his sterling worth and were eulogistic of his greatness.
Questions and Problems for Discussion
1. What were the outstanding accomplishments of the Church during the presidency of Joseph F. Smith?
2. What factors made President Smith a worthy successor to his predecessors in the office of President of the Church?
3. Name the two dominant ideas that characterized the teachings of President Smith.
4. How do you account for the central place he gave to the eternity of the family relationships in his teachings?
Topics for Study and Special Reports
1. Have some class member who personally remembers President Smith relate some character-revealing incident from his life which reveals his love for children.
2. Review his description of the ideal home, recorded on pp. 378-380 of Gospel Doctrine.
3. Make a report of the word picture of President Smith made by Judge Charles C. Goodwin (a non-Mormon). Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 477-478.
4. Relate some of the incidents which indicate his solicitude for children, as found on pages 441-442 of the Life of Joseph F. Smith, by Joseph Fielding Smith.
5. Give a review of his "Vision of the Redemption of the Dead," found on pp. 466-471 of the Life of Joseph F. Smith by Joseph Fielding Smith, or pp. 596-601 of Gospel Doctrine.
References
B. H. Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 368-388; 418-421; 433-434; and 476-478. Joseph F. Smith, Article in Relief Society Magazine, June, 1917, p. 314 ff. Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, especially Chapter XVI, pp. 341-399 and Chapter XXIV, pp. 538-603. Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, pp. 623-625 and 631-637. Joseph Fielding Smith, Life of Joseph F. Smith, especially pp. 440-486. Joseph Fielding Smith, "Character of a Great Leader," Deseret News, Church Section, November 12, 1938.
Visiting Teacher MESSAGES TO THE HOME
How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home No. 7
The Law of Tithing and the Home (Tuesday, April 1, 1941)
"And this shall be a standing law unto them forever." (Doctrine and Covenants 119:4)
"THE law of tithing is the law of revenue for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Without it, it would be impossible to carry on the purposes of the Lord." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 283)
58 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT
The Lord has given us all that we have and asks but one-tenth to carry on His work on the earth. It is necessary to have money to care for the needy, to preach the Gospel to the world, to build and maintain temples, schools, hospitals, and meeting houses, and to do other things for the welfare of the people. These are some of the ways in which tithing is used.
When children understand these things, they see the necessity of the law of tithing and are willing to do their share that the purposes of the Lord may be accomplished. All members of the family who have been baptized come under this law. It might be helpful for mothers to arrange an allowance for work done, so that children will have an income on which to pay tithing, and
59
thus form the habit of paying tithing early in life. If they think the amount to be paid is too small, it should be explained to them that if the sum paid is one-tenth of the allowance, it is an honest tithe and just as acceptable to the Lord as a larger amount. Generally, it is easier to pay tithing as income is received, and that practice could well be encouraged in the home.
Tithing is a test of our faith in the Lord and in the Priesthood which He has restored to earth.
Home Discussion Helps
"For all who will have a blessing at my hands shall abide the law which was appointed for that blessing." (Doctrine and Covenants, 132:5)
Tithing is a temporal law, and blessings attached to it are temporal as well as spiritual. (See Gospel Doctrine, p. 286)
Work-and-Business NUTRITION
Food Facts and Food Fads Lesson 7 (Tuesday, April 8, 1941)
FOOD FACTS
The present generation has more scientific facts about nutrition than any generation has had before. We have these facts because some of the greatest scientific minds in the world have studied the functions of the human body and the chemistry of the foods which nourish it, and their knowledge has been pooled and made available. We know what foods are necessary to build strong, healthy bodies. We know what food can do toward maintaining the body in a state of physical fitness. We also know that certain diseases are not prevented by good nutrition and that proper diet cannot cure all of the human ailments.
The human body needs the right amounts of protein, fats, carbohydrates, minerals, vitamins and water every day. These food nutrients can be supplied each day from milk, fruits, vegetables, whole grain products, eggs, meat, and water. In some families, extra vitamin fortification is needed for some members.
60 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY, 1941
It makes no difference in what combinations or forms these foods are served so long as each food group is represented each day in the amounts which nutrition research workers recommend for good health. Families in the low-income group may be just as well nourished as those with more money, provided they know something about food values and select their food accordingly. The human body will make best use of an adequate food supply when the foods are prepared so that they look appetizing, taste good, and retain their food value.
More than one-third of the people in the United States are living on diets below the safety line for good nutrition. Three major reasons have combined to keep forty-five million of our population undernourished: first, bad food habits; second, lack of knowledge and application of sound nutrition principles; third, lack of adequate food supply, which may be due to low income or to insufficient food production on the individual farm.
FOOD FADS
All the advice really needed on the subject of food fads can be stated in two brief words—"avoid them." Food fads have kept many Americans from getting enough to eat, because the followers of food fads live on an incomplete diet. Some of these diet fads are sound in some respects; for example, they may warn against overeating or against eating extra-rich pastries or highly-seasoned foods. Some may recommend large amounts of fruits and vegetables. Some of the food fads are harmless, but most of them are perniciously misleading and definitely harmful.
Promoters of food fads flourish in America more than in any other country. Food faddists are the most persistent of our recent quacks. They have persuasion and poise. They use all of the modern advertising methods to promote these fads. They succeed because they know there is no field in which sentiment and prejudice so completely replace logical thinking and sound judgment as in the field of diet. Their doctrines spread farther and faster than does scientific knowledge, because the scientist is conservative, while the faddist is usually an extremist.
It is amazing how gullible some intelligent people can be when exposed to clever advertising. They will follow literally and faithfully the diets of these irregular doctors and be callously indifferent to the scientifically-measured advice of honest doctors. The food faddists usually have a string of letters after their names. Some of them are graduates from recognized medical colleges, but due to their irregular methods have been dropped from membership in their local and state medical associations. Many of them have degrees from third-rate institutions or from mythical schools which never did exist. The general public does not know this; and since the food faddist calls himself doctor, his public accepts his word as authoritative.
Before accepting the startling food notions promoted by these self-styled doctors, it is wise to get their rating. The American Medical Association in Chicago has a bureau of investigation with a card index listing food quacks along with other quacks and quackeries. This in-
LESSON DEPARTMENT
formation is freely available to anyone as a service of the doctors of this country in the interest of the health of the people.
Food fads break out in all sorts of forms. We are warned against such food combinations as proteins and carbohydrates, or fruit and milk, or milk and fish, or different kinds of fruits used together in the same meal. Vegetarians tell us to exclude all foods of animal origin—not only meat, but milk, cheese, and eggs. Raw food promoters tell us to eat nothing cooked. Their opponents tell us to eat nothing raw. We are told that certain foods will dry up the blood, that others are the specific cause of certain diseases, while some foods are brain foods. Some issue warnings against acid foods and some against alkaline foods. The dispensers of the so-called "health foods" would cure all our ills with vegetable juices or mineral salts or concentrates of something else. These are but a few samples of the many types of food fads which are circulating through the country and which contribute their share toward nutritional disorders in the United States, and which have no scientific backing.
Nutrition research disproves the theories regarding so-called harmful food combinations. Numerous experiments prove that proteins and carbohydrates digest as completely when eaten together as when eaten separately. We cannot separate them except in a chemical laboratory, unless we choose to live on egg white and sugar. Milk contains carbohydrate as well as protein and other food nutrients. Nature mixes them up in all our foods. There is even some protein in watermelon.
61
Fruit will curdle milk. Gastric juice also curdles milk soon after the milk reaches the stomach. Milk and fish get along very well together as do most other foods which the faddists claim to be harmful. Dr. Robert Hutchinson used to say of vegetarianism, "It is probably harmless, although it is apt to fill a man with wind and self-righteousness." Modern research points to the superiority of animal over vegetable proteins. Vegetables make valuable contributions to the diet but not because of their proteins. Vegetable proteins, with the exception of those found in soy beans, are incomplete proteins. Animal proteins are complete and are essential to an optimum diet. There is no scientific reason for taking all foods raw or for having all of them cooked. Some have more value raw, some are better cooked. Blood dries when it is exposed to air, not when it is circulating in the living body. Foods do not cause diseases. 'The continued lack of any one food nutrient, or of several, will cause nutritional deficiency diseases. Some people are allergic to certain foods but the discovery of these specific foods calls for individual diagnosis by a qualified physician and does not come within the field of the food faddist. The body is provided with a very efficient mechanism for keeping body fluids on the alkaline side. There is no need to worry about alkaline foods or acid foods so long as the day's food supply contains the essential food groups previously mentioned. Science recognizes no reducing food nor any single gaining food. We lose weight when our food in- take provides fewer calories than our bodies burn each day. We gain if they contain more. Individuals differ in their rate of burning food in the body. A basal metabolism test will discover what this individual rate lS. All foods are health foods when taken judiciously, whether we drink them or chew them. So long as we have teeth with which to chew, there is no reason why we need to take raw carrots or other vegetables as juices in order to be healthy. There is no specific brain food. It takes a variety of all foods to nourish all parts of the body.. A little knowledge can be a very dangerous thing when used in the field of quackery. Food faddism is quackery. A fundamental knowledge of nutrition is our best weapon against food fads. Reference Human Nutrition, 1939 Year Book, United States Department of Agriculture, Chapter on "Food Fads, Facts, and Fancies." a of itera ture THE MODERN NOVEL Lesson 7 Song Of Years (Tuesday, April 15, 1941) LESSON TOPICS: 1. Comments on previous lessons 2. The author 3. The setting 4. The characters COMMENTS ON PREVIOUS LESSONS The previous lessons in this year's work have dealt with two significant novels: Adam Bede, one of George Eliot's great pieces of fiction, and The Tree of Liberty, an historical novel of our own country by Elizabeth Page. Each of these books gives us a picture of a past time, thus widening our knowledge of history and helping us to see life in a world of experiences remote from our own. Each depicts emotions of characters under stresses we may never actually experience, thus making truer our sense of the heights and depths of emotion that man may feel. Each gives us the views of a distinguished writer and the philosophies of varied characters under circumstances vastly different from our own, which should enrich our own philosophies. Songs of Years may not be as rich in strictly literary values as these other books. It is less complex, and according to literary standards the greatness of a piece of writing depends upon how much it adds to our experience—emotionally, intellectually. Ethically. Song of Years creates a world of illusion we - can well understand, for we have heard our parents or grandparents relate experiences of their pioneer- 62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT ing days much like those presented in the book. It makes us appreciate the lives of those to whom we owe our beautiful land, comfortable homes, and our educational and industrial institutions—all of which contribute to the happiness and richness of our lives today. We see, through reading such books as this novel, the problems our forefathers met and solved, the hardships they courageously endured. A keener sense of our great heritage from the builders of the West, of the nation as a whole, is aroused through our sharing the experiences Mrs. Aldrich records. Furthermore, we see how dreams are made into realities, and that is a definite value that the reading of good books provides. Great literature holds up before us not only life as it is but life as we would like to have it. In Song of Years, the ideal as well as the real is depicted. We see something of the ideal merging with the real, and it inspires us with courage to keep on giving faith to our own dreams, even in times more difficult, perhaps, than those our forefathers knew. These values will be more fully discussed in the next lesson. For the present let us consider the author. THE AUTHOR Bess Streeter Aldrich is one of the most popular of American novelists. She is perhaps already loved by many of you for the pleasure she gave in such delightful books as Mother Mason, A Lantern in Her Hand, White Bird Flying, and Miss Bishop. (This story, by the way, is soon to be filmed.) In all of these she depicts ideals of true and great wom- 63 anhood; she reveals to us more vividly than we had seen them before, perhaps, some of our own ethical standards, our own visions. Mrs. Aldrich was born in Cedar Falls, one of the towns she paints for us under another name in Song of Years. She is now fifty-one years old, at a period in life when she would enjoy turning back to the home of her youth and re-creating its early history. She received her higher education at the Iowa State Teachers' College, from which institution she was graduated in 1901. Six years later, she married Charles S. Aldrich, a banker of Elmwood, Nebraska, where she makes her home at the present time. Her married happiness lasted but eighteen years. Her widowhood did not leave her entirely bereft, however, for she had three sons, a daughter, and her work to fill her life with interest and usefulness. She had taught school for a number of years before her marriage— one year, of special interest to us, in Salt Lake City. Her teaching experience in her own state ranged from the public schools to the State Teachers' College, her alma mater. She began writing early, using for a number of years, between 1911 and 1918, the pen name Margaret Dean Stevens. She was well established as a writer of novel short stories and was a contributor to the leading women's magazines before her husband's death. Since then she has wutten more prolifically. Besides the novels already mentioned, two others of importance are The Cutters and Spring Comes Forever. Mrs. Aldrich is still active in scholastic circles as well as in literry Organizations and is affiliated with é4 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY, 1941 many groups, such as the 'Theta Sigma Phi, The Nebraska State Press Association, and the Omaha Women's Press. It is not these bare facts, however, that help us to know her, but the warm, vital philosophy she breathes into her stories, a philosophy of faith in humanity too often wanting in modern fiction. (Note: Additional material about the author will be found in the article "Women in Literature," by Elsie C. Carroll, published in the August issue of the Relief Society Magazine, page 521; see also the article "Literature and Living," by Elsie C. Carroll, published in the November issue of the Magazine, page 745.) THE SETTING The setting of a story includes not only the time and the place of the action, but also any enveloping conditions or circumstances which have a special bearing upon the events or the characters. In this story, placed in Iowa during the time intervening between 1865 and the end of the Civil War, there are two conditions which color the story. The first is the pioneer background of the early part of the narrative; the second is the war with its causes and the subsequent results. We are shown the gradual evolvement of two important American cities during a period of crisis in our country's history. 'The picture of these, which is typical of many others, helps us to better understand the growth of the whole nation during that time. So, as with Tree of Liberty, we are given, through the setting, a keener awareness of fundamental elements in our national life. Through the treatment of the pioneer background of the first part of the story, we see the closeness of the characters to the soil, how their love for the land is mingled with their dreams of homes and a future of freedom. And usefulness—essentially the foundation of American democracy. 'The feelings of Wayne Lockwood when he reaches the spot toward which he had traveled many days is typical of the feelings of our own pioneer forefathers when they reached their land of dreams. "The young man drew a quick excited breath. Wood... Creek... Gravel... Sand... Flowing springs... Rich loam.... This was it. For this he had come the long miles.... 'God,' he exclaimed aloud.... Long he stood there gazing at the picture. 'Yes, this is it.' His voice trembled with the emotion of the moment. To have come all this distance to claim that which was his own, not knowing just where it would lie... And now at last to see it before him.... He took off his cap... "Wayne Lockwood,' he grinned, 'do you take this land to be your lawfully wedded own, to have and to hold in sickness and in health?'... Jocularly he made answer in a feminine voice: 'I do.'" The picture of simple pioneer life in the Martin home, with weddings, and other kinds of celebrations, the unique pioneer home activities, the wholesome hospitality to strangers, and the true neighborliness are delightfully painted. Just as vividly is the background of the growing towns woven in—the political strategies growing from jealousies, the growth of pride in community achievements, patriotism when war looms, the gloom cast over the nation when the beloved Lincoln is assassinated. We see the universal in the particular when the author portrays the grief of one of Lincoln's great admirers, serious, LESSON DEPARTMENT deep-souled Henry Martin. After his brother had called to him, "Lincoln's been shot!" Henry left his team standing in the field and hurtied to join the other members of the family at the fence. Then he began to talk. His sister suddenly realized she had never heard him in all her life say more than three or four sentences at a time. But now he spoke without pause: "There was never anybody like him. He was different from all other men, I tell you. Somethin' set him apart. I don't know what. I doubt if anybody knows... Or ever will.... I never saw him in my life, and yet I know him well. Like a close friend. Times when I've been plowin' or plantin' and harvestin' it almost seems he's been walkin' along side o' me...." etc. (p. 452) THE CHARACTERS: The characters are realized in such a novel as Song of Years largely through their relation to the setting. It is the setting that makes the characters what they are. 'To an extent, also, the characters make the setting what it is. 'The leading men mold the two growing towns in Red Cedar Valley. Men like Lincoln mold the nation. But the environment affects the individuals. Wayne Lockwood, the leading man in the story, is a different man from what he would have been had he not followed his dream of a home in a land of greater opportunity across the continent, if he had not struggled to build that home, adjusted to a new set of customs and ideals. Rivals, like Cady Bedson, challenge his courage and resourcefulness from the beginning to the end of the story. Men such as his friendly neighbor, Jeremiah Martin, stimulate his ambitions and his ideals. He is 65 not perfect. He goes on for years blind to the love of a real woman and falls under the deceptive glamour of a false one. He allows personal interests to defer his entering the war when most patriotic men are sacrificing every selfish interest for their country. But he is more good than bad, more strong than weak, and he triumphs over his weaknesses and makes his greatest dreams come true. (A few of the pages revealing his character are: 3 to 38; 62; 156ff; 25off; 336ff; 347ff; 371.) The chief character is Suzanne Martin, whose story the author tells us in the first chapter of the novel. We see all that happens through the personality of Suzanne, who changes during the progress of the novel from an immature, dreaming girl, the favorite of her father and brothers, to a mature woman. She is not understood by her realistic sisters, because she lives part of the time in the world of imagination and make-believe. Misunderstanding and sorrow are experiences which bring about the development of her rich and gentle nature. (Her character is revealed in sections such as those on pp. 29; 58; 284; 290; 322; 355ff; 363; 382; 405; 433; 472ff. ) Suzanne's father, Jeremiah Martin, is genial, talkative, politicalminded, ready to give service wherever and whenever it is needed. He is very independent, declaring that he would "rather raise skunks for a living than work for anyone else." He is laughed at by his children, who, nevertheless, adore him and feel that "the country just couldn't get along without him, nor the valley—maybe the whole state." (Pages revealing some of his characteristics are: 28ff; 115ff; 141; 165; 201; 272; 415; 410; 480. ) Sarah, the mother, is sharptongued, sometimes complaining. She feels that Jeremiah is more interested in doing for others than for his own and that she must use drastic measures to secure comforts for herself and family. She is practical, capable, and, as Pa says, "nobody's fool—smart. As horse-radish, Ma is." She is a lieutenant in her own home; she makes Christmases, weddings, etc., memorable occasions, marshalling her seven daughters with skill. She is a practical nurse, with courage and sheer force of will to defeat death when it comes to claim her loved ones. (Illuminating passages are found on the following pages: 116; 153ff; 268.) The seven Martin sisters are individualized in a remarkable manner. Each one stands out in some interesting way. Emily is the stayat-home, who secretly loves Wayne but is too noble to try to win him when she knows that Suzanne, her baby sister, loves him too. She is so self-sacrificing that she makes over her own best dress as a wedding dress for her sister. Sabina is generous, giving freely to her family after her successful marriage. When she discovers that she will never be a mother, she does not allow her disappointment to narrow her life as some women do. Instead, she sublimates her disappointment in noble war work. Jeanne is high spirited and lovable. She likes all the young men but, ironically, chooses the wrong one for her mate and has anything but a happy married life. And so with the other girls and the two Martin brothers, the novelist shows skill in making each different from the others, each a significant person to know. As one critic of the book says,. "The men are all industrious, optimistic individuals with their eyes fixed on the future and minds filled with the American dream; the women are helpful, self-sacrificing, simple, with infinite capacity for labor, suffering, tenderness and sympathy." In contrast to much of our presentday literature, it is refreshing to meet the characters in this novel and to feel that they are men and women such as we visit with over our back fences, people such as we are ourselves—not perfect, but with a spark of the divine. They are carriers of the American dream. In the next lesson the plot of the story will be summarized and the theme discussed. A summary of some points on the entire course will be given. Study Helps 1. Assign beforehand a very brief report on American history of the period covered by the book. Z. Discuss the setting. Point out similarities between the development of the part of Iowa pictured in the book and the development of our part of the country. The coming of the railroad, the post office, the school bell, the telegraph system, etc., make interesting topics. 3. Which one of Suzanne's sisters do you find most interesting? Why? (Several short responses could be given.) 4. Compare the wholesome, happy life in the Martin family with that of some large Utah families you know, pointing out the distinct advantages members of large families have. 5. Compare the types of characters in this book with the sordid, futile characters in some well-known recent novel and draw conclusions as to the relative values to be gained from knowing both types. 66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY, 1941 Social Service EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE ~ Family Relationships Lesson 6 Home Owning or Home Renting (Tuesday, April 22, 1941) HE problem of shelter is one of those problems with which every person, young or old, married or single, is confronted. Even though the person may not be responsible for providing his own shelter, he is concerned with that which is provided for him. The great majority of people, however, do not consider the problem seriously until they begin to plan for marriage, at which time, to most young people of today, it becomes an almost insurmountable obstacle.: Probably every landlord who has apartments for rent has had the experience of facing the disappointed, discouraged expression on the faces of young couples who, after they have inspected the apartment, learn that the amount of rent asked is far beyond what their budget will allow for shelter, even after every possible economy has been figured in. If already married, the young couple may choose between taking an apartment quite different from the cozy, cheery one they had pictured in their minds or they may devise means whereby they can increase their income. About the only way this can be achieved in the immediate future is for the wife to get a job. Then, with the two incomes, they can manage to secure the standard of housing of which they had dreamed —but what a price they pay. The great majority of young people, even before they are married, cherish the dream of someday owning their own home, and, sooner or later, the moment arrives when they must decide whether they shall build or buy a home for themselves or continue to live in rented quarters. And we may add that all too many couples make their decision on the basis of an insufficient knowledge of the facts upon which such an important decision should be determined. It shall not be the purpose in this discussion to suggest that any particular family, or families in general, should rent or should own their own shelter, but rather to emphasize the fact that each case must be decided according to the specific circumstances surrounding the particular family, and to point out some of the major advantages and disadvantages with which the home owner and the renter are faced, also to present a few basic points that should be considered in selecting shelter, whether owned or rented. In discussing family housing, Howard E. Bigelow lists the following arguments as those most frequently presented in favor of renting: It costs less to rent than to own. For the same expenditure, a family can maintain a higher shelter standard by renting than by owning. The family renting its home pays for shelter as it goes. By investing in sound securities the amount it would spend if it bought a home, it can frequently secure a larger return upon its investment. The renting family is in no danger from loss of capital through decline in property values. If rents decline, the renter can benefit from reductions in shelter costs. The renter's chief obligation is the payment of a periodic sum. The renting family has no responsibility for the management of the property in which it lives. If it rents an apartment, it may have no responsibility for providing heat, utilities, or for assuming any other operating expenses. The renter is free to move at any time when conditions become unsatisfactory, or when better housing is available elsewhere. The renter can, therefore, adjust more easily to changing shelter needs. If his income is radically reduced, he can move to less expensive quarters to bring his shelter expense into line with his income. He is not faced with fixed charges for maintaining his home. If his income increases, he can move to a better neighborhood. The renter can bargain better than can the home owner in selling his services to his employer. He can move to another town if necessary in order to take advantage of promotions. In case he loses his job, he is not tied to the community in which he lives by his investment in his home. The same author says, "The usual arguments in favor of home ownership run somewhat as follows: It costs less to own than to rent. Home ownership reduces shelter costs to a definitely known figure. The family that owns its home is not subject to rent increases. A family can reduce shelter costs by making its own repairs. Home ownership induces _ thrift, especially if the home is purchased on the installment plan. A home is a safe investment for a family. The family may profit from increases in property values. A family that owns its own home finds it easier to establish its credit. Home ownership is a means of establishing financial independence. Home ownership makes the family independent of control by a landlord. There are no restrictions upon children. There are no limits to the size of the family. There are no restrictions upon pets. The family is free to make such alterations and improvements in its home as it pleases. The family can secure healthful exercise from work around the home. A neighborhood of owned homes is usually better kept up than is a neighborhood made up largely of rental property. Home ownership provides security for the family. It assures the members of the family of a home in their old age. It guarantees them a place to live during periods of unemployment. It provides them with a permanent environment.. Home ownership makes it unnecessary for the family to be adjusting continually to new conditions. Home ownership in many cases increases the family's social prestige and strengthens its position in the community. Home owners are considered to be permanently identified with the community. They are expected to assume more civic responsibility. Their voice has more weight in community affairs. It is of interest to note that both lists of arguments begin with the declaration that it costs less. People, generally, are agreed that it costs more to own than to rent. The owner who claims that it costs less usually fails to figure in the interest on his investment, the depreciation and upkeep and possibly some other items of expense, 68 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT In deciding the value of home ownership, it must not be placed on an economic basis alone, because the real values of home ownership fall largely into the non-material category. Long before one hundred and eight years ago when some nostalgic American composed the words of "Home Sweet Home," the great mass of the people of our country had the ambition and a burning desire to own their homes. To live in the home one owns is a sentiment deep in the heart of the American. Our recent president, Herbert Hoover, made the following statement in the foreword of How to Own Your Home: "Maintaining a high percentage of individual home owners is one of the searching tests that now challenge the people of the United States. The present large proportion of families that own_ their homes is both the foundation of a sound economic and social system and a guarantee that our society will continue to develop rationally as changing conditions demand. "A family that owns its home takes pride in it, maintains it better, gets more pleasure out of it, and has a more wholesome, healthful, and happy atmosphere in which to bring up children. 'The home owner has a constructive aim in life. He works harder outside his home; he spends his leisure more profitably; he and his family live a finer life and enjoy more of the comforts and cultivating influences of our modern civilization. A husband and wife who own their home are more apt to save. They have an interest in the advancement of a social system that permits the individual to store up the fruits of his labor. As direct 69 taxpayers, they take a more active part in local government. Above all, the love of home is one of the finest instincts and the greatest of inspirations of our people." Home ownership has virtually been accepted as a doctrine of our Church. The Latter-day Saint people have always been admonished by their leaders to strive to own their own homes and to keep them free from mortgages. The person paying for a home on the installment plan, the method most people must use, or the person who has a mortgage on his home, does not own his home—he has only an equity in it to the amount of that portion of the valuation which is free from debt. As has previously been stated, every couple must decide for themselves whether or not it would be advisable for them to buy a home. The primary consideration is well stated by Stuart Chase, who says, "A lot of us feel better if we own, and that feeling demands respectful consideration. Let us try, however, to detach the desire from mere possession and transfer it to the sense of living. Will this projected house reduce our worries, reduce our risks, reduce our headaches, and make a peaceful, homelike atmosphere really possible?. If the chances look good, buy. If they do not look good, rent. What one seeks, after all, is not a parchment, but peace." It is unwise for any family to decide offhand to change from the status of a renter to an owner, or to decide such questions as to where to buy or what kind of a house to buy. These are questions worthy of painstaking investigation and careful thought based on the advice and in- formation of trained people in various fields. The many points for decision should constitute the subject for discussion during numerous sessions of the family council. Some of the most important questions upon which expert advice should be secured are: Tenure of the breadwinner in his job, so far as can be known. The best possible method of financing such a venture. For most home owners, the purchase of a home represents the largest single outlay he will make during his lifetime. All aspects of the location—physical and social. The type of house to build. If finances are not sufficient to build an adequately large house now, provision should be made for adding additional rooms. The size of house desirable while the children are growing may be entirely too large after the children are married. The amount of money that the particular family should invest ina house. The total costs of ownership are usually calculated at approximately 10% to 12.5% of the investment. On this basis a family should not invest in a home more than from two to two and one-half times their annual income. Hence, on an annual income of $2500 the home should not cost more than from $5000 to $6250. Selection of architect, if one is to be used, and also a reliable contractor. In contemplating all matters, a long-time point of view should be maintained, since a well-built house serves on an average of fifty years. The effect of the purchase of a home on the future life of the family. It should be remembered that the advantages and disadvantages of home owning as well as the advantages and disadvantages of renting may, to a great extent, be modified either positively or negatively by the homemaking attitudes of the family. The purchase of a home may. Bring unhappiness and resentment into the family or it may bring peace and contentment. Always the aim. Should be to make of home a place of refuge for the family. Questions and Problems 1. Make a list of the physical factors to be considered in the selection of a home. 2. Make a list of the social factors to be considered in the selection of a home. 3. Give examples to prove each one of the advantages suggested by ex-President Hoover in regard to owning one's home. 4. Compare the effects of renting and owning a home as they relate to the rearing of children. 5- Make a list of the different types of specialists who should be consulted in preparation for building or buying a home. References Family Finance, Howard E. Biglow, Chapter 10. "Home Ownership, Income and Types of Dwellings," Report of the President's Conference on Home Building and Home Ownership, Appendix 1, 2, 3 "To Own or To Rent," House Beautiful, August, 1937. "Our Five Year Plan," American Home, September, 1938. "The Case Against Home Ownership," Readers Digest, June, 1938. TRIAD 70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY, 1941 Mission LATTER-DAY SAINT CHURCH HISTORY (To be used by missions in lieu of Literature, if so desired) Lesson XVI The New Home in the Mountains (Tuesday, April 15, 1941) S you may remember, the pioneer company entered the Salt Lake Valley in July, 1847. All told, they numbered one hundred and sixty-eight persons, for Amasa Lyman had brought three men with him from Pueblo on the Monday following the entrance of the pioneers. After the departure of about half of the pioneer men to return for their families, there still remained in the Valley about two hundred men and women. 'This is to be accounted for by the fact that meantime more than a hundred Battalion men had arrived from Pueblo. On June 19 of this year, there had left the Missouri River a company of about eighteen hundred men, women, and children. They had between six and seven hundred covered wagons. 'This group was under the direction of the Apostles Parley P. Pratt and John Taylor. On the South Pass Plain, they met the returning pioneers under the leadership of Brigham Young and _ the other seven Apostles. They entered the Salt Lake Valley some time in October. In the meantime some Mormon Battalion men, who had been discharged on the Coast, arrived in the Valley. During the winter of 1847-48, there were in the new mountain home between two thousand and twenty-one hundred persons. One can easily imagine how critical was their situation that winter. Here they were, eleven hundred miles from their people on the Missouri, seven hundred miles from what is now Los Angeles, and eight hundred miles from what is now San Francisco. In this vast region, silent as a great forest, were only wild animals, wilder Indians, and a few fur traders and trappers. As the people did not know much about the natives, except what they had heard and read about them, they were more or less fearful. To make matters worse, however, they did not have quite enough food to last them till the harvest the next fall. 'They would, therefore, have to be careful on more than one account. Fortunately, that first winter in the Valley was what is called an open winter. 'That is, there was almost no snow and very little frost. The men were able to plow during the months of December and January, and were ready for seed planting long before spring came. 'They had measured off the Big Field, a five-acre patch of ground, and fenced it. 'This was cultivated in common —plowed, harrowed, planted, and watered. Already, of course, a fort had been built to protect the people from Indians, and within this enclosure were log houses, with earth floors and earth roofs. Here all the settlers lived till they could erect better houses on land outside the fort. In this fort, too, they danced, they sang songs and hymns, they held religious services, and here babies were born. ONE of the first things these people did was to establish a school and a government. The government, of course, was religious. 'The district was made into a stake. John Smith, Charles C. Rich, and John Young were the presidency. 'They had been appointed by the Apostles at the time when the two companies met at South Pass. As you may remember, there were ten Apostles there—eight going back to the Missouri and two coming on to the Valley. Gradually, this government became partly political, so as-to give more power to the officers. Some of the rules, made by a committee and sustained by the people, are interesting. Every able-bodied man was compelled to work to sustain his family, so that they would not be a burden on the community. If he would not work, he was declared a "vagrant," and what property he had was administered in the interest of his family. Certain crimes were forbidden, on pain of the lash—"not exceeding thirty-nine lashes on the bare back." These rules, it seems, were not broken by anyone, but the punishment stood ready as a threat to the wrong-doer. Of course, there were judges, before whom any offenders were to be tried. As for the school, that was held in a tent till a better place could be built. The pupils sat around on logs, they used burnt sticks for pencils, and they read from the Bible and the Book of Mormon. The Saints felt that it was necessary for everyone to be able to read. EFORE the crops could be matured, the little colony ran out of food. They had to live partly on roots, berries, milk, and whatever else they could find. During the - winter, some of the men had gone to the Coast to see whether they might buy some cattle. They bought some, to be sure, on credit, but on the way home some of the animals were lost, others died, and still others were stolen by Indians. In spite of all the settlers could purchase, their food supplies gradually gave out. In the spring most of the families moved out of the fort. It had never been comfortable. It furnished but cramped quarters at best. A whole family had to live in one room, and when it rained the roof leaked. It was not a pleasant experience to have thin mud trickling down on everything. And so, as soon as they could safely do so, they went out on the land, where they could have more room and fewer discomforts. When the corn, peas, beans, and cucumbers pushed their green stalks through the ground, a frost came and turned them all black. When the wheat was nearly ripe, crickets swarmed down from the canyons and began to devour the grain. The story of how the crops were saved is one of the most inspiring stories that the West has produced. HE cricket is described in the records of the period as a heavy, clumsy, hopping insect, about the size of a large man's thumb. It has a ravenous appetite. It would crawl 72 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT up a luscious stem of wheat, nip off the head neatly, then follow it to the ground as it fell, and feed until it was satisfied. If there had been only a few of these crickets, food could be spared for them. But there were more than a few. There were myriads of them—enough to eat the entire crop. Every green thing went down before them. When the crickets first appeared, the settlers all turned out to destroy them. They ran toward the field with brooms, mops, sticks, strips of cloth, even bells. But where one was killed, a hundred, it seemed, came to the funeral. Then the men dug trenches, filled them with water, and swept as many of the pests as possible into the trenches to drown; but the crickets hopped out again. The settlers tried fire, but the fire burned the grain as well as the crickets. Then the people, very much disheartened and frightened, went to their homes to see if prayer would not be effective in ridding them of the pests. They had done their best, and now, if they were saved at all, their salvation would have to come from the Lord. They had no sooner msen from their knees than the sky was overcast with what appeared to be a huge cloud. It was a great host of whitewinged birds, known to them as sea gulls. In consternation, the settlers said to themselves and to one another, ""These, too, have come to destroy; they will eat what the crickets have left." But the gulls had not come for that purpose, as the settlers were to see. They gorged, not on the wheat, but on the crickets. | When the birds' crops were filled, they went to 73 the salt sea and disgorged. Then they returned to the fields to repeat the process. They did this till all the crickets were gone and the lake was black with their small dead bodies. That is how the Mormon settlers were saved. The Saints have always remembered this event with gratitude to God for answering their prayers and saving them. Now there stands on Temple Square, in Salt Lake City, Utah, a monument to the sea gull— the only one ever erected to birds. MEANTIME, another great train of covered wagons jerked its slow way across the prairie and through the mountain passes on the road to the Salt Lake Valley. This was headed by the Apostles. The train arrived in the Valley in September, 1848, the second company of immigrants. The population of the Salt Lake Valley rose now to between four and five thousand. Questions 1. About how many people were there in the Valley during that first winter? 2. Tell how they lived. How many Apostles were with them? 3. What were some of the dangers at that time? What did the settlers know about the Indians? 4. Why should they have run out of food? 5. What first disaster did they suffer? 6. Tell about the crickets. 7. Why was it so terrible for the crops to be destroyed because of the crickets? 8. How were the crops saved?  9. Have you ever seen the Sea-Gull Monument in Salt Lake City? What does it mean to us? (There is a law in Utah prohibiting the killing of the gull.) Song to be Sung or Read It is suggested that "High on the Mountain Top" be sung or read. The words of this song are by Joel H. Johnson, one of the most prolific of writers. He was an American, converted in Ohio in 1831. He came to Utah and was a bishop for many years. 'The general idea back of this poem is that in Utah a banner will be unfurled under which all the nations might live. The stanzas treat the following: the banner; the promises of God; the house of the Lord; the teaching to be received there; hail to Deseret; truth is found in Deseret.; te 'Genuine American Oriental—Greatly Reduced (Continued from page 38) "No, you don't. I'll get supper. You lie down and rest. I'll put the spuds on, then go out and chore, and fix the rest when I come back in. Don't you worry. Your old man's a good cook." "Oh, Harry, you're so good. I'll never do another thing without asking you," said Helen tremulously, as she went toward the bedroom. If Harry believed her, he didn't say so. Instead, he covered her gently with a shawl, for the evening air had grown chilly. As Helen lay there, her hands pressing her handkerchief over her aching eyes, she murmured wearily, "Oh, well, any day can end!" Out in the kitchen, Harry was attempting to rebuild the fire. He swore softly, for the grate was filled with damp orange rinds. "Seems like women just can't learn," he muttered to himself. Popularity (Continued from page 32) of popularity. A sort of excitement madness characterizes the usually sociallyimportant group, for they do not think. Everyone wants to be popular. But there are many kinds and grades of popularity available on the present social market. Some take less down payment, but are ruinously expensive in the end. Others require a heavy investment of the best there is in you, but pay larger and choicer dividends as friendships grow. It's all in the Business of Living. How successful your business is depends far more upon your self-management, your social skills, and a sense of community with your fellows than upon your luck, or looks, or lucre. "Non-raters, let's stop mooning and moaning, envying and nursing secret sorrows, trying to be dauntless lone wolves yet paying too heavily for it. "Raters, let's stop blind tushing and gushing, cliquing and 'cutting,' being dogs in a social manger that deal out pitifully cheap rations. In this popularity business, there's a life-sized social experiment to set up and carry through." Quotations used by permission of Willet, Clark and Company, Chicago, Illinois. 74 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY, 1941 Give Me Melodies e| Ivy H. Woolley GIVE me a melody From out the languid skies; Give me a melody That sings through sparkling eyes, A melody that stirs From cool, damp lips of spring. Give me a melody And let me learn to sing. Give me the melody That rippling water knows, The secret melody That clings to fainting snows; Give me a melody, A song as undefiled As waxen tint that glows Upon a sleeping child. Give me the melody That floats from soaring wings; A quiet melody The hidden zephyr sings; Give me the melody A rose tree breathes at morn When from her leafy breast, The scented buds are born. Give me the song of love A mother softly sings, As through her tasks she works At common homey things. Give me the song of hope As sung by pioneers, While courage filled their hearts Assuaging want and fears. Oh, give me melodies, A song for everything; My praise to God on high Forever let me sing. Happy New Year! IT'S an old, old greeting, and it's often used too causally. A New Year gives proper cause for reflection; reflection, not alone upon the failures and successes of the past, but also upon the strength or the weakness of the armour with which each of us girds himself for the battle of the New Year. It is as true as it is trite to say that the peoples of the world look forward to the New Year with hope, commingled with fear and foreboding. It is equally true, and perhaps equally trite, to observe that nothing that happened during 1940 disproved what mankind has learned to look upon as truth, namely, that justice and fair-dealing are the best weapons with which to meet whatever challenge the future holds. And so, with full assurance that our wish has every likelihood of fulfillment, we say will, THE DESERET.. NEWs PRESS PIONEER PRINTERS AND: BINDERS OF THE WEST —99 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah The Cover LIBERTY ENLIGHTENING THE WORLD or THE STATUE OF LIBERTY as itis known today was given by the people of France to the United States to commemorate the hundredth anniversary of American independence. The funds for the statue were raised by popular subscription in France. The Statue was executed by Frederic A. Bartholdi, and is the largest one in the world. The work was intended to symbolize the historic friendship between the two republics and to typify the idea of freedom and brotherhood which underlies a republican form of government. Only a few people are aware of the poetic inscription inside the pedestal of the Statue of Liberty written by Emma Lazarus: "Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, The wretched refuse of your teeming shore Send these, the homeless, the tempest-tost, To me. I lift my lamp beside the golden door." The statue stands on Bedloe Island, also known as Liberty Island, in New York Harbor.
Index. To Advertisors Deseret Book Company....: Outside Back Cover Larkin Mortuary..:... Outside Back Cover L. D. S. Business College..... Inside Back Cover Relief Society General Board...,; Inside Back Cover The Fisher Master Bakers:.... Inside Back Cover Utah Power & Light Co... P.. Inside Back Cover
The Relief Society Magazine Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. 28 FEBRUARY, 1941 No. 2
Contents
Special Features Tribute to Abraham Lincoln...........................Robert G. Ingersoll 77 Frontispiece—Abraham Lincoln.................................................. 78 Woman's Centennial Congress.................................Julia A. F. Lund 79 Some Aspects of Child Welfare...........................Leona B. Fetzer 87 The Old Order Changeth.................................Ivy Williams Stone 91 Visiting Teacher's Individual Preparation (October, 1940, Conference Address)...................................Ethel B. Andrew 107
Fiction Formerly Hester..........................................Olive C. Wehr 098 Things More Important...........................Mrs. A. H. Gibbons 109 Pictures Through Life's Window—A Girl of Yesterday..................G. H. Williams 145
General Features Some Literary Friends ("The Inferiority Feeling'')................Florence Ivins Hyde 102 Happenings........................................Annie Wells Cannon 117 Editorial: Appreciation.................................................... 118 Washington and Lincoln...................................................... 119 Washington's Prayer......................................................... 119 ................................................................ 120 Radio Program Recommended.................................................. 120 Hymns to be Sung.......................................................... 120 Second Edition of Relief Society Song Book................................. 120 Notes From the Field...................................Vera W. Pohlman 121 Excerpts from the Sermons and Writings of President Heber J. Grant (Selected by Marianne C. Sharp)................................... 125
Lessons Theology and Testimony—Obedience—President Heber J. Grant.............. 126 Visiting Teacher—Home Training for a Mission............................ 129 Work and Business—Refreshing Refreshments.............................. 130 Literature—Song of Years and Summary of Entire Course.................. 132 Social Service—Do Our Neighbors Like Us?............................... 137 Mission—The Building of a Commonwealth................................. 141
Poetry Abraham Lincoln...................From the London Punch, May 6, 1865 76 Remembering Lincoln.................................Vesta P. Crawford 86 ...............................................Edith E. Anderson 106 ...............................................Pearl H. Redford 108 ...................................................Mabel Jones 116 ...........................................Lucille Waters Mattson 146
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
Abraham Lincoln Foully assassinated April 14, 1865 (From the London Punch, May 6, 1865)
You lay a wreath on murdered LINCOLN'S bier; You, who with mocking pencil wont to trace, Broad for the self-complacent British sneer, His length of shambling limb, his furrowed face, His gaunt, gnarled hands, his unkempt, bristling hair, His garb uncouth, his bearing ill at ease, His lack of all we prize as debonair, Of power or will to shine, of art to please: You, whose smart pen backed up the pencil's laugh, Judging each step as though the way were plain: Reckless, so it could point its paragraph, Of chief's perplexity, or people's pain.
Beside this corpse, that bears for winding-sheet The Stars and Stripes he lived to rear anew, Between the mourners at his head and feet, Say, scurril-jester, is there room for you?
Yes, he had lived to shame me from my sneer, To lame my pencil, and confute my pen; To make me own this hind of princes peer, This rail-splitter a true-born king of men. My shallow judgment I had learnt to rue Noting how to occasion's height he rose, How his quaint wit made home-truth seem more true, How, iron-like, his temper grew by blows. How humble yet how hopeful he could be; How in good fortune and in ill the same; Nor bitter in success, nor boastful he; Thirsty for gold nor feverish for fame. He went about his work—such work as few Ever had laid on head and heart and hand— As one who knows, where there's a task to do, Man's honest will must Heaven's good grace command; Who trusts the strength will with the burden grow, That God makes instruments to work His will, If but that will we can arrive to know, Nor tamper with the weights of good and ill. So he went forth to battle on the side That he felt clear was liberty's and right's, As in his peasant boyhood he had plied His warfare with rude nature's thwarting mights. The uncleared forest, the unbroken soil, The iron bark, that turns the lumberer's axe, The rapid, that o'bears the boatman's toil, The prairie, hiding the mazed wanderer's tracks, The ambushed Indian, and the prowling bear. Such were the needs that helped his youth to train; Rough culture, but such trees large fruit may bear, If but their stocks be of right girth and grain. So he grew up, a destined work to do, And lived to do it; four long-suffering years' Ill-fate, ill-feeling, ill-report, lived through, And then he heard the hisses change to cheers, The taunts to tribute, the abuse to praise, And took both with the same unwavering mood; Till, as he came on light, from darkling days, And seemed to touch the goal from where he stood. Sribute Jo Abraham Lincoln The great infidel, Robert G. Ingersoll, paid the following tribute to Abraham Lincoln: Wl E know now that he not only stood at the top, but that he occupied the center, from first to last, and that he did this by reason of his intelligence, his humor, his philosophy, his courage and his patriotism. "In passion's storm he stood, unmoved, patient, just and candid. In his brain there was no cloud, and in his heart no hate. He longed to save the South as well as North, to see the Nation one and free. "He lived until the end was known. He lived until the Confederacy was dead—until Lee surrendered, until Davis fled, until the doors of Libby Prison were opened, until the Republic was supreme. "He lived until Lincoln and Liberty were united forever. "He lived to cross the desert—to reach the palms of victory—to hear the murmured music of the welcome waves. "He lived until all loyal hearts were his—until the history of his deeds made music in the souls of men—until he knew that on Columbia's Calendar of worth and fame his name stood first. He lived until there remained nothing for him to do as great as he had done. "What he did was worth living for, worth dying for. 'He lived until he stood in the midst of universal Joy, beneath the outstretched wings of Peace—the foremost man in all the world. 'And then the horror came. Night fell on noon. The Savior of the Republic, the breaker of chains, the liberator of millions, he who had 'assured freedom to the free,' was dead. "Upon his brow Fame placed the immortal wreath, and for the first time in the history of the world a Nation bowed and wept. "The memory of Lincoln is the strongest, tenderest tie that binds all hearts together now, and holds all States beneath a Nation's flag." From Complete Works of Abraham Lincoln, edited by John G. Nicolay and John Hay, which in turn was taken from the Dresden Edition of The Complete Works of Robert Ingersoll. ABRAHAM LINCOLN From a portrait taken from life by Charles A. Barry in Springfield, Illinois, June, 1860 | The Relief Society Magazine Vol. 28 FEBRUARY, 1941 No. 2 Woman's Centennial Congress Julia A. F. Lund FITTING climax to the A "woman's movement" of the last century was the Woman's Centennial Congress, held at the Hotel Commodore, New York City, November 25, 26, 27. This historic event was twofold in its purpose: first, to review the work of women and to do honor to the great women of the past; second, to provide an opportunity for women to "take stock of themselves"; to face the challenge to women of the world of today; to reexamine the role of women, their goals and the means which they wish to use to achieve these goals. In every great crisis of history they have been a force in the thought and action growing out of the crisis. Never before has the responsibility been so great and the problems so momentous as at the present time. Long and careful preparation was given to the Congress. The advice of experts in the various fields was sought, and women from all parts of the world were invited to relate their experiences. Representatives of all professions, walks and phases of life were listed among the sponsors. In addition to the women of distinguished service and the foreign guests, each state in the Union was Women realize that' allowed five delegates, chosen by a _ special delegate committee. In order to have a satisfactory working number, the delegate body was limited to three hundred. All the great organizations of women actively cooperated with the Congress. It was very fitting that the women of the Church be represented by the heads of two of their organizations—President Amy Brown Lyman for the Relief Society, who was also a delegate from the National Council of Women of the United States, and President Lucy Grant Cannon for the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. Other delegates from Utah were Mrs. Burton W. Musser, Mrs. Arthur E. Graham, Mrs. E. M. Bagley, Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, and Mrs. E. O. Leatherwood. There were many sub-committees responsible for working out the details. The two main committees were the Woman's National Committee with Carrie Chapman Catt as chairman, and the Men's Com-. Mittee headed by Nicholas Murray Butler. The following statement was made by Doctor Butler: "Surely the meetings of this Woman's Centennial Congress will be followed with great interest throughout the country. It is to remind us that it is one hundred years since a definitely organized movement began to give women not only an interest but participation in the guidance of public opinion and in the formation of public policy. The story of what has happened during those years is well known. The achievements of women in public service of every sort and kind have been in the highest degree remarkable, and this Congress will be hailed as marking the first long stage in the history of woman's new relationship to public policy and public life." The registration on Monday afternoon was important, as the delegates were presented with the material necessary for study in order to be informed for participation in the discussions of the Commissions —the study groups of the Congress. THE banquet, held in the grand ball room of the Hotel Commodore, was the formal opening of the Congress. A welcome to the foreign guests was extended by Mrs. J. Borden Harriman, former minister to Norway. From her recent experi- ° ences in war-torn Europe, Mrs. Harriman was able to eloquently express the sentiments of American women to these women from the ends of the world. Five guest speakers responded to the subject, "I Speak to American Women." Mrs. Sung IChung, Professor of English at the University of Peking, spoke for China. Young, brilliant, well educated, she gave a very graphic account of the horrors of war. Beginning with the seizure of Manchuria, she traced the progress of Japan through China. She stated that the only training allowed the Chinese is for political bondage. The place of Chinese women in the conquered sections is the lowest possible. In addition to seizing control of all © economic resources, the conquerors are seeking to destroy the Chinese people. The farmers are forced to raise opium, and this, with other narcotics, is cheap and made easily available. It is poisoning the common people, who in their misery resort to using it. The Japanese are forbidden under heavy penalty to use it. But China is now unified as never before and is, like England, fighting for the freedom of the world. The Chinese women in the unconquered sections are doing a magnificent work under the leadership of their great women and ate active in every phase of national life today. Madame Genevieve Tabouis represented France. She was an older woman and spoke with a tragic note. Never before had her beloved country been so humiliated! She traced some of the underlying causes that led to its collapse. Perhaps French women had not always been keenly alive to their responsibilities, but they had led in the demonstrations against the invaders. She declared that the soul of France will not die, and out of the sorrows of the present will come a determination to help build a society which will not tolerate war and which will provide a better and fuller life for all. The women of France look to the women of America to keep the light burning—that will lead the way. Mrs. George V. Ferguson spoke for Canada and the British Commonwealth of Nations. She was a very charming young woman who expressed deep appreciation for what the United States has done for her country. Women as well as men 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941 WOMAN'S CENTENNIAL CONGRESS are participating in "total war," for they are interested in everything concerned. She paid an inspiring tribute to the women of England and said Canada had freely chosen to work under their banner. She told of the war work of the Canadian women and their care of the refugee children. Drives for funds have always reached the quota, no matter what the privations of the people have been. A marvelous spirit of comradeship has developed. She concluded: "The ordeal by fire will not consume us! Canada is not interested in territorial claims or national boundaries but believes, as you did in a great war, that the world cannot endure half slave and half free.' Freedom is the stake for which she is fighting. That is why she can march by the side of England in war and work with the United States for peace—their ideals are one and the same." Senora Ana Roas de Martinez Guerrero, of Argentina, was a member of the Inter-American Commission of Pan-American Women. Beautifully gowned, young and attractive, she spoke for all the women of Latin America, and made an eloquent plea for sympathy and understanding between nations. Women must do their part in overcoming nationalistic jealousies and in creating an informed public opinion and a solidarity of interest in all the Americas. The standard of living must be raised, and, by consuming the surpluses, malnutrition must be eliminated. Economic stability must first be achieved, for the salvation of democracy is, to a large extent, dependent upon the well-being of all the people. Perhaps the most dramatic and 8] tragic of all the foreign guests was Senora Isabel de Palencia, now a refugee in Mexico, but a true Spanish Loyalist. She traced the history of her unhappy country from the overthrow of the monarchy to the present. She said that the women of Spain were asleep, but at last they awoke, and the first act of the Republic was to grant rights to women. The strategic position of Spain attracted the politicians of Europe, -and the Civil War was incited, followed by the alliance with Italy. The world did not understand Franco! The war in Spain was, in reality, not a Civil War but an invasion sponsored by other nations of Europe. The country was dominated by the troops of other nations. Today the suffering of the people is worse than it was during the war. Women are enduring great hardships; for example, in one prison camp alone one hundred and eighty-nine babies were born and christened in one month. Senora de Palencia said: "I am a woman with no land, no people, no resources—yet I am full of hope! I can still be a democrat, and that is too great an honor not to make some sacrifice to hold. Let us be unafraid and give ourselves to the new order of life!"
"I Speak For American Women" was the theme of Carrie Chapman Catt's response. It was appropriate that this veteran of more than eighty years should speak for the women of this nation. She referred to the status of so many of the women in the world today, with all rights and opportunities gone. To her, it seemed the whole meaning was "back for women." But she declared, "Well, I am not going back! We have rights still, so let us use them to reestablish the rights of men!"
THERE were two general sessions where all the delegates met together. Round-table discussions were held, and subject matter of equal interest to the five Commissions was dealt with by experts. Questions were permitted from the floor. Realities which women must face about themselves and about the world as it is now and as it might be were considered. These meetings resolved themselves into "a conversation among experts." At the first of these sessions, Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt acted as chairman; at the second, Judge Florence E. Allen presided.
"The Woman's Century—Looking Backward" was the subject of the entertainment presented on Tuesday evening, November 26. It was the most commemorative event of the Congress, recalling that one hundred years ago a small group of brave women started an organized movement against the subordinate and unequal position imposed upon them by law and custom. This was expressed in the form of "Eighteen Grievances and What Became of Them." Foremost among these grievances was the denial of women's right to the franchise, but they covered the whole field of her inferior status—economic, political, social, domestic and even religious.
A group of students from Vassar College presented the "Grievances of 1840." This was followed by a statement of "Grievances of 1940." A very impressive feature was the introduction of the "Descendants of the Pioneers" and the "Roll Call of Careers—1840 and 1940." The spirit of the pageant was that "rights have been won, but responsibilities commensurate with freedom must now be undertaken." "May our character uphold our intellect."
Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday morning, November 26 and 27, were devoted to the meetings of delegates for discussion under the guidance of the five Commissions of the Congress. The delegates were urged to give careful attention to the selection of the group they desired to join, to study the material given at the time of registration, to follow the same group through and participate actively in the discussions. The chairmen were experts in the selected fields—which covered the most vital problems of today.
Economic and Social Welfare
This group took as the general subject for consideration the economic challenge to American women, who have a very important job to perform in every field. They must preserve and strengthen the American way of life. Democracy has given them much; now they must give much in return, for privileges entail responsibilities. Women's organizations are educating them to participate effectively in solving the problems of our country. Social and governmental institutions have not kept abreast of the scientific and industrial developments, and grave problems have been created. In the economic, as in any other field, the first thing for women to do is to arm themselves with facts—learn what the problems are. Homemaking is still women's greatest job, but it must be considered in the light of present conditions. Machines
82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941 WOMAN'S CENTENNIAL CONGRESS
have changed the homemaker's whole life. Women's Share of Wealth and Income, Women as Consumers and Purchasers, Women in Industry, Women in Education, the Professions and Social Welfare, Employment of Married Women, The Farm Women, Jobs and Wages, and The Use of the Legislative Tool are only a few of the subjects considered by this group. As Florence Hemly Schneider said: "Women must merge their fight for the American way of life, which defends them, with the fight to make this life better.... To do this double job, women must be socially productive within and without the home.... Women can truly progress only when human and material resources are utilized as fully as possible. These resources can be developed to the full only through the cooperative efforts of all individuals and groups.... The women of today will take up this challenge even as did the women of a century ago. With equal courage of body and mind, they will face forward to the frontiers of the future."
The Education of Women
This group considered some of the most interesting material of the Congress. Looking at the list of subjects considered at the conference, it is evident that the education of women had an important place in all of the discussions. If it be true that woman's history is humanity's history, certainly woman's education is humanity's education. It must today have a meaning, a purpose, and be a vitalizing force in our democratic way of life. Each woman cannot make the same contribution to the democratic way of
83
life, but she can make an important one, for democracy is maintained through the unique services rendered by all sorts of people under all sorts of conditions. Among the important objectives of education for women were listed personal development, including proper health habits, preparation for marriage and a home, preparation for earning a living, and preparation for citizenship. Not only technical skills and knowledge are needed, but also experience in the fundamentals of getting along with people. Much stress was laid on guidance in living, for guidance in living is even more important than guidance in working. Widespread education is the best weapon in the upward struggle of society, and this should include education in the constructive use of leisure time and in the development of the arts. The level of society is raised by raising the cultural level of all its members. Social service holds a vital place in any program of education in a democracy, for, in its broadest sense, the proper functioning of democratic government is social service. In order to carry the new responsibilities, women need a broad understanding of social trends and problems. Some of the finest material submitted was from The Farm Women and The Women of Industry, who were very articulate in all sessions. Nora Piore, of the New York Women's Trade Union League, made the statement: "The faith that the educated citizen is the best safeguard of the democratic process, remains the basic assumption of workers education.... We long ago learned the truth of the saying: 'Man cannot live by bread alone'... so besides aiding our members to gain a greater measure of the material comforts of life, we do all we can to make their lives fuller, gayer, and more cultured.... It is the primary function of worker's education to articulate the dreams and the hopes and the aspirations of American wage earners, and to guide the energy created by discontent, the evils of exploitation of industrial life into creative channels in such a way that they may contribute to the building of a safer, more secure and a more beautiful world." The objective of all the fine material submitted in this group might be summed up in the immortal words: "Know the truth and the truth shall make you free." After all, this is the keynote of education in a democracy.
Ethical and Religious Values
This group had for special study, "Women Take Stock of Themselves." Some very interesting material upon the status of women in some of the great churches of the world was presented. The chairman of this Commission began her report with the statement that: "Religion must be definitely related to all educational values." Patriotism is not enough; ethics is not enough; "God's Kingdom is Wider."... "Our day calls for new insight and new courage." What the world needs above all else is religion. In the words of Gertrude C. Bussey: "In this day of spiritual darkness, it is peculiarly the obligation of women to set before our minds afresh the vision of a new world centered in the constructive task of giving to all the experiences and opportunities for growth which we desire for our own families. Yet mere vision is not enough. No dream, however beautiful, can meet the needs of the present hour. What is demanded is well-grounded faith combined with realistic planning for concrete action."
Government and Politics
"Judge nothing in America by the point at which it has arrived. Judge all things by the direction in which they are moving." This statement opened the subject, "Some Highlights on Women in Government and Politics." The Commission had collected many facts on the participation of women in this field—and included in this collection was a list of the legal discriminations. Women, as a rule, are classed as a minority group in public service, and they must learn when to do what. Mrs. Roosevelt urged women not only to think of themselves as members of a Group and to act as such but to think of themselves as a part of the citizenry of the United States with a tremendous responsibility. It was agreed that women are well organized and have done much study work, but their education has been about politics and government, and this can never take the place of education in these fields. They must come out of the study room into the arena of action. The facts, compiled from the most dependable sources available, were rather startling and showed the very limited number of women who have actually served in national, state and local positions. On the basis of the findings, the following statement of principles was presented: "We regard it as essential in a democracy that all citizens participate in government and political life. Women have as great an obligation as men to do so actively. They have not
84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941 WOMAN'S CENTENNIAL CONGRESS
done so to the extent that their qualifications warrant. Those who are qualified should take their place:
"1. In all branches of government—executive, judicial and legislative, including membership in Congress, state legislatures, city councils and commissions, county and town boards and other local official bodies.
"2. In political organizations—partisan and nonpartisan. In all activities of professional, labor or business educational, philanthropic and religious groups influencing government action.
"Those women who are not yet qualified should prepare themselves immediately to be so. All women, at whatever stage of service, should continuously study the principles and development of our democracy and appraise all current proposals and measures in relation to them."
World Peace Through World Organization
In view of the present happenings in the world, it is evident that "sooner or later, if mankind is to survive, some form of world order will of necessity be established." A very full report of this Commission was submitted, but the outstanding questions were: "What shall be our guiding principles in the chaos which has come upon us?" and, "What is the challenge to women?" Plans were suggested for future study and thought. The real message given to this group was expressed in the conclusion: "Let us preserve faith in the ideals of liberty, peace and cooperation throughout this period of distress and disillusionment. Assume a personal responsibility as women for preserving and bettering the human race which we have
85
borne and nurtured. Let us pledge ourselves to the eradication of war, and dedicate our hearts and minds to the building of a human society in which peaceful progress may become an enduring reality. Let us make this the task to which we give our constant effort and unswerving devotion."
At 2:00 p. M. On Wednesday, November 27, the last general session of the Congress convened. The reports of committees and the findings of the Commissions were presented to all the delegates. Many questions were asked and much discussion followed the reports of the chairmen. After the reports and recommendations were accepted, the Congress was ready for its final action. As the women of a century ago had announced to the world their convictions through a "Declaration of Sentiments," so their followers today issued "A Declaration of Purpose," this to be signed and sent to the Library of Congress as a closing chapter in this century of the "women's movement." Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt brought the Congress to a close. She referred to Lucretia Mott, who had hesitated to sign the "Declaration of Sentiments," as she feared it was too radical. Mrs. Catt said: "I hesitate to sign the 'Declaration of Purpose,' as I fear it is too conservative! Women of America, you cannot carry guns, but you can create public opinion—and public opinion can beat any army in the world." The following excerpt from the "Purpose" expresses its spirit: "The supreme task which now confronts all men and women who are still free is to establish throughout the world those social, economic and political conditions in which peace, freedom and social justice will have a chance to live.... We advocate no fixed pattern of progress to be followed, but shall advance step by step using in each decade the means appropriate to our objective. We shall strive to develop the educational methods and situations which will forward the fulfillment of our purpose.... We shall work side by side with men, for it will be from the common endeavor of all men and women of good will that the goal will be reached."
REMEMBERING LINCOLN Vesta P. Crawford
There is no marble edifice can reach The measure of this man who stood apart, No carven words of praise can ever teach The grandeur and the kindness of his heart; No troubled years are long enough to dim A deeper tracery than words in stone. There is no monument too high for him To whom the humble paths of earth were known.
For Lincoln was a simple man and plain Who loved his neighbors and the prairie space And walked at evening in the weedy lane With transient wind and shadows on his face; Perhaps the quiet peace within his eyes Was mirrored from the dusk of country skies.
86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—
FEBRUARY, 1941 Some Aspects of Child Welfare Leona B. Fetzer EFORE the Mayflower sailed the Atlantic, children were recruited from almshouses and destitute homes and sent to the New World under apprenticeship contracts. The Virginia and other companies early found child labor commercially profitable. In the Old World, for centuries before the founding of the Colonies, vagabond orphans and children of poor parents were sold; that is, their services were disposed of for "a smaller price than the value of a terrier." Boys as young as 5 years of age were apprenticed to chimney cleaning masters for seven years. In a legal report dated 1788, one man testified that "Boys are frequently sent up Chimneys while they are on Fire; and when a Boy, at first learning, is backward in going up, it is often a Practice to light Straw, and by that Means to force him up—That he thinks Boys ought to be washed at least Once a Week; but that he knows many Instances of Boys who have served Four or Five Years without being washed at all." The Old World means of forcing the employment of children to the neglect of opportunities for wholesome development was boldly repeated in the New World, as can be seen from such documents as the Watertown, Massachusetts, records of 1727, which show how the neglected, dependent, and orphaned children were apprenticed and indentured." For long years, opponents *Grace Abbott, The Child and the State, Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1938, p. 106. *Ibid., p. 213. Of child labor regulation pointed out that leisure was the root of evil, and that if children were not employed, vice would be encouraged and industry would suffer. Alexander Hamilton, in 1791, urged the fur. Therance of industry because idle children could be given work. The famous Yates Report of 1824 disclosed that a popular method of "caring" for children was to auction them off and let them out to the lowest mill and factory bidders. Hundreds of boys and girls ate and slept in the buildings where they worked. As late as 1866, children worked at night, long hours, and overtime. "Even in Lowell, where conditions were particularly favorable, little mites of ten were on duty nearly fourteen hours a day and then did household tasks and went to evening school." One John Wild testified that mill owners would "take them at any age they can get them, if they are old enough to stand... I guess the youngest is seven." Because children who worked were denied education, and because equality of opportunity was accepted as the great goal of democracy, school programs were made universally more adequate after the Civil War. Even since that time, and within the life span of some individuals. Now living, small boys and girls were harnessed to trucks in mines doing heavy manual labor, because the thrifty mine owners found that this cost less than the upkeep of a good mule. As late as 1930, the United States Census Report showed that *Ibid. 29,765 children, ten to thirteen years of age, and 167,856 children, fourteen and fifteen years of age, were in non-agricultural occupations. Sweated industries still abuse child labor. Large numbers of children continue to be employed picking cotton and working in the corn and wheat farms to the exclusion of attending school. Although at times it has seemed that those who have pled for the protection of children from labor exploitation have been crying in the wilderness, momentous strides have been made. Whereas the child was formerly treated almost like a horse or like cattle, subject matter for his parent's contract or gift, the absolute rights of the parent have given way to the rights of the child. The school attendance age has been raised, and there is an accompanying tendency to raise the employment age. A shorter working day, no night work, and the prohibition of children under eighteen and twentyone in hazardous occupations is almost universal. The pending Federal Child Labor Amendment will enable individual states to be guided in avoiding labor abuses of children. The International Labor Organization has in the past planned for international agreement on labor legislation for protection of children against exploitation in industry. As yet, conditions are not perfect, but, through the Children's Bureau, industrial and labor commissions, welfare agencies, and other organizations, the child need no longer labor in the place of a mule to the sacrifice of his mental and physical endowments and the contribution he could make to society. HE history of child labor is in many respects comparable to the history of other major problems of children. Although in most areas much has been achieved, present conditions still present a challenge. For instance, let us view the health problems of children, especially those of children living in homes where the incomes are too low to provide a minimum standard of living. Some people say that because children from destitute homes are assisted by welfare and health organizations, they get better care than do the well-to-do. However, somewhere between 450,000 and 500,000 births occur annually in families in which the annual income per family does not total $500. Eighty-six out of 100 farm mothers have their children born in their homes because of insufficient incomes and inadequate medical resources, while 71 out of 100 women in the city have hospital care. In 1936, a quarter of a million mothers did not have a physician in attendance when their babies were born.' It is well known that infant mortality is high when economic status is low, and that "children in low income groups are sick more often than other children.'" This is so because of accompanying social disorganization, such as poor housing, inadequate food, unemployment, and other factors. The lack of adequate medical care during illness and for necessary corrections of children's defects is being increasingly 'Interdepartmental Committee to Coordinate Health and Welfare Activities, "Toward Better National Health," U. S. Printing Office, 1939, p. 16. 'Ibid., p. 21. 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941 SOME ASPECTS OF CHILD WELFARE alleviated through the Social Security provisions for grants in aid to the states for maternal and child health and services for crippled children. The White House Conference on Child Health and Protection pointed out that thirty-five million of the _ forty-five million children under the age of 16 years in the United States are normal, and of the remaining ten million, 6,000,000 are improperly nourished 1,000,000 have defective speech 1,000,000 have weak or damaged hearts 675,000 have behavior problems 450,000 are mentally retarded 382,000 are tuberculous 300,000 are crippled 32,000 are deaf or blind 200,000 are rated as delinquent 500,000 are alleged dependent Overwhelming, too, are the child's dental needs. "The White House Conference on Child Health and Protection reported that from 96 to 98 per cent of the child population of the country suffer from dental decay, while probably 85 per cent of children suffer from major and minor defects of dental occlusion. Nutritional deficiencies were held to be the major cause of dental disease."* According to dental authorities, the average corrections needed are 5 to 6 per child. Due to developmental defects, poorly balanced and inadequate diets, poor mouth hygiene, and lack of adequate dental facilities, there is universal need for *Katharine Lenroot, "The Place of Dental Hygiene in a Maternal and Child Health Program," Journal of the American Dental Association, Volume 26, February, 1939- 89 preventive and restorative dental services. The pronounced need for dental care for pre-school children from two to five or six years of age is now definitely recognized. 'The general inadequate care given children is strikingly portrayed in the naval service figures of the last World War. Twenty-six per cent of the rejections were due to dental defects, while the next greatest disability was flat feet, with 16.5 per cent. In some legal cases, the courts have arbitrarily set the value of each tooth at $1,000. In order to conserve this asset, such facilities as are available should be utilized for children. Educational programs in preventive dentistry should be continuous. This type of education is accomplished through hygienists, classroom lectures, toothbrush drills, and other means. Dental care for both pay and free patients is provided through mobile and stationary clinics, hospitals, boards of health and education, welfare organizations, dental societies, health associations, dental schools, county boards and so on. To prevent body and dental diseases is important, and to promote mental and social health is imperative for the individual's happiness and society's welfare. The physician and the dentist no longer are interested in the child's defects alone, but they view the "whole child." The maintenance of his well-being requires a team including the child, his family, teachers, and others vitally concerned with him and his development. The aim is always to free him from hurtful factors within himself and his environment. F great moment, before as well as after the child's birth, is his family. Mentally and physically healthy families are built upon factors developed in more than one generation. Roots are deep in the past. However, many characteristics formerly attributed to heredity—often thought of as being all-important—can now be explained by environmental conditions without resorting to "mental gymnastics" on the child's family tree. According to our best authorities, children learn more in the first five years than during any equal period of their lives. Laziness is not inborn. Our children learn to be lazy by not doing anything during long. Periods of idleness. They want responsibility. At the age of 3, they should dress themselves, brush their teeth, and perform other tasks. They should be taught early and often all we know of the right way of life, and they should be helped to get into it. To learn to good advantage, they should, be guided and not allowed to pursue their ways unaided and undirected. Development is also hampered if they are placed in ready-made molds prepared by adults who do not understand their individual interests. Guidance should be a continuous process, not a dramatic, spectacular fete coming into play at times of crises. This requires a thorough. Understanding of social and emotional development. Our focus should not be upon the child as an isolated entity or on his social environment alone, but on the interplay between the two. Some of the needs for the undisturbed growth of children and some of the deepest human wants cannot be supplied by unlimited dispensing of money. The child's environment also includes the community. | Children have sought opportunities that have not been provided by this vital environment. Some of our communities are actually delinquent because' they do not afford the tangible means of activity, adventure, and. Achievement that are a part of the abundant life. 'The atmosphere could be so developed as to make it more pleasant and easier to be decent than to be indecent. Many harmful and destructive conditions in our communities could be removed forever if our dreams were translated into action, and if we were afire with a deep sense of social justice. If we say that personality enhancement is the greatest end in life, the child's sense of the worth-whileness of life at present and in the future is best developed by living in a home with a religious background. In President Roosevelt's opening address to the Conference on Children in a Democracy, he said, "We are concerned about the children who are outside the reach of religious influences and are denied help in attaining faith in an ordered universe and in the fatherhood of God." Surely, religion is a dynamic, practical force in a child's life, providing guides and ideals for right living, affording vigorous incentives and inspiring motives for right conduct, and teaching the necessity for assistance from God in meeting the stresses of life. The Savior's great concern for children and His profound regard for their potentialities points the way for us. Truly, "of such is the Kingdom of Heaven." 90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941 The Old Order Changeth Ivy Williams Stone WAS quite young when my older brother sailed off to Cuba, and the words "Cervera's Fleet," "Kissing Hobson" and "The Battleship Oregon" dominated all conversations. I was only six months older when he returned, shed his strange new khaki uniform for heavy furlined clothing, replaced his gun with shovel and pick and dashed off to the Nome gold rush. Then the words "Stampeder," "poke" and "sourdough" became our table talk. From these early impressions, I grew up thinking Alaska was a land of glaciers and waterfalls, Eskimos and walruses, mushing dogs and snow blindness, where no vegetation ever grew and summer was only a pleasant word. Today I have just returned from Alaska, where I took my daughter to be married. Enroute to Alaska, after only eight days of continuous, comfortable travel we arrived at Anchorage, having traveled three thousand miles via train, steamer and train. The benighted ideas I had concerning the privations my daughter would face were quickly dispelled. Anchorage, site of the new army air base, is a thriving little city of thirtyfive hundred people. It is situated on the flat, wide country at the head of Cook's Inlet, about one hundred twenty-five miles inland from the seaport of Seward. It cannot be reached by steamer, as the inlet is too shallow. Taxicabs met our train; we were whisked up a wide street to a good home, where a coal stoker (an exact replica of our own) was keeping a modern house warm and inviting. Reading lamps were numerous; a high-powered short-wave tadio brought the voice of Winston Churchill from London; a twist of the dial and San Francisco spoke; the telephone rang, and the refrigerator droned. The wedding ceremony was complete with wedding cake, salted nuts, fresh candies, candles, bride's bouquet, a buttonhole bouquet for the bridegroom and a corsage for me. THE Alaska so vividly pictured for us by Jack London, Robert W. Service and Oliver Curwood is passing into romantic history. I did not see an igloo, but I ate food cooked upon a modern electric stove. I did not see a lone prospector cracking his whip over the heads of quivering dogs, but I watched a huge airliner rise and disappear into the blue, cartying an assembled mining machine weighing one thousand pounds. I did not see a kayak riding into dangerous rapids, but I rode over wide bridges that span huge rivers. I did not see any Eskimo women chewing walrus hides to make parkas for their men, but I saw young, native gitls learning to sew upon electric machines. I did not have to hoard a precious last can of condensed milk, for a dairy left fresh bottles on the back step every morning. I saw no pack trains winding into roadless hills, but I rode in a good automobile over a wide, modern highway. I ate no food that had been stored in a remote mountain cache, but I sat at a lace-covered table and was served with food from a modern refrigerator. I saw no home-hungry miner trading his "poke" for an old newspaper, but I saw dozens of alert men unlocking their boxes in a modern federal building. (And I had tucked a kerosene lamp into her baggage! ) The grizzled, lonely prospector is no more. A man may prospect alone, but an airplane drops mail and supplies to him. The quick gold seems to be exhausted. Dredges now systematically work the river beds for gold, and the rhythmic chug of modern mining machinery echoes down the hillsides of Juneau, and the fishers annually produce more than twice as much revenue as is received from the gold of Alaska. Because it rises from an elevation of only 2,000 feet, Mount McKinley is the highest mountain in the world, towering 18,000 feet above its surroundings. All Alaskans are "air minded." Huge liners ply regular routes from Fairbanks to Anchorage, from Nome to Juneau, from Seattle to Fairbanks and intermediate points. Expectant: mothers patronize the airplanes to secure hospitalization. The wards of the Government, be they Indians, Eskimos or "Aleuts," receive fine medical care, either in their native villages or in hospitals where they are sent via plane. A nurse told me the story of an Eskimo who was taken away from his native village for an appendectomy. Upon his return, he gave such glowing accounts of his treatment that within a week every Eskimo in the whole village was holding his right side, declaring he had a terrible pain! THE OLD ORDER CHANGETH ANCHORAGE is the one city in Alaska that was methodically laid out by engineers. Wide avenues, numerically numbered, run east and west. Wide streets, designated alphabetically, run north and south. Churches and lodges, drug_ stores and bakeries, a printing office and a tri-weekly newspaper, jewelry and haberdashery stores, clothing and millinery shops, a public library and two modern school buildings, eight doctors, a hospital and two banks, two dairies and two confectionery stores, numerous grocery stores, a greenhouse, a dry-cleaning establishment, a fifteen-cent store, policemen, and weekly garbage collection all combine to give Mr. Citizen of Anchorage good living conditions. (And I had insisted that she take a dozen toothbrushes with her.) The schools are earthquake proof, fire proof, air conditioned and stoker heated. Every teacher has a college degree—almost every one has a Master's degree. Every child must have a medical examination before entering school.. I saw a man who had a Master's degree from Columbia teaching native boys how to handle 93 a saw; a lady with a similar amount of training was teaching cooking and sewing. 'The Association of University Women of America has a local chapter in Anchorage. There is only one moving picture show house, and although films are naturally late in arriving, they eventually show the same good films which we see at home. Nearly all the houses are frame. Few homes have flower beds, but every home has its vegetable garden. Cabbage, cauliflower, beets, turnips, radishes, lettuce, peas, strawberries and raspberries grow rapidly and are well flavored. Every home has storm windows and doors, and bathrooms are the accepted order for all homes. I had the rare good fortune to watch an aquaplane settle on a lake by moonlight, to inspect an ancient Indian cemetery around a primitive Greek church, to see Father Hubbard, the "Glacier Priest," to inspect the huge army air base on the outskirts of the city, to observe at first hand the social and economic life of this "frontier" city. But best of all was the afternoon I spent with Mrs. Sydney Lawrence, whose famous AIRPLANE PHOTOGRAPHY REVEALS THE GRANDEUR OF THE COLUMBIA GLACIER husband had just died in his beloved Alaska. Besides being the widow of so famous an artist, Mrs. Lawrence is a very charming lady. She is an artist herself and works every day from eight to three collecting, studying and painting the wild flowers of Alaska. Her work will soon appear in book form. She is full of fascinating stories about the career of Mr. Lawrence, who, in addition to painting Mount McKinley in all its frigid beauty and the northern lights in all their iridescent colors, was a war correspondent who covered four wars! | VISITED the much discussed Matanuska Valley, which lays about fifty miles north of AnchorSUCH SCENES HAVE DISAPPEARED, BEING REPLACED WITH AIRPLANE SERVICE. Age and can be reached by rail, plane and highway. The Daughters of the. American Revolution felt this highway to be of such significance that they erected a monument to commemorate its completion. The "Matanuska Valley Project'" has its defenders and _ assailants. There are people who praise its sponsors and the results accomplished. 'There are others who claim every radish costs one hundred dollars, that every ton of hay is worth a small fortune. Judge as you choose, it is a wide valley that opens out between high mountains that are dotted with waterfalls. Whatever their problems, irrigation is NOT one of them. "In May, 1935, two hundred colonists, with their families, were transported from the United States to Alaska, and established on land in the Matanuska Valley. At first there seemed to be considerable discontent among the colonists, but by 1936 the Government announced that the colony was firmly established. THE OLD ORDER CHANGETH The virgin soil was covered with a thick growth of poor-quality timber. The top soil is nowhere more than fourteen inches deep. Below that, a hard gravel becomes a foe to agriculture. 'The barns are large, well made, modern. The houses are built on cleared land, the individual colonist having exercised his own ideas of architecture. Some of the houses have window boxes of gay nasturtiums, white curtains, carefully-stored winter fuel, neat garages. Some of the houses are unfinished, forlorn and neglected; still others are vacant, with broken windows and swinging doors. Some barns are stocked with hay and fodder against the long winter; others are open and deserted, with the wind ripping off shingles and banging doors. Some fields have been well tended; others are fallow and forsaken. Even under the best weather conditions, only one crop of alfalfa can be harvested, and that can never be "cocked" for drying, as is done in the States. Each forkful of hay must be carefully draped around a stake, in order to speed its drying. As we drove along, we saw some late peas and unripened wheat that had been frozen by an early September frost. A few horses and cows and some sheep OLD-STYLE ALASKAN CACHE Time was when the miner had to resort to this contrivance to preserve his food supply. 95 grazed in wet stubble fields. Through it all, I saw only another example of that eternal truth — a thrifty man is a thrifty man, whereever he may be. The gift of a tract of land with numerous other gratuities cannot change shiftlessness into thrift. Paradoxical as it may sound, even the thrifty farmer of Matanuska does not find a ready market for his produce. Many of the people of Anchorage and Fairbanks—his two town markets—are "outside" minded. Even as we in the States have always thought of "imported perfumery" as superior, about fifty per cent of the housewives of Alaska feel imported vegetables are better flavored. 'This strange condition, coupled with the attractive wages now being offered at the army air base, is responsible for many a deserted farm, with the family moved into town, living on imported foodstuffs purchased with the high cash wages paid by the contractors. And the airbase! It is so large it is difficult to describe it. Large tracts of virgin, flat, wooded land were surveyed and purchased from the original owners. Here a thick stubborn moss sends its roots so deep that it takes powerful tractor plows to break the soil. Five large runways are being DOCK SCENES ALONG THE INLAND PASSAGE built, with a total of one hundred buildings under construction. Fifteen hundred men work in three shifts of eight hours each. There are soldiers living in tents, waiting patiently for the still unfinished barracks. Civil engineers are battling and winning the fight against the stern Alaskan winter, the ever-shortening period of daylight, and the long distance from the base of supplies.
Naturally the sudden influx of civilians into the peaceful town of Anchorage caused a flurry in real estate and housing. The humblest sort of "a roof over our heads" goes at a premium. In fact, they are now unobtainable. Apartment-house owners increase rents without notice and demand that four months' rent be paid in advance. When two or more women meet, the conversation is never social nor gossipy. Immediately, they plunge into the one all-absorbing topic, "Do you know where we can rent a house?" Men are sleeping on cots in garages; others have sleeping bags and lie on top of pool tables. Families move in together. The hotel never changes its one sign—"No Vacancy." The owner of a vacant room can name his own price. People watch the hospital reports—perhaps someone is ill and may have to go "outside." Real estate has soared to an exorbitant price. As a rule, the newcomer cannot buy it, but offers to rent a house if the owner will build. But with a determined shake of an experienced head, he refuses. He does not want to be owning vacant houses when the airbase is finished and the population returns to normal. He knows what happened in Cordova when the Kennicott copper mines were closed. He knows that a third of the people of Juneau have moved away.
THE town of Anchorage has an intricate, complicated social life. I saw more "formals" than I ever saw; I saw more chauffeurs, fur coats and automobiles; more manicures and permanents. Ladies make formal, brief calls, leaving engraved cards. Here is one place where the outside appearance of the home cannot be used as a yardstick to judge its occupants. An unpainted clapboarded house may contain a grand piano; a lady may emerge from the house in a valuable fur coat. Hospitality is quickly offered to the newcomer. He is accepted for what he is at the moment, not for what he may have been born to. What he may have done to his discredit elsewhere is never held against him in Alaska. All Alaskans are good friends, respond quickly to a friend's needs, make liberal loans and extend credit very freely.
The arrival of each train is an event. It brings new people, parcel post mail by the ton, news of boats, roadbeds, bridges and weather. Telephone numbers have no letter prefix or suffix, but a color prefix; thus, Green 354 or Brown 199. Imagine my surprise when calling Mrs. Wright to hear central answer, after two ineffectual rings: "Oh, I forgot to tell you. She goes to the beauty shop between ten and eleven o'clock every Tuesday." Thus, your private life is known to all—never maliciously, just neighborly and friendly.
Living is high in Alaska, but wages are correspondingly high. Here are a few prices on staple foods:
Ice cream soda................................................$.20 Bread, per pound loaf.........................................15 One apple pie..................................................85 Corn on the cob, one doz. ears.................................75 Cucumbers, each................................................20 Flour, per hundred pounds....................................8.00 Tomatoes, per pound............................................35 Bacon, per pound...............................................40
97
Sugar, per hundred pounds...................................9.00 Butter, per pound..............................................50 Eggs, per dozen................................................45 Milk, per quart................................................20 Stoker coal, per ton.........................................9.00 Fruit juices, canned...........................................20
Due to the availability of natural water power, electricity is nearly as cheap as in my home town. A haircut costs as much as one dollar. There is no daily mail or delivery, but the post office is a busy place, and it costs only three cents to mail one average-sized book back to the States. Current popular magazines are a week late, but the prices are the same as at home. As one goes into the interior of Alaska, conditions change a little. The price of living and even of electricity grows much higher.
Alaska, our last frontier, has been civilized. "Seward's Folly" has grown into the goose that lays golden eggs. Man's ingenuity has conquered the former natural resistance of this great country and its barriers to civilization. Although she is three thousand miles away, we will talk to our daughter this winter via short wave. Her letters are only a week away from us. She is only eight days from us by train and steamboat and much less by airplane. She has joined a glee club and has found a pipe organ where she may practice. She is happy and everything which she needs for her welfare is obtainable. (And I packed sad irons in her luggage!)
Homely Hester Olive C. Wehr
"PLEASE, God, if you can't change me into a boy, then please change me into a pretty little girl," prayed Hester fervently that night, as she knelt beside the big, old-fashioned bed in Aunt Agnes' upstairs room. Then recalling that Miss Evans, her pretty Sunday School teacher, had said that we must pray for others, not ourselves, she shut her eyes so tight that she could see the mysterious silver doughnut that always came when she closed her eyes thus, and pressing her screwed-up little face hard against the red and white patch-work quilt, she carefully reworded her prayer: "Dear God, please give Daddy a beautiful little girl."
She stayed on her knees until they fairly ached, repeating the request and "believing hard," for one must have faith to have prayers answered. Maybe she hadn't had faith enough, she reflected sadly, when she had prayed before to be changed into a boy, but it might be even better to be changed into a pretty little girl instead. Then Daddy would call her "sweetheart" like he did Mother, and not "little funnyface" any more. Of course, Daddy had really wanted her to be a boy in the first place—she had heard Aunt Agnes say so—but still he would be pleased, she felt sure, since she had to be a girl, if she were only pretty. Mother was pretty—everyone said so—and Daddy adored her. He bought her ever so many pretty clothes—to "show her off," Aunt Agnes said. If only God would make her pretty like Mother!
When Hester finally arose, for the relief of her protesting knees, she turned hopefully to the big mirror over the dresser. Maybe there would be some slight change already.... But no, she was still "Homely Hester" as one of the girls at school had dubbed her—the same homely Hester with the same wide, greenish-grey eyes, the same sprinkling of freckles across a too-pale face, the same too-large mouth, the same stub nose, the same reddish tinge on the hair. Daddy hated red hair, for he was always asking Mother if she thought it was really going to turn red.
"I hate you!" Hester exclaimed viciously to the sober little pajama-clad figure in the mirror; and then, startled at the sudden sound of her own voice, she ran for bed, switching off the light as she went, and buried herself in the blankets. She was grateful tonight for the way the great bed swallowed her whole. She heard her Aunt Agnes moving slowly about downstairs in her room. Aunt Agnes always moved slowly, for she was elderly. She was really Daddy's aunt; she had brought him up after his own mother had died. Hester lay very still listening and hoping that her exclamation had not been overheard. Aunt Agnes was always asking questions and demanding explanations! She breathed a quick sigh of relief when she heard her aunt winding the clock and knew that she was safe for the night from prying eyes.
How much longer was she going to have to stay in Aunt Agnes' big, lonely house? When Daddy had
HOMELY HESTER
brought her here sixteen long days ago, he had told her that she must be a good girl and stay until Mother felt better; then she could come home again, and there would be a surprise for her, but Mother was ill now and too nervous to have a noisy girl around. She was sorry she had made Mother nervous. She couldn't help it because she had been clumsy and had fallen down stairs twice; and how had she known that her many questions annoyed her mother?
A sudden knot of home-sickness tied itself in Hester's throat. Shutting her eyes tight to keep back the tears, she tried hard to think of something pleasant. Mother said that was the best way. What could the surprise be that Daddy had hinted at? Maybe another new dress to take the place of the one he had brought home to her from the city some time ago—the one that Mother would not let her wear because it was red. She had cried herself to sleep that night because Mother had said she shouldn't ever wear it. She had awakened later to overhear her parents talking:
"But, Cecil," Mother was saying, her young voice lifted high in protest, "whatever possessed you to get red—and such an expensive dress, too!"
"Now, now, Madeline sweetheart," Daddy had replied good-naturedly, "don't be cross about it. I only thought maybe red would brighten up that sober little ugly duckling of ours. You wear red so beautifully, sweetheart."
"Yes, but she can't wear red," Mother had declared. "You know I've told you that before, Cecil—not
99
with her complexion and the color of her hair. Blue is her color."
Blue! How she hated blue! All her dresses were some shade of it. How she loved the bright, exciting colors the other little girls wore to school! Oh, if only God would change her complexion so she could wear the alluring red dress! In the morning she would look in the mirror again, but she must "believe" now so her prayer would be answered. Yes, in the morning she would begin to look different. Wouldn't Mother and Daddy be pleased when she went home to see that she had grown into a pretty little girl! Then when they went bathing together at the beach, the white-haired lady with the fan wouldn't shake her head and say to her fat husband, "My, what a handsome couple to have such a homely child! Too bad!" She remembered now how Daddy and Mother had looked straight ahead and pretended not to hear, and had tossed the big beach ball faster than ever to her after that, but nothing had been any fun the rest of the day; and the next week Daddy had taken her to see the doctor and asked him if he couldn't give her something to put roses in her cheeks, but the big red pills the doctor gave her to take after every meal hadn't done any good either.
Well, Daddy wouldn't need to worry after God had answered her prayer, and he wouldn't be ashamed of her looks then, either. Maybe he would take her on the long trip back East to see his old friends next summer instead of leaving her behind as usual with Aunt Agnes. "Oh, and is this your beautiful little girl? Why, she looks just like her mother!" Daddy's nice friends would say. Daddy would stand up straight and proud and say, "Yes, she is my daughter," just like he did when his old friend at the office had said of Mother's picture, "What a beautiful woman!"—only then Daddy had said, "Yes, she is my wife." And the white-haired lady with the fan at the beach would say, "My, what a handsome couple, and what a beautiful child they have!" It would be fun going to school then, too. She would just smile at the astonished little girl who had called her homely, and settle down to her lessons feeling all warm and comfortable inside instead of all tight and cold. Daddy would be pleased with her report card then—an ugly little girl who is so busy being miserable can't think very hard about the new words pointed out on the big chart by Miss Peters. Yes, Daddy would be pleased with her report card, and he would go right down to the store and buy her the big doll with the long, yellow curls that he had promised her if she would get straight "S's."
HESTER drifted away on a rosy cloud; then it was morning, and Aunt Agnes exclaiming in her thick, raspy voice, "Child, child, you have overslept! Hurry and dress; I have some good news for you—after you've had breakfast."
Good news? Oh, yes, something had happened.... What was it? Oh, now she remembered.... She had turned pretty and was going East with Daddy? As soon as the door had closed behind Aunt Agnes' stern back, Hester flew to the mirror. The eager little face reflected there trembled, and a sudden burst of tears flooded it. A sadly-disillusioned Hester turned slowly away to grope blindly for her clothes.
Aunt Agnes looked at her sharply when she went down to breakfast a few minutes later, but for once she asked no questions, for which Hester was grateful. Aunt Agnes believed that a little girl should have no secret thoughts that she was ashamed to tell. More than once Hester had been forced to concoct some sudden falsehood in order to satisfy the nagging curiosity of Aunt Agnes. She was glad that her usually active imagination was not to be so taxed this morning, for it was out of the question to tell her the truth. The very idea of confessing one's inmost thoughts to Aunt Agnes always made Hester feel ashamed—like walking naked.
After a silent breakfast, Aunt Agnes announced, "Now I will put you on the bus. Your father phoned for you to come home this morning." The tiny spark of joy that kindled in Hester's bosom was quenched by Aunt Agnes' next statement. "I suppose I ought to tell you that you have a beautiful, little baby sister."
A beautiful baby sister! Then Daddy had a beautiful little girl! So this was the way God had answered her prayer! He had given Daddy a beautiful little girl, as she had asked Him to do, but now she was never to be anything but just "Homely Hester." Daddy would be proud of the new little sister; he wouldn't have much time for his "ugly duckling." Dumb misery too great for tears or for speech settled down over Hester.
"Your little sister's name is Vivian," was Aunt Agnes' next unconscious thrust. Vivian! What a beautiful name! And they had called her Hester. She was only "Homely Hester."
Aunt Agnes offered further bits of information from time to time during the short journey to the bus line, but no efforts on her part could induce unhappy little Hester to comment on the new state of affairs. "I must say, she is the most peculiar child I have ever seen!" Hester overheard her aunt exclaim in exasperation to a neighbor who stopped to speak to her. But she didn't mind what Aunt Agnes thought. She stumbled blindly into the first seat she could find on the big bus.
During the short ride home, Hester turned over in her mind various plans of escape. She might live with Aunt Agnes. But no, that was unthinkable. She might run away—but where to?
When the bus stopped at their corner, Daddy was there waiting for her. "Hello there, little funnyface. You have a baby sister," he greeted her joyously. She put her hand in his and walked silently beside him down the path toward home.
"Daddy," she inquired at length,
101
"is your new little girl pretty, and... and not ugly like me?" Her chin trembled out of control as she put this question to her father, but she must know the truth from his own lips.
Daddy stopped walking and looked straight at Hester in a way that made her cheeks burn. Did she seem homelier than ever to him now? Then suddenly Daddy's eyes went misty, and he swooped her up in his arms and held her tight.
"Listen, funnyface,... I mean, sweetheart," he said huskily, "I don't care whether your little sister is going to be pretty or not, but I do hope she will grow up to be a fine girl like her big sister." Then he added hastily, "Anyway, homely little girls nearly always grow up to be very pretty ladies."
Somewhere a thousand little birds began to sing. Hester threw her arms about her father's neck and kissed him impetuously. "I want to see my baby sister," she demanded.
Her father put her on her feet. With her hand clinging to his, she kept joyful step with him down the path through the bright, spring sunshine, chanting softly to herself all the while the magic, unbelievable words, "Anyway, homely little girls nearly always grow up to be very pretty ladies," and "I have a baby sister! I have a baby sister!"
"As unkindness has no remedy at law, let its avoidance be with you a point of honor."
"Life is short, and we have never too much time for gladdening the hearts of those who are traveling life's journey with us. Oh, be swift to love; make haste to be kind."
Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde
No. VII "The Inferiority Feeling"
NEVER before within my recollection has there been a time when the conditions around us seemed to be so topsy-turvy. With war staring us in the face and the experience of the worst depression the world has ever known just past, we look almost with foreboding into the future. The feeling of insecurity which exists is causing unhappiness and in many cases even mental disorders. People are flocking to psychiatrists to be set right because they are so emotionally upset over the conflicts of life that they cannot set themselves right. Nothing that we might read can solve the difficult problems of life, but it is becoming increasingly important that in our reading and in our entertainment we reach for something that will "lift us up." We should select reading material that will promote a healthy attitude toward life. Any book that will give us a better understanding of ourselves will help us to develop a more wholesome attitude toward life in general.
Two books which do this, by discussing personal problems, have been written by William S. Walsh under the titles, The Mastery of Fear and The Inferiority Feeling. The Mastery of Fear is particularly valuable for the "nervous" and the "timid" person. In it, Doctor Walsh discusses the different types of fears and suggests practical remedies after they have developed. In a chapter on fear of public opinion, the author says, "The basic secret of all-enduring satisfaction is: 'To thine own self be true....' To be ourselves, to achieve, requires courage, determination, confidence. It takes these things to do anything of real value. In only a few instances has anything of lasting importance been accomplished save after years of patient and hard study.
"We can gain the esteem of our fellows and at the same time be true to our characters, our beliefs, our personalities. We cannot please everyone all the time. We shall have to disagree, to refuse, to reprimand, to do our own living and our own thinking. We shall be misunderstood, perhaps disliked and criticized, but can gain the good will of the majority.
"All we require is that we be worthy, that we practice the codes of conduct which promote good feeling; e. g.: be courteous to everyone; speak the best of all; be genuinely pleased at the good fortune of our friends; acknowledge their good points. In short, apply the Golden Rule to daily life and practice the fast decaying art of being gentlemen and gentlewomen."
FOR those who are interested in books of a psychological nature (and we all should be), few will contribute more to an intelligent understanding of one's self than The Inferiority Feeling. It takes superlatives to describe the value of this book, so basic and so fundamental is its discussion. Perhaps no one thing has contributed more to the marring of personalities than the feeling of inferiority. What it means and how it is developed is of first
SOME LITERARY FRIENDS
importance in the study of personality. An understanding of these things will greatly simplify one's ability to overcome the feeling. Doctor Walsh has treated the subject of inferiority in an easy, readable style in his excellent volume.
The feeling of inferiority is quite universal, and appears in many forms. Hardly a person exists who has not suffered from some form of it. We feel consoled when we read that Norma Shearer, Claudette Colbert, and even Clark Gable suffer from timidity. The reason for this affliction, we are told, is that the ego is working overtime; that if we felt sufficient we would take things quietly, never boasting, bragging, nor forming the habit of imposing our opinions on others. It may be surprising to learn that the dominating person who always wants his own way is usually suffering from a feeling of inadequacy.
The effect of an inferiority feeling is believed to be tremendous upon character, temperament, happiness and success in life. The first few chapters of Doctor Walsh's book, while a little more technical than other parts of the book, should be carefully read. They are devoted to childhood. During this period, Doctor Walsh points out, the "foundation for these [inferiority] difficulties are laid." We engender this feeling in children when we tell them that they can't do things or can't have things, and particularly when we tell them they are naughty or are not behaving as they should. Therefore, it is important that we try in early life to make children want to do the right thing and that we reward them for good behavior rather than punish them for bad behavior.
An inferiority feeling may develop, too, as children grow up and discover that the mother they once thought so beautiful is not so good looking as some others or that they themselves have ugly teeth, freckles, or some other physical defect. At such a time, the author says, we must prevent the development of the inferiority feeling by showing them that no one person has everything that is desirable, but that on the whole they compare favorably with the group. With such teaching, a sense of adequacy and security is developed. A sense of security is of utmost importance to us all. It is one thing a successful home must give its members.
"How much this inferiority feeling will affect us will depend upon how much emotional value has been placed upon it. If it has become exaggerated, we become timorous and lack confidence.... The desire to join clubs often has as a basis the wish to overcome a feeling of inferiority or unimportance."
THE book contains a very fine chapter on complexes and conflicts, which are responsible for much of our thinking being based upon emotion. This is why much of our thinking is faulty. When a situation is complex and unpleasant, the author points out, the most satisfactory adjustment is made by facing it honestly and studying the best methods of meeting it. He states that it is dangerous to refuse to face difficulties or to run away from them. He warns us against repression, which is unwise because it may cause mental difficulties. He also states that trying to forget the disagreeable is not the best way out.
Physical handicaps frequently cause feelings of inferiority. Many people make satisfactory adjustments by overcoming their handicaps. Demosthenes, who stammered, became the greatest orator of all time. Theodore Roosevelt overcame a physical weakness. Edison met his deafness in a philosophical manner when he decided that it protected him from tiresome conversations, giving him more time for work. His handicap may have been partly responsible for the great genius he displayed.
Compensating for inferiorities is a valuable method of making adjustments. However, over and under-compensation are both harmful methods of adjustment. The art lies, as it does in other things, in attaining a "happy medium." Over-compensation is seen in the superiority reaction—people putting on airs, trying to appear what they are not, the braggart, the newly rich. This is all detrimental, for it warps personality, makes one unpopular, and hinders progress. "The really superior, because they are superior in fact, have no need of pretense, and carry themselves and their possessions easily and inoffensively."
For most people "religion is the most available and most utilized compensation for tribulations and denials. It is not, as some suppose, the refuge of only the weak and the unerudite; it is the hope of all men, though viewpoints and practices vary with intelligence, training and individual experience.
"No matter how well endowed we may be by nature or circumstances, there are few, if any persons, who feel perfectly secure, who are fully content, who do not suffer from the shafts of life, who do not find the world bigger and tougher than they are; there is, too, always a sense of something missing, a longing for close contact with someone to whom one can unburden, who will supply the love, protection, and comfort we all secretly crave. Rarely indeed can such longings be appeased in the world we live in.... It is in religion that complete understanding, love, the righting of wrongs, the fulfilment of all the desires are promised; and since religion offers so much, consoles so many, and promotes individual and social welfare, it should not be lightly assailed."
In this problem of making mental adjustments, some people resort to fantasy and others rationalizing, both of which are unsatisfactory. "Often when people claim to be actuated by love of truth, justice, or the welfare of the public, their real motive is to obtain publicity, to cover up some inferiority of their own." Many persons who fail to find support for the causes they put forward find comfort in the fact that famous persons suffered similarly. "The fact that some famous persons have suffered is not sufficient reason for placing one's self on a parity with them. Fantasies are such easy and comfortable refuges from the world of cold facts and stern reality that persons who resort to them are in danger of becoming enslaved by them." To solve any problem we must learn to see it as it is, not as we wish it were. This is the only method that will bring happiness.
THE fascinating subject of popularity is discussed in the chapter, "Getting Along with People." "If we are to get along with people, we must first of all analyze ourselves and overcome our displeasing
104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941 SOME LITERARY FRIENDS
personality traits. For there is no person who has not some, although few of us will admit it." A fundamental principle behind this ever-recurring problem of getting along with people is to learn how to please others. Doctor Walsh says, "Anyone may become popular by acquiring the art of pleasing people."
To make friends, we must have a genuine interest in others and make a conscious effort to build up their self-esteem. We must remember constantly that one of the strongest sentiments is self-esteem. When we wound a person's self-esteem, we are likely to incur his anger and lose any kindly feeling he may have for us. This is particularly true with sensitive persons. It is difficult for the sensitive to realize that the fault is with them—that their sensitiveness is a form of selfishness, because they are concerned too much with themselves. "The remedy is less thought of self, more thought of others.... Persons who feel adequate are not always having their feelings hurt. They have the philosophy that no gentleman will insult them, no one else can."
In this business of making friends, there are some things which should not be indulged in. Flattery has no place. "It is the resort of the crafty, of bootlickers, who employ it in an attempt to gain something they cannot procure by merit. People who relish flattery are as inferior as the persons who feed it to them... The adequate neither use it nor do they desire it; if they express approval it is sincere."
Poor sportsmanship is a symptom of inferiority. When we feel sufficient, we play the game for sports' sake, not always to win. "The good loser is only a degree behind the winner; sometimes he is esteemed more highly."
Ridicule is often used by the inferior because a need is felt for posing as superior. This does not promote a healthy mental attitude toward life nor assist in making friends.
The final chapter on courage is of inestimable value. The author says we cannot escape the enemies of failure, disease, or poverty by running away. They must be met by our intellectual powers. Parental example is of paramount importance to children. The family should indulge in nothing that tends to make a child timid. On the contrary, parents should do and say the things that will develop a feeling of adequacy, equality, and self-confidence. To be successful, we must have both physical and mental courage, which will help us to develop independence and initiative.
"Courage is not the prerequisite of those who have strong bodies or great minds, nor does it consist in dauntlessly conquering the big issues of life out of which historical heroes are made. Rather, it is, or becomes, the possession of those who have stout hearts, who habitually stick to their ideals of what is right, who resolutely attack the small problems and vexations of everyday existence, and who, despite obstacles, carry on cheerfully, playing the game fairly, squarely, and as best they can, whatever kind of a hand life may deal out to them."
Read Doctor Walsh's The Inferiority Feeling, and see if you do not emerge "lifted up."
Quotations used by permission of the publishers, E. P. Dutton and Company. Price $2.50.
PIONEER TINTYPE Edith E. Anderson
Before me now your likeness lies, Dim the years and overlaid With my unanswered questionings. Brave mother-face, you must not fade Unheralded into the past, You in your bonnet quaintly styled, Imprinted on this tintype, old And worn with loving handling, filed For still remembrance in a trunk....
Your slender youthful loveliness, Bright sea-blue eyes and raven hair; The trials and the great redress, And your unconquered gayety; Your faith in traveling so far, Your wisdom in relinquishing The past and following the star Of new-found hope and life belief....
You would not write of these; you did Not keep held safe in words for us Your triumphs nor your tears; you hid Yourself almost from all acclaim Beneath those elemental days, Those spinning, weaving, baking years And patient, serving mother ways.
Now I must ask your living sons To utter what your face implies— The unbroken secret of your strength, The substance of your unseen prize, What compass held you to your course, And how your anguished mother heart Continued beating when you watched, On ship, the boards rock-weighted start
Into the sea's oblivion with The still forms of your little ones; And how you turned your grieving glance From burying waves to face the suns Of a trail foot-marked and tortuous; Then how you built, to bear and rear Eight children more in faith sublime....
Should the sole remains, a voiceless bier, Of your nobility be this: One fading wordless print on tin? Not while I bless your heritage, Brave pioneer, I shall begin
To trace with a pen your pilgrimage, That my grandchildren, questioning, Shall not walk uninspired by you, Through darkness, always wondering.
Visiting Teachers' Individual Preparation Ethel B. Andrew Relief Society General Board Member (Conference Address, October 2, 1940)
DID Joseph Smith see the far-reaching possibilities for the women of the Church when he organized the Relief Society in 1842? When he told those eighteen women assembled there that day that they were to manifest benevolence, irrespective of creed or nationality, care for the sick and unfortunate, minister where death reigns, assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life, foster love for religion, education, culture, and refinement, develop faith, etc., did he realize how much that assignment would come to mean in the lives of Relief Society women?
Nauvoo at that time was growing fast. There were no telephones, no automobiles nor street cars, no paved roads. Naturally it was impossible for the Relief Society officers to visit all those who were ill or in need, so one year after the Relief Society was organized a system of visiting the homes was instituted. The city was divided into four districts and four women were appointed to visit the families in each district and report at regular intervals to Emma Smith. This group of sixteen friendly visitors was called the Necessity Committee.
This system of visiting the homes has now become a vital part of the program of each ward organization. Every Latter-day Saint family, regardless of station or wealth, should be visited once a month by the visiting teachers of the Relief Society, who are supposed to carry greetings of love from the organization and then present a special message for the month. Since 1923, these messages for the home have been printed in the Magazine.
Ward presidents choose their visiting teachers carefully. What are the requirements of a good visiting teacher? A strong testimony of the Gospel is necessary. A visiting teacher should be discreet and never betray a confidence; she should be sympathetic and friendly. Friendship is a sacred relationship which brings aid and comfort when needed. She should be tactful, for tact is the remover of all difficulties, the magic that enables her to get along with people. She should be humble and prayerful, and never should she go out to make her calls without first asking her Heavenly Father to guide and direct her in the situations which may arise, for hers is a great responsibility. She can be a real missionary. She should carry a cheerful attitude into the homes. She should cooperate with her leaders in trying honestly and sincerely to carry out the plans that have been adopted. She must attend preparation meetings 108. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941 so that she will be prepared to discuss the monthly messages and swer questions. The messages this year were written especially for Latter-day Saint homes. A wise teacher will know where her special message for the month will be applicable. A friendly visiting teacher is effective in gaining new members for the Society. She should study the homes in her district and should not neglect to visit the homes of new neighbors. The world needs friendliness, and she has the opportunity to establish many fine friendships. Many women find their lives far from satisfactory. They need courage to meet the problems of every day—to meet life's tests. Perhaps something has happened to take the sweetness and joy out of their lives. Visiting teachers can, by their friendly visits and by encouraging activity in Relief Society work, help them to find their way back to happiness. The Magazine left in the homes of such women can be a real missionary. Visiting teachers must be messengers of peace. Many hearts and homes in our Church are saddened because of the conflict in Europe. Many have dear ones over there. Let us be understanding and sympathetic as we go into the homes of people of different nationalities. Let us never forget that no matter what country was the homeland, all Latter-day Saints are entitled to the same courtesies and the same Christ-like service. We must have faith in ourselves and faith in each other, faith in our leaders in the Church and Government, and, most of all, faith in our Heavenly Father. The Lord has been kind to us. Let us show our gratitude by the joy we take in our work, whatever it -may be, and the happiness we can bring to others. PRAYER'S SOLACE Jasmine Romney Edmunds It is the hour of my evening prayer, Alone and bowed I kneel within my room. Deep is the wish and great the gift I dare To ask of Him this day of deep'ning gloom. Released, the mighty yearning of my soul Pours upward from the pain within my heart; With rushing words it trembles towards its goal, Beseeching Him to hear and help impart: "Dear Lord, I feel the strength of Thy great pow'r, I trust in Thy deep love and mighty skill; Oh, hear my aching plea in this sad hour, And grant it—if it be Thy will!" Words cease. In peace I kneel a moment there And rise refreshed, assured God heard my prayer! Things More Important Mrs. A. H. Gibbons NIGHT had settled down with concealing comfort. A cool spring hush covered the houses and trees and paths as Don, content: in the everyday living that God had allotted him and feeling unconsciously the beauty of nature's early April days, walked home. He had the complacent feeling that Hannah had been greatly helped by his visit to her father. Her father didn't seem to be doing very well. "Poor kid," Don thought, "she's never had a good break in her life. She must have been the very last one in line when everything in the way of good-looking faces had been passed out." Don came in quietly. It was late, and Eileen would be sleeping. He had asked her not to wait up for him. But he found her sitting by the low fire, her firm, energetic little body clad in the blue house coat he had given her for Christmas. Eileen was not reading. She was not mending.. In complete, deep indignancy, she sat waiting for him. A faint, sly grin bent the corners of Don's mouth. He made no inquiries but moved to lay his hat on the mantle shelf. Then, catching the fire-like gleam in her eye, he made an unperturbed retreat to the closet in the hallway. Always, there was a pleasant calmness about Don; but Eileen was like a busy, efficient little factory whose whistle must sound off in an explosion of nerves and exasperation, and then when the sound died away serene peace would reign again. "It's been quite a while at that," mused Don to himself, coming back to the living room, a very thin hint of a smile lingering again for an instant on his face. Life was good to Don. Eileen stood up as Don came in, her eyes so sharp and bright that they looked like bits of sparkling glass set in black satin. With effort, she spoke calmly. "Don, don't the contracts for next year come out sometime the first of April?" "About the fifteenth, I believe. Why?" "And if one—I mean one of. The teachers in the system—wants a better position, doesn't he make an appointment with the superintendent and ask for it about now? Anytime now?" "Right, honey, but what's the idea of the cross examination? Who's going to make an appointment and ask for a better job?" Don sensed the threatening earnestness in Eileen's words and remained standing. "You are!" Her lips were trembling, and she bit them hard. "You are going to make an appointment with the superintendent and ask him for a position in the senior high school." "Oh, no. I like my job fine, Eileen. I know all the little shavers, and..." "I don't care if you do like your job," she interrupted sharply, regarding him with determination, "there are other things more important to be considered! How do you think I feel when I have to say that my husband is just an elementary-school teacher—with a Master's degree?" "Oh, but that isn't the important _ thing. I like to work with youngsters of that age. That's the time to give them the right lease on life, especially those youngsters who seem to have gotten off on the wrong track. Why you can do more with them at that age than..." "Well, how about giving me a new lease on life—me and Jackie and Junior and the baby?" She spoke with suppressed heat, and Don imagined he could see firecrackers sputtering under ice. He sat down and calmly drew from his pocket the customary pencil and the duebill from Thatcher's, upon which he began making decorative "A's" and "O's."; "Don, I went to that safety meeting for the P. T. A., and Mrs. Killan was there—you know, the lady you graduated with, the one whose husband got that job as cashier in the bank. Did she rise and shine! The little snob! She came up very ladylike and held out her finger tips for me to touch and then said clearly and distinctly and snootily so that everyone turned our way, 'And is your husband still teaching in the elementary schools?' And I said, 'Yes. He is very well satisfied with his work at the Washington school.' And she stuck her abbreviated nose a little higher, and said, 'Oh, I expected so much of him.' "Well, then the storm broke. I said, 'He loves the little folks,' and she said, "Well, every man to his class.' She was so sarcastically gallant about it. I looked murderously at her and said right to her face, 'Well, he likes it!' Then she stared at me just like she was seeing a kangaroo for the first time and was going to make the most of her opportunity." Don tried to hide a grin behind his hand but was unsuccessful. "Oh, the kettle called the skillet black in no weak language," he laughed. Eileen smiled, too—a smile like a piece of steel on a frosty morning. "That isn't the first time I've been humiliated," she snapped. "People are always making some belittling remark, Oh, you can put up with it for a few years, but people expect you to go on up. You don't get paid enough teaching the fifth grade. Being hard up for so long hardens the heart, too, Don, and makes one bitter. I looked as old as Methuselah's first wife tonight in that outfit of mine." "Now, honey, let's get this straight." Don pulled Eileen's rigid little figure onto his lap and felt her tense muscles begin to relax. "I know, Eileen. I know it's hard sometimes. Occasionally I meet people whom I knew a few years back, people with whom I went to school or under whom I studied. Almost invariably when I tell them I am teaching in the elementary school, I hear an 'Oh'—the kind people use when someone doesn't turn out so well. But I don't mind—not too much. As much or more skill is called for in teaching little people of ten and eleven years of age as in teaching your college people. In the elementary school, we can lay the foundation for all that is to follow, and education, like houses, must rest on solid footing if it is to endure. I'm learning things, and some day the people who count, the real, worthwhile, simple people, will find out that we—you and I and the family—do really matter after all." He said it with quiet authority, and Eileen couldn't help admiring
110 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941 THINGS MORE IMPORTANT
him, a little; he was so kind and understanding and good-natured, accepting other folk's ideas, maybe, but clinging like a true old hickory tree to his own. But she was too wrought up to agree with him then.
"Listen, Don. Let me be your problem case for a while. Go talk to the superintendent before the contracts come out for next year. Ask him for a job in the senior high school. You'll have a chance for advancement there, and you can still keep one eye on Hannah and Allen Day and Francis and Bim and all the rest. If you will, I'll... I'll help you teach Mervin his fractions." Eileen laid her head coaxingly against Don's.
"I don't want a job in the senior high school!"
"I do. I want you to have a better job, so that I can look superior, too, and feel as important as Mrs. Killan. Don't you care how I feel, Don?" She sat up straight and stiff. Her eyes flung anger into his.
"I don't want us to feel so superior that all the time we're wondering loftily how those 'lower' classes exist!" He pursed his lips in sophisticated imitation.
"Don! It's a sin to try to rear a family in this day and age on what you make," Eileen said acidly, struggling to get off his lap. He held her firmly.
"A sin is it? Because I want to live my own simple life, it's a sin is it?" he asked quietly, soothingly. "And when a good woman gets into a state of indignation because of her husband's job.... Gracious sakes, honey, I have a good job. What wouldn't a lot of men give today for as fine a one? It means our security. And I like it. I like the kids. I like my room on the north, because I don't have to worry about sun glare, and the temperature is more constant than in any other room in the system."
"But I'm tired of this staying just a little out of the reach of... of... starvation and..."
"Now I'm starving you, huh?" Don tightened his arms about her, but her bitterness still remained. She glowered at him. "That's what people think of us. Besides, there are plenty of 'problem cases' in the higher grades if you must have them."
"I guess there are," agreed Don, "but by that time it's too late to do much with them. These 'misfit cases' need to be handled earlier."
"Well, if that's what's ailing you, then go ahead. Wherever you are you'll find a 'problem case' to work on—one of your own maybe if you don't stop making other kids happy while your own hardly ever see you. They're still young, work on them for a change!" Eileen stiffened and stood away from him. The air about her was electric with battle.
"But, 'Mrs. Solomon'," Don teased, "you're doing swell with the kids. They're O. K." He continued his argument. "The pay I receive isn't so bad, and the important thing is that I like to work with children of that age, and sometimes I'm able to give a child a new slant on life. That helps a lot to make a job worthwhile. Besides, if I stay a year or two and learn all I can and keep case records on the side, it may lead to..."
"...to your going to the superintendent and asking for a better job! Maybe you can act heroic about it, but I can't—not any longer." She glared at him. "If you
112 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941
don't go, I will!" Don noticed that she was trembling with anger.
"O. K., Mrs. John D. Rockefeller. I guess I am sort of slow when it comes to accumulating wealth." If his job hurt Eileen that much he certainly must change it. "I'll make an appointment as soon as I can. Now let's get some 'shut-eye.' It's almost midnight."
DON was leaving the house for school the next morning when the phone rang. "It's for you." Eileen lifted her voice, one hand over the mouthpiece. "Must be Hannah again. She called a few minutes ago. Probably wants you to pedal her to school." Eileen went into the kitchen where she hurried Junior and Jackie with their preparations for school, removed Sister's bib and lifted her to the floor. Through the doorway, she heard Don's startled voice: "He did? I'll be right over."
"What's the matter, Don." Eileen came close.
"It's my little 'carrot-top,' Hannah. Her father died this morning, and she just called to tell me. Poor kid. She's only ten and is left an orphan with two little brothers. Gosh! I'm going right over to see her."
Don didn't return home as usual at 12:15 for lunch—or at 12:30. At 12:40 Eileen called him at school. "Shall I send Junior with some lunch?"
"No, never mind. I wouldn't have time to eat it now anyway. I meant to call you, but I didn't get around to it. I went over to see Hannah. She's taking it like a little brick, and I thought I ought to help her keep her courage up."
"While you were thinking, did you make that appointment with the superintendent?"
"No. I will though. I've been so busy this morning, I just..."
"Never mind. I'll make that appointment for you. You're so busy!" It was a positive declaration. "Hurry home after school. You'll be starved."
The hands on the clock marked the hour as 7:15 when Don came thoughtfully through the door that evening. He came in without speaking. Impulse laid his suit-coat on a kitchen chair, but experience picked it up and hung it in the clothes closet.
"I'm sorry, dear."
"Sorry for what? For not coming home to dinner? For keeping supper waiting two hours, or for almost not hanging up your coat? Never mind about the coat." His cheeks wrinkled in a brief smile as he kissed her. "Where are the kiddies? Not in bed?"
"Just in."
"I'll go up and tell them good night. Didn't think they'd be to bed this early."
"Their bedtime hour is seven, you know." He was back punctually to attend to his delayed meal. "And now suppose you tell me that you've been over to Hannah's since 3:30; that the poor kid has been left an orphan at age ten, and, in spite of the fact that she has a hundred relatives including a grandfather and grandmother right in the same town, you think she needs you around."
"Eileen, you don't understand. The poor kid looks to me. I did go over there after a two-hour meeting at the school. You know we've been
THINGS MORE IMPORTANT
quite the pals. She's called me every day since they took her father to the hospital. I asked her to. She's suffering more now, and I can't let her down."
"It's all right. I understand." That was the trouble with Don. His sympathies were so broad; they took in all sorts of people and problems. Eileen informed him, "I made an appointment with the superintendent for you. It is for day after tomorrow at 3:30—that's Friday. Hear me, Don? This is one thing you must not forget." Her voice sounded a warning note.
"Those poor little fellows over there!" Don said in answer. "The house was full of relatives, most of them strange. They seemed to take to the more attractive little brothers; but Hannah, skinny and sensitive, just sat in one corner and stared." Don rose from the table. "I don't feel very hungry. I had a couple of sandwiches over there. I meant...."
"Yes, I know. You meant to call me, but you forgot."
"I'm sorry. I guess I remember so well when my own father.... You know, Eileen, those kids have a great need for the psychological vitamins of love and affection—of patient, tolerant understanding and reassurance. Every kid does, but those more especially now, and among strange relatives."
"Will you please stop talking about those people," pleaded his wife. "With all those relatives they ought to be able to make out until morning, at least."
"Let's see, you said I'm to speak to the superintendent day after tomorrow. Thanks, Eileen, for making that appointment. I've been rather
113
occupied." Eileen hunted about in the magazine rack and handed him his Post. Suspicious and worried to distraction with fear that he would be rather unimportantly occupied at the important hour, she took the leather-backed date book from his small pile of school materials that were always about. In it he kept artistically designed "O's" and "A's" made with unconscious effort, and also items that needed his daily attention. In bold, inked letters she wrote and underlined: "IMPORTANT! 3:30! FRIDAY! SEE SUPERINTENDENT!"
THE next evening, supper for Don had waited not too patiently but still not too disastrously for only one hour. Eileen was a good wife and planned for his convenience. "You see, it's like this, dear," Don explained in his own good-natured tone of voice, "Hannah came in just before I left the building. She said the folks were trying to decide what to do with the children, and she wanted me to come over. She was very disturbed. She didn't like the way they were deciding things. I thought, of course, I'd be there only a minute.
"They were in an awful mess. All those folks were ganged together trying to decide what to do with those little children. They had about as much sympathy for the kids' side of the problem as if they were pawns on a chess board. They all wanted the boys, plump little fellows who could be dressed up to look well, but they didn't want them badly enough to take Hannah too. Her buck teeth, freckles, and carrot-colored hair were just too much for them."
"I should think so," offered Eileen.
"You know, they wanted to separate those children. Finally, after two hours, they agreed to have them live with their grandparents here and all help with the expense until the children were older. I hate to think what might have happened!" Eileen said, "Well, I'm happy that's settled." Don's reasonableness had soothed so many storms and comforted so many distressed. He must have been meant for that. He was so darned whole-hearted about it!
Before sleep dimmed his consciousness, Don made a remark simply to remind himself of his duty on the morrow and to assure Eileen that he would not forget. Then he added, thoughtlessly, "Even if the funeral isn't out by 3:30, I can get up and leave. I'm taking the class over in a group."
At this suggestion, sleep for Eileen, which had been stealing so peacefully near, jumped back several leagues. If that funeral were Friday and at two o'clock, and if by any good fortune he did get up and leave, was there any assurance that other problems would not engulf Don? That appointment had to be kept. He must keep it! After all she had gone through, it just had to be. Too many bright plans for the future had been born for any mistakes now. It hadn't occurred to her that the superintendent could say no. Far into the night, after Eileen had decided upon a certain action, sleep came.
THE day of the appointment arrived. At 1:30, unnoticed by Don and the majority of the children, Eileen slipped into his school room. She settled quickly into a low chair close by a large cupboard and, in amazement, she watched. Was this the way Don kept school? A group of children were seated at a table cutting and pasting clippings into books; others, working individually or in groups of two, were poring over big books and charts. There was a reading circle going on in one corner of the room. One little girl with great, brown eyes was straightening up the library. They were all dressed for the funeral in their spring frocks and made a lovely picture—or would have if they hadn't been so disorganized. One lad, dressed in his Sunday best, with a rather pale, expressive little face and warts on his hands, was washing at the small sink tucked away in a little cove in the wall. From his pocket he extracted a half comb and manfully strived to make his bulldog haircut go back into a pompadour. Then the next in turn stepped up to do likewise. It was just like a little ant bed of busy people, carefree, natural, sympathetic with one another. After the oppressive dignity of her literary club, this was a rare treat. It seemed to Eileen that Don had made the children feel that everybody was somebody here. The amiability and friendliness thawed her heart. In a magically short time, tables, desks and cupboards were put in order and two by two the little folks left the room. Don picked up a magazine and his little date book of reminders, and followed. Then he noticed Eileen. He gave her a swift, mischievous and understanding smile. "So glad to see you, Mrs. Whiting. Always glad to have mothers. Yes, Mrs. Whiting, Don is doing
114 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941 THINGS MORE IMPORTANT
very well and keeps all his appointments to the minute." He slid his arm about her as they went out together.
"Well, to be honest, Don, I did come to remind you about 3:30. I'll run back home now." The tenderness of her words almost startled him. He went on with his boys and girls, but he was thoughtful.
Eileen watched the little procession of brightly-clad children with Don in his prim black suit bringing up the rear. The new spring day, warm and soft, made the scene enticing. After walking a few paces toward home, she turned and followed the people who were going toward the little church—those people who can be so cruel and yet at times so kind to their fellow sufferers.
In the church, she took her place just behind the reserved benches; it seemed to be the only place vacant. She was surprised to see such an abundance of flowers. The absolute stillness was soothing to Eileen's always taut nerves. Then came the sound of casket wheels at the outer entrance, and the organ began the low sweet chords of "Nearer My God To Thee." The audience stood in respect. It was impressive. And then Eileen saw Hannah, Don's little "carrot-top," with her old, yet oddly wistful little face, buck teeth protruding over her lower lip and freckles everywhere, as though they had been painted on with tiger-lily powder. She was holding a little brother's hand in each of her own. Eileen's heart seemed to turn over in her throat at this picture of trag-
115
edy—three little youngsters left without the two people they needed most. No wonder Don was a friend to Hannah. As they reached the front rows, each of the little boys was claimed by an aunt's arm about his shoulders. Hannah sat between the two, trying to cover her face with her handkerchief. Eileen had noticed in her wide, hazel eyes the unmistakable signs of many tears. Now she could see only the top of her head—her "carrot-topped" head. The procession of more distant relatives and friends followed. Next came the group of marble-eyed, wondering little school children and Don, seating themselves on the two benches just in front of Eileen.
The choir sang, "Abide With Me." A prayer followed and then a duet, "That Beautiful Land," with its inviting words:
"In that beautiful land, On that far away strand... There awaits us a palm and a crown;... And the sunshine will never go down."
The minister rose to his feet. Eileen noticed some confusion toward the front. Hannah must be in difficulty. The aunts looked her way from either side. Eileen, sitting tall, saw Hannah look up quickly and turn her eyes backward, searching. She saw Don's head nod slightly. Then suddenly and without warning, Hannah jumped to her feet, turned down the aisle and slipped in close beside Don. For that short moment the minister's words hung in the stillness, then he went on with his consolation. Pillowing her carrot-red hair on Don's shoulder, the child buried her face in her hands and sobbed as though her heart would burst. Eileen would have taken off her hat to him then, if she had been a man.
The service was lengthening. Hannah was quite comforted. Eileen saw Don glance at his watch, saw him shift to one side and then to the other. He looked at the speaker. From where she sat, she noticed that the large clock on the wall marked half-past the third hour. Don was becoming restless and began to squirm again. Once he looked as if he were going to rise to his feet, but he settled back. Eileen motioned for the child just behind Don to slip her the little black book by his side. Opening it to April 5, she read: "IMPORTANT! 3:30! FRIDAY! SEE SUPERINTENDENT!" Quickly she scratched through the words and wrote beneath in brave letters: "DON'T SEE SUPERINTENDENT! OTHER THINGS MORE IMPORTANT!" Opened, she handed it back.
THE ANSWER Mabel Jones
I know a gay philosopher To whom I take my queries; With calm and ageless wisdom He answers each new series.
"Just what is love?" I asked the sage, In dubious expectation, "Love," he said, "is three parts trust, And one part affirmation."
"But how can you be sure of love?" I asked the wise man slyly, "The only way is just be sure, No proof will satisfy thee.
"For love is but an act of faith, Of confidence, believing, It lives in honor and respect, In being, not deceiving."
116 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941
HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon
Now troops the jester Harlequin along his courtly way, And yet—do we forget the world is full of sorrow and dismay?
BLESSED be the world of books, that the history of the ages is preserved for the generations. Only through the written word and imperishable works of art does man know of the glory and civilization of Alexandria, Athens, Rome, Nineveh and Tyre. Today's civilization stands on the threshold of a new epoch, and the time is expedient to preserve the story of London, Paris, Vienna, Warsaw, and other great cities which now in ashes and despair await the rise of a new era.
CROWN PRINCESSES JULIANA, of the Netherlands, and Martha, of Norway, both royal refugees, visited Washington this winter and were entertained by President and Mrs. Roosevelt at the White House.
JOANNA SPRAGUE, retired Salt Lake City librarian, was recently presented with a copper plaque by The City Commission, in honor of her exceptional service of 42 years. The plaque will be placed in the public library.
ELIZABETH FITZGERALD, one of Utah's most beloved educators, retired this winter after a service of 20 years. She holds a high place in the hearts of thousands of the youth of the community for her understanding guidance.
ALICE MARBLE, noted No. 1 woman athlete for 1940, polled the largest vote of any woman athlete in the last 10 years.
LEE QUINNEY, University of Utah coed, won both runs of the woman's slalom event in the national intercollegiate ski meet at Sun Valley. She is the second winner of the Mary Cornelia trophy.
EDITH CLAWSON, gifted actress, Annie Larsen Gillespie, former librarian of Brigham Young University, Emma Nield Goddard, M. I. A. Worker, Elizabeth Ann Mullett, pioneer, and Electa S. Dixon were among the notable Latter-day Saint women claimed by Death, the great reaper, this winter.
EVELYN WILLIAMS' "The Corn Is Green" has furnished Ethel Barrymore a great dramatic success. It is acclaimed by the critics "a masterpiece."
KATHARINE CORNELL, famous monologist, appears in a new role, giving a pint of blood for plasma transfusions for Britain's war wounded.
WILLA CATHER'S latest book, "Sapphira and the Slave Girl," of the period of 1856, with a Virginia setting, and Ruth M. Underhill's "Hawk Over Whirlpools" are two vital and interesting novels of the winter. Eva Willes Wangsgaard, of Utah, and Jan Struther, English novelist, have each published a volume of verse.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
Amy Brown Lyman - - - - President Marcia K. Howells - - - - First Counselor Donna D. Sorensen - - - - Second Counselor Vera W. Pohlman - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Belle S. Spafford Luella N. Adams Nellie O. Parker Gertrude R. Garff Vivian R. McConkie Marianne C. Sharp Anna S. Barlow Leona B. Fetzer Leda T. Jensen Anna B. Hart Beatrice F. Stevens Edith S. Elliott Achsa E. Paxman Pauline T. Pingree Mary G. Judd Ethel B. Andrew Rae B. Barker Alice B. Castleton
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. XXVIII FEBRUARY, 1941 No. 2
EDITORIAL
Appreciation
IF, like Benjamin Franklin, I were to make a list of the virtues worthy of cultivation, foremost among them would be the ability to appreciate—the ability to be conscious of the significance, the desirability, the value of a person or thing; the ability to place oneself in the position of another and sense his problems, recognize his strengths and perceive his virtues; the ability to prize each thing according to its worth.
The word "appreciation" evades definition. It is a living experience. Sometimes one's heart is so full of it that he cannot speak; in the intensity of his appreciation words seem paltry and inadequate. Sometimes one is so stirred with it that he would have some outward expression of it—he would praise; he would send a gift; he would render a service; he would offer thanks. Sometimes it stimulates one to conquer his weaknesses and impels him to more worthy endeavor. Appreciation has driven many a person forth to great accomplishment.
Rich as this experience may be, and far-reaching as its influences are, it is all too rare in the lives of most people. The average person today lives such a whirlwind existence, and the struggle for survival is so great that he seldom pauses long enough to understand, to evaluate, to appraise either things or people. He becomes selfish; his sense of appreciation becomes dull, and much that is fine in life is lost to him. Most of us have fleeting moments of appreciation, but we do not fan the flame or carry sufficient fuel to the fire to have it blaze up in our lives and give forth warmth and cheer.
Everyone has need for appreciation, the mightiest as well as the lowliest. There is none so great but that it is important to him and none so mean but he is made better by it. Outward expressions of appreciation are good for the soul. They bring joy and encouragement to the recipient and growth and happiness to the giver. We sometimes hesitate in our expressions because of a sense of modesty or because we feel the expression should be lavish, such as an expensive gift or costly entertainment. But more frequently than not, those expressions which cost only a little thought and a moment's time are the most highly valued. It
is not the cost in dollars and cents that makes the expression of appreciation valuable but the sensitiveness to kindness, effort, or achievement which has motivated the expression.
The expectation of appreciation is human. To desire recognition of our acts of kindness, to hunger for the simple justice of a return of good for good is natural. But thoughtless thanklessness has ever been the characteristic of man. Saint Luke tells us that when the Savior was upon the earth, He entered into a certain village and there met ten men who were lepers, who stood afar off:
"And they lifted up their voices and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.
"And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto the priests. And it came to pass, that, as they went, they were cleansed.
"And one of them when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God.
"And fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan.
"And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine?
"There are not found that returned to give glory to God, save this stranger."
Ten were healed; nine departed. One only returned to give thanks. Though we all hunger for and need appreciation, it must be genuine, otherwise its value is lost. Only sincere appreciation encourages us and impels us to further effort. The flatterer is soon discovered; the insincere is early exposed.
Appreciation leads to abundant living. It builds personality; it draws friends; it brings out the best that is in us; it encourages us to greater achievement; it creates a bond of understanding love. It is a virtue worthy of cultivation.
Washington and Lincoln
WHEN President Theodore Roosevelt on February 12, 1909, laid the cornerstone of the memorial hall near Hodgenville, Kentucky, in which are the remains of the log cabin in which Lincoln was born, he linked together the names of Washington and Lincoln in a memorable address, in which he said:
"There have been other men as great and other men as good; but in all the history of mankind there are no other two great men as good as these, no other two good men as great."
Washington's Prayer
AFTER his inauguration as President, General Washington offered this prayer, which is taken from a copy in his pew, St. Paul's chapel, New York:
"Almighty God, we make our earnest prayer that Thou wilt keep the United States in Thy holy protection; that Thou wilt incline the hearts of the citizens to cultivate a spirit of subordination and obedience to government; to entertain a brotherly affection and love for one another and for their fellow-citizens of the United States at large."
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Radio Program Recommended
THE attention of Relief Society women is called to a radio program entitled "The Home of the Brave," which is broadcast daily over the Columbia Network, Station KSL, at 12:45 M. S. T. The program is recommended by the National Council of Women as "a constructive departure from the usual line of daytime drama."
"'The Home of the Brave' is a lively, human story about a group of men and women who are striving to follow the American way of life in the West.... The listener will find it an answer to daily problems, intelligently presented. As clean, enlightening entertainment." Pauline and Frederick Gilsdorf are the authors of "The Home of the Brave." Mr. Gilsdorf is a former member of the University of Pittsburgh English Department. Mrs. Gilsdorf, after graduation from the Pennsylvania College for Women, spent seven years in magazine work for high school children.
Hymns To Be Sung
THE Church Music Committee announces that the hymns to be used in the Church-wide hymn singing project during the first three months of 1941 are as follows: January—"I'll Go Where You Want Me To Go." February—"Softly Beams the Sacred Dawning." March—"Sweet Is the Work." Interesting information about each of these hymns will be found in the Music Section of the Deseret News on the Saturday prior to the Fast Sunday of the month in which each hymn is scheduled to be used. The articles are written by Elder George D. Pyper and are entitled "Hymns We All Sing."
Second Edition Of Relief Society Song Book
THE second edition of the Relief Society Song Book is now off the press. This edition is exactly like the first one, and, despite increasing costs of paper and other materials, the price of the Song Book will remain at 85c per copy, postpaid. Address orders to Relief Society General Board, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
Wherever the name does not readily indicate the geographical location of the stake or mission, the location of its headquarters is designated in parentheses. Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275.
Relief Society Parties
Carbon Stake (Price, Utah)
ON the afternoon of March 3, the Carbon Stake Relief Society Board entertained the ward officers and class leaders at an annual party. Instead of an afternoon of games, the stake board members demonstrated to the ward officers their idea of an ideal work-and-business meeting. The program was carried out as follows:
Singing Prayer Community singing (songs on nutrition composed by the stake board members) Talk by stake Relief Society president, Belle Johnson Dramatization, "The Old Woman in the Shoe." Demonstrations of handwork and homemaking Reports of visiting teachers Singing Benediction
For the dramatization, a large shoe was used made of heavy cardboard. It was about six feet high and between twelve and fifteen feet long, with a door and window in it. One of the stake board members was the old woman, and a class of eighteen kindergarten children represented her children. The children recited little rhymes on nutrition, such as:
"There was an old woman who lived in a shoe. She had so many children, she knew just what to do: She gave them pure milk and plenty of bread, Then tucked them all warm and snug in their bed."
Following the dramatization, the time was spent at the five booths. At one booth, demonstrations were given on rug-making, quilting, and remodeling of suits, dresses, capes, etc. This booth was arranged and the demonstrations were given by two of the board members. A baby quilt was on frames, and the officers of the wards were taught how to quilt. A candy booth was conducted by an expert, who gave a demonstration on how to make candy. This booth was decorated beautifully by two of the stake board members. At a lovely flower booth, a woman from a floral shop gave instructions on the care of flowers, the proper conditioning of the soil, and how and when to plant flowers. Another booth was related to hospitality, table service and etiquette. This was arranged by two stake board members. There were three tables properly set with silverware, dishes and centerpieces, for breakfast, luncheon, and dinner, respectively, and suggested menus were given. A fifth booth was devoted to personal appearance and care of the hands, with a licensed operator giving instructions on care of the nails. She demonstrated her instructions by giving a manicure. A recipe for home-made hand lotion was also given. While the demonstrations were in progress, the visiting teachers quietly handed in their monthly reports to the secretary at a side table. A dainty Saint Patrick cake, beautifully decorated in white and green, was served to all, accompanied by green mint punch.
Smithfield Stake (Smithfield, Utah)
THE Relief Society presidency of Smithfield Third Ward sent the accompanying pictures of a recent pageant featuring the youth of the Church. They wrote: "April conference was an inspiration to the officers of our organization. We desired to bring about a closer relationship between the parents and youth of our ward, so we worked out a youth pageant using as many of the young people as possible in musical numbers, choruses and other parts. Truly parents and youth worked unitedly in a program which was a challenge to everyone
FROM THE YOUTH PAGEANT, SMITHFIELD THIRD WARD
present to uphold the banner of purity." The characters were costumed in white and were effective against the blue back curtain on which was lettered in white and gold the words: "The worth of a soul is great in God's sight." The pageant was based upon one of the Relief Society objectives—"to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life." It was also a salute to youth, their achievements and their future, and offered a challenge to parents to maintain homes which foster righteousness. One feature of the pageant was the ship scene where a small trumpeter announced: "Relief Society is sailing along—won't
122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941 NOTES FROM THE FIELD
you join our happy crew?" which was concluded by the audience singing the Relief Society rally song, "A Hundred Thousand Strong." Annie M. Farr is stake president of Relief Society in Smithfield Stake.
123
temple. About 275 people participated. Plans have been made to make this excursion an annual event." Clara A. Wickman is president of the Relief Society in this stake.
THE CONCLUDING SCENE OF THE PAGEANT, SMITHFIELD THIRD WARD
Emery Stake (Castle Dale, Utah)
MYRLE B. JOHANSEN, secretary-treasurer of Emery Stake Relief Society, sent the following account of the observance which marked the close of the Relief Society educational year in this stake in 1940: "At the close of our season's work, June 25, 1940, the Emery Stake Relief Society sponsored an excursion to the Manti temple. Members of Melchizedek Priesthood quorums and all members of Relief Society were invited to attend. Enroute to the temple, the excursionists assembled at the top of the mountain at 6:30 a. m. for a short program and breakfast. Our stake Singing Mothers sang at the morning program and later rendered two selections in the
Bear River Stake (Tremonton, Utah)
ELLA M. PECK, secretary-treasurer, reports that "the stake officers of Bear River Stake Relief Society, of which Clara H. Fridal is president, entertained the ward presidents at a breakfast, June 1, at the beautiful new church in the Tremonton Second Ward.
"Different phases of the work were discussed, and topics were given by stake officers and ward presidents, such as: What are we doing to get new members—to hold them and to decrease the "C" roll? The educational program for 1940 Church welfare plan Work-and-business Anti-liquor and tobacco control
124
The Magazine Membership Singing Mothers The Relief Society Song Book The instructions to stake secretaries given at April general conference.
"A crystal bowl of roses formed the centerpiece for the table, with tall tapers at either end. Favors de-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941
tended by 300 members and guests. The party was unique in the fact that every member present from the various wards participated in the program. Each ward brought its own lunch, arranged its own tables, and presented a part on the program. The accompanying picture shows
RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN OF ADAMS WARD, LOS ANGELES STAKE, IN GYPSY COSTUME
picting the Magazine were made by our stake Magazine representative.
"This breakfast was a very enjoyable affair, and we feel that much good will come from it."
Los Angeles Stake (California)
THE Los Angeles Stake, of which Mary S. Jordan is Relief Society president, closed its 1939-40 season with a picnic sponsored by the stake board and held at the stake center, May 24, 1940. The party was at-
Relief Society women of the Adams Ward in gypsy costume, who were awarded first prize for their outstanding performance portraying a gypsy camp with singing and dancing around a bonfire. The music furnished by this group, and directed by Minnie Eckert, was exceptionally fine. The Wilshire Ward received first prize for its beautiful and unique table decorations portraying a jungle scene.
EXCERPTS FROM THE SERMONS AND WRITINGS OF PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT As Published in The Improvement Era (Selected by Marianne C. Sharp)
"I believe that no worthy young Latter-day Saint man or woman should spare any reasonable effort to come to a house of the Lord to begin life together. The marriage vows taken in these hallowed places and the sacred covenants entered into for time and all eternity are proof against many of the temptations of life that tend to break homes and destroy happiness." (April, 1936, page 198)
"I thank God from the bottom of my heart that I read the life of Nephi in my youth. I fell in love with him then, and his life has influenced mine for good more than that of any other character in ancient history, sacred or profane, save only the Redeemer of the world." (March, 1934, page 160)
"In all my labors I got nearer to the Lord and had more joy in the mission field than ever before or since, and the joy I experienced in the mission field was superior to any I have experienced elsewhere." (July, 1937, page 405)
"It is a God-given law that in proportion to the service we give, in proportion to what we do in this Church and out of it—what we are willing to sacrifice for the Church and for those to whom we owe our loyalty outside of Church activity—we shall grow in the grace of God and in the love of God, and we shall grow in accomplishing the purposes of our being placed here on the earth." (March, 1940, page 137)
"I am thankful for the Gospel, beyond all power with which God has endowed me to express my thoughts; for this is the Gospel, the glad tidings of which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us—that He came into the world, even Jesus Christ, to sanctify the world and to cleanse it from unrighteousness, and to save all the creatures of His hands, to save all except those that deny the Son after the Father has revealed Him. This Gospel is for all, and it helps all who embrace it with full purpose of heart to meet the stresses of life with courageous assurance." (September, 1939, page 521)
"Why is it that Latter-day Saints are enabled to convert people? It is because they have the truth to offer, because they have no doubt in their minds regarding the divinity of the work in which we are engaged." (September, 1938, page 519)
"If there is one thing more than another that I would like above all other things to impress upon young men it is a desire to find some labor, some work in connection with the Gospel of Jesus Christ, through which they can give something to this Gospel." (July, 1939, page 393)
"I want to say to the Latter-day Saints, I am convinced, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that no man or woman can fulfill any law of God but that he is bound to receive the blessing attached to that law. The Lord never forgets. The Lord never fails to bestow the blessing upon those who have fulfilled the law." (October, 1939, page 585)
"The Lord gives to many of us the still, small voice of revelation. It comes as vividly and strongly as though it were with a great sound. It comes to each man, according to his needs and faithfulness, for guidance in matters that pertain to his own life." (December, 1938, page 712)
"Every law that is given to us in the Church is for our own individual benefit." (December, 1939, page 713)
"But faith and knowledge without practice are of no value. All the knowledge in the world would not amount to anything unless we put that knowledge into actual practice." (June, 1939, page 329)
"May the Lord bless you, one and all, is my prayer for you. I thank God that I know we have the truth. I thank God that I know that He lives, that He hears and answers my prayers, that He guides me by His Spirit, that He gives me the inspiration of His Spirit to know what to do and how to do it for the benefit of His people here on the earth. I thank God for the remark made to me by President Joseph F. Smith—the last remark that he made before he passed on—'The Lord knows whom He wants to stand at the head of His Church, and the Lord never makes any mistakes. The Lord bless you; the Lord bless you.'" (May, 1939, page 319)
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology and Testimony
THE RESTORED GOSPEL DISPENSATION Lesson 8
Obedience—President Heber J. Grant (Tuesday, May 6, 1941)
"And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto my father: I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them." (I Nephi 3:7)
ON June 1, 1919, during a special conference held for the ratification of his nomination to the office of President of the Church, Heber J. Grant declared:
"I shall do the best I can to fulfill every obligation that shall rest upon me as President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, to the full extent of my ability.
"I will ask no man to be more liberal with his means than I am with mine in proportion to what he possesses, for the advancement of God's kingdom.
"I will ask no man to observe the Word of Wisdom any more closely than I will observe it.
"I will ask no man to be more conscientious and prompt in the payment of his tithes and his offerings than I will be.
"I will ask no man to be more ready and willing to come early and to go late and to labor with full power of mind and body than I will labor, always in humility."
In these words is found the keynote that has characterized the administration of President Grant during more than two decades—absolute obedience to the word and will of God.
EARLY LIFE OF HEBER J. GRANT
Our seventh president of the Church was born on November 22, 1856, at Salt Lake City, a son of Jedediah M. Grant and Rachel Ridgeway Ivins. Nine days following his birth, his mother became a widow. A woman of strong character and independence, she set to work to make a living for herself and child rather than accept charitable aid. These characteristics, as well as her deep religious convictions, became indelibly impressed on the mind of the youthful Heber. Many are the stories told by President Grant concerning their struggles against adversity and poverty in his childhood years.
When about thirteen years of age, he became impressed by the story of Nephi, as recorded in the Book of Mormon. The accomplishments of
LESSON DEPARTMENT
this ancient prophet-leader, because of his obedience to the commands of the Lord and the admonitions of his father, became an inspiration to Heber J. Grant. He decided that he also would make implicit obedience to the Lord's injunctions and his mother's teachings the guidepost of his life. He became a dutiful and obedient son, and at an early age was actively engaged in Church service.
But obedience meant more to him than merely doing what was advised or requested. He conceived obedience to be intimately connected with improvement or perfection. This led him to strive for improvement in whatever he was assigned to do or in whatever he undertook to do. At an early stage in life, he commenced to manifest the invincible determination that has characterized his thought and conduct up to the present day.
PUBLIC LEADERSHIP
At an early age, Heber J. Grant embarked upon a career of business and public service that has placed him in the front ranks of state-builders in the Intermountain West. During the days when the Church was staggering under a great burden of debt, intensified by nation-wide depressions, he was sent by the First Presidency on financial missions to the East and West Coast to borrow large sums of money for the benefit of the Church and its membership. So prominent had he become in the public mind through his business, charitable and public-service activities in the last decade of the nineteenth century, that it appears certain he would have been nominated as candidate for the position of first governor of Utah. He con-
127
fesses that nothing would have pleased him more at the time than to have had this honor; but when he asked President Woodruff if he should accept it, no reply was forthcoming. Heber J. Grant then realized that the Church needed him more than the State, and, subordinating his own desires to his determination to obey his calling as one of the Twelve, asked that his name be withheld from the convention.
CHURCH ACTIVITIES
In October, 1881, when not quite twenty-four years of age, he was called by President Taylor to take up his residence in Tooele and preside over that stake. Acceptance of this call meant a great financial sacrifice to the young business man, but true to the precept that guided him in his life, he devoted himself to the task with admirable success. Two years later he was called to the apostleship. He opened and presided over the Japanese Mission from 1901 to 1903, and later presided over the European missions from 1904 to 1906. These mission experiences occurred in days when the Church was maligned and persecuted on all sides. President Grant has lived to be received with ovations from the press that formerly abused him and the Church he represented as a missionary.
THE CHURCH DURING PRESIDENT GRANT'S ADMINISTRATION
The last words that the late President Joseph F. Smith spoke were to Heber J. Grant. He said, "The Lord bless you, my boy, the Lord bless you; you have a great responsibility. Always remember that this is the Lord's work, and not man's. The Lord is greater than any man. He knows whom He wants to lead His Church, and never makes any mistakes. The Lord bless you."
Throughout the years that he has since directed its destinies as the Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, he has endeavored to make this admonition his guide. The policies of his predecessor have been continued. The Church has continued its expansion in missionary work with the opening of new missions and the erection or purchase of numerous chapels for the Saints in these lands. Wards and stakes have increased greatly in numbers and extent. Temples have been erected in Hawaii, Canada, and Arizona, and sites have been selected for temples in Idaho and California. In addition to these physical manifestations of Church advancement, there has likewise been a great deal of teaching concerning public and private morals, with President Grant in the vanguard of the advocates of righteous living. The most recent noteworthy development has been the organization and functioning of the Church-wide welfare plan, which manifests the marks of true religion and pure brotherly love.
PRESIDENT GRANT'S RELIGIOUS LEADERSHIP
Perhaps the burden of the message of the now venerable Church president during nearly sixty years of leadership can best be summarized in his oft-quoted phrase: "Latter-day Saints, keep the commandments of God!" The words, "keep the commandments," epitomize his personal life. His public preaching has more often been directed toward temporal affairs than purely spiritual concerns, because he clearly perceived that no man can soar to the realms of spirituality as long as his personal life is burdened with violations of God's laws or is at variance with the admonitions God has given. Therefore, personal righteousness must precede the higher spirituality toward which we are striving.
It is because of this attitude that President Grant has so long and nobly championed the cause of more rigid observance of the Word of Wisdom. During the October conference of 1883, the year following his appointment to the Quorum of the Twelve, he stated, "But in order to understand it (Mormonism), it is necessary to live it. God has laid down certain laws for our guidance, and has made promises as the result of obedience to the same. One of these was the Word of Wisdom, through obedience to which some of the greatest blessings would accrue." Some have argued that the Word of Wisdom was "To be sent greeting, not by commandment or constraint...". To such, President Grant has said, "But what else does it say? It says, 'by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth...' What? '...showing forth the order and the will of God'! That is sufficient for him, and should be for every one who calls himself a member of the Church.
CHARACTER OF PRESIDENT GRANT
As the father of a family, he is generous, kind and patient; as a son he was considerate. His honesty and industriousness are proverbial. Money has been and is now attractive to him only for the good he can accomplish by using it for the wel-
128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT
fare of others; he has never made it an end in and of itself. Long years of experience have caused him to formulate his philosophy of life in the statement: "That which we persist in doing becomes easier to do, not that the nature of the task has changed, but that our capacity to do has increased."
Questions and Problems for Discussion
1. What great prophet-leader inspired the youthful Heber J. Grant to place absolute faith in obedience to God's commands?
2. Upon what has President Grant based his firm testimony of the divinity of the work of Joseph Smith and the Latter-day Saint Church?
3. What significance do you attach to the farewell message of President Joseph F. Smith to Heber J. Grant?
4. What influences motivate President Grant in preaching so strongly the need of more rigid observance of the Word of Wisdom?
Topics for Study and Special Reports
1. Have someone read and report to the group some of the articles dealing with the family life, missionary labors, Church activities, civic leadership, and business enterprises of Heber J. Grant, as found in the November, 1936, Improvement Era. (This issue is a treasury of information
129
regarding the intimate and public life of our President.) 2. In every ward, stake or mission will be found many books that President Grant has given to friends. What significance do you see in his hobby of giving away books? 3. Have someone make a report of James H. Wallis' article, "President Grant, Defender of the Word of Wisdom," in The Improvement Era, November, 1936, pp. 696-698. 4. Read the biblical verses quoted on pages 485-488 of Vol. VI of the Comprehensive History of the Church that explain President Grant's view of practical religion. 5. Read President Grant's testimony as related on page 62 of Heroes of Truth, prepared by Maude Beeley Jacob. 6. Have someone make a report on President Grant's personal interest and work in the temple. (The Improvement Era, November, 1936, page 660)
References
Heber J. Grant, Editorials in recent issues of The Improvement Era. Heber J. Grant, Sermons in the annual and semi-annual Conference Reports of the Church. Improvement Era, November issue, 1936. (This is a special number commemorating the eightieth birthday of the President.) B. H. Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 479-505. Relief Society Magazine, November, 1936, pp. 671-683; December issue, 1940, pp. 727-728.
Visiting Teacher MESSAGES TO THE HOME
How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home No. 8
Home Training For A Mission (Tuesday, May 6, 1941)
"Go ye into all the world, preach the Gospel to every creature, acting in the authority which I have given you, baptizing in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost." (Doctrine and Covenants 68:8)
ONE great mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is to take the Gospel message to the world. Every boy in the Church expects some day to have this privilege, provided, of course, that he is recommended for a mission by his bishop and called by the Presidency of the Church. He goes without funds from the Church. In December, 1940, there were approximately 2,250 missionaries in the field, most of them young men.
The home can do much to prepare boys and girls for this great missionary work. Some of the qualifications and habits that can be cultivated in the home and which make for success in the mission field are: a knowledge and a testimony of the Gospel; obedience to the Word of Wisdom; habits of honesty, truthfulness, and faithfulness to duty; practice in praying aloud in the home and in expressing one's self clearly; sociability; a knowledge of proper etiquette; the ability to care for one's own clothing and to prepare a well-balanced meal; willingness to do one's share; and a sincere desire to be of service to others in carrying to them the Gospel message. A missionary cannot be sincere in his work without being benefited himself.
Home Discussion Helps
Most members of the Church would be in other lands or in other parts of the country if it had not been for the work of some missionary in bringing the Gospel to them or their parents or grandparents. Nearly all of us owe a debt of gratitude to the missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Work-and-Business NUTRITION No. 8
Refreshing Refreshments (Tuesday, May 13, 1941)
"THERE are refreshments which refresh and refreshments which depress. Refreshments which are really refreshing are those which are light in calories, moist but not soggy, not too sweet, and which are quickly and easily digested. Party refreshments often constitute an extra meal for people who are already taking too many calories and who are already overweight. A person at age 50 who is 50 pounds overweight has his life expectancy cut down 50 per cent. It is easier to keep those 50 pounds off before the fiftieth birthday arrives than it is to get them off after age 50. The wise woman will not let her body become weighted down with too much fat. Cutting down on party refreshments is one way to cut down the surplus calories which will be stored as body fat.
Most of the food served at parties is very high in sugar, starches, and fat. Much sleep disturbance comes from eating rich, heavy foods served at parties at the midnight hour. A
130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT
warm, non-stimulating beverage taken just before retiring has a relaxing effect on some people. Rich pastries or other heavy foods served late at night keep most people from going to sleep quickly or from sleeping soundly after they go to sleep.
Party refreshments are sometimes a drain on family budgets, due to the attempt to serve more elaborately than has a previous hostess. Refreshments can be attractive and inexpensive. They really should be incidental to the party and not be the major feature of it. This is particularly true as far as children's parties are concerned.
Refreshing drinks can be made at home at little cost. Fruit drinks are far more desirable made from fruit juices than from a powder bought at the store and stirred into sweetened water. Rhubarb, plums, cherries, berries, apples, or any home-grown fruit which is tart can be made into juice and canned with very little sugar to be used as fruit drinks, either alone or mixed with other fruit juices. These fruit drinks may be served either hot or cold. Chicken broth or other meat broth with the fat removed makes a good hot drink to serve on a cold day. It may be mixed with tomato juice or seasoned with celery salt, bay leaves, or any desired flavoring.
Salads made from fruit or raw vegetables served with French dressing are appetizing. Heavier salads contain too many calories for this extra meal. Open-face sandwiches made with a thick sandwich paste on a thin slice of bread or a wafer will cut down the usual high starch content of party refreshments.
131
Fruit desserts which are not too sweet or frozen desserts which do not contain too much thick cream provide fewer surplus calories than do the rich pies, cakes, and puddings which are so frequently served.
RECIPES
HOME-CANNED FRUIT JUICES
Prepare fruit juices for beverages from berries, cherries, currants, or plums. Use only sound, well-ripened fruit in such quantities that the canning process can be carried through promptly. To avoid overcooking and to preserve the original flavor and color as much as possible, check the temperature with a thermometer as the fruit is precooked and the juice pasteurized Sugar also helps to preserve color and flavor, but it may be omitted if an unsweetened juice is preferred.
Wash the fruit, drain, and crush. Add water, if desired, to thin the juice—about ¼ cup of water to each pound of fruit. Heat to 170° or 180° F., and hold for several minutes or until the juice can be separated from the pulp. Extract the juice with a fruit press or strain through several layers of cheesecloth. A second straining without pressure makes the juice clearer. Add sugar if desired, using about ¾ to 1 cup of sugar to each gallon of juice. Heat the juice to 160° or 170° F. and then pour into hot, sterilized glass jars or bottles; fill bottles to within an inch of the top. Seal and immediately process in water bath. Where elevation is 4000 feet, 9 minutes are required for processing. Increase time one minute for each 500 feet above 4000 feet.
HOT TOMATO JUICE COCKTAIL
1 quart tomato juice 1 tablespoon butter ½ teaspoon salt
Combine ingredients and heat. Ten servings.
Variation 1: Add 2 bay leaves, 6 peppercorns, and 1 teaspoon of sugar to the above recipe and heat. Remove bay leaves and peppercorns and serve.
Variation 2: Combine 1 pint bouillon with three cups tomato juice. Heat and serve.
MULLED FRUIT JUICE
2½ cups canned apple juice 12 whole cloves ¼ teaspoon nutmeg 1 cup cherry juice 1 3-inch stick cinnamon
Empty the juice into a saucepan and add the spices. Heat to boiling and simmer for 5 minutes. Strain and serve piping hot. Eight servings.
Variation: Other canned juices may be combined and used, or a single juice may be mulled.
APPLE-SAUCE SHERBET
½ cup sugar ¼ cup water 1 tablespoon corn syrup Few grains salt 2 egg whites 1 pint apple sauce 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon vanilla
Combine the sugar, water, corn syrup, and salt, and boil until syrup will spin a thread. Beat the egg whites until stiff; pour the syrup into them beating all the time. Fold the apple sauce, lemon juice, and vanilla into the egg-white mixture. Pour into a freezing tray of mechanical refrigerator. Turn the regulator of the refrigerator to lowest freezing point and freeze mixture to the mushy stage. Remove and beat (in the tray) with a rotary beater until smooth. Return to refrigerator and finish freezing. May be frozen in an ice-cream freezer. Six to eight servings.
SANDWICHES
Sandwiches may be made of two or more layers of bread sliced extra thin, cut in interesting shapes. Three-layer, finger-length sandwiches, alternating brown and white bread, are attractive. Open-face sandwiches omit the top slice of bread. Rolled sandwiches: Cut a thin slice of not-too-fresh bread, spread with filling, roll and tie with narrow ribbon. Pinwheel sandwiches are made by removing the crust from a sandwich loaf, spreading the entire top with a bright-colored cheese mixture, then cutting a thin slice the entire length of the top of the loaf. Roll, wrap in a damp cloth, chill. Slice in round, thin discs. Canapes are made from stale, white bread cut in small, fancy shapes, sautéed or simply toasted on both sides, then spread with some piquant mixture.
SANDWICH AND CANAPE SPREADS
Deviled Chicken (or Ham)
½ cup minced chicken (or ham) 2 chopped, hard-cooked eggs 3 tablespoons minced, green pepper ¼ teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons prepared mustard 2 teaspoons mayonnaise
Piquant Mixture
2 tablespoons chopped pimientos 2 tablespoons chopped, sweet pickles 4 tablespoons chopped celery 1 teaspoon mayonnaise 1 tablespoon prepared mustard
Literature THE MODERN NOVEL Lesson 8
Song of Years and Summary of Entire Course (Tuesday, May 20, 1941)
LESSON TOPICS:
1. Brief review
2. The plot of the novel
3. The theme of the novel
4. Some selected quotations
5. Statements about the course
REVIEW
In the last lesson, the author of
132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT
Song of Years, Bess Streeter Aldrich, was introduced, and mention was made of others of her novels which have contributed to the pleasure and cultural growth of the readers. The setting of the story of Song of Years was discussed—the fact that the old home region of the author afforded the background for this story, and that the time was the important Civil War period in American history. The relationship between setting and character was mentioned, and the similarity was drawn between the pioneer setting of Song of Years and conditions in our own pioneer days in Utah. The chief characters were named, and some of their outstanding traits were mentioned: Wayne Lockwood who came from the East to find land he could call his own; Suzanne Martin, youngest of the seven Martin sisters, a tender friend, who, though a dreamer, had the courage to claim her own happiness when the great moment of Wayne's belated return from war came; her father, lovable Jeremiah, who was always talking, always helping someone, always working for American dreams; her mother, Sarah, who was sharp-tongued, scolding, but a genuine, capable, efficient helpmeet under pioneering conditions. Besides these, there are many minor characters in the book, each a distinct personality, contributing something to our knowledge of human nature and adding interest to the novel.
PLOT
Song of Years is the story of the growth of a part of America during a critical period in the history of the nation. It is also, fictionally, the
133
love story of Suzanne Martin. The novel begins with a description of Red Cedar Valley in which nearly a century ago lay the tiny settlements from which grew two modern cities. Then we are taken to a cemetery, between the two cities, where the first settlers had been laid to rest. The author says that because those buried there were all related by blood or neighborhood ties, the life of one in its bare outline was the life of all. "But what of those other things—the loving, hating, feuding—all of the emotions that were stilled when the last old settler was brought here?" In the light of those, "The life of one can never be the life of all." We are invited to read the names on the headstones. On one is the inscription: "Suzanne, Beloved Wife of," with the rest of the inscription overcovered with woodbine. "Reading the inscription chiseled long ago, it seems of such small consequence whose name is hidden under the vines. But, oh, to Suzanne it mattered so very, very much. This is the love story of the Suzanne who lies here by the side of the curving graveled path."
The story then begins with the coming to Red Cedar Valley, in 1854, of Wayne Lockwood, who traveled long miles with his dreams to a new land. Almost as soon as he claims his land with his unique marriage ceremony, he meets the man who is to be his antagonist throughout the story. Cady Bedson wants the same land Wayne has just "married." Later, he also wants the same woman—and he almost gets both. Suzanne rides with her father to welcome the young stranger to Red Cedar Valley, and from her first sight of the strong-limbed, clear-eyed young homesteader she begins to build castles in the air in which he figures. Wayne's acceptance of Suzanne merely as a little friend to whom he can confide even his infatuation for another girl and whom he can use as a messenger to promote his love for the aristocratic Carlie only adds to the intensity of Suzanne's inner conflict. Her discovery that her own sister Emily also loves him brings another element into her struggle. When Wayne's infatuation for a time dominates him so that it dulls his sense of patriotism to the point that he can see others going to fight for their country but will not himself volunteer, Suzanne is troubled.
The climax of the story comes with Suzanne's discovery of Carlie's duplicity, her use of Wayne as a blind to her parents in order that she may consummate an elopement with a former lover of whom they disapprove. Suzanne's desire to save Wayne from the hurt of his loss of Carlie reveals her depth of character and the quality of her own love. One of the highlights of the story is the scene in which Suzanne struggles through the terrific storm to get to Wayne so he can save his sheep. Half frozen and exhausted when she reaches him, she is forced, because of the wildness of the storm, to remain in his cabin all night. The delicate way in which the author handles this situation—Wayne caring for Suzanne as her father or brother would have done, despite the fact that he discovers that he loves her—shows Mrs. Aldrich's mastery of her art.
Then comes Wayne's awakening, symbolized by the theme in "The Song of a Thousand Years." He sings the song after the fundamentals of his character begin to shape themselves into their old unity following the chaos of his experience with Carlie. His enlistment and departure for war, the momentary pause of the train when he kisses Suzanne goodbye, later the report of his death, Suzanne's long months of silent suffering, her final consent to marry Cady, and the quick finale in which Wayne unexpectedly returns home on the night of her wedding and Suzanne eagerly rushes to his cabin to claim her belated happiness are the incidents which form the skeleton of the plot.
There are many other threads interwoven in the story. As the author says in the first chapter: "This is the love story of Suzanne... (but) the telling must include, perforce, the story of those others who lie beside her at the end of the trail." THE THEME By the theme of a novel is meant the central idea which the story unfolds or the center of interest around which it is built. In this novel, the title and the theme are climaxed in the song Wayne is heard singing when the story is more than three-fourths told, "The Song of a Thousand Years." The Martins are gathered around the lighted lamps, Sarah is sewing carpet rags, Martin is reading the news that more troops have been called for, the girls are busy at various homely tasks. "There was only silence now. Sarah had no acid to feed the monster that lay crouching there in the south.... Suzanne, leaning against the door, had been hearing for some time what suddenly they all stopped to hear, 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT Wayne Lockwood singing—Wayne who had not sung for so long a time: "Tell the great world these blessed tidings; Yes and be sure the bondsman hears: Tell the oppressed of every nation Jubilee lasts a thousand years. "What if the clouds one little moment Hide the blue sky when morn appears, When the bright sun that tints them crimson Rises to shine a thousand years. "Haste thee along, thou glorious noonday Oh, for the eyes of ancient seers. Oh, for the faith of him who reckons Each of his days a thousand years." To each of those listening, the song touched the spring of some hidden dream that linked them with the world of the ideal. To Jeremiah, it was a song of patriotism, giving faith that everything would come out all right. To Sarah, it was a song of memory, opening her eyes to a beauty in her hard life she had never seen before. 'Io Emily, it was a prayer that life would not pass her. By. To Phoebe Lou, it was a thanksgiving for her son and a dedication to his future. To the singer himself, it was a song of strength, stripping from him the weaknesses which had fettered him. To Suzanne, it was a song of love, exalting her emotion to any needed sacrifice. And so "The Song of a Thousand Years" brought to the characters who heard it, and brings to the readers who share their reactions, a realization of the idealism which is woyen in subdued colors all through the tapestry of this story. 'That is the value this book gives in a time when we are in sore need of such a value. ' Never has the world been in greater need of faith and dreams, of something above and beyond the terrifying surfaces of life to reach for and 135 cling to. Literature which helps to give that needed succor to floundering souls has a place beside the greatest. So when a critic declares this novel to be "a story of neighborly kindness, of simple faith, profoundly feminine fiction," perhaps he is unconsciously paying the book, and the women who like it, a real compliment. CHOICE QUOTATIONS There are many splendid passages in the novel worthy of note because of their sound and wholesome philosophy, their humor, and their stylistic charm. A few examples follow: Again and again Jeremiah says to his children: "This is what I always want you children to remember. Pull yourselves on through. No matter what you get stuck in.... Do your own thinkin'—your own decidin'... Then put your neck to the yoke and do your own pullin'." After Jeremiah has been nominated as state representative, he returns home from the convention and casually reports the other nominations. Sarah says she thought the most important office was that of the representative. "It was," he agrees. "Didn't they nominate?" "They did." "Well, is it a big secret? Did they make you promise not to tell?... Who is he?" "Madame, you have slept with him for thirty-two years,": The first break in the Martin family comes with the marriage of Phoebe. Suzanne thinks of this change in their happy relationships. "She could hear the prolonged plaintive wail of a mourning-dove, thinking again as she ran how you never noticed their call unless vou were sad.... Why, maybe they would never all be together again after tonight.... Never! Her hand was at her throat which was throbbing as though it were trying to answer the mourning-dove's call." SUMMARY OF SOME POINTS IN THE COURSE The eight lessons on the three novels which comprise the course suggest some of the values to be had from a study of literature. As was stated in the beginning, the great inclusive value we get from reading is a broadening of our limited experiences in life through the opportunity of sharing vicariously the experiences of artists who see more deeply and truly into life and feel more intensively than we do. The value of each such experience rests, ordinarily, upon its complexity — whether or not it adds something to the experiences we already have had. Great masterpieces are said to have intellectual, emotional, and ethical values in the experiences recorded. That is, we learn facts which widen our intellectual horizons, such as facts about a past period of time, facts about the manners, customs, and ideals of people remote from us in time or space. We have our emotions deepened by sharing the feelings of characters who are stirred by the great fundamental passions we may never actually know, such as the agony of a misguided girl like Hetty Sorrel in Adam Bede or the remorse of a father who has embittered his own and his son's life because of a deformity, as did Matthew Howard in The Tree of Liberty, or the joy of a girl like Suzanne in Song of Years, who has mourned the loss of the dearest one in life and has him restored as from the dead. We have our ethical sense made more clear and meaningful by seeing the courage of men and women fighting and sacrificing for their principles, as did Jefferson, Peyton, and others in The Tree of Liberty, and as Adam Bede and Dinah Morris did in Adam Bede. As stated by Matthew Arnold, great writers "see life steadily and see it whole." Reading their transcriptions of life should help us to see it so. If literature is thus closely related to life, why not let it give us of its values? When we read a poem why not ask, "What value did I get from that besides the pleasure of the music or imagery?" Perhaps one answer would be, "It has given me an outlet for my own emotions. I have often felt that way, but I didn't know how to say it." Perhaps another answer might be, "It has helped me to see a new glory or a 'profound meaning in something commonplace. I would never have noticed this had the poet not pointed it out to me." When dramas and novels are read perhaps we can say, "I understand people better for having perceived the motives which made these created characters what they are. I even understand myself better, my prejudices and hopes." Maybe we may say, "This piece of literature holds up before me an ideal—if not a great ideal to guide my whole life, at least a lesser one, a little candle to light a day or an hour." Only if we consciously seek for the values to be found in the reading of good literature shall we find them. The same book may be read to fill an idle hour and forgotten, or it may be read with a purpose which may 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT give us a new meaning and appreciation for the best that life offers. Study Helps 1. A number of the most interesting episodes in the book might be assigned to be given in detail. Suggested: Wayne's determined trip to Dubuque to register for his land, related in chapters 2 and 3; the Indian scare, telated in chapters 8 and 15; hard times, told in chapter 17; Suzanne's experience in the storm, chapter 31. 2. Discuss some of the interesting evoThe following are | 137 lutions recorded; such as, lighting—from candles to gas, transportation, education, etc. 3. Describe some of the household tasks pictured in the novel, or other social customs almost unknown to us now; such as, weddings, Christmas festivities, etc. 4. Discuss the influence of such a book as Song of Years on the average reader as compared with that of some stark naturalistic novel of which there are so many. 5. What in the study of the three novels of the course has been particularly pleasing or stimulating to you? Social Service EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE Lesson 7 Family Relationships Do Our Neighbors Like Us? (Tuesday, May 27, 1941) THAT the attitude our neighbors have toward us is important is implied in our willingness to give serious consideration to the subject. Parallel with our concern as to whether our neighbors like us should come equal regard for the nature of our attitudes toward our neighbors, since the attitude of neighborliness is founded upon a relationship of interdependence and reciprocity. Unless we wish to live isolated lives, we must look upon neighbors as one of the inevitables of life much as we look upon taxes and death. At no period has it been more obvious than at the present time that we cannot live and let the rest of the world go by. E. A. Ross tells us that in more primitive times the neighbor (the nigh one) was looked upon as man's natural succor and defender. The greater the danger felt by householders from sheep stealers, cattle rustlers, horse thieves, robbers, etc., the sharper was their sense of dependence upon one another, the more united they became, and the stronger was their loyalty to the group. Nowhere can we find more appealing examples of genuine neighborliness than are recorded in the history of our own Pioneers. It is doubtful that they could have succeeded in laying so firm a foundation for our great state without the actual practices based on the true spirit of neighborliness, which was one of the outstanding characteristics of their daily lives. True, times have changed. The advancement in the means of communication and transportation have resulted in compulsory changes in all human relationships, and in none more than in neighborly relationships. Today instead of "running in" to chat with a neighbor for a few minutes, we get in our car and drive several miles to say "how do you do" to a friend, or we pass on some bit of news over the telephone to friends living miles away. 'The Lynds in Middletown report the wife of one of the workers as saying, "Our neighbors used to be good friends, and we had lots of good times together, but in the last seven or eight years all that's gone. People don't pay much attention to each other any more." We are not criticizing such practices and surely do not wish to imply a desire to return to an earlier period of cultural development, but we do wish to emphasize the fact that neighbors are inevitable; that they constitute an important factor in our environment; that they exert a powerful influence over the development of our children; that this influence may be harmful or beneficial according to whether the attitudes are positive or negative; that the influence exists in spite of the fact that we may not be neighborly with our neighbors, and that in every neighborhood there are problems that can be solved only through the cooperation of everyone. In a study made of the special problems of city living, sponsored by the Child Study Association of America, one-half of the 188 families interviewed reported that they selected their present dwellings because of the desirability of the neighborhood. A desirable neighborhood to most of these mothers meant one which provided children with whom they were willing to have their own. Children associate. Many families admitted that they had accepted several inconveniences within the house in order that they might live in a desirable neighborhood. As previously indicated, we may refrain from being neighborly with our neighbors by ignoring them or by showing antagonistic attitudes, but that does not alter the fact that they influence our lives. Living near people without neighboring with them is likely to beget bickering. If it is necessary for parents to explain to their children why they do not associate with their neighbors, it will probably be difficult for those parents to instill into the minds and hearts of their children the principles of cooperation, toleration, unselfishness, the spirit of community welfare, and other principles and attitudes fundamental to successful living in a democracy. Is there a neighborhood to be found in which there are not problems pertaining to health, housing, recreation, education, sanitation, beautification, and so forth? The extent to which any problem in a neighborhood can be solved depends largely upon the degree of cooperation of neighbors. Only through acquaintance may an understanding be built up among those who should cooperate in order to cope with neighborhood problems. We have attempted to establish the fact that neighbors are inevitable and that they constitute an important factor in our social environment. Now we suggest that of all our human relationships those which are most satisfying and which serve as a source of joy and pleasure in our lives are those in which we find 138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT a generous offering of harmonious cooperation directed toward the common welfare.. Therefore, our neighbors must cooperate with us and we must cooperate with our neighbors if we are to like them and enjoy daily life in the particular neighborhood in which we live. In evaluating ourselves as neighbors we might ask ourselves the following questions: 1. Do I impose upon my neighbors either in appropriating too much of their time or material things? 2. Do I know how and when to accept favors from my neighbors and how to repay them? 3. Do I cause my neighbors to feel obligated to me by forcing favors upon them? 4. How do I get along with the children in the neighborhood? 5. Am I too intimate with my neighbors, realizing that too many of my neighbors' confidences may spoil friendship later on? 6. Do my neighbors think I am a snob? 7. Do I appreciate my neighbors for what they are, or do I tend to put them in a category according to what they have? 8. Do I forgive the trespasses of the children of my neighbors as I expect them to forgive the trespasses of my own children? 9. Do I "knock" my neighborhood and at the same time refuse to cooperate in attempting to improve conditions? 10. Am I willing to go fifty per cent of the way (or even seventy-five per cent if necessary) to become acquainted with my neighbors? These are only a few of the questions which we should consider if we are interested in and appreciate the values that we may enjoy from being a member of a neighborly neighborhood. Also, we may profit much from considering behavior that is responsible for the lack of neighborly relations. We suggest a few neighbor- 139 hood antagonizers sometimes perpetrated by thoughtless and inconsiderate neighbors: 1. Turning on the radio double forte volume late at night or early in the morning. 2. Honking an automobile horn late at night or early in the morning.. "Running in" to use the telephone while the family is having a meal or after the family has retired, or imposing upon the family by using the telephone too frequently. 4. Permitting our children to run across neighbors' gardens or porches, or to play in their yard uninvited. 5. Permitting our dogs or other animals to trespass on our neighbors' property. 6. Constantly reporting trifling misdemeanors of children to their parents. 7. Having uncovered garbage containers in our yard or throwing garbage about in the yard which draws flies and causes disagreeable odors. 8. Making an unnecessary noise when returning home during the late night or early morning hours. 9. Leaving the automobile in a driveway supposed to be used by others. 10. Criticizing the manner in which our neighbors manage their children and telling them how much better we do the job. 11. Eavesdropping on our neighbors and repeating what we hear or see to others. 12. Being careless by permitting unsightly and hazardous conditions to exist in our own yard which serve as a constant menace to the children in the neighborhood. The following are a few practices which have resulted in promoting neighborly good will: 1. Mrs. A reported that the group of mothers in her neighborhood whose children played together agreed that they would not report the little things children did, but the mother in whose yard the difficulty arose would handle the situation 2. Mrs. B's family has necessarily moved frequently because of the nature of Mr. B's occupation. She has followed the rule, when moving into a new neighborhood, of listening with great discrimination to what she is told about various people who live in nearby houses. She is very suspi- 140 cious of the neighbor who wants to tell her about all the other neighbors, because such a one usually has an ax to grind. 3. Mrs. C lives in a neighborhood in which there are no available houses for rent, few changes have occurred as far as mobility is concerned within the last fifteen years. The families are all friendly, and Mrs. C thinks the agreement they have in regard to borrowing contributes much to their friendly relationship. The rule they follow is: "Never borrow unless necessary and always pay back as soon as possible." 4. Mrs. D lives in a neighborhood similar to the one Mrs. C livesin. The unique practice in the D group is to have two neighborhood parties each year—a picnic party in the summer with parents and children, and a dinner party for parents only during the month of December. The December party is held at one of the homes, and everyone helps with the preparation of the dinner. Often neighborly "get-togethers" are held in addition to the two traditional events. 5. Mrs. E suggests that cooperation and uniformity among parents concerning the use of the automobiles by the children has increased unity and friendliness in her neighborhood. 'This particular problem was acute because five families who owned automobiles had sons and daughters between the ages of 15 and 17 years, all of whom were "pals." She said the result of coming to an agreement in regard to one problem stimulated similar action concerning other common problems. 6. An unusually interesting practice is that in the F neighborhood. Mr. F's inheritance was sufficient to provide opportunities for the proper rearing of four sons and a daughter. However, the reputation of the neighborhood in which he had to live was not very good. Because of the activities of a more or less unruly gang of boys who dominated a small park and playground located in the center of the district, it was known as an. Undesirable neighborhood for any youngster not a member of the gang. A careful survey of the situation convinced the F family that the advantages of living in their newly acquired home were greater than the disadvantages, since the negative aspects seemed to consist largely of a social problem which could be remedied. The task of handling the human relationship problems was assigned to Mrs. F. Briefly, this is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941 what she did: After securing all the information possible about each member of the gang and their activities, she contacted the gang through seeking its assistance in finding the parties guilty of using her backyard as a dumping ground for tin cans, etc. She stressed her inability to solve the problem because of her ignorance of things conceming the neighborhood, and the ability of the gang to handle it because of its knowledge of conditions and its influence in the area. Immediately good. Cooperation was forthcoming, and soon the problem was successfully solved. Thea she sought the advice and help of the gang in assisting her two eldest sons to plan and construct a tennis court in the back yard. Its cooperation was further sought in other things. Soon the two F boys had a rather high status of membership in the gang. Mrs. F cautiously moved step by step winning her way into the confidence of the gang. As soon as she thought it advisable, she suggested some kind of a junior community organization for dealing with neighborhood problems of all types. A plan evolved gradually as interest increased among adults as well as youngsters. Mrs. F contributed much time and energy in the beginning, but later her responsibilities were decreased, because the gang decided to elect one adult man and one adult woman every six months to serve as counselors in the respective positions designated as Big Chief and Great Dame. (These are probably not titles adults would have chosen, but they are titles that stand for dignity and respect as far as the youngsters are concerned.) It was not until the second year that girls were given any consideration and the position of Great Dame was created. Space does not permit a detailed account of the activities of the group; suffice it to say that Mrs. F says the atmosphere of the neighborhood has completely changed, neighborhood pride takes first rank as the outstanding attitude of each member of the gang, and no problem seems too great for them to concern themselves with. In addition to making the environment of the neighborhood safer and more desirable, the children are learning first hand a great deal concerning the art of living. In the interest of space, even though it be at the expense of unity, LESSON DEPARTMENT we conclude with a quotation on gossip from James Lee Ellenwood's book, There's No Place Like Home, pp. 113-114: "Should we gossip about our neighbors? Surely. Why not? Without malice, of course, but frankly. If somewhere a baby is coming, if Eddie has a new job... If... Company is visiting the Brown's... We should mention it. Most of us have some "Walter Winchell' in us, and I never believe people who say, 'I never gossip.' Nor is it true that the best gossip takes place in the rural community. City people are experts, too. In our house, Grandma is the most delightful observer and reporter. She has done more to interest me in the neighbors than any admonition on neighborliness.... She never gossips outside the family, and she punctuates her observations with chuckles, never sneers. Because we talk about our neighbors, we all know they talk about us, and that makes us a bit more careful." Problems and Questions 1. Give suggestions on how each of the ten neighborhood antagonizers listed might be corrected without causing neighborhood 141 friction. If you were the guilty neighbor, how would you react to the suggestions given by the class for correcting these problems? 2. If a neighbor is very undesirable to you, what course should you pursue? Why is it impossible to shut out his influence by merely refusing to be neighborly? What is our responsibility to the undesirable neighbor? 3. If a neighbor imposes upon your neighborliness, what may be done to prevent this and at the same time retain his friendship? 4. Select from your own experience a neighborhood problem that has been successfully solved and relate how this was accomplished. 5. What do you consider the outstanding characteristics of a good neighbor? How may these be developed? 6. Make a list of values that accrue from living among good neighbors. References St. Luke 10:25-37. James Lee Ellenwood, There's No Place Like Home, Chapter 9. "Are Neighbors Necessary?" American Mercury, November, 1936; Reader's Digest, December, 1936. "Eavesdroppers in Eden," Scribners, October, 1936; Reader's Digest, November, 1936. "How to Get On With Neighbors," American Magazine, January, 1936. "What My Neighbors Mean to Me," American Magazine, February, 1924. Y Mission LATTER-DAY SAINT CHURCH HISTORY (To be used by missions in lieu of Literature, if so desired) Lesson XVII The Building of a Commonwealth (Tuesday, May 20, 1941) OW would you like to perform a little experiment that will help you in your study of this lesson? You live in a civilized land. But you inherited most, if not all, of the things which surround you in your town or state or nation. And now you are to learn how one of the important commonwealths in the United States was established. How was it done? How was your own commonwealth built up in the beginning? Suppose, then, you take a pencil and paper and set down one by one the things you think should go into the making of a commonwealth like the one you are living in. What would be the very first necessity? The second? The third? And so on. It would be better, of course, if you would join with some others to do this, for then you would have the benefit of their thinking and judgment. The items should be set down on paper, because that would impress them on your mind. This experiment would give you two benefits: first, it would enable you to understand and appreciate what is to follow in this lesson more than you could do otherwise; second, you would be in a better position to tell what is important as compared with what is unimportant in community life. Should you do what is here suggested, it would be better for you to do it before you read the rest of this lesson. ET us first get straight in our minds some of the facts concerning the early population of Utah, the new mountain home of the Mormon people. In the lesson just before this, you were told that during the winter of 1848-49 there were between four and five thousand people in the Salt Lake Valley. The population did not stay at this figure very long, as you may know, for there were tens of thousands of men, women, and children along the Missouri and between the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers, waiting for an opportunity to go to the new home. But it was not advisable for them to go there too fast, for reasons which you can easily guess. Three companies arrived in the Valley from the East in the fall of 1849, and several companies during the following year. The immigration continued till all the temporary settlements on the Missouri River were abandoned. But it took many years to accomplish this, because as fast as one group left for the mountains, its place would be taken by converts from England, Scotland, and Wales. In 1849, for instance, eight ships, carrying 1,720 Latter-day Saints, arrived from the Old World. At first, of course, the immigrants came across the plains in covered wagons. 'This cost money, and many of the Saints were poor. So, in 1849, what was afterwards known as the Perpetual Immigration Fund was established. It had for its purpose, first, the removal to the mountains of the Saints exiled from IIlinois, who desired to gather to the main body of the Church, and afterwards to extend aid to the poor Saints throughout the world. It was called by this name because it was a revolving fund—loaned to and then paid back by the borrowers. Some of the Saints were even too poor to take advantage of this Fund; hence, handcarts were devised for use in crossing the plains. These cartied what provisions were needed, and they were either pushed or pulled. The men, women and the larger children walked all the way 142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT to the new home. As a matter of fact, many women and most of the men walked the entire distance to the Valley even when they traveled with wagons. The Handcart companies got along very well on the whole, but one company, which started late, got caught in the mountains by a severe storm and many of the Saints perished. 'Those who survived the storm were rescued by men and teams from Salt Lake City. Thus the State of Deseret, or Utah, was peopled. "THE first necessity of the Saints in the Valley was food. The settlers had to raise their own food and make the cloth which went into their clothes. It early became necessary to send people into other parts of the country to settle and to cultivate the soil. Salt Lake Valley was near the mountains and about seventeen miles east of Great Salt Lake. Much of the land, however, was too dry and alkaline to cultivate. But north of this valley was another, the Weber, and north of that was Cache Valley. South of the Salt Lake Valley was the Provo Valley, and south and east of that other valleys—the Sanpete and the Juab, for instance. West and south of Salt Lake Valley was Tooele Valley. One of the first things done, therefore, was to send people into these and other places to colonize. In all these valleys, people set to work raising grain, hay, and vegetables for themselves and their animals. They had to irrigate the land sometimes before it could be plowed, but always afterward. To do this, they had to dig canals and ditches to carry the water from the mountain streams on to the land. On more than one occasion crickets and grasshoppers threatened the crops; but with the cultivation of several valleys at the same time, the settlers were able to raise enough food for themselves—more than the pests could destroy. Sheep furnished wool for clothing. The wool was treated by hand and then made into suits of clothes for the men and dresses for the women. Women in many parts of the Territory made their own hats, coloring them with homemade dyes. Gradually, however, factories and mills were built in all the valleys where the people had settled. It was the policy of the Church authorities to urge the Saints to become as self-supporting as possible under the circumstances.
We have learned that the first winter the Saints were in the Salt Lake Valley, a government was set up and that it was mainly religious. In 1849 the State of Deseret was established. "Deseret" is a Book of Mormon word and means "honeybee." Brigham Young was elected governor. Two years later, however, the State of Deseret was made into a territory—Utah—by the Federal Government. The word "Utah" means "high up," and fitted the place and the object of the Saints in coming here. Again the governor was Brigham Young, but some of the officials were from outside the Territory—which caused trouble later. The Mormons wanted statehood, but for various reasons they did not get it.
The Deseret News began its publication in June, 1850. About the same time, the University of Deseret, now the University of Utah, was established. It is the oldest school of its kind west of the Mississippi River. Its first president was Orson Spencer, a former Baptist minister and a college graduate with a Master's degree.
Already a home dramatic organization had been created in the Salt Lake Valley to furnish amusement for the public and to provide an outlet for dramatic talent. The first public building in the Valley was a bowery. This was made of upright poles and covered with tree branches and leaves. In it were held religious services, political gatherings, and plays. It was, therefore, a church, a courthouse, and a theater all in one. This was also true of meeting places in other settlements. Schools were conducted also in all of the settlements. Some of the communities had brass bands. In Salt Lake City there was Pitt's band, an organization that had furnished music in Nauvoo. All its members had been converted to Mormonism in London at the same time.
Such, then, in brief, was the course of development in the Mormon colony established in Utah: first, food, clothing and shelter; then, government and schools; last of all, amusements and entertainment.
Religious matters were not neglected. It was religion that had brought the Latter-day Saints to what they called "the valleys of the mountains." Brigham Young was made President of the Church in December, 1847. He chose as his counselors Heber C. Kimball and Willard Richards. All three had been in the quorum of Apostles. This left three vacancies in that group. As one of the Apostles had not thought enough of the Church to go West with the body of the organization, he was dropped from his position. These four vacancies were filled by Charles C. Rich, Lorenzo Snow, Erastus Snow, and Franklin D. Richards.
A council house was erected in Salt Lake City in which the authorities met for consultations. Other offices, too, were filled; for instance, the position of Presiding Patriarch was filled by the selection of John Smith. Then the Church abroad required attention. At a General Conference of the Church, held in 1849, missionaries were sent to Great Britain, France, Italy, and to the Pacific Islands. Some of these—France and Italy, for instance—were new fields; others, like Great Britain and the Islands, were old fields. Missionaries were also continuing to preach in all of the states of the Union. Thus the spreading of the Gospel abroad and the establishment of it at home went on at the same time that the Saints were trying to found a new state in the mountains under hard conditions.
Questions
1. Tell about the various companies that came into Utah during the first years of its settlement.
2. How much can you tell about the way they traveled?
3. Describe the Handcart companies. Why was the handcart mode of travel adopted? For what purpose was the Perpetual Emigration Fund created?
4. Tell about some of the valleys to which the immigrants went.
5. Tell about (a) the Deseret News, (b) the University of Utah, (c) the Dramatic Association.
6. What does the word "Deseret" mean? The word "Utah"?
7. Tell about what was done at home and abroad religiously.
Hymn to be Sung or Read It is suggested that the hymn, "Ye Elders of Israel," be sung or read. This poem was written by Cyrus H. Wheelock. He was born in New York State, in 1813, and became a member of the Church when he was twenty-six. He lived to be eighty-one years old. The hymn has always been a favorite with the Saints because it expresses the idea of gathering. In the early Utah period, the Saints were advised to gather to the new home. The hymn speaks of (1) the need for gathering the righteous, (2) the ripeness of the harvest, and (3) the places to go for converts.
(Note: Map printed in July, 1939, issue of the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons.)
Pictures Through Life's Window—A Girl Of Yesterday A Short, Short Story, by G. H. Williams
A lovely girl, small for her eighteen years, stood under the beech trees of one of England's beautiful, old estates. Her gaze wandered over the smooth lawn that reached down to a tiny lake sparkling and gleaming in the spring sunshine. Bright flowers and choice roses bordered the walks. Soft music drifted from within the fine, old house. The girl, dressed in lavender silk, with tiny lavender slippers and parasol to match, had just returned from a social engagement. She paused, as she so often did, to admire the lovely place of her birth—her home, the home of her father and his father's father. How she loved it! What treasured memories and traditions clung about it.
"I wonder if anything can ever tempt me to leave it," she murmured.
A tall, young man, wearing a "Prince Albert" coat and high silk hat, approached unnoticed. He carried missionary tracts and a Book of Mormon. His appearance startled the girl, and her small hands, like white butterflies, fluttered to her heart. He looked into violet eyes filled with laughter.
"I am sorry if I frightened you, but I have a message to deliver," he said.
A young wife, small to be pulling the heavy handcart with her husband, walked mile after weary mile over plains and mountains, until finally they entered a valley that looked barren and desolate in the heat of the summer sunshine.
"Will Father ever forgive me?" the weary girl asked her husband.
"I hope so, dear," he murmured, seeing the brave, violet eyes filmed with tears, the small hands brown and calloused, the clothes tattered and worn.
A young mother, dressed in rough homespun, rocked a homemade cradle in a crude, log cabin. Her hands flew like brown moths over her work as the shining knitting needles flashed in and out. Autumn sunshine slanted through the tiny window, making patterns on the earthen floor. The violet eyes were filled with faith and sweet contentment, as she sang an English lullaby to the sleeping babe.
Wild roses grew beside the door.
An old lady, small and bent with her eighty years, sat before an open fireplace. Flowers bloomed in a window box. Outside, the shrubs and flowers were covered with snow. Winter sunshine glimmered through a large window and formed a halo of her silvery hair. Her hands, like brown, withered blossoms, lay on an open book of completed genealogy. The eyes that had been violet were faded and dim. She looked at the aged man, dreaming before the radio that filled the room with soft strains of Love's Old Sweet Song. Closing the Book of Remembrance with a small sigh of contentment, she said, "It was worth the sorrow and hardship."
PARTY DRESS Lucille Waters Mattson
There now, house, You're all dressed up for company. But remember, house, And wear your dress nonchalantly.
Be careful not to show The mending in the tapestry Or let them know Your silent dignity Is all veneer.
Don't for a moment, let them guess The sighs and tears, The agony and happiness You've held inside.
And when the party's over, then We'll laugh And be ourselves again.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY, 1941
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. 28 MARCH, 1941 No. 3
Contents
Special Features Relief Society and Church Welfare.................................................... 147 Frontispiece—President Amy Brown Lyman........................................ 148 Reverence.....................................................................President David O. McKay 149 Elder Reed Smoot...........................................................Elder Bryant S. Hinckley 153 Watchman, What of the Hour?................................................Annie Wells Cannon 155 A Prophetic Program for Women.............................................Ramona W. Cannon 160 Women the World Around...................................................Estelle S. Harris 165 Women, the Builders of Spirituality.........................................Anna Ross Hart 172 Today's Challenge to Latter-day Saint Women.................................Rae B. Barker 175 Child-Welfare Provisions of the Social Security Act....................Vera White Pohlman 183 Women's Part in the Church Beautification Program.......................James M. Kirkham 208
Fiction The Bet.................................................................Martha Lu Tucker 179 Quiet Symphony................................................Beatrice Rordame Parsons 201 Only at Fruit Trees................................................Eva Willes Wangsgaard 211
General Features Happenings...........................................................Annie Wells Cannon 196 Editorial: "Keep My Sheep".................................................. 197 Lydia Spencer Clawson........................................................ 198 Notes to the Field......................................................... 199 Distribution of Alcohol Pamphlet............................................. 198 Relief Society General Conference............................................ 199 Erratum—("Pioneer Tintype," by Dott Sartori)................................ 199 Attention: Choristers and Organists......................................... 200 Mormon Handicraft Exhibits at Farm, Home and Youth Conference................ 200
Poetry Ivy...............................................................Kathryn Forbes Clyde 178 Reckoning........................................................Maud Mero Doolittle 182 ...................................................................Olive W. Burt 195 Contemplation......................................................Sylvia Probst 207 The Worry Time....................................................Laura M. Jenkins 216
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
Relief Society and Church Welfare
The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will commemorate the ninety-ninth anniversary of its organization on March 17, 1941. In recording the organization of the Society in his "History of the Church," the Prophet Joseph Smith states:
"There was a very numerous attendance [18 women and three men] at the organization of the Society... Of some of our most intelligent, humane, philanthropic and respectable ladies; and we are well assured from a knowledge of those pure principles of benevolence that flow spontaneously from their humane and philanthropic bosoms, that with the resources they will have at command, they will fly to the relief of the stranger; they will pour in oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed; they will dry up the tears of the orphan, and make the widow's heart to rejoice."
For ninety-nine years Relief Society women have administered to the welfare of the members of the Church. As we stand on the threshold of our one hundredth anniversary, we visualize a membership by 1942 of 100,000 "intelligent, humane, philanthropic, respectable" women whose hearts and hands will be dedicated to the alleviation of suffering and distress even as were those of the 18 original members.
Today the Church is conducting a great welfare program. At the annual meeting of the welfare leaders of the nineteen stakes that comprise the Salt Lake Region, President Amy Brown Lyman stated that welfare work has always been and still is the basic work of the Society. She pledged the support of Relief Society to the Church welfare program as follows:
"On the one hundredth birthday of Relief Society, which will occur in one year, the organization will have an enrollment of 100,000 members who will be devoted 100 per cent to the Church welfare program."

PRESIDENT AMY BROWN LYMAN

Reverence President David O. McKay
In Agra, India, on the banks of the Jumna River, stands the most beautiful mausoleum in the world. It is the Taj, better known as the Taj Mahal. It is built of pure white marble, inlaid with precious stones. It was built by Shah Jahan, for his empress, Mumtaz-i-Mahal. The dome is "particularly sensitive to gentle sounds, and a few notes sung softly here float up in rich waves to break upon the concave of the marble arch again and yet again until they tremblingly die away like whispered accents of impassioned love."
No traveler however crude or uncouth can even approach this "spotless edifice" without sensing a feeling of quiet and respect. Involuntarily he moves noiselessly, and if he speaks at all, he speaks in subdued tones. Boisterous action or loud talking would be as incongruous here as at the bier of a departed loved one.
I have made this reference to the Taj that we might sense the meaning of Reverence; for it is easier to feel what Reverence is than to define it. Whatever awakens Reverence in the human heart possesses something which "checks the haughtiness of the arrogant, silences the petulance of pride and self-conceit, stills the noise and giddy mirth of the young, and communicates to all around the sobriety of mien and aspect."
Sometimes this feeling is awakened as one "comes into the presence of a person in whom are centered age, wisdom, and virtue."
Reverence is profound respect mingled with love. It is "a complex emotion made up of mingled feelings of the soul." Carlyle says it is "the highest of human feelings."
If Reverence is the highest, then irreverence is the lowest state in which a man can live in the world. Be that as it may, it is nevertheless true that an irreverent man has a crudeness about him that is repellent. He is cynical, often sneering, and always iconoclastic.
Reverence embraces regard, deference, honor, and esteem. Without some degree of it, therefore, there would be no courtesy, no gentility, no consideration of others' feelings, or of others' rights. It is the fundamental virtue in religion.
"Reverence is one of the signs of strength; irreverence one of the surest indications of weakness. No man will rise high who jeers at sacred things. The fine loyalties of life must be reverenced or they will be foresworn in the day of trial."
IN THE HOME
Reverence, as charity, begins at home. In early childhood children should be trained to be respectful, deferential, reverent—respectful to one another, to strangers and visitors—deferential to the aged and infirm—reverential to things sacred, to parents and parental love.
There are would-be Solomons who belittle such training, claiming that children should not be corrected or restrained in any way, but permitted to run and carouse as their impulses prompt. These same teachers, however, do not hesitate to give specific instructions regarding the care of the children's bodies. They fail to explain wherein lies the difference in the effect upon a child's nature when parents insist that he brush his teeth, and take his bath, and wash his ears and neck, and when parents insist that he conform to courteous and moral commands of the household.
No true psychologist will say that a child should grow up without a consciousness that in the home and in the presence of others there are bounds and limitations to his activities, desires, and tantrums.
"Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it," is an admonition full of sound philosophy.
Three influences in home life awaken Reverence in children and contribute to its development in their souls. These are Gentle Guidance—Courtesy shown by parents to each other and to children—and Prayer, in which children participate.
IN HOUSES OF WORSHIP
Churches are dedicated and set apart as houses of worship. This means, of course, that all who enter do so, or at least pretend to do so, with an intent to get nearer the presence of the Lord than they can in the street or amidst the worries of a work-a-day life. In other words, we go to the Lord's house to meet Him and to commune with Him in spirit. Such a meeting place, then, should, first of all, be fitting and appropriate in all respects, whether God is considered as the invited guest, or the worshippers as His guests.
Whether the place of meeting is a humble chapel or a "poem in architecture" built of white marble and inlaid with precious stones, makes little or no difference in our approach and attitude toward the Infinite Presence. To know He is there should be sufficient to impel us to conduct ourselves as ladies and gentlemen.
"When once thy foot enters the Church, be bare God is more there than thou: for thou art there Only by His permission. Then beware, And make thyself all reverence and fear."
In this regard, as members of the Church in our worshipping assemblies, we have much room for improvement. Presiding authorities in stake, ward, and quorum meetings, and especially teachers in classes, should make special effort to maintain better order and more Reverence during hours of worship and of study. Less talking behind the pulpit will have a salutary effect upon those who face it. By example and precept, children should be impressed with the inappropriateness of confusion and disorder in a worshipping congregation. They should be impressed in childhood, and have it emphasized in their minds in youth, that it is disrespectful to talk or even to whisper during a sermon, and that it is the height of rudeness to leave a worshipping assembly before dismissal.
One of the most pronounced outbursts of Jesus' indignation was caused by the desecration of the Lord's temple. As he overturned the tables of the money-changers, and ordered out those who were bartering and trading in the holy Sanctuary, he gave a warning admonition that has come down through the centuries: "Make not my Father's House, a house of merchandise."
Making and spending money, even in conversation, faultfinding, and particularly gossiping about neighbors in a house of worship are essentially violations of this command given nearly two thousand years ago.
IN TEMPLES
Courtesy, respect, deference, and kind consideration are pleasing attributes that may be shown on all occasions, and wherever manifested contribute to the pleasure and the sweetness of human relations. However, there is one place above all others where these elements, with devotion and love added to complete the virtue Reverence, should be expressed in every tone and action—that place is in the Temple.
There, as in no other edifice in the world, we go into the presence of the Lord. Therefore, in person, dress, and attitude, we should be prepared to meet Him! Cleanliness of person, immaculate linen, proper poise, reverential decorum, are not mere formalities, but they are sincere and appropriate expressions of love and adoration of Him in whose House we have come to worship, to bless and to be blessed.
Evidence of haste, loud talking, indifference to ceremonies by frequent attenders, harboring ill-will or entertaining an evil thought are foreign elements incongruous to the holiness and sanctity of the House of the Lord. Irreverent behavior in the Temple is like a discord in a soft and beautiful symphony.
ATTITUDE IN GENERAL
Of the attitude of people generally toward Reverence, Charles E. Jefferson, author of "The Character of Jesus," declares impressively that "we are not by nature or by training a reverent people. There are those who say we become less reverent as the years go on.... There are wide areas of American society from which the spirit of reverence has been banished. Men and women in many a circle are clever, interesting, brilliant, but they lack one of the three dimensions of life—they have no reach upward. Their conversation sparkles but is frivolous and often flippant. Their talk is witty, but the wit is often at the expense of high and sacred things. He has come far down in the scale of being who in order to display his powers finds it necessary to ridicule those things which have been prized by all good men. When one enters the world of our present-day reformers, he is impressed by the large number who lack the upward look. Many of these men are tremendously in earnest, they see the crying evils of the world; their sympathies are wide and their zeal is hot, but they have no sky above their heads. They aim to glorify no Father who is in heaven. Some of them claim to admire the Man of Nazareth. They extol His character and His teachings. Yet, strange to say, they do not imitate His reverence, or cast a single glance in the direction in which His eyes were always looking. One finds this lack of reverence even in the Church. In every community there are those who treat the house of God as they treat a street-car, entering it and leaving it when they please. Even habitual church attendants often surprise and shock one by their irreverent behavior in the house of prayer. Those persons are not ignoramuses or barbarians;—they are simply undeveloped in the virtue of reverence."
If there were more Reverence in human hearts, there would be less room for sin and sorrow, and increased capacity for joy and gladness. To make more cherished, more adaptable, more attractive, this gem among brilliant virtues is a project worthy of the most united and prayerful efforts of every officer, every parent, and every member of the Church.

Elder Reed Smoot Elder Bryant S. Hinckley
On Friday, February 14, 1941, the leaders of the Church and the high officials of the State of Utah and the City of Salt Lake joined the public in paying tribute to Apostle Reed Smoot, who died in St. Petersburg, Florida, Sunday, February 9. Services were held in the great Tabernacle in Salt Lake City and at the graveside in Provo, his native city.
Senator Smoot was no ordinary man. He was great in intellect, in character, and in his capacity to work. At the age of forty-one, he had accumulated a fortune, had been chosen an Apostle—one of the most exalted callings in the Church—and had been elected to the United States Senate—one of the highest and most dignified legislative bodies in the world. These are all major accomplishments. Thus he distinguished himself in three important fields of human endeavor—religion, politics and business.
He had neither a classical training nor the ornaments of oratory, both of which, in that day, were regarded as prerequisites for distinction in the Senate of the United States and as a high public official of the Church. Only two of the fifteen men, including himself, who were Apostles at the time he was chosen, survive him—President Heber J. Grant and President Rudger Clawson. All of the eighty-nine men who were in the Senate of the United States when he became a member of that august body are now figures of the past. It is interesting to recall that at the time he was elected to the Senate, Arizona, New Mexico, and Oklahoma were still territories. He served in the Senate during the presidencies of Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard Taft, Woodrow Wilson, Warren G. Harding, Calvin Coolidge, and Herbert Hoover, and he was the confidential adviser of most of these Presidents.
He descended from a strong ancestry. His mother, Anna Kirstine Mouritzen Smoot, came from Norway. At the age of 18, she joined the Church, left her kindred and her native land and came to Utah, walking from the Missouri River to Salt Lake City, a distance of more than one thousand miles, and pushed a handcart all the way. That required both strength of will and great physical endurance. She was a woman of deep spirituality, of rare strength and sweetness of character. The Senator on many occasions has paid public tribute to his mother, to whom he felt greatly indebted for his achievements.
His father, Abram O. Smoot, second Mayor of Salt Lake City, came from Kentucky. He belonged to the aristocracy of the South. Abram O. Smoot was a stalwart among the great pioneers and colonizers of his day.
Senator Smoot had much to be proud of. At thirty years of age, he was the outstanding personality in Provo and was recognized as one of the leading business men of the State of Utah. Every enterprise he engaged in, and every institution with which he was associated, felt the vitalizing touch of a master hand. He had the rare ability to bring things to pass, to cut red tape, to move with a directness and precision toward his end, and to accomplish it.
Reed Smoot became recognized as the Dean of the Senate and was acknowledged as the best informed man in the United States on the affairs of this Government. All who knew him knew that he was a Mormon and respected him and his religion. There were no reservations about his loyalty to his country, his allegiance to his Church, and his fidelity to his God. He was sound to the very center; there was no semblance of sham, pretense or insincerity about him. His rise to eminence was neither spectacular nor miraculous. He won his way in the world by the sheer force of his character, his dynamic personality, his tireless industry, and his integrity.
Senator Smoot's phenomenal capacity to gather facts, marshall them, weigh them, and act upon them, challenged the admiration of all who knew him, and won for him a proud place among the workers of the world. He was keenly aggressive, but affable and obliging; easily accessible, but always attentive to business. He has written his name indelibly into the history of his country and has honored his exalted calling in the Church. Peace to his memory; the world seems lonesome without him. Watchman, What Of The Hour? Annie Wells Cannon WOMEN of today are wondering how they will meet the challenge of a changing world, which now seems so imminent. In past ages, women, too, have pondered this question, met the crises, and played their parts on the world's great stage. Relatively speaking, the pages of history do not abound in_ heroic deeds of women, save in exceptional cases where a name shines forth like a magnificent star in a constellation of satellites. This is true, because early historians mostly chose to record the spectacular adventures of rulers and warriors in fields of conquest. And yet, among the heroines of antiquity were some women whose fate or fancy led them into the fields so largely claimed by men. The beautiful Assyrian queen, Semiramis, who founded the city of Babylon, made a royal progress through her vast and constantly-extending empire at the head of her great army. No less brave and lovely was Zenobia, of Palmyra, who rode, dressed in a coat of mail, at the head of a great army, against the Persians and shared with her kingly husband the glory of conquest. Of later period came Joan of Arc, "Maid of Orleans," in shining armor clad, making marvelous victories in France under, as she believed, divine guidance, only to be repudiated and burned at the stake by those she had served. In other arts than that of war, of outstanding fame might be mentioned Sappho, the lyric poet, Hypatia, of Alexandria, who taught philosophy to the young Greeks and was martyred for her learning, and Cormelia, mother of the Gracchi. Others there were, of course, of this early period; and the annals of modern Europe name many illustrious women who have sustained with glory the weight of empire. It needs but little insight to see that the debt of the world is not to the brilliant names on history's page, but to the millions of unsung women who, through aeons of time, have "girded their loins with strength and strengtheneth their arms" in the joyous way of motherhood, that the race might be perpetuated and God's command fulfilled. The pages of the Bible are filled with beautiful stories of women, their fidelity, heroism and devotion. From Genesis to Revelations inclusive, woman's status of superior intellectuality and leadership is marked. In Genesis we read, "So God created man in his own image... Male and female created he them. And God blessed them, and God said unto them 'Be fruitful, and multiply and replenish the earth, and subdue it; and have dominion over... Every living thing that moveth upon the earth." As we read of Eve, Sarah, Rebecca, Ruth, Miriam, Esther, and all those glorious women of past ages, it is easy to believe that they played no small part in the progress and advancement of the people of their time and of the race. The spiritual influence of woman was manifested on many occasions. From sacred history and from what today is being unearthed 156 by archeologists, we know there were fine arts, education, magnifcent buildings, artisans in decoration, silversmiths, goldsmiths, jewels, fine linens, tapestries, embroideries, and so we must needs believe that the women were learned in these things as well as having a care concerning the social and economic life of their communities even, perhaps, as women do today. Wit the advent of the Christian Era came the "Light of the World." Never have women had truer friend or braver defender than the Lord Jesus. He was born in a lowly manger; His mother was a humble maid; and all the days of His life He mingled with lowly. People. There was a majesty about Him like a cloak, and all who saw and heard Him felt His divine power. His mother, Mary, blessed above all women, lived a humble life in her home in Nazareth and bore other children, yet she knew as she ministered to His childish needs that He was more than mortal. Wisely, she kept these things to herself, though "she pondered them in her heart." When she found Him, after a three-day search, expounding the law to the doctors in the Temple, she said to him, "Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing." He answered, "How is it that ye sought me? Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?" She understood and was not offended. Neither was she hurt on the occasion when He was teaching in the synagogue while she stood without and sent word that she and His brethren would speak with Him, and "he answered and said RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH, 1941 unto him that told him, "Who is my mother and who are my brethren?' And he stretched forth his hand toward his disciples, and said, 'Behold my mother and my brethren! For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother.'" 'This scripture clearly defines our relationship with the Savior, if we so will. From it we may also interpret the often-quoted phrase, "the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man," to mean father and mother and brother and sister. Here was that divine love for humanity manifested by the Savior on sO many occasions. No greater love has ever been shown between mother and son than was manifested during the agonies of the Savior on the cross. As He saw his mother weeping on Calvary's hill, with almost His last breath He: tenderly consigned her to the care of His beloved disciple, saying, "Woman, behold thy son!" And to the disciple, He said, "Behold thy mother." Mary stands before the world as the great exemplar of motherhood. When Elizabeth greeted her with the words, "Blessed art thou, Mary, among women," and "Whence is this that the mother of my Lord should come to me?" then for a certainty Mary knew, and ever was the song in her heart: "My soul doth magnify the Lord, And my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior. For He hath regarded the low estate of his handmaiden: for, behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed." It is the mother heart that is able to read the deepest depths of the WATCHMAN, WHAT OF THE HOUR mystery of life—a priceless gift to cherish and guard forever. WOMAN was the instrument through which many of the Savior's ae sublime lessons were taught. When the Scribes and Pharisees brought the scarlet woman before Him and demanded that she be stoned, as was the custom among them, after a silent moment He said, "He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her." When He saw them all depart and that no man had condemned her, He said, '"Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more." This act of sympathetic mercy has furnished the theme for many expressions from writers, even the greatest of poets repeated this lesson of mercy in these exquisite lines: "The quality of mercy is not strain'd; It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath:... It is an attribute to God himself; And earthly power doth then show likest God's When mercy seasons justice."' That the Gospel belongs to no particular race or nation and that woman is instrumental in promoting the truth is demonstrated by two of the most charming stories in the New 'Testament—that of the Samaritan woman who, having accepted the faith, spread the good word among her people, and they, too, came and believed; and that of the friendly Jews who followed Martha and Mary to the grave of their brother and witnessed the miracle of Lazarus being raised from death and the grave. Jesus explains the deep mystery underlying this display of power 157 when He says, "Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me. And I know that thou hearest me always: but because of the people that stand by I said it, that they may believe that thou hast sent me." Those who asked for signs, Jesus rebuked, but there were occasions when He deemed it wise to show His power for the good of people, as He did for these friends of the sisters of Bethany. From what has been saved of the recorded history of this momentous period, it is quite evident that women supported the church and contributed to its strength, not only in the Savior's day but during the years that followed under the ministry of the Apostles. We read of Anna, the prophetess, Lydia, the "elect lady," Dorcas, "full of good works and almsdeeds," Phebe, Persis, and Priscilla; and, in several places, groups are mentioned. 'The elder women were admonished by Paul to teach the young women righteous ways, and even among the "devout Greeks who believed," there were "the chief and honorable women, not a few." That Christianity survived at all the dark or medieval ages that followed the persecutions and martyrdoms of those who believed in Christ's teaching is a marvel, save that God willed it so; and "up through the universe the Lord cast a highway,' along which some choice souls have carried on and thus preserved the spiritual spark. Through these centuries of innumerable wars and horrors, such as almost wiped the earth of civilization, women still carried on and bore their burdens, perhaps not willingly, but patiently; and because of their motherhood 158 they must have sensed some degree of spirituality. Always have women been foremost in revivals. After the fall of the Roman Empire and the revival of letters, the influence of woman rose accordingly. Her advancement might have been more marked had it not been hampered by restricting laws. T the beginning of the nineteenth century, there were many brilliant stars in the firmament of a now civilized world—men and women rapidly progressing in government, in statesmanship, in science, letters, and art. What time could be more propitious for the restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ? Joseph Smith, a lad of humble birth and pure of heart, was the chosen instrument of the Lord to receive the glorious vision and teach the plan of eternal salvation to the children of men. He taught the personality of God, maintaining that "God Himself was once as we are and is an exalted man, and sits enthroned in yonder heavens." 'This doctrine was so very different from the teachings of the various creeds and from popular belief that persecution of Joseph Smith began almost from the beginning, only ending with his martyrdom at Carthage. His revelations for the re-establishment of the Gospel of Christ were believed by many, however, and the Church grew in numbers. 'Today thousands testify of the divinity of his mission. Joseph Smith gave recognition to women in furthering the spread of the Gospel and honored them in office. His mother, Lucy Smith, was to him not only a saintly woman, but his friend, adviser, confidante, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH, 1941 and comforter in hours when his soul was sorrowing and his life was in danger. To his wife, Emma, he gave love and devotion, and upon her he placed high position and duties which helped in the progress of his work. From the profound teaching of the earth's beginning was evolved the doctrine of the heavenly mother which served as the inspiration of Eliza R. Snow's beautiful invocation called, "Oh My Father," told in the lines: "In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason, truth eternal, Tells me I've a mother there."' Joseph Smith introduced women into the ordinance work of the holy Temple, or House of the Lord, where they bless and assist their sisters in the sacred ceremonies pertaining thereto. He gave to the women of the Church the great organization of the Relief Society and personally taught the early members the correct method of procedure and what their several activities would embrace. He said at the organization, "I now turn the key for you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time." 'This took place almost one hundred years ago when women had few opportunities for education and such a thing as organization for work or culture among women was almost unknown. His promises have been fulfilled, and today thousands of women who are members of the organization engage in the civic, social and educational requirements of their several communities; and with all their advancement, they maintain WATCHMAN, WHAT OF THE HOUR a spiritual equilibrium which balances their progress in material things. These are the women who have vision and keep the holiness of motherhood foremost. Tovar civilization has perhaps reached the highest state in world history; invention, science, industry, the arts, have attained an incredible perfection. Yet in the midst of all this beauty and delight, there is an ominous murmur of a changing world. Again the war lords are marching, and evil forces are stalking the earth, carrying such destruction and sorrow as was never known in all the world's history. Twenty-five years ago, at the close of the great world war, the people thought and hoped and believed that the day had come when there would be no more war—that the prophecy of Isaiah would be fulfilled when men "shall beat their swords into plowshares and_ their spears into pruninghooks: nation shall not lift up sword against nation 159 neither shall they learn war any more." We did not "hold high the torch" or "keep faith with those who died" believing they had made the supreme sacrifice that war would end., Now war is at our door; we face a changing world. Are we prepared to meet the oncoming tide, perhaps a holocaust such as is sweeping even now some parts of the world? Mothers should have a voice in the destiny of their children. Have we guarded our trusts carefully and taught the gospel of peace, or have we let the pleasant hours slip by, unheeding dangers lurking near? Oh, mothers of men, the hour has come! Whether you live in "reefroofed hut or white-walled palace of kings," unite as one, and, clothed in the armor of faith, pray that the hand of evil will be stayed and the hearts of men and nations will turn unto the Prince of Peace, and that fear and hatred will vanish from the earth. Are You Enrolled As A Member Of Relief Society? | plone woman interested in Relief Society will want to be counted among those affiliated with the Relief Society when it observes its centennial next year. The present campaign for 100,000 members by 1942 will close December 31, 1941. Therefore, only those women whose names appear on the 1941 rolls will be included in the total membership count publicized during the centennial. Inasmuch as there is no provision for a record of members-at-large, all Relief Society women are urged to be sure that their names appear on the Relief Society membership tolls of the wards in which they are now living. Relief Society women frequently move from the wards where they are enrolled, and fail to affiliate themselves with the Relief Society in the wards to which they move. Some women are unable to attend Relief Society meetings after moving to their new locations because of illness or other reasons, but inability to attend Relief Society meetings does not preclude membership in the Society. All women who have received a Relief Society membership card for the year 1941 may be assured that they are enrolled as members, provided they have not moved from the ward which issued the membership card. Those who have moved are urged to check with the secretary of the Relief Society in the ward in which they are now living to be sure that they have been accepted as members of that ward, and that their names are on the current roll—Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer. A Prophetic Program For Women Ramona W. Cannon A PRIL 28, 1842, a few weeks after the organization of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, the Prophet Joseph Smith gave a second memorable address to the women. Eliza R. Snow, the secretary, recorded it, partly as a summary and partly in the Prophet's own words. (History of the Church, by Joseph Smith, compiled by B. H. Roberts, Vol. IV, pp. 602-607). Like the Constitution of our country, this speech is worth many readings and deep reflection, for it is a masterpiece of inspired human expression. It is colored with the lights and shadows of many emotions; it is wise with "Brother Joseph's" understanding of his fellow creatures; recurrently, it rises to heights of prophetic grandeur. Our sympathies are touched by the Prophet's weariness of soul, indicated in the instructions: "Let this Society teach women... To treat them (their husbands) with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur—if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness." The Prophet spoke of difficulties —persecutions from without and trials from within, especially from carping criticism and from "envious and aspiring men and women." He exhorted the sisters to concentrate their faith and prayers on their husbands, and also on the faithful men whom God had placed at the head of His Church to lead His people. Sister Snow writes his instructions thus: "We should arm and sustain them (these leaders) with our prayers; for the keys of the kingdom are about to be given to them, that they may be able to detect everything false." Is it not a tribute to women that their prayers were felt to be needed and efficacious in so great a cause? President Smith also said to the women: "You must put down iniquity and, by your good examples, stimulate the Elders to good works." A touch of Gethsemane is manifested in Joseph's foreboding of the imminence of his own death and his realization of the misunderstanding and rejection of himself and his message by the world he loved and fain would save. He said he would take this opportunity of instructing the ladies of the Society how to conduct themselves, that they might act according to the will of God, for they were going to be left to themselves. Neither they nor the Church would long have him to instruct them, and "the world would not be troubled with him a great while, and would not have his teachings (personally)." These, with other pronouncements, form a lofty and solemn background for the famous utterance so charged with prophetic import to women: "And I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence A PROPHETIC PROGRAM FOR WOMEN shall flow down from this time henceforth." THAT metaphor, "turn the key," comprises a world of significance. One turns a key to open a door. With what lay on one side of that figurative door, the Relief Society sisters were familiar. The Prophet Joseph suggested the treasures that were about to be made available on the other side, and outlined the method of attaining them. We of this century can appreciate the swinging open of that door only if we understand the condition of women at that time. It is a puzzling fact that women's position then was much more advanced in Italy, France, and Sweden, and somewhat mote so in Germany, than in America. Her legal and industrial status was low, but these countries did not deny women educational and intellectual activities. In the thirteenth century in Italy, a few women held chairs in universities; they wrote widely-accepted books, then and later. In France, they wrote and controlled. Much of the thought of the day by the influence of their salons and through their privilege of owning property and thus handling money and subsidizing talent. In Germany, Martin Luther advocated free education for every boy and girl; and Gustavus Adolfus, with able support, brought about 100 per cent literacy in Sweden. In the England of Elizabeth, woman was a power. The brilliant and marvelously-trained intellects of Lady Jane Grey and of the Queen herself were not the only lights among the feminine sex which illuminated that wonder-age, when 161 reforms were born which lifted the world to higher levels. But under the reign of the Stuarts a decadence set in, and woman's position was lowered. From the ideals of this period came the heritage which the Colonists brought with them to the new country. Many of the colonial dames burned with as ardent a desire for personal liberty and opportunity as did their patriot husbands. Their principal spokeswomen were Mrs. Mercy Otis Warren and Abigail Adams, the wife of President John Adams. Of Mrs. Warren, it is recorded that she was the first to advocate the Colonies' independence from Great Britain, and that she imbued 'the men with that idea. Rouchefoucauld said of her: "Seldom has a woman in any age acquired such ascendency by the mere force of a powerful intellect." = (Woman's Work in America, compiled by Annie Nathan Meyer, p. 256) Mrs. Adams never spent a day in school in her life, yet she had a remarkably cultivated mind. How did she achieve this? It has been explained that such self-educated people of the past acquired their knowledge through a natural logic—the selftaught art of thinking; attentive notice of every instructive fact and occurrence; conversations of deep import around the fireside; and reading which, though scant, was from the deepest wells of English literature, especially the Bible. While Mr. Adams was in Europe, Mrs. Adams managed the cultivation of the estate, discussing the weather and crops, watching prices and rates of exchange, directing the making up of invoices; and at the same time, she 162 was writing exalted sentiments to her son. She had a brilliant mind for statesmanship, as well, which surprised her husband. She longed for women's rights and fearlessly advocated them. She knew they were deserved, for the women had saved the Colonies from defeat in the darkest days of the Revolution by raising money—begging for it and selling their own property to get it —to buy arms and ammunition for their men. They had melted their prized pewter and had run it into bullets; they had raised grain and gathered it themselves and fed the poor and feeble with the bread. Hungry and cold, they had fired their men with patriotism, and they had refused to marry youths who had not served their country. So, with some confidence, Abigail Adams wrote to her husband after victory had come: "I desire that (in the new code of laws) you will remember the women, and be more generous and honorable to them than your ancestors. Do not put such unlimited power into the hands of husbands. All men would be tyrants if they could. Such of you as wish to be happy, willingly give up the harsh title of master for the more tender and endearing one of friend. Why not put it out of the power of the fierce and lawless to use us with cruelty and indignity?" (Woman's Work in America, compiled by Annie Nathan Meyer) When the Constitution was framed without any recognition of the rights of women, Abigail Adams was indignant. This far-seeing woman had especially pleaded for equal education for boys and girls: "If we mean to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH, 1941 have heroes, statesmen, and philosophers, we should have learned women." Here was her answer: In Massachusetts, Harvard College was founded for boys in 1636; there were no colleges there for females until 232 years later, and it was 150 years before there were any seminaries or academies for girls. The word "children," in reference to education in New England, meant boys, and girls were not admitted even to the free elementary schools provided for poor and Indian "children" for 150 years. Two housewives who taught a dame school, where they instructed little girls from one book, the New England Primer, and taught them manners, divided between them their year's salary of ten shillings, or $2.50. In Newburyport, Massachusetts, it was decided, in 1791, to have three or four schools for girls between the ages of five and nine, to be "furnished with dames to learn them good manners and proper decency of behaviour." In 1804, the town voted for four girls' schools to be kept open six months of the year from six to eight o'clock in the mornings and on Thursday afternoons. In 1828, girls still did not go to school in Rhode Island. In Hatfield, an influential citizen appealed to the town meeting for permission to send his daughters to the free school. A townsman cried sharply, "Hatfield school shall? Never!" When Doctor Pierce traveled through Georgia in 1836 to collect funds for a female college, the usual answer was similar to this: "I would not have one of your graduates for a wife, and I will not give you a cent." Horace Mann, the famous New England educator, tried and failed to introduce coeducation into college work in Massachusetts. So he moved to the West and became first president of Antioch College, coeducational, in Yellow Springs, Ohio, in 1853. He sacrificed his life in overcoming obstacles there. Apparently the college failed, for in 1860 the only college open to women was Oberlin, in Ohio. Also, it was not proper for women to attend public lectures or to appear in public assemblies other than religious ones. About 1815, Miss Hannah Adams, an author, invaded the Boston public library to read. Boston citizens were shocked and declared her out of her sphere. The Revolutionary women's desire for suffrage and equality before the law, naturally, was not gratified either.
Great advancement was made toward these wished-for goals from the time when William Lloyd Garrison launched his anti-slavery campaign in 1831. Gifted women became abolitionists and worked with the men. But they became too popular and influential to please the men, and in many places they were forbidden to act or vote in the Anti-Slavery Society. However, six or eight women were sent to London to the World Anti-Slavery Convention, along with America's men delegates. These quiet, cultured, charming women, some young and beautiful, some of them Quakers, alarmed the men who knew that "they had turned the world upside down in America." The Convention debated and voted to exclude these women, some of the American men themselves voting against them. Garrison, in protest, sat in the spectators' gallery the entire ten days, refusing to take any part. When Lucretia Mott and the bride, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, returned to America, they, with their husbands, Mr. Garrison, and others, began to campaign for women's rights in earnest. They asked for equal rights with men in colleges, universities, trades, and professions; equal suffrage rights; equal rights to political offices; equal property and marriage rights; equality in the care of minor children; equal wages for equal work; the right to make contracts, to sue and be sued, and to serve on juries, especially where women were being tried. The Civil War, when women again took over the management of business, charities, farms, schools—everything—hastened the fulfillment of many of these demands. Fulfillment has come about by degrees, however—in some cases, nationally; in others, only by individual states. Knowing conditions, the violent conflicts and prejudices of the past and even of the present, in regard to women's rights and activities, we better understand Joseph Smith's vision of women's possibilities and powers and better appreciate the calm, dignified expression of his ideas. How deeply he understood the constructive possibilities of cooperation, as opposed to the popular antagonism between men and women, and how beautifully the women of the Church responded! Perhaps we should remind ourselves that Emma Smith had already been called, less than four months after the organization of the Church, to expound the Scriptures, select hymns, and exhort the Church; and before the exodus from Nauvoo, the Prophet's mother delivered an address at a conference held in the Temple. Then, on that April day, the Prophet complimented the Relief Society women on their organization, their order, and their parliamentary proceedings. Some objectors to woman suffrage have felt that equality with men would make women desire to get away from their homes and use their freedom selfishly or for evil purposes. Joseph Smith depended on the instincts of women to be homemakers, to be charitable and kind, and to do good. He exhorted virtue in their own lives, and that they provoke the brethren to good works. The power and the privileges he gave them were a sacred trust, never to be abused. He warned them that women were inclined to be contracted in their views. "You must enlarge your souls toward each other.... You must be long-suffering, and bear with the faults and errors of mankind." A great and glorious reward in the Celestial Kingdom was promised those who obeyed the Prophet's teachings, but again note the exhortation, "... You must be innocent or you cannot come up before God; if we would come before God, we must keep ourselves pure as He is pure." Ellen Key, who thought profoundly on the woman question, came to the conclusion that women either sink with men or rise with them. Joseph Smith said that the faithful members of the Relief Society should receive the keys of the Priesthood "in connection with their husbands." He said also: "As far as knowledge is concerned, it may extend to all the world." And he reminded the sisters: "We are all responsible to God for the manner we improve the light and wisdom given by our Lord to enable us to save ourselves." He later revealed that faithful husbands and wives were to receive the gift of eternal family relations and eternal progress. This is the great end of earth-existence, and this, in very deed, means rising with the men. How have the Prophet's words to that group of Relief Society women been fulfilled? Over a period of almost a century, its members have fed, clothed, nursed, prepared for burial, succored, and comforted millions in America and throughout the world. In countless patterns of existence, they have brought life to "the highest possible level" as the Prophet urged them to do. Their influence has been felt in nonsectarian women's organizations throughout America. This servant of God also promised the women that if they lived up to their privileges, the angels could not be restrained from associating with them. I have sat in Relief Society meetings where I have felt that truly the angels were not far away. And when I have seen the charm, poise, sweetness and dignity of many women officiating in this great work in different parts of the world, I have realized what this organization has done for them as individuals. Surely men, too, are proud of such women and are filled with joy that the Prophet had the vision to organize Relief Society.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH, 1941
A PROPHETIC PROGRAM FOR WOMEN Ramona W. Cannon
Women The World Around Estelle S. Harris
Ever since the first woman, Eve, women have been praised for their charm or blamed for many of the ills of mankind. No matter how much woman is censured, however, no way has been found to get along without her if the race is to be kept going. If the most important study of mankind is man and if man includes woman, then we are probably justified in taking a look at some of the women of the world to see how they live, dress, and do their work.
We recently returned from a trip around the world, spending a year in Persia. During this long journey, we saw the women of many lands and had a fine opportunity of observing some of their curious ways of living.
Let us take a first glance at the Persian women. Only a few years ago the women of that land lived quite apart from the outside world. In many of the larger households they dwelt in apartments, called anderuns, separate from the main part of the house. The homes of the well-to-do Persians were built around a garden with the women's quarters in the rear, and only the men of the household or very near relatives were allowed to see or associate with them. They even ate most of their meals separately with other women and children as their companions. The peasants of the country have from time immemorial dwelt in villages where men, women, and children have lived close to their flocks, and they have not been bound by the formalities that restrict the more aristocratic families. Formerly the chadar, a semi-circular robe made of black for street wear and colored material for the house, was worn over the regular clothes, and covered the entire person, including the head. It was held together in front just below the eyes by one hand. No woman's face was to be seen in public, as it was covered with a veil. Even today, peasant women wear trousers and tunics or blouses. The head is always covered with a scarf which they like to pull over the face as strangers approach, even though keeping the face covered is now against the law. The larger households maintain many servants. In fact, this is one of the favorite methods of indicating wealth. In the absence of modern equipment, the washing of clothes is done by hand near a stream or in a low tub set on the ground. The hands take the place of the washboards in their system of laundering. The ironing is done with charcoal-heated irons. Cooking is usually done over charcoal fires, where this favorite fuel is available. Rice is the foundation of most Persian meals. This is boiled and served with mutton, chicken, or some one of numerous kinds of sauces. Bread is made from dough rolled into thin sheets and baked on the walls of a stone or brick oven. The baking is not done in the individual homes, but in the numerous bakeries distributed throughout the cities or in the community bakery of the village. In addition to the staple rice, bread, and mutton, the dietary is enriched by a great variety of vegetables, fruits, and melons. When guests are present, the etiquette of the country prescribes the showing of a great abundance of food. Much more than can be eaten at the meal must be put on the table. Food is bought in open bazaars or from peddlers along the street, whose wares are usually carried on the backs of donkeys. The sidewalks serve not only for pedestrians, but for donkeys or other animals that may pass along the street. Chickens are bought from venders who sit along the street with a dozen or more chickens about them. With their legs tied together. The housewife feels surer of the freshness if the chickens are bought while alive. Meats are not refrigerated in the shops, and a customer buys the cut of meat next in order as the quarter of beef or mutton is gradually cut away. Bathing is generally done at the public baths, since only the rich can afford baths in their homes. These public baths are centers of sociability and gossip. Throughout the Orient, home water systems are rare, and outside of the cities, electricity in homes is almost unknown. In Persia, cisterns in the basement and hand pumps are used to get water to the main part of the house. Persia has a problem in the scarcity of wood and coal for fuel, and the majority of small homes heat a room by placing a pan of burning charcoal in the center. A low table is sometimes placed over the pan and then covered with a quilt. The members then sit on the floor or on a cushion with their feet under the quilt near the pan. It is very cozy for the feet, but the back may be left cold.
The majority of Persians are Mohammedans. This religion prescribes many of the details of living for its adherents, such as the length of the nursing period of a baby, the use of running water instead of still water for washing, and the size of a water pool to insure purity. These sanitary instructions are faulty when considered in the light of modern physiology and bacteriology, but for hundreds of years they were useful in guiding primitive peoples. Prayer is important in the lives of Mohammedans. They pray with their faces toward Mecca, and their prayers must be offered at definite times and by prescribed formulas. Visits to mosques and other sacred places are required. It is not uncommon to see a group of women carrying their tea-brewing samovars and food and walking for miles to a shrine or mosque where the day will be spent in prayer and worship. Some even go the night before in order to have all of Friday, their Sabbath, at this sacred place. Persia is making a valiant effort to bring education to all of her people, but she is still far short of reaching this goal. The educational system is patterned largely after that of France. The standards are high, but many of the villages are still without schools. Foreign, private, and mission schools have done much to modernize methods and enlarge curricula. Office work is now being opened to women clerks and typists in a small way, so that women in Persia can earn an independent living, a thing that was impossible until recently. Many girls are now studying nursing and some are taking up medicine. Peasant women work in the fields along with the men. Marriages are mainly arranged by a third person, as in most Oriental countries. Before the veil was abandoned, you may surmise that many a bridegroom was disappointed, or agreeably surprised, in his wife's looks as he lifted the veil and saw her after the marriage for the first time. Stories are plentiful of the strange experiences resulting from this custom. It is not infrequent in these Oriental countries for cousins to marry. Our neighbor told us his daughter was plighted to her cousin when she was born. One reason for marrying relatives is to keep the family wealth in the family. Marriage is performed in stages. One of my husband's assistants was married in December, but the final wedding feast was not held until July, the wife remaining all this time with her family and he living at his home. Divorce among Mohammedans is easy, especially for the man, who formerly merely had to say several times before a witness that he did not want to continue to live with his wife. The dowry he had to give her at marriage was considerable protection to the woman. At present the tendency is for divorce laws to become more like those of European countries. My husband traveled with groups of men over most of Persia, and on these trips he seldom saw the women of the houses where he was a guest. Some of the places were homes of governors or other high officials, yet the wives were not seen. Meals were prepared and served by servants, and the wife was always kept in the background. When I traveled with him, the wives joined in entertaining us; but where the guests were men only, they were entertained by men. The present Shah of Persia is anxious to abandon the old restrictions placed on women by Oriental customs and to give them the opportunities enjoyed in western countries. To completely bring this about will require some time, since age-old customs of a people cannot be thrown off over night. I like the women of Persia, and I shall all my life cherish my pleasant experiences with some of them.
As in all Oriental countries, India has great contrasts of abject poverty and vast riches. There, one is constantly made aware of castes by the variation in the dress of the women. One may see walking side by side an old hag dressed in rags, chewing beetle nut, and a woman of aristocratic appearance dressed in fine, delicate fabric. The main outer dress of the women is a saree which consists of about five yards of cloth draped over and around the body in an attractive manner. This varies from the finest silks to the coarsest cottons. The saree usually has a design on both edges, of contrasting colors or shades, and the center is plain and often white in color. A blouse, with or without sleeves, is worn under this. No stockings are worn, and the shoes range from fancy embroidered slippers to very coarse sandals. Most women of lower castes throughout the Orient go barefooted.
Many women in India wear silver and brass ornaments on their toes and ankles. Others wear jewels in their nostrils. The cost of the jewels shows the wealth of the wearer. Among the best dressed women of India are the Parsees. We have frequently seen some of them in European cities where they always attract attention because of their striking appearance. The Parsees belong to the Zoroastrian religion, which was dominant in Persia up to the time the Mohammedans drove its adherents out of the country. The main group now lives in Bombay, and members of this group are wealthy merchants. The Hindus do not bury their dead, but burn them and, if possible, throw the ashes into the sacred Ganges River. It is a gruesome sight to see the bodies on a pile of wood ready to burn, or to see the last embers dying out after the burning is completed. The Ganges is a favorite river to bath in, and its waters are carried in containers to distant parts to be used in religious ceremonies or for the better body reincarnation. The Parsees leave their corpses in the towers of silence where the flesh is removed by vultures. The idea seems revolting, but when explained by them it does not seem so bad.
The Malay women, found in such cities as Penang and Singapore, with their small statures and round faces are rather attractive, even though they may not have the distinct beauty of the women of some other countries. The Malayan people are, in general, creatures of nature. They do not take the problems of the world very seriously. They enjoy their tropic abundance and are content to let the rest of the world go by. They are related in stock to those who live on the islands of the South Seas, and they like to lead the same kind of care-free existence.
When one comes in contact with Chinese women, one is made to feel that real character is found behind their strong faces. Their neat, tight-fitting pajamas, made of cotton or silk in light colors, seem entirely appropriate. Their straight, black hair is usually combed back in a small bob or braided and left hanging down the back. The faces are not particularly pretty, but they reveal strength. At Hong Kong, boats were being loaded by women carrying coal in baskets hung on the ends of a short pole. These women wore black pajamas of heavy material and wore no shoes. In China, women seem to do as much farm work, ship loading or handling of boats as men. Many of them live on the boats that carry cargoes from point to point in the harbors much as city trucks transfer freight from place to place. The well-dressed Chinese women in cities like Hong Kong make a very striking appearance. Their slender figures clad in plain, silk dresses extending from shoulder to ankle in one piece and their black hair brushed flat against the head give a challenge by their simple beauty that is in pleasant contrast to some of the gaudy, over-dressed European women seen in these Chinese cities.
The women of Japan are decidedly interesting. Our first insight into that country was at Miike, where our ship stopped to take on coal. The simplicity of their homes and the art displayed in common things were in such contrast to what we had seen in some of the other countries we had visited that they were a real delight. The Japanese homes, which were frequently in the rear of the shops, had well-polished floors. Sometimes a beautiful vase on a low stand was the only ornament in the room, or there might be a picture on the wall or a bowl of flowers arranged as only the Japanese can arrange it. Always the room looked clean and attractive.
Most of the Japanese women wear kimonos which are fastened by the obi, making the distinguishing feature of their costume. This obi is from ten to twelve inches in width and long enough to tie in a wide, flat bow, which may be heavily padded. This makes a wide band around the waist with the bow in the back. I shall not soon forget going into a large department store and seeing thousands of these obis on display. One could not think of a greater variety of designs, colors, or materials than was here exhibited. The wealth of the wearer may be indicated by the cost of the obi. Formerly, the women wore their hair in a high, artificial coiffure which was not disarranged in sleeping, because the pillow was a block of wood or a small padded pillow just wide enough to rest the back of the neck on. The glossy surfaces of the floors in Japanese houses are not marred by shoes, as these are removed outside the door, and the tabi, digitated socks, are worn inside. These socks are made of heavy, white material with a separate part for the big toe, like the thumb of a mitten. This separateness makes it possible for the strap of the sandal to be in two parts and fit onto the division. Many shoes are made of lacquered wood with stilt-like pieces of wood under the sole, thus lifting the feet above the wet ground. The click, click, click of hundreds of these shoes on the ground is rather annoying at first. Japanese women have an appearance of delicacy, as they are essentially clean, filth not being seen in their country as in many other parts of the Orient. The Japanese as a race are rather short and heavy set. The women of Japan play a vital part in all the work undertaken by the nation, such as the undeclared war on China. They seem willing to use the poorest rice, go without wool and cotton material, as well as many other things, so the country can sell the better products that will bring the much-needed foreign money.
In all our travels, we found the love of home and family to be universal with slightly varying means of showing affection. I feel that people in general are anxious to do the right thing even though they may from ignorance or superstition seem to do things with which we do not agree. Although in some countries we could not understand the language, there was a universal language of friendliness and hospitality. In no land where we have traveled have we found the freedom, the opportunities for education, the equality of position on the part of women that is found in our own beloved country.
"It is not an opportunity, but a rare privilege to become a member of Relief Society. To become a member and to learn the glorious truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ brings sublime joy. Join the Relief Society and open the door of opportunity that this sublime joy may be yours." —Alice B. Castleton.
Women, the Builders of Spirituality Anna Ross Hart
Two summers ago, several of us were standing in the Cathedral Church of Saint John the Divine in New York. We were conscious of its magnitude and general beauty; of the sculptured marble and carved oak; of the inlaid mosaic and embroidered and woven fabric. We were told that the foundations of this stone Cathedral were in the living rock, built to stand for thousands of years. All this impressed us, but most of all did we admire The Great Rose window, one of the valued windows of the world. We marveled at the color and design. The light played on the figures made of ten thousand pieces of glass until they were distinct and unusually beautiful to see. The individual sections of glass had been shaped with infinite care to make one great precious whole. The light enhanced it and gradually played with its moods and shades. I thought of the influence of that light. How fascinating it would be to watch through the hours its balancing light and shadow. At night all the beauty of the window might be lost; the intricate color and design dimmed in darkness. Is not spirituality the illumination which brings color and design to us? We can say because of this light, "O world invisible, we view thee." (Francis Thompson)
We are just one year from our century goal. Our interest is keen; we are turned in one direction; obstacles appear easy to overcome at this moment. We are constantly checking up on our attainments: social growth of women, physical advancement, growth of numbers, cultural growth. At this time, let us think of our great organization of women as builders of spirituality. What is spirituality? It is that quality that lights the individual and brings out of him the best. It is that in an individual which causes him ever to look up and to see; that quality which has caused hope to loom at the time of greatest crises. It is the result of meditation and active living; that quality which gives complete balance to life. Often it strikes the most responsive chords in our associates. It brings the whole soul of man into activity. Again, it is contagious and comes from close association with those who have it. It reaches homes and is the companion of good thoughts. Often it is a result of persecution and a reward for living the "good life". It is the culmination of deepest understanding. Job was chided by Elihu, who said, "But there is a spirit in man and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding." (Job 32:8) Spirituality often fills our hearts so that words may not be wholly intelligible. It grows when cultivated. It is concerned with the development of personalities and the realization of the highest of ideals. "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in Heaven is perfect," Spirituality involves the "enduring attitudes" of a spiritual life: faith, hope and love. It is the link which has kept God and man connected: the light in our lives.
To list activities of women which have influenced the spiritual life of the world would be to list pages of items; to touch on women from Eve of ages past to Madame Curie; to touch periods centuries before Christ to the immediate present. Because of their very nature, women have prayed. Because of the very mystery of birth, women have reached the fringe of heaven and have received glimpses of the greatest of experiences. What have been women's efforts in the home? Their efforts have been similar, that of rearing children to become honorable men and women. That was the duty and enjoyable privilege of Sarah of old, who gave to her child of promise her richest devotion; of Elizabeth who was honored to know through the promptings of the spirit of the coming of Christ; of Mary the Mother of Christ, and of present-day mothers. Have these women not adorned the homes from hovels to palaces; have they not given guidance to the infant, and the man? Have they not exposed members of the home to the best things on earth: art that expresses great truth, music that gives depth of experience, attitudes for responding to situations happily, lives purposefully lived? They have enriched life by material benefits, and sincere cooperation. They have instilled in children the dignity of work and the dangers of inactivity—the dangers that cause the spirit of man to lose its force, "like iron that lying about degenerates into a mass of useless rust, like water that in an unruffled pool sickens into a stagnant and corrupt state." These women through the ages of time have grown spiritually, loved integrity and truth and instilled in their children the courage needed to withstand temptations. The truly spiritual woman has given her children early moral ideals, has gardened youth intensively. The truly great woman of all ages is not a product of cities, of progress. Her greatness "recognizes no geographic limitations. It flowers on farms as well as in industrial and cultural centers. It possesses a delicate and fragile quality which shrinks from publicity and headlines and oftenest, like Maeterlinck's blue bird, it is found close to home." ("When is a Woman Great?" A. S. Richardson, Woman's Home Companion, 63:4; April, 1936.) The mission of the spiritual mother has been the climax of human opportunities for woman. She has been greater than any ruler, because she has had the "power to fashion the character of her subjects." She has been greater than any statesman, "because while he makes the laws she molds the character of the lawmakers and determines the destiny of nations." Surely her responsibility has been solemn and her mission sublime. Women have grown spiritually through cultural experiences. Literature has increased their world. They have been zealous in creating beauty. They have brought music and art into their lives. They have achieved self-mastery in creative activities—raising a choice flower, preparing a delicious meal, writing a great book. They have believed that to be an art, living must be gained by their own efforts. They have measured success not by wealth or speed, but by "the quality of intellectual and spiritual interests." For ages women have served their husbands and their children. This has grown to a great ministering of their fellowmen. Today women are reaching out to the whole world. From the hearts of women, in the ages past and in our generation, have constantly come prayers for peace; not only the stand still of arms of war but that peace of mind and soul which comes at moments of security; that peace which comes because of no regrets; that peace which can come in the midst of outer confusion. It is indeed that spiritual peace which Jesus left. "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you." (John 14:27)
And now at the fringe of our hundredth year, we may well review the spiritual growth of women. We may well be aware of the great Centennial that will bind all women of our great organization closer together. The great deeds done in common, the acts of heroic service performed side by side, the cooperation of great services to humanity, the love of women for women, common spiritual ideals; all these have bound and are binding our women closer together. Let us give praise to all who have contributed to our spiritual growth—to the Hebrew who gave us religion; the Greek who gave us standards of thought and beauty; the Roman who gave us law and order; the pioneer who gave us strength and courage; our present-day woman, who has all of these merged into a new spiritual self. She still suffers, loves, succeeds, prays and serves. New light may still bring out in her more precious design and color. Through a desire for spiritual growth, she will have the exquisite and serene distinction, the radiance of a good life, that has always been deeply loved. And when the century mark has been reached, she can say with Angela Morgan, "Glad is the earth when morn is breaking—Man is facing the rising sun!" She recognizes that she is heir of all ages. She can see into the future, because of her courage and hopefulness of spirit. She knows now that the highest goal is the summit where spirituality and intellectuality stand side by side and that to attain it life requires the beautiful and well-rounded life. Women are the builders of spirituality; a spirituality which is permanent and has in it something of the universal; a spirituality which comes through varied and complex activities and services; a spirituality which is the result of deep faith; a spirituality which is not static; a spirituality which gains momentum; a spirituality which radiates the human face. May we, as women at this period of achievement, have the appreciation, the deeper awareness, the peace, the trust, "the power, the dignity, the supremacy which comes from real spirituality," that spirituality which promotes to eternal exaltation.
Today's Challenge To Latter-day Saint Women Rae B. Barker
"And at that day, when I shall come in my glory, shall the parable be fulfilled which I spake concerning the ten virgins. "For they that are wise and have received the truth, and have taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived—verily I say unto you... they... shall abide the day." (Doctrine and Covenants 45:56, 57)
A great drama is being staged, but strangely enough the writing has not yet been completed. However, the plan from beginning to end, the plot based on the conflict and struggle between two major forces—good and evil, the time and setting, the shifting scenes, the many and changing characters, all the composing elements to the final curtain were infinitely clear to the Great Author even before the writing began. The story, a true one dealing with authentic characters, is that of "a chosen people." We have an account of the first scene, which took place in the council in heaven, and of the characters who participated. Some characters were to appear in a much later scene, when they would usher in an era of light after the spirit of darkness had held supremacy in the world for a long period. This scene is spoken of as the "fulness of times." It progresses through a period which might be described as a prelude to "the great and terrible day of the Lord"—great, from the standpoint of unprecedented discoveries and inventions which could be turned to glorious living; terrible, if these identical accomplishments should be used to promote misery and human destruction. The Omnipotent Director laid the plan clearly and comprehensively before those who would enact it. We are taught that we were there to hear the reading of the plan. We believe each was given the opportunity to choose a role in harmony with one of the two great principles involved—eternal life through individual free agency, or salvation through the power of dictatorial coercion. In the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-one, we of this generation are the characters upon the stage. In the midst of the challenging conditions of the present-day world, what is our role in the preparation of a chosen people? Do you agree with Robert Updegraff when he says: "A generation belongs to those who know what to do with it. The people, the situation, the very times, serve those who understand and command them"?
In an effort to understand our day and our opportunities in it as Latter-day Saint women, it may be profitable to follow the method of the young Indian guide who stood before a group of tourists impatient to be on their way to spots of scenic beauty. The deliberate young guide climbed alone up the intricate trail to the mountain top and there carefully observed all significant landmarks on the unusual topography of the heavily-wooded area. Mentally, he charted his course with relation to important and interesting points, then descended to lead his party without disaster or loss of time through the treacherous country. We might see our individual responsibilities more clearly if we would look back through the periods of history and see in perspective the preparation that is necessary for a people the Father can call His—His, because they accept Him and follow Him; His, because they were chosen, perhaps, to fill an important assignment in His eternal work—chosen because they had earned this privilege; His because they continue to merit the blessing of being His. To review scenes already concluded may be an incentive for better performance of our own act in the great drama. Whether Jesus taught in person, by His recorded word, or through divinely commissioned representatives, the challenge He gave was always the same. Whether to the children of Judah, to the Nephite people, to His first followers in the new dispensation, or to us now, the challenge is still the same: first, to believe; second, to live; and third, to teach His Gospel. "In Me ye shall find life eternal" is a promise to all alike. The challenge, therefore, is to His daughters as well as to His sons, for the man is not without the woman in the Lord. Let us look back to that scene when the Nephite people were powerful upon this land. What were the conditions of their generation, and how did these immortal challenges serve a chosen people? The clash of the forces of truth and error had risen to a gripping climax. The much-looked-for day of the Savior's promised coming was close at hand, and around the actuality of this promise the conflict raged. The great majority ridiculed and said the time had passed, that the words of the prophets had failed, and that the joy and the faith of them who believed in His coming had been in vain. The satanic denunciations of the unbelievers rose to such a pitch that they set apart a day when all who believed in those traditions should be put to death, unless the sign should come to pass. Under such conditions, was it easy for those Nephite women to believe that Christ lived and to teach their children to continue to pray and to watch always for His coming? But their undaunted faith and the purity of their lives were rewarded by one of the greatest manifestations of all time. The resurrected Lord stood before them—His chosen people—and declared that because of them His joy was full. "So great faith," said Jesus, "I have not seen among all the Jews; wherefore I could not show unto them so great miracles." They did not understand all He had been commanded by the Father to speak at that time, but "their hearts were open, and they understood in their hearts the words He prayed." Among the chosen few who saw and heard and were blessed by the risen Redeemer were women with their little children. They were loved of the Master. He knew where their influence was strongest, for He told them to go to their homes and to ponder upon the things He had told them, and to ask in the Father's name that they might understand. His deep concern for the well-being of women is evidenced, for at that time he also said, "Pray in your families: that your wives and your children may be blessed."
In 1830 A. D., there existed a state of spiritual confusion. People generally had lost their way. Laymen and ministers, too, were loud in their denial of a personal God, and they said there would be no more revelation. Always that hour is darkest just before the dawn. When finally the revealed truth burst upon the world, was it easy to believe that the Father and the Son had visited the earth and had again spoken? Once more women were among the believers. They had faith to hear, and their hearts were open to understanding. They were undaunted by derision and persecution. They endured being driven from their homes, plundered, dispossessed of much that was dear. They patiently bore sorrow and suffering. It took great courage to reconstruct their lives and to train their families to conform to the new pattern of truth that had been given them. They were subjected to social ostracism. The trek West brought about a condition of geographic isolation. Economic insecurity made them keenly aware of their utter dependence upon a source greater than any human power. These three factors were effective forces in building faith and unity among the people; and the new way of life was firmly established with only a minimum infiltration of distracting or dissipating influences. There is no question as to how that particular generation met its challenge to believe and to live according to its new situations. Its heroic missionary work stands as everlasting evidence of its success in meeting the third challenge—to teach the reality of God's word. Great sacrifice was exacted of women as well as men. Jesus called His disciples from their nets and places of labor. In a similar spirit, when our Latter-day Prophet called his twelve to go to distant lands to spread the glad tidings, they rose from sick-beds, left stricken families and impoverished homes. If their wives had been women with weaker testimonies, they could have found cause for bitter criticism and selfpity. With the severe preparation of one testing situation after another, the generation of our mothers and grandmothers grew strong and resolute, willing to endure that it might be free to follow its burning convictions.
It is time now for the characters of this generation to ask how the present situation may serve us as we attempt to follow the instructions of our great Director. What is our preparation, and how well will we play our role? The world presents a stage such as only a few had vision enough to foresee. A little more than a century ago, new light came to the world through divine revelation. Since that time, the mind of man has been quickened. Accomplishments for our good and comfort outstrip all previous works of magic. The earth with all its wonders is giving up its secrets. The summation of the culture of all generations comes as a beautiful gem to adorn the lives of the people. No period can parallel this, when every woman may live as a queen. The fountains of knowledge are fairly gushing, and all who will drink, may. Surely, "the fulness of the earth is ours." Endowed with so rich a heritage, will it be easy today to believe, to live, and to teach life eternal? We can say with Goethe, "That which from our fathers' heritage is lent, we must learn it anew to repossess it." With prudent use, a heritage can increase in value. Through neglect, it may become tarnished. Waste or even complete loss sometimes occurs from following faulty advice or because mistaken judgment may lead one to goals of questionable worth. There are dangers confronting this generation which perhaps are not as obvious as the physical dangers which tested the people in earlier times. But they may be more insidious in their power to disintegrate the faith, weaken the testimonies, and dull the desire of the individual to choose the good life. Today, instead of social oppression, we enjoy the open hand of fellowship. Innumerable opportunities for learning may either make us more ambitious to learn or by excessive opportunity dull our ability to select knowledge which is essential to understanding the eternal plan of life. Today our environment is the accumulated wealth of all generations that have gone before. We cannot measure its possible power as an effective instrument either in the advancement or retardation of our eternal progress. By the right of our privilege to choose how we will use this wealth, lies the answer to the question, "Will we in our day meet our God-given challenge?" With the evidence of over a hundred years to prove the worth and soundness of the revealed Gospel plan, it still will be easy to believe only if our hearts are open, as have been the hearts of those in every era who have felt the Gospel's radiance. It will be easy to live if we never cease in our efforts and supplications to understand. Then it will be easy to teach, for once tasting so great a joy, there will come added joy in sharing it with others. And when the curtain falls on today's scene in the great drama of life, may it please the Great Author to say of His daughters in this day: "They were wise, they received the truth, they have taken the holy spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived. They are My Chosen Ones."
IVY Kathryn Forbes Clyde
Tangled roots forever bounded By an earthen jar Sending forth exploring fingers Toward the light afar— Small, green tendrils reaching upward From a lump of sod, Tell me, shall I be successful In my quest for God?
The Bet Martha Lu Tucker
That day, the day Mom caught Chuck smoking, was a bad day. The wind was howling around our house and shaking the loose screen. Mom was pretty irritable. She jumped like a scared rabbit every time the back bedroom door slammed. There was a hole in the window, see, that we made when Jack ducked instead of catching a fast ball I threw him. Mom had crammed an old shirt of Dad's in it, but it didn't help much, especially since the latch on the door wasn't very good. Finally she went into the bedroom to put something in the door, and she saw that Chuck had come in the car. She went to the window, and there, standing in the shelter of the garage out of the wind, was Chuck waiting for a cigarette he was smoking to burn down. When Mom came back into the kitchen with a fiery light in her eye, I thought I was going to get it again for that window. She didn't say anything, though. Chuck came in a little while later, and she lit right into him. "Charles Elvin Anderson, you've been smoking!" | Chuck banged his lunch bucket down on the table. 'Well, come on, let's have it. I've gone against your teachings and started to smoke, so now I'm sinful. That's what you think, isn't it?" That set Mom back on her heels a little. Then she started to get excited like she always does when one of us says something she doesn't like. She calmed down a little and said, "You'll stop, won't you, son?" There was what you'd call an imploring sound in her voice. Chuck scowled. "Not if I don't want to." "Well, you will when your father hears about it. Now go get some wood—anything. I can't stand that tobacco smell on you." I waited for the fun to start when we sat down to the supper table. Mom, though, sent me down the cellar for a bottle of peaches, and most of the excitement was over before I got back. Dad was saying, "You know most of the railroad gang smoke. His friends smoke, so I'm not surprised that he is trying it." Like most of the families on West Mountain, we depended on the railroad for our food ticket instead of the crops that were good or bad according to the rainfall. We rented a little dry farm, working it with Dad to tell us what to do after he got off work at nights or week ends. As it was, we had no easy time keeping us four kids in school. I figured on getting a job on the railroad as soon as I was out of high school, myself, though there were plenty of jobs I'd rather have. Well, things went from bad to worse in the next few days. Mom kept insisting that Chuck quit smoking, but Dad said he was a man' and didn't have to unless he wanted to. Then it looked like Mom had lost. Chuck was too ornery to do anything anyone wanted him to do. After a while, Dad started to get a hangdog look from so much arguing. Jack and I couldn't decide how the argument would end. He bet me one night that Mom would forget about it, and Chuck would go on smoking. 180 The next day when we got home from school, we found a note from Mom saying she had gone over to Provo to visit Lillie, our married sister, for a few days. Dad didn't know what to think of that. After three days of Mary's soggy fried spuds and boiled eggs, he was downright grouchy, especially with Chuck. Then I warned Jack to start saving that three "bucks" he'd bet me. That afternoon, though, we found Mom home baking apple pies. Boy, did we have a dinner! Everything a fellow likes best. Dad was pretty happy thinking Mom had changed her mind or forgotten about Chuck. He got on the outside of three pieces of apple pie, then pushed his chair back and loosened his belt. "Oliver," Mom began. Something in her tone made Dad look at her a little suspiciously. "Yes, Mother, that was a mighty fine supper. Now what do you want, a new dress?" Mom didn't let that stop her. "Oliver, this fall we are going to move over to Provo. The lease is up then, and I'm not going to stand for all my boys going to work on the railroad and getting bad ideas." Chuck gulped and grabbed his glass. Jack winked at me. "So... We're not going to lease the farm again. Lillie showed me a place over there we could buy cheap. It doesn't look like much, but you and the boys could fix it up. You could go to work as easily from there as here." You should have seen the look on Dad's face. He settled his chair down on four legs and put his fists on the table. Mom went on before he could say anything. "There is a very good high school. Wayne and Jack can go on with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH, 1941 their carpentry and really make something of it with the woodworking classes they have." "Hot Zig!" I yelled. "You've got something there, Mom." She sure enough did. As soon as we got the crops in, we moved over here to Provo to fix up this old shack. Boy, it's been a job, but I don't mind much because I'm getting some good experience. Old man Hansen has asked me to fix his porch for him this week end, so I guess my career has begun. CHUCK went on smoking, but Mom didn't let him get away with it. When he came around her after he'd smoked a cigarette, she would pull a face like it pained her something awful to have to smell the smoke. Course, though, Chuck never smoked right in the house. Just the same, I think moving to Provo helped Chuck a lot, just as Mom hoped it would. We didn't live far from the church, and it didn't hurt any of us to get in the habit of going. When Chuck got interested in Mutual, in playing baseball and basketball, and in learning the M. I. A. Dances, he quit going to the pool halls, and his old gang didn't call for him on Saturday nights. About a month ago, Chuck came home from church in a really mean mood. He didn't say much, but muttered something about old Olsen — he's the basketball coach in our ward. Well, I wasn't a bit surprised then that Chuck didn't play with the team at their next game. He had been one of the stars on the high school team, but Olsen said he couldn't play unless he kept training tules. THE BET When Mom found out about that, she said to him, "You see, son, you are the one that's being hurt." Then Dad did the only thing I had seen him do that really showed whether he cared or not. He put his hand on Chuck's shoulder as if to say he would back Chuck up, but he thought it would be a fine thing if he would quit smoking. You remember that Chuck took - Jean Allen to the Gold and Green Ball. Oh, she's all right, but her kid sister, Dot, is more my speed. I think it surprised Mom that Jean would go with Chuck when he smoked, but I found out that she had plenty of backbone, anyway. Pll tell you how. After the dance, the Gold and Green Ball, Dot and I stopped at the grade school on our way home and slid down the fire escape a couple of times. Then Dot gathered up her dress so it wouldn't get caught, and we climbed through a fence and cut through into the Allen's lot. As we went around the house, we could hear that Chuck and Jean had beat us and were on the porch. Dot said, "Shh, let's stay here and listen to them." I didn't like to eavesdrop, but I agreed to sort of get even with. Chuck for taking so much hot water that night. Then we heard Chuck say, "Yes, I guess I like frankness, better anyway than beating around the bush or hypocrisy. Let me have it. I can take it." "Oh, oh," Dot whispered, "T'll bet I know what's coming." "You mean...?" We were right. Jean said, "When I went with you the first time, I knew you smoked, but I figured I'd 18] just go with you once or twice anyway, so it didn't matter." Chuck put in, "But now if you keep on going with me, I've got to break my filthy habits." "I guess it amounts to just that. I'm sorry." "Just the same," Chuck argued, "T'm a pretty good Mormon." "That's just. The point." "Oh, Jean, for Pete's sake! Don't be like that!" Jean said, "Good night," like she was mad but didn't want to be, and went into the house. I took Dot around the house. We walked up the sidewalk a little way, and she went in, too. Then I caught up with Chuck. He walked along with his head down not saying anything. After we got in bed, he started talking. "Wayne," he said, "do you think that dope they gave us on tobacco in church the other night was clear stuff?" "T guess so," I answered. "Why, did it get you?" "Mom thinks it should have, doesn't she?" I told him, "Well, you ought to know it would tickle her to death if you'd quit." I added to myself, "and Jean, too." Chuck didn't say any more then. I decided he was going to sleep so I rolled over on my right side and settled down. After a while Chuck rolled over, too. "Wayne,..." "Yeah," I answered, sleepily. "Does Dot Allen ever tell you anything Jean says about me?" I wished I had acted like I was asleep, because I didn't think Dot should tell things like that, but I had to tell him. "She told me her 182 Dad wanted Jean to stop going with you a long time ago, and she said as long as she didn't think any more of you than a friend it didn't matter. If she started liking you more you'd have to reform or she wouldn't go with you." "No kiddin'?" "No kiddin'!" COUPLE of days later when I was looking out of the kitchen window, I saw Chuck take a cigarette out of his pocket and light it. He puffed at it once or maybe twice, then all of a sudden threw it on the ground and stepped on it. The next morning before we went to school, Mom came down from making our beds looking as happy as I'd seen her look for a long time. "Look, boys," she said, "Charles went to work without his cigarettes." She held out a half-empty package. When Chuck came home from the railroad that night, Mom looked RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH, 1941 up from the board where she was rolling pie dough. "Apple pies for supper, Charles." _ Chuck put his arm around Mom's shoulder and said, "Gee, Mom, you're all right. I'd have you for my best girl if Jean weren't that already." Then Mom raised the cigarettes gingerly from her apron pocket. "Do you want these?" she asked Chuck. And Ill be darned if he didn't walk over to the stove and shove them in. I won the part of the bet about Chuck stopping smoking all right, but I had to own up that it wasn't really because of Mom that he stopped. Then Jack and I decided that it wouldn't be right for either of us to profit from such a swell thing as Chuck had done, so we are each going to put half of the money in and get a new saw. Note: This story won the Elsie C. Carroll Short Story Contest at the Bigham Young University last spring. RECKONING 'One whose hair has whitened, Keeps his youth today— Views with understanding Any young dream's sway. From his years take twenty, Another's age is told Who walks aloof, forbidding, And he is old—so old! —Maud Mero Doolittle. Child-Welfare Provisions Of The Social Security Act Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer fh HILD welfare... Did not C enter the public conscience of any nation until about one hundred years ago. And we know from reading Dickens and the literature of his period that the wellbeing of children in those early days was principally considered from the viewpoint of schooling and of crime prevention and the ending of physical cruelty." These words are from the address of President Franklin D. Roosevelt at the 1939 White House Conference on Children in a Democracy. Evidence of this statement is found in the fact that early provisions for the care of dependent and neglected children in America were in the form of custody in institutions, such as orphanages, first established by religious and other private organizations late in the eighteenth century, and that laws providing public care for dependent, defective, and delinquent children were enacted mainly during the last third of the nineteenth century and related chiefly to care in institutions. By 1900, institutions, both custodial and educational in character, had been established for the feebleminded, the epileptic, the blind, the deaf, the crippled, and for juvenile offenders of the law. Although there will always be some children with special needs (particularly the defective and the delinquent) for whom institutional care must be provided, child-welfare workers of the twentieth century have emphasized the inadvisability » of breaking up families and placing children in institutions because of loss of parental support; they have held to the concept that general welfare can best be promoted by strengthening family life so that children in their family setting may have opportunity for healthy growth and sound development. Consequently, public responsibility for the care of dependent and neglected children, developed during the past four decades and crystalized in the Social Security Act of 1935, is directed toward the care of such children in their own homes. The well-being of children of today is considered to include the essentials of a wholesome family life in a home with parents, relatives, or foster parents, where they have warmth, food, and affection, a sense of security, emotional satisfaction, spiritual guidance, medical care when ill and preventive health service, such as periodic physical examinations, immunization, and dental care, and adequate opportunities for education, recreation, and for vocational and cultural activities. The emphasis for care of dependent children and orphans has shifted from custodial care in institutions to care in their own homes or in carefully selected foster homes, where the facilities of the home are supplemented, if necessary, with grants from public funds in order to assure adequate food, clothing, and shelter, and with special services provided from public funds, such as prevent- 184 ive health services for mothers and. Children, location and treatment of crippled children, and skilled social services for children in danger of becoming delinquent. The responsibility of the government for health protection and educational and recreational facilities for all children of the nation, and for the care and protection, as well, of those children who are dependent and neglected, is concisely set forth in the following statement by Katherine F. Lenroot, chief of the U. S. Children's Bureau, in which she also emphasizes that we, the citizens of the nation, are the government— "Primary responsibility for the nurture, the support, and the training of children rests with the family.... The state has an obligation to assure the availability of such community services as health protection, schools, and playgrounds. But the state has the further duty of making sure that care and protection are within reach of those children who have no parents or natural guardians, and those whose home conditions or individual difficulties or disabilities require special attention. These include the dependent, the neglected, the delinquent, and the mentally and physically handicapped.... Citizens must realize that they cannot divest themselves of responsibility by looking to government for the solution of their problems. Government—local, state, or Federal—is only an institution through which citizens act to fulfill their obligations to themselves, their families, and their fellow men."* The notable progress in child welfare since 1900 has resulted largely from the four important nation-wide White House Conferences on child welfare— 1909—on Care of Dependent Children 1919—on Child-Welfare Standards "Child Welfare 1930-40," The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 212, (November, 1940) pp. 1-11. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH, 1941 1929—on Child. Health and Protection 1939—on Children in a Democracy and from the activities of the Children's Bureau which was authorized by Congress in 1912—an evidence of the concern of the Federal Government for the child. The White House Conference of 1929, which resulted in a series of surveys and studies on various aspects of child welfare, found that more than ten million children in the United States under 16 years of age were deprived of normal life because of malnourishment, defective speech, heart disease, tuberculosis, deafness, blindness, crippledness, mental deficiency, behavior problems, delinquency, and dependency.' This means that approximately one of every four children was found to be in need of special care, special training, medical aid, more expert guidance, elimination or improvement of conditions adversely affecting his physical and mental welfare. These conditions were aggravated during the depression years which followed this third White House Conference, and under stress of the times some of the services already established for children were seriously curtailed and éven discontinued entirely. Then, in 1934, President Roosevelt appointed a Committee on Economic Security which developed the outlines of a social security program which were later incorporated into the Social Security Act—the most far-reaching public welfare statute in the history of the United States. This Act marked a new epoch in child welfare through inclusion of "Leona B. Fetzer, 'Some Aspects of Child Welfare," Relief Society Magazine, February, 1941, pp. 87-90. ¢ widespread, effective, and permanent provision for various services to children in all parts of the nation. Five years ago—in February, 1936— funds were first made available from the United States Treasury for the various benefits for which the Social Security Act, passed in August, 1935, provides." Because a home atmosphere charged with economic fear and insecurity adversely affects the physical and mental welfare of children, every protection for the security of the family and the home offered by the Social Security Act—including those relating to unemployment compensation and benefits for the aged— gives more security to the children of the families concerned. However, this Act includes four provisions explicitly relating to the care and protection of children— Title IV: Aid to Dependent Children Title V: Part 1—Maternal and Child-Health Services Part 2—Services for Crippled Children Part 3—ChildWelfare Services The 1939 amendments to the Social Security Act becoming effective as of January 1, 1940, added a fifth resource for children when the provision of the original act relating to old-age benefits was changed to authorize the payment of old-age insurance benefits to surviving widows and to children under the age of eighteen years. This compulsory insurance plan applies chiefly to industrial workers, and is the only pro- *For brief summary of all provisions of the Social Security Act, see "Public Welfare Provisions,' by Vera W. Pohlman, Relief Society Magazine, November, 1940, pp. 767-775. Vision of the Social Security Acf administered directly by the Federal Government (through the Social Security Board) requiring neither acceptance nor financial participation by the states. His service is too new, especially in view of recent amendments, to be discussed here in greater detail, but it will ultimately decrease the need for direct grants of aid for dependent children in the families where breadwinners covered by this type of insurance are removed by death. The provision for aid to dependent children is the only one allowing for direct cash grants for maintenance of children in the homes of parents or relatives; this provision is administered by the Social Security Board which was created by authorization of the Social Security Act. The other three children's provisions of the Act are for special services for children, especially for those in rural areas and in areas of special need, and all three are administered by the Children's Bureau. The availability of all four benefits for children of each state is dependent on the state's acceptance of the provisions, on the matching of Federal grants for these purposes with a certain proportion of state funds, and in compliance with the terms of administration of these grants as set forth in the Social Security Act. A brief description of these provisions, each of which is now operative in all or most communities of the United States, follows: AID TO DEPENDENT CHILDREN The 1909 White House Conference on the Care of Dependent CHILD-WELFARE PROVISIONS OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT 185 186 Children made a strong declaration in favor of the care of children in their own homes, as indicated by the following excerpts from the recommendations of the Conference— "Home life is the highest and finest production of civilization. It is the great molding force of mind and character. Children should not be deprived of it except for urgent and compelling reasons. Except in unusual circumstances, the home should not be broken up for reasons of poverty, but only for considerations of inefficiency or immorality. As to the children who for sufficient reasons must be removed from their own homes, or who have no homes, it is desirable that, if normal in mind and body and not requiring special training, they should be cared for in fam- _ ilies whenever practicable. The carefully selected foster home is for the normal child the best substitute for the natural home." Following this conference, the "widows' pension" movement swept the country, beginning with the first state statute in 1911, and by 1920 the majority of states had passed such statutes, which were known as 'mothers' aid" or "widows' pension" laws. Utah's first legislation providing for mothers' aid was enacted in 1913. The object of these laws was to provide maintenance from public funds for children in their own homes so that widowed mothers without means of support would not be under the necessity of placing their children in orphanages, sending them to live with relatives, or leaving them unsupervised while employed away from home. However, this type of aid was not available in all localities because most of the state laws were not mandatory but simply permitted counties to provide this type of aid, and only a very few states assisted the local units of government with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH, 1941 Py matching state funds. As the depression years advanced, tax collections declined and increasing numbers of unemployed families sought public relief. | Consequently, the ability of local units of government to finance mothers' aid diminished with the result that the "pensions" were reduced and, in some counties, entirely discontinued. In some communities, the funds available for mothers' aid were distributed on a pro rata basis to all eligible applicants, resulting in very low grants, and in others the recipients were limited to the number for whom the available funds could provide more adequately, with the result that long waiting lists became longer. This was the situation when the first Federal funds became available in February, 1936, for aid to dependent children under terms of Title IV of the Social Security Act. These Federal funds, procurable by states only on a matching basis, and only in states making this type of aid mandatory in all counties of the state, stimulated increased county funds and the provision of state funds for this purpose, resulting in a great expansion of aid to dependent children throughout the nation. In October, 1940, the latest month for which published figures are available, 42 states issued grants of aid under terms of the Social Security Act. In nine other states, aid to dependent children was administered locally without Federal participation. These data indicate that this type of aid is now available in every state of the nation, including the District of Columbia and the territories of Alaska and Hawaii. The Social Security Act defines a dependent child as— "|,. A needy child under the age of sixteen, or under the age of eighteen if found by the state agency to be regularly attending school, who has been deprived of parental support or care by reason of the death, continued absence from the home, or physical or mental incapacity of a parent, and who is living with his father, mother, grandfather, grandmother, brother, sister, stepfather, stepmother, stepbrother, stepsister, uncle, or aunt, in a place of residence maintained by one or more of such relatives as his or their own home.'"* The provisions of this Act make it unnecessary for a mother who is widowed, deserted, divorced, sepatated, or unmarried, and who is with- - out sufficient income, to neglect her young children to seek employment, to place them in an orphanage for support, or to break up her home and apportion her children among relatives. Aid may be extended not only for fatherless or motherless children, but also for children living with both parents but whose father is disabled and unable to support them, or whose father or mother is either temporarily or permanently in an institution, such as a prison, a hospital, or an asylum for the insane. Under this provision, it is also possible for an orphaned or otherwise homeless child whose relatives are willing to care for him but are unable to support him, to be maintained in the home of relatives, rather than in an institution. Grants of aid for dependent children must be in the form of cash and must be paid direct to eligible individuals in their own homes. The Federal Government pays one-half of the individual cash grant up to a maximum of $18 for one child and $12 for each additional child in the 'Social Security Act, Title IV, Section 406. Same family for children under 16 years of age, or 18 years if regularly attending school. In Utah, the state law stipulates that counties pay 15 per cent of these grants; the remaining 35 per cent is derived from the state sales tax. Inasmuch as the Social Security Act specifies that grants must be made on the basis of need in each individual family, the amounts paid may be less than the maximum which is matchable from Federal funds, and in extreme cases of need, even more may be paid, but the extra amount must come solely from state and county funds. In Utah, need is determined in each instance through an investigation by a case worker in the County Department of Public Welfare. Applications for this type of aid may be made by the parent or relative with whom the child lives direct to the local agency, usually the Department of Public Welfare, which administers this type of aid in the county in which the applicant resides. Most states, including Utah, impose the maximum residence restriction allowed by the Social Security Act, which is that the child for whom application is made must have lived for at least one year in the state in which application is made. There is no requirement that either the child or the parents or relatives with whom he lives be citizens of the United States. MATERNAL AND CHILDHEALTH SERVICES The 1919 White House Conference on Child-Welfare Standards was most influential in regard to the protection of maternity and infancy. It formulated and publicized minimum standards for maternity and CHILD-WELFARE PROVISIONS OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT 187 infancy protection which aroused the nation and culminated in the enactment of the Sheppard-Towner Infancy and Maternity Act. This Act which was passed by Congress in November, 1922, and carried authorization for a five-year period, was subsequently extended for two additional years. 'Thus, it expired by limitation in 1929, at the onset of the depression, with the result that maternal and child-health services were greatly curtailed or entirely discontinued because state and local funds were needed in rapidly increasing amounts for relief of the unemployed. The functioning of the Sheppard-Towner Act for a period of seven years demonstrated the effectiveness of health activities fostered and aided by the Federal Government but carried on by the states and localities with substantial additional funds contributed by them. These services were chiefly in the nature of prenatal clinics for examination and instruction of expectant mothers, and child-health centers for examination and immunization of children. These services were renewed on a permanent basis through provisions of the Social Security Act of 1935. The Relief Society became actively interested in the first Federal-state cooperative undertaking for maternal and child health under the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner Act. It was in anticipation of this service that the Society, seven months prior to the final passage of the Act, took action at its semi-annual general conference in April, 1922, recommending the centralization of the Society's wheat trust fund and the use of interest accruing thereon for health RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH, 1941 work, with emphasis on maternity care and child welfare. This action stimulated the interest and participation of local Relief Societies in maternal and child welfare, an interest which has actively continued until the present time, despite the intervening period of six years between 1929 and 1936 when the lack of Federal funds for this purpose greatly curtailed the services of states in this respect. The local Societies helped to sponsor prenatal and baby clinics, provided funds for remedial and preventive treatment, such as dental work and removal of tonsils, supplied Relief Society cabinets with layettes and maternity bundles, and endowed hospital beds for maternity use. In connection with this program, the Relief Society of Cottonwood Stake (in Salt Lake County) established a first-class maternity hospital in 1924 which has operated successfully ever since. Relief Society women everywhere are proud of the progressive action of their organization in this respect, and of the fact that President Amy Brown Lyman (then general secretary-treasurer, and a member of the House of Representatives in the Utah State Legislature) introduced the bill providing for Utah's acceptance of the provisions of the Federal Act, and succeeded in putting the measure through without a dissenting vote. Another Relief Society service instituted soon after inception of the first Federal provisions for maternal and child health, and continuing without interruption since that time, is the loan fund for graduate nurses accepted as students in university public-health nursing courses. This loan fund was established in 1923 as a memorial in honor of Clarissa S. Williams, then general president of Relief Society, under whose administration the maternity and childhealth work was instituted in the Relief Society. The purpose of this memorial is to stimulate interest in nursing as a profession for women, to help meet the need for more young women trained in publichealth nursing which accompanied the establishment of maternal and child-health provisions, and to help make it possible for young women to prepare themselves for publichealth nursing. Re-establishment of maternal and child-health services under the Social Security Act has resulted in increased use of this loan fund by young women qualifying for public-health work in order to carry this program forward in the local communities of Utah and other States. Maternal and child-health services were permanently renewed under Title V, Part 1, of the Social Security Act, extending and improving services for promoting and safeguarding the health of mothers and children, especially in rural areas and the smaller cities. | Maternal and child-health services under provisions of the Social Security Act are in effect in every state, in the District of Columbia and the territories of Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico. This provision is administered by the U. S. Children's Bureau, working in cooperation with state health departments, and makes grants of funds annually available to participating states, which must provide matching funds. None of this money is for cash grants to individual families, but rather for public-health services, such as community maternity centers (prenatal and postpartum), child-health conference centers for infants and pre-school children, examination of school children, vaccination for smallpox and immunization against diphtheria, and general public-health nursing service. One or more of these services is available in every county in Utah, but there are still hundreds of counties in the United States with no rural public-health nursing service. In all counties where these services have been established, they are available to all mothers and children, irrespective of economic need. Wherever these services are available, any mother may receive instruction, both before and after birth of her baby, and may take her baby and pre-school children to child-health conferences for examination by a physician, for instruction in infant care, and for health instruction and supervision. At these conferences, young children are also vaccinated for smallpox and immunized against diphtheria. A public-health nurse arranges for and assists at maternity and child-health conferences and also visits the mother at home, both before and after birth of her child; she also follows through in home visits with respect to children examined at the child-health conferences. Health supervision of older children is conducted through the schools. The nurse visits the schools regularly and aids the teachers in guarding against communicable disease. The school children are exCHILD-WELFARE PROVISIONS OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT 189 190 amined periodically by a physician, and sometimes by a dentist. Again, the public-health nurse follows through with the parents in arranging for medical aid and dental care to correct defects. For information as to where and when such clinics and conferences are held in local communities, mothers may inquire of the public-health nurse who usually has an office in the county building or who may always be located through the nearest public school. Local Relief Societies may invite the public-health nurse to a meeting to explain the program, and may cooperate by announcing in their meetings the time and place of maternity clinics and child-health conferences. Besides the physician and the public-health nurse who sees the mothers and children at the health conferences, other specialized services, such as those of dentists, nutritionists, and social workers, are being made available in an increasing number of areas. Some of the maternal and child-health funds are used also for stipends to enable physicians, dentists, nutritionists, nurses, and health educators to prepare for public-health service. In addition to the usual services already indicated, the maternal and child-health program conducts special demonstrations in a few areas of special need by providing, for those who are unable to pay, such services as corrective dental care for mothers and children, home delivery service, and care for premature infants. The traveling dental unit which has operated in certain rural counties of Utah where local dental service is unavailable is an example RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH, 1941 of the extra service given to demonstrate the need for and the value of correcting defects which are found through examination at the schools and health conferences. Public funds are insufficient to provide for needed corrective dental, medical, and surgical attention for all those unable to pay for such care, but the services of this nature which have been provided from the funds for maternal and child-health work have not only met urgent needs in the few demonstration areas where they have been available, but have stimulated various community cooperative plans for bringing physicians and dentists into communities and for arranging for corrective care for those unable to pay. A decided decline in maternal and infant death rates has accompanied the resumption of maternal and child-health services under the Social Security Act. Approximately 10,000 mothers are alive today who would have died in the last four years if the maternal mortality rate of 1935 had remainedunchanged. There are approximately 28,000 children alive today who would have died in infancy during the last four years if the infant death rate of 1935 had continued to prevail.' Although significant gains have been made in extending maternal and child-health services, especially in rural areas, reports. Show striking evidence of need for further expansion. The need for immediate expansion of these services is considered to be especially urgent now because of the intensi- 'Edwin F. Daily, "Annual Report to Maternal and Child-Health Advisory Committee," issued by Children's Bureau, 10 pp. Mimeographed. fied and additional problems created by the national defense program. The defense program has caused rapid increase in populations in villages, towns, and cities adjacent to military camps and in those with rapidly expanding defense industries. Such expansion brings urgent problems of health protection, particularly for children and mothers in the families of industrial workers and enlisted men. SERVICES FOR CRIPPLED CHILDREN Services for crippled children are provided under Title V, Part 2, of the Social Security Act, which authorizes appropriations of Federal funds to the states to help them— "extend and improve (especially in rural areas and in areas suffering from severe economic distress) services for locating crippled children, and for providing medical, surgical, corrective, and other services and care, and facilities for diagnosis, hospitalization, and aftercare for children who are crippled or who are suffering from conditions which lead to crippling.'""® This title of the Social Security Act is administered by the Children's Bureau, which cooperates with the agency in each state to which responsibility for this program is assigned. In Utah, this service is conducted by a division of the State Board of Health. The greater part of the Federal appropriation is available to states only on a matching basis; the proportion available without matching is for distribution to states on the basis of need, including states unable to match the offered Federal funds, states where epidemics of infantile paralysis oc- "Social Security Act, 511. Title V, Section cur, and states where there is an especially large number of children in need of care, or where costs are greater than average. Services for crippled children, under provisions of the Social Security Act, are now in effect in all 48 states, in the District of Columbia, and in the territories of Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico. In addition to locating and treating crippled children, part of the funds are also used to assist professional workers to secure special training in their various fields in the interest of service to crippled children, such as orthopedic nursing, publichealth nursing, physiotherapy, and medical social work. Certain special services are also being developed in various states, as, for example, the speech correction which is being provided in Utah and Hawaii for children who have been operated on for harelip and cleft-palate deformities. 'Teaching programs for crippled children in their own homes are carried on as WPA projects in Arizona, Colorado, the District of Columbia, and Montana.' All crippled children whose families are unable to pay for the needed corrective treatment are eligible for care under this program, including children in families with incomes adequate to provide the basic necessities of life but inadequate to meet the cost of specialized care which the crippled child requires. Most of the states accept for care children up to 21 years of age. Anyone may report to the local public-health nurse (or County Department of "Robert C. Hood, M. D., "Progress Re port on Services for Crippled Children," The Child, September, 1940, pp. 69-72. CHILD-WELFARE PROVISIONS OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT 191 192 Public Welfare) a crippled child in need of care, and any family with a crippled child may make application for examination and treatment. The state agency then arranges for the examination of the child unless his family is in a position to arrange and pay for the needed care. Under terms of the Social Security Act, treatment for a crippled child may be provided entirely without charge to the family, or on the basis of part pay, according to the circumstances of the family. Permanent diagnostic clinics have been established in most of the states, usually in hospitals or medical centers, and traveling clinics are used to reach for examination the children in areas not served by the permanent clinics. These traveling clinics are held from time to time in centers accessible to all parts of the state. Wherever necessary, aftercare is provided in convalescent and foster homes, thereby reducing the number of days of hospital care. Although the public funds made available under: the Social Security Act for services for crippled children are used to pay the major costs involved in treatment and care, funds are not available from this source for transportation of crippled children to and from clinics for examination, nor between their homes and points where hospitalization or other treatment is given. Neither can these funds be spent to provide clothing for crippled children under care. The state agency administering services for crippled children relies on local community agencies and resources for meeting these needs, and local Relief Societies are cooperating in many instances. Local agencies are also asked to provide RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH, 1941 for other necessary care for dependent crippled children, such as _ removal of tonsils and dental service. Each state agency administering services for crippled children is developing a register of all crippled children in the state up to 21 years of age, irrespective of whether they are under care. By March 31, 1940, crippled children already registered by 51 states numbered 255,000. The information so far available indicates that from one-fifth to one-quarter of the total number were crippled by infantile paralysis (poliomyelitis). It is reported, however, that— "Ten years ago infantile paralysis was the leading cause of crippling, with birth injuries and congenital defects as close seconds. Tuberculosis came third, and ac: cidents fourth. Today the picture has changed to birth injuries and congenital defects as leading causes, accidents second, infantile paralysis third, and tuberculosis fourth. 'This emphasizes the importance of strengthening our prenatal and obstetrical services and intensifying accident pre: vention.'" The state agency administering services for crippled children also refers crippled children 16 years of age and over who are ready for vocational training to the state vocational rehabilitation service for the physically handicapped, which is connected with the Department of Public Instruction in the various states. This service also operates with funds provided on a matching Federalstate basis, and Federal funds already provided for this purpose were supplemented by additional funds authorized by the Social Security *Richard Arthur Bolt, "Progress in Saving Maternal and Child Life," The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 212, (November, 1940) Pp. 97-104. Act, Title V, Part 4. This service gives to those who are permanently handicapped vocational training within their capabilities so that they may be able to earn their own livelihood. CHILD-WELFARE SERVICES The need for Federal aid for services. To socially-handicapped children was recognized by the 1930 White House Conference on Child Care and Protection, which declared that every child in special need has a tight to service from a public welfare organization, and recommended that Federal grants-in-aid be made available to the areas most in need of such service to children and least able to provide it." Child-welfare services are provided under Title V, Part 3, of the Social Security Act, which authorizes an annual appropriation for grants to the states for "establishing, extending, and strengthening, especially in predominantly rural areas, child-welfare services for the protection and care of homeless, dependent, and neglected children, and children in danger of becoming delinquent." The Federal funds, to which state and local funds are added, are not available for maintenance of children but are used for service only in rural areas and for developing state services "for the encouragement and assistance of adequate methods of community child-welfare organizations in areas predominantly rural and other areas of special need." 'This provision of the Social Security Act is administered ®*Mary Irene Atkinson, "Child Welfare Services," The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 202, (March, 1940) pp. 8-87. By the Children's Bureau through state departments of public welfare. Plans for these services are developed jointly by the Children's Bureau and the state welfare agency. Child-welfare services are now in effect in all 48 states, the District of Columbia, Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico, covering more than one-sixth of the total rural counties in the United States. Significant aspects of this provision of the Social Security Act are the emphasis on rural needs and the prevention of delinquency. The child-welfare worker, serving in rural areas and small towns under provision of this Act, deals with children's problems at their source, before homes are broken up and children separated from their parents or relatives. Most of the service by child-welfare workers is furnished to children in their own homes—children in danger of becoming delinquent because of their environment; children who present conduct problems in the school, in the home, or the community; children in need of treatment or special training because of physical handicaps; mentally defective children for whose care plans must be made; and children whose home conditions threaten their physical or social wellbeing. These social services for children are available, in communities where established, to all children in need of them, irrespective of economic need. The child-welfare worker, who is on the staff of the local County Department of Public Welfare, studies the problems of the child who may be referred to her by the schools, the juvenile court, the police, the Relief Society or other agencies, the neighbors, or the CHILD-WELFARE PROVISIONS OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT 193 194 child's own family, and determines what the child needs and what arrangements can be made to meet his needs at home, at school, in the community, or, if necessary, in the hospital, a foster home, or an institution. Child-welfare services also help to stimulate general awareness of children's problems and community cooperation for improving conditions surrounding children. As child-welfare services become available in rural areas, the number of children coming before juvenile courts tends to decrease. EXTENSIVE UNMET NEEDS Although great progress has been made since the four provisions of the Social Security Act relating directly to children became effective five years ago, the unmet needs of underprivileged children throughout the nation are still appalling. The adequacy of grants of aid to dependent children depend in large measure on the extent to which the states and local communities can match the available Federal funds, and these grants are pitifully low in some sections of the nation. The trend of recent years with respect to pensions for the aged, who with voting franchise form pressure groups as children cannot, has resulted in much more adequate maintenance provisions for the dependent aged than for dependent children. An aged couple may well be receiving as much as a widow with five or six chil-. Dren. Furthermore, there is an enormous group of underprivileged children in the homes of the unemployed, including the migratory families, who are ineligible for grants of aid to dependent children because of the employability of the father, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH, 1941 for whom general relief allowances are usually even lower than grants of aid for dependent children. Child-welfare services have so far been extended to only about onesixth of the total rural counties of the United States, but the experience in these limited areas has already demonstrated tragic lacks in social services for treating children's problems. About 1,000 rural counties in the United States still do not have the services of even one publichealth nurse; in many of the counties where such service is available, there are no funds for providing home delivery service or hospital care of mothers when needed at time of delivery, and no means of obtaining treatment of illness of mothers and children. Thousands of children still die each year from communicable diseases; widespread inadequacy of nutrition is responsible for many cases of deficiency diseases in children and for increased severity of much illness; there' are thousands of children handicapped with crippling conditions other than orthopedic and plastic impairments. "For example, it has been estimated that there are approximately 400,000 children suffering from rheumatic heart disease; approximately 60,000 children with severe visual defects; and 7 to 10 million children with refractive errors. Approximately 2 million children have defective hearing, and more than two-thirds of school children have dental defects. The state and Federal funds now available are insufficient to meet these needs." These facts, and the following statement by Homer Folks at the first session of the White House *Robert C. Hood, M. D., "Progress Report on Services for Crippled Children," The Child, September, 1940, pp. 69-72. Conference on Children in a Democracy, present a challenge to Relief Society workers everywhere, and give indication of some of the welfare services which they might sponsor— "Somewhere within these United States, within the past few years, was born a child who will be elected in 1980 to the most responsible office in the world, the Presidency of the United States. We cannot guess his name or whereabouts. He may come from any place and from any social or economic group. He may now be in the home of one of the soft-coal miners, or in the family of a sharecropper, or quite possibly in the home of one of the unemployed, or in a family migrating from the Dust Bowl, or he may be surrounded with every facility, convenience, and protection which money can buy. "If we could unroll the scroll of the future enough to read his name and whereabouts, how many things we would wish to have done for him, how carefully we would wish to guard his health, his surroundings, his education, his associates, his travels, his ambitions." What we might wish to do for that unknown child, the future President, we must be ready to do for every child, so that he may be ready to live a full life, satisfying to himself and useful to his community and Nation." "General Report Adopted by the White House Conference on Children in a Democracy, pp. 83-84, Children's Bureau Publication No. 266, Washington, 1940. MARCH Olive W. Burt And now comes March, the housewife month, to sweep The whole world clean. Her hair is closely tied Beneath a white cloud mop-cap, and a wide White apron billows from her waist to keep Her blue dress spotless. While the seeds still sleep, She washes dull sky-panes, that else would hide The spring's pale sunshine, and spreads newly-dyed Green carpets where the snowdrifts have lain deep. I take my lesson from the month, and clean My inner house, my spirit's home, to be Ready for open doors. I scan each part Most seriously, with eyes alert and keen To find the hidden cobwebs, dust, debris That have accumulated in my heart. CHILD WELFARE PROVISIONS OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT 195 HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon Today I saw the flash of a bluebird's wing, There was snow on the hills, Yet I knew it meant spring. THE Greek women, like the Amazons of ancient times, are defending their home land both on the battlefield and by keeping roads and streets clean in the cities. COUNTESS MORAG ZANORYSKA, a Polish refugee, is relating her tragic experiences during her flight after the fall of Warsaw, in American cities. ALICE MARBLE, with "no more worlds to conquer" as an amateur tennis player, is making victories in the professional field. MARY FIELD GARNER, 105 years old, of Utah, still interested in world affairs, makes sage comments on conditions. Another remarkable Utah centenarian is Emily Hodgetts Lowder, whose one hundredth anniversary was celebrated by all Iron County. ROSE McMULLIN, famed donor of blood, was awarded a medal by the Forty and Eight Society of the American Legion, with the words, "The bravest woman in America." Thirty out of forty-one sufferers helped, recovered. DOROTHY WRIGHT LEEBES, California artist, has turned from the paint brush to the loom and is now making a fortune weaving her dream pictures into rugs and tapestries. LADY RUSSELL, author of "Elizabeth and Her German Garden," "Enchanted April," and other novels, and, just recently, the charming story, "Mr. Skeffington," under the pen name, "Elizabeth," died last month. SIGRID UNSET, Norway's' famous novelist, now a refugee in the United States, has been informed that the Quisling Government has ordered all her books and manuscripts burned. ELLEN GLASGOW was recently awarded the William Dean Howells medal for fiction by the American Academy of Arts and Letters. Her latest novel, "In This Our Life," is now ready. Pearl Buck's "Today and Forever," and Josephine Lawrence's "No Stone Unturned," are also new novels of February, while Alice Duer Miller's beautiful story in verse, "The White Cliffs," is attracting much attention. DEANNA DURBIN, piquant movie star, donated money for six huge mobile canteen units, to provide first aid to civilian war sufferers. This was her Christmas gift to her English friends. MY JOHNSON MOLLISON, Britain's greatest aviatrix, was drowned in the Thames estuary while flying for the air transport auxiliary. EMMA BENNION LINDSAY, Rachel Baliff Campbell, Amy Adams Thomas, and Lydia Spencer Clawson are among the notable Utah pioneer mothers who died in the late winter months. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Amy Brown Lyman - - - Marcia K. Howells - Donna D. Sorensen - Vera W. Pohlman - Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow Achsa E. Paxman Mary G. Judd Belle S. Spafford Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker - President First Counselor - Second Counselor - Secretary-Treasurer Luella N. Adams Gertrude R. Garft: Leona B. Fetzer: Manienne) C; Skiemp Edith S. Elliott Anna B. Hart Pauline T. Pingree Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - Belle S. S afford Acting Business Manager - - -. - - Amy Brown Lyman Vol. 28 MARCH, 1941 No. 3 CO—> EDIT ORIAL ~~2 'Seed My Sheep ' WHEN Peter, deeply repentant, asked his Lord what he should do to prove himself, he was told, "Feed my sheep." The importance of this behest was made manifest by repeated emphasis: "Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me?" Then, "Feed my sheep." Even as Peter was to show his love for the Master by giving the "bread of life" to all who would partake, so we in latter days must demonstrate our love. In the world today there are thousands of souls hungering for the "bread of life," seeking the nourishment that only it can give. Those having this precious food are under obligation to share it, no matter where they may be, no matter what may be the work they are engaged in. In counseling the Relief Society sisters, the Prophet Joseph recalled the Master's words to Peter, saying, "Tf the sisters love the Lord, let them feed the sheep." And he further counseled: "Let your labors be mostly confined to those around you, in the circle of your own acquaintance." For ninety-nine years the women of the Church have endeavored to follow this counsel. For ninety-nine years their love of the Master has been manifested by the service they have rendered "to those around them." Reaching out and touching the hearts of women in communities throughout the world, they have drawn them in to partake of the bounteous feast of the Lord; and these women, having in their turn partaken, have become dispensers of the food to others, until from a humble beginning of 18 members, we now visualize 100,000 women "feeding His sheep." There are, however, in every community many indifferent shepherds and many unfed sheep. Though each week the table is spread, there are still those who do not partake of the feast because they do not know of it or because they are waiting for someone to fetch them to it. Those who have had the good fortune to sit at the table and partake of the feast know the bounteousness and benefits of it. They also know their responsibility to 198 share it with others. It is not enough to say to our sisters, "Come, join us." We must go into the highways. And byways seeking and searching, even as did the Savior when He dispensed the "bread of life,' until all have been brought in to the fold. Indifferent shepherds must awake, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH, 1941 all who know the truth must carry the message to those who know it not. Peter grew great in the service of the Lord; so has Relief Society grown in greatness through service; so will it continue to grow as it "feeds His sheep." Lydia Spencer Clawson THE March, 1939, Relief Society Magazine contained an article entitled "Women We Should Know — Lydia Spencer Clawson, Wife and Mother." This was the concluding article in a series which presented the lives of outstanding Latter-day Saint women in various fields of endeavor. From this article we quote: "Sister Clawson chose the best of all careers—that of a true woman, wife and mother, whose price is still 'above rubies.' " The Relief Society General Board extends its sincere sympathy to President Rudger Clawson and the members of his family in the passing of their beloved and devoted wife and mother, Saturday, February 1, 1941. Sister Clawson's life has been rich in experience and fruitful from every point of view. She has met trial and mastered it. She has known good times and met them with zest and delight. She has been blessed with beauty, quick wit, and a pleasing, kind disposition which has won her innumerable friends. She has also been blessed with nine sons and daughters, five of whom survive her. Her devotion to the Church has been evidenced in the many sacrifices she has made for it and in the spirit with which she has accepted the many calls it has made upon her husband. She has been ready at all times to relieve him of responsibilities and make the way clear for him to do the work which has been his as an apostle in the Church which they both loved. There is no doubt that her life of sacrifice, service, and devotion will be amply rewarded in the Kingdom of our Father. We sincerely pray that His peace, comfort and blessings will attend President Clawson and his family in their hour of sorrow. Distribution of Alcohol Pamphlet HE pamphlet, "Injurious Effects Resulting From the Moderate Use of Alcohol," by L. Mervin Maus, is now being mailed to the stakes and missions in the United States for distribution. Inasmuch as there is not a sufficient number for every Latter-day Saint home, it is suggested that the distribution be carefully considered; that pamphlets be placed in homes where they will be most appreciated. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Relief Society General Conference HE semi-annual general conference of Relief Society will convene in Salt Lake City, Wednesday and Thursday, April 2 and 3, 1941. The conference will open at 10 a. M. Wednesday in the Assembly Hall with a meeting for stake and mission officers and board members. The departments to be featured during the two-day conference will be as follows: Social Welfare Magazine Work-and-Business and Mormon Handicraft Centennial and Membership Music Secretary-Treasurers 'Two sessions, open to the public, will be held in the Tabernacle on Thursday, at 10 a. M and 2 p. M. Respectively. Inasmuch as the Relief Society centennial will be observed next year, special emphasis will be given at the conference to plans for the centennial; the Thursday morning general session will be largely devoted to centennial and membership activities. Detailed information relating to the conference will be mailed to Relief Society stake and mission presidents early in March. The General Board extends an invitation to conference visitors to call at the general offices of the Society, on the second floor of the Bishop's Building, where they may rest, use the telephone, or arrange to meet friends. An attendant will be pleased to direct visitors to the various departments of the Society where they may wish to transact business—subscribe for the Relief Society Magazine, or obtain supplies. The burial clothing department will be open for those who wish to call or make purchases. The Mormon Handicraft Shop, 21 West South Temple Street, extends a welcome to those who wish to view its fine and artistic handiwork. The General Board looks forward with pleasure to meeting Relief Society officers and members from the stakes and missions throughout the Church. Cae tum AN error was made in publishing the name of Edith E. Anderson as the author of the poem, "Pioneer Tintype," which appeared in the February issue of the Magazine. This poem is the work of Dott Sartori. "Pioneer Tintype" was one of the poems receiving favorable comment in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. We greatly appreciate this excellent contribution to the Magazine and sincerely regret the error which occurred. 200 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH, 1941 Attention: Choristers and Organists This coming year will be filled with fine musical activity in all of the stakes in preparation for programs commemorating our one hundredth anniversary. 'The music committee of the General Board is anxious to give every possible assistance and is hoping to have a record attendance in the music department of the coming April conference. For the celebration to be held in Salt Lake City, in April, 1942, it is planned that a great combined chorus of Singing Mothers will be brought together similar to the one assembled two years: ago, and that themusical program will be an outstanding contribution to this memorable occasion. An important part of the centennial program will be the rendering of the cantata, "Resurrection Morning," by B. Cecil Gates. We would greatly appreciate having stake music representatives come to conference this coming April prepared to purchase copies of this cantata. It is especially desirable that choristers and organists have copies for their own immediate use in the music department, as it is the plan to spend most of that period in a study of this cantata. Study is much more effective when one follows the score and marks the copy if necessary. This cantata will be on sale at the Relief Society General Office, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, at the reduced price of 6oc per copy, postpaid. The music committee enthusiastically anticipates meeting stake and mission choristers and organists at the coming conference. MlormonHandicraft Exhibit At Farm, Home and Youth Conference FOUR-DAY Farm, Home and Youth Conference, was mo February 11, 12, 13, 14, 1941, Provo, Utah. This conference was sponsored by the Provo Junior Chamber of Commerce and the Extension Service of the Utah State Agricultural College. On the third day, Thursday, February 13, the Mormon Handicraft Shop participated by arranging an exhibit of articles from the Mormon Handicraft Shop, and by a discussion conducted by the manager, Lucile W. Wolf. A feature of the conference on this day was "Handicraft in Rural Economic Life," by Kenneth Terry, of Greeley State College, Colorado. Not only Mr. Terry, who described projects in southern handicraft, but also other guest speakers and representatives of the United States Department of Agriculture were surprised and delighted with the outlets provided through the Mormon Handicraft Shop for home crafts, with the exquisite workmanship of the articles displayed, and with the extent to which it has been possible to develop this project during the comparatively short period of time it has operated under sponsorship of the Relief Society. Quiet Symphony Beatrice Rordame Parsons VAGRANT ray of afternoon A sunshine skipped gaily down the peaceful country lane and stopped to peep into the windows of a small, gray farmhouse set in an old-fashioned garden and circled by tall, green cottonwood trees. It made a halo of pure gold about a soft head bent diligently over a music manuscript, and touched the worn, old fingers of Grandfather Kenwood as they lingered tenderly on the last notes of his violin. He lifted his bow and smiled at his little neighbor. "So!" His voice held just a trace of accent. "It is good, Amanda? Yah?" The girl nodded, her bright, sunny hair bobbing about on her slender shoulders. She got up and kissed his wrinkled cheek. "It's beautiful, Grandfather!" She called him "grandfather" as did everybody else in the village. Her blue eyes shone as she studied the last few notes of the music she had been writing. 'There was a tiny spot of ink on the end of her nose, and her first and second fingers were stained with ink. "I'm so glad you thought of making a symphony of our old songs and hymns—the hymns the pioneers sang as they made their way into Zion!" "Yah! Yah!" murmured the old man, and Amanda knew he was recalling his own journey. He had left the Old Country as a young man. Now he was old. Everybody called him a "country fiddler." They said he had wasted his talents. But he had been happy here in this new land, working hard on his farm, sharing his violin with his neighbors. "I've tried to make this music tell their story—the story of their faith and courage, their happiness in their religion. I hope it is good, my dear." Amanda patted his cheek. 'Then she put the music away and gave him his hat. "You will be late to play for the wedding, Grandfather." She put his violin and bow into the case and closed it. "Hurry, darling." He put his hat over his white hair, then stopped in sudden dismay. "I forgot about that grandson of mine, Amanda! He'll be here before I get back. There won't be anybody to look after him." She pushed him toward the door. "I’ll be here," she promised. "Mrs. Cotter's going to the wedding, too. Pll make some sandwiches." She waved as he went down the path. The dear! He was always hurrying somewhere—to a wedding, a party, to play for dancing and, sometimes, for a funeral. HEN he was out of sight, Amanda closed the screen door and went to the kitchen. As she spread sandwiches, she wondered: about Thayne. Would he be changed? Would he find her so? They had been little more than children when he went away. Her heart beat a little excitedly as she heard the bell and went into the front hall to greet him. He paused uncertainly, staring at the vision of gold and blue in the pretty cotton frock. 'Then he put out his hand. "Amanda! Is it really you? Where 202 are those freckles and those long, skinny legs?"; He stopped as if horrified, but she laughed. "Perhaps you will notice, Mister, that I've grown up." She saw that he had noticed, and blushed. Then she hurried to tell him about Grandfather. His eyes twinkled. "A wedding, Amanda, and not yours? I thought perhaps I'd be too late, but I see everything's hunky-dory." He linked arms with her and marched her through the house. It was fun! Of course he didn't mean a thing he said, but Amanda's heart beat swifter. She laughed when he found so few changes in the house. "Grandfather is old-fashioned, Thayne. He likes things as they are." She took him into the parlor where a row of family portraits hung. Thayne had painted them long ago —some from life, some from photographs and faded daguerreotypes. To all he had given life and personality. The work was skillful, yet it lacked the swift and certain strokes of a master. 'Thayne flushed uncomfortably as he studied them. "Great Jupiter! I thought they'd been destroyed." "Destroyed!" She was indignant. "Why, Thayne, they represent some of your finest work." Pride: rose in his dark eyes. "They're pretty good for a beginner, Amanda. I could do better now." "If you only would," she began wistfully, then stopped, remembering that Thayne earned his living by painting. "So you don't care for the sort of thing I've been doing lately?" he asked, and his voice was blunt. He was speaking of his advertisements RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH, 1941 —pictures of long-limbed, smirking young women who advertised soap or tooth-paste. His favorite model was Collette LeMay with her pale, silver-blonde hair, and her unbelievable eyelashes. 'Thayne's tone was short. "I've made a lot of money." "As though money were everything," she burst out, then flushed and didn't look at him. He was suddenly angry. "Look here, Amanda! I'm not the kid you used to boss away back when. I'm grown-up. What I do with my talent is my own affair. I like commercial art. It's easy." Easy! Amanda's eyes were cold. "You used to like hard work," she reminded him, "but something's changed you. You are different." But studying him as he ate a sandwich and drank a glass of milk in the bright, clean kitchen, she didn't know just what it was. "Now that you're here to stay... She began, but he put down his glass and stopped her. "I'm going back." And then, as he saw her eyes, he cried harshly, "I won't stay here and throw away my talent as Grandfather did! I want to do things, Amanda. Big things! I belong to the city, and the city belongs to me." Amanda gathered up the dishes, keeping her eyes so that he could not see her disappointment. She knew Grandfather would be disappointed, too. He had so planned on Thayne's coming back and taking over the farm. AT last the table was cleared, the dishes washed and wiped, and as she put the towel on the rack, Amanda said: "I must go now, Thayne. Grandfather will soon be QUIET SYMPHONY back, and Mother is expecting me." "Tl walk with you," he offered, getting to his feet. Amanda laughed. "I live next door, 'Thayne. Have you forgotten?" She saw by his eyes that he had _ really forgotten. And when he helped her through the hole in the hedge which they had made as children, and said goodnight, Amanda knew that Thayne had forgotten many things. He was not the boy who had helped her sail a pirate barkantine on the lily pool. He wasn't the boy who had fought imaginary Indians and protected her with his very life. No! Thayne was a person she had never known. He had forgotten the things that tied them together—the neighbors, the quiet of a summer evening in a country town, the sort of shadows the cottonwoods cast under the silver moon. This Thayne would never stay. He would never paint with deep, sure strokes, content to put forever on canvas the plainness and beauty of the people he knew. This Thayne loved excitement, the clashing of street-cars, the clatter of city streets. He liked gay, shallow people like Collette LeMay. All at once, thinking of Collette, Amanda knew how much it meant to her to have Thayne stay. "If only there were something I could do," she whispered, as she let herself into the house. "Something...." But she stopped wishing. It all seemed so futile. She told herself as she got into bed that she mustn't see Thayne again. But he was waiting for her at the hedge the next morning. "Where have you been, sleepyhead! I've been 203 up for hours. I've been wanting to explore, but I needed company." He put his arm in hers with the gesture which he had come to use, and she felt her heart turn over a little to have him so near, so like the old Thayne for a moment or two. They walked about the garden, laughing and chattering like children. The ruins of their little boat lay in shallow water, and the lily pads had forced their pink and yellow blossoms through the rotting planks. Goldfish darted about at their approach. Soon they came to an old stone fence. As children they had balanced on its edge, circus performers on a_ tight-wire. Thayne laughed and lifted her by the elbows. "See if you can still walk a tightrope, Amanda," he said. And when she swayed a little, he kept her hand tightly in his big brown one until she reached the end. Pansies bloomed in the shadow of the cottonwoods, and he gathered a handful. He was smiling as. He came close to loosen the amber barrette which controlled her curls. When he slipped the blossoms into its confines, he looked at her to contemplate the result. "Td like to paint you just like that," he said, and his eyes shone at the picture. But the shine went quickly away, and he tumbled the rest of the pansies onto the grass at her feet and went swiftly toward the house. GRANDF ATHER looked up from his bow as they came into the room. 'There was a frown between his white brows. "That crescendo, Amanda," he said, tapping the pa- 204 per, "I think it comes too suddenly... 2" "Thayne stopped him with a playful finger. "Now, now! Mr. Kenwood. While I'm here, this young lady belongs to me. Plenty of time after I'm gone to fix that crescendo!" Grandfather laughed and put his bow back against his violin, but there was a deep, hurt look in his faded eyes. Amanda knew how much he had dreamed of having his grandson stay. She felt quite impatient with Thayne as she followed him up to the attic. He was like a boy, opening chests, pulling out old-fashioned clothing. During their childhood, they had worn these costumes for play. They had imagined it would be so wonderful to grow up. But it wasn't wonderful at all. It did things to you—such things as making you fall in love with a man who loved somebody else. Thayne's black eyes were sparkling with delight. "Collette loves parties—especially costume parties. I'm going to send this old junk out and have it cleaned. Then I'm going to invite Collette and her aunt and several of my friends from town. We'll give the old house one more taste of grandeur before I go back!" He bent over one of the chests and lifted out a tissue-paper wrapped dress. It was shimmering white satin with little ribbon bows — his grandmother's wedding gown. His face was shining. "T''m going to save this for Collette." To hide the pain in her eyes, Amanda snatched up a_ beautiful frock of scarlet silk. "I'll wear this," she said, though she was disappointed. She wanted to wear the white. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH, 1941 "We'll Thayne. "Grandfather's symphony," added Amanda, and her voice trembled with excitement. "Perhaps," promised Thayne carelessly. "I'll write Paul Lambert. He's my friend, and I'm sure he will play for us. Maybe Grandfather can play a few square dances." Square dances! Amanda's eyes flashed. How could Thayne forget that his grandfather played the violin beautifully? How could he be in the house and not realize that the symphony his grandfather was writing was very fine? She wanted to shake him! But instead, without confiding in anyone, she wrote a letter to Paul Lambert herself and sent him the manuscript copy of Grandfather's symphony, asking him to keep it a secret. Mr. Lambert wrote enthusiastically about it: ".... One of the finest contemporary things I've ever heard. My orchestra will be proud to play it, Miss Granton, if you will do the piano part...." Do it? She' d be pleased and happy to do it! And her heart swelled as she finished reading the letter. Paul promised to have critics there to hear the symphony. She could scarcely keep her secret from 'Thayne. What was it he had said about his grandfather wasting his talents here on the farm? She prayed, watching the old man's hidden excitement, that everything Paul said about the music would come true. Have music," cried AYS later Collette arrived. She was as lovely as her pictures, wearing a fashionable frock of yellow linen and a yellow hat over shining QUIET SYMPHONY blond curls. She was coolly distant toward Amanda, and Amanda knew that she considered her naive and unsophisticated. She was patronizing when she spoke to Grandfather about his music. "You play, don't you, Mr. Kenwood? 'Thayne's spoken about it." Grandfather Kenwood had an old man's excuse for grunting. "Yes, my dear young lady, I play!" Amanda knew how deeply Grandfather felt when he held his violin under his chin. She patted his shoulder in a_ soothing gesture. When the others went to the attic to select costumes, Amanda followed unhappily. "I chose this for you, Collette," said Thayne, picking out the white dress and holding it with almost reverent fingers. But Collette had een the scarlet one. She dragged it from its hanger and held it against her slender length to study the effect in an old mirror. "This is mine!' She turned to Thayne, and her cheeks wore a heightened, pleased color. "You shall paint me in this!" Thayne nodded, but Amanda saw how disappointed he was that Collette did not want the white gown. He put it in her hands and smiled a little crookedly. "Perhaps you'd like to wear it, Amanda." She accepted it quickly, trying to dispel the hurt look in his eyes. When they went downstairs and into the parlor, Collette laughed. "Those terrible paintings, 'Thayne. How can you stand to have them hanging there? They're ghastly, you know." She didn't notice the sudden silence that fell over Thayne and Amanda and Grandfather. Instead 205 she went gaily on: "Family portraits went out with Grandfather's fiddle, Thayne. I've always disliked violin music. It hurts my. Ears," and she covered them prettily with her soft, white hands. But when Paul Lambert arrived with his violin, she seemed to have forgotten that she didn't like violin music. She smiled at him, and her voice was vibrant. "Wouldn't it be wonderful, Thayne, if Paul would write a song for me. You could do the cover, and...." But Paul wasn't listening. He was talking to Grandfather of Bach, Beethoven, and Mendelssohn, and seemed to have forgotten her. When they got their violins out to run over some music together, Collette sprang to her feet. "Let's all go to the movies," she cried, catching at Thayne's arm. They all laughed a little, and Thayne followed her out. Amanda watched them go, pain in the depths of her blue eyes. "Please don't let her hurt him too much," she whispered, as though in prayer, then went to join Paul and Grandfather as they practiced for the party. THAT night the living-room and library were thrown together in one great room for the dancing and concert which was to follow. Thayne was dancing with Collette—radiantly lovely in the scarlet gown—when Amanda, slim, sweet, and very beautiful in the white gown, came in. She saw Thayne's eyes light up as he saw her; and when the dance was done, he came swiftly to her side. "You're lovely in that gown, Amanda. I'd like to paint you just exactly as you look tonight." For 206 the first time in a long time his eyes were clear and bright and filled with a desire to be at his work. "Promise you'll let me begin tomorrow," he begged, and she nodded, feeling the dancing of her pulse in her veins. He wanted to work! He wanted to paint! She put her slim hand against her lips to still their trembling as he went back to Collette. She wondered how she was going to get through the evening. How could she smile, dance, laugh, while Thayne and Collette were so much together? Collette was so beautiful, so gay, so exciting. No wonder he loved her! But sitting slim and straight at the piano, waiting to begin the first notes of the Quiet Symphony, Amanda told herself that her own feelings did not matter. 'Tonight did not belong to her. It belonged to Grandfather. It was his night of nights! The music was glorious. Into it he had put his soul, his life, his longing for his own country, his joy in finding the new. As note after note slipped from his bow, Amanda saw his old eyes shining. Only once was the silence broken. Amanda heard Collette whispering to Thayne. "Let's get out of here, darling. It's so warm, and there's a wonderful moon." Grandfather's fingers faltered on a note, then went quickly on. Thayne silenced Collette with a look, and when the music was done, he jumped to his feet and grasped his grandfather's hand. "It's wonderful! Magnificent!" Color burned into Grandfather's cheeks, and his faded, old eyes shone with a triumphant light as the critics gathered round him, assuring him RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH, 1941 that his Quiet Symphony would become one of the world's great works. His white head was high and proud as he bade the guests good night and went upstairs to bed. AMANDA helped Mrs. Cotter in the kitchen, a big apron over her lovely white dress. Later, as she wasgoing slowly across the garden, she heard Collette's voice. She and 'Thayne were standing near the hedge. Amanda drew back. "Well, darling," sighed Collette with relief, "we can go back now. And Ill be glad to get away. It's so dull here—as bad as that music of your grandfather's and those awful oil paintings." Her laugh was shrill. '""We'd better go in now so that we can get an early start." Thayne's answer came slowly. He was standing a little apart from her, and, strangely enough, his eyes were not on her flaming crimson gown, her beautiful face. They were looking across the garden to the small, gray house. His voice was clear and cool as it came through the starry night. "I'm not going back, Collette. I'm staying here. This is where I belong. This is where I can work." "Work?" Collette didn't understand. Her voice was impatient. "But you've work to do in town— all those new Rose Soap ads." His voice was almost weary. "I'm sick of that sort of thing, Collette. I want to do something worthwhile —something like Grandfather's symphony." Collette's dress rustled sharply. "You mean like that silly music!" Her scorn showed in her laughter. "Goodness, 'Thayne, why would anyone want to do a thing like that?" QUIET SYMPHONY She went across the garden, her face a petulant, annoyed little mask. Over her shoulder she called: "If you change your mind, I'll be seeing you at the same old stand, darling. And," she added scathingly, "I think I'll see you. A man can't change like that!" But Amanda, seeing Thayne coming toward her, seeing the new straight set of his shoulders, hearing the quick, firm step of his tread, knew that a man can change. Thayne had changed. He was looking at her standing in the moonlight, and his eyes sparkled. "T didn't ask her to marry me, Amanda. I meant to — tonight. But something happened. I seemed to know that she wasn't the one | wanted. Deep in my heart, I knew 207 I wanted you. I want you because you belong to the past, the present and the future. With you I can live, can paint." His arms came out toward her, and he cried: "Oh, my darling, can you ever forgive me for being such a blind, silly fool? It's been you ever since I came back. It will always be you." She didn't resist when he held her close. Her eyes were filled with more stars than the darkening night about them. This was what she had always wanted. 'This was what she had always dreamed. As 'Thayne's lips came down to meet her own, she kissed him tenderly. Her words were a promise and a blessing. "Our lives shall be a quiet symphony. Our dreams, our fears, our hopes and sorrows shall be blended in its song!" oe CONTEMPLATION Sylvia Probst Go walk alone beside a surging sea Where breakers lash at rugged rocks and roar, Or to some quiet coast where you can see The white-lipped waves come sucking at the shore; Out on a hill whose arms caress the sky Learn parables from pines; look to a plain, The vastness of some valley far beyond, Whose face October washes with her rain. Go out with nature, look to her and learn The wisdom of her work; go contemplate Of times and seasons the unfettered way; What harmony abides in her estate! Here power is no one can make or change. Though war can waste a world, who yet can stay The time of tides or make a blade of grass? Or who can change the hours of a day? The answer to your troubled heart is here, Communing with the sky and sea and sod Can bring to you a surcease for your doubt, For with each mood they speak to you of God. Be not afraid—He who is Infinite Can bring all destiny to His control, And He who guides the course of stars can give Peace to a soul. Women's Part in the Church Beautification Program James M. Kirkham Secretary of Church Beautification Committee an active part in all major projects and other activities suggested and outlined by the leaders of our Church. In the Church beautification program there has been no exception to this rule. About four years ago a definite program for improving and beautifying Church property was started, and it has been steadily growing up to the present time. This beautification program consists of remodeling and enlarging present Church buildings where needed and where Church members are prepared to share in the costs of doing this. Repairing, cleaning, and painting is a division of the work. Landscaping, the planning and planting of grounds to make them more attractive and beautiful, is a very definite part of the program. During the year 1940, about 150 landscape plans were made for improving and beautifying Church surroundings. A great deal was accomplished along this line. However, not all of the work included in these - plans was completed during the year. In addition to the landscaping, many Church buildings were remodeled and improved. A beautification fiesta held in the Salt Lake Tabernacle the first of last year launched the beautification program. 'This fiesta was given considerable publicity. Following it, cities and counties were asked to hold similar programs to create a Te women have always taken sentiment in favor of the beautification program. While it is important that Church buildings and grounds be attractive in appearance, there are other reasons also for beautifying them. Experience has shown that regard and appreciation is generally felt for a clean and well-painted building. There is better order in a chapel when it is well kept. It is the plan to so improve and beautify our chapels that a feeling of profound respect and reverence for our houses of worship will be created. It has been the suggestion from the beginning of this campaign that all take part in the program. When a person, young or old, participates in any activity, he becomes more interested in it than he would be otherwise. About one year ago a division of responsibility among priesthood quorums and auxiliaries was recommended in order that the best results might be obtained. The assignment recommended for the Relief Society was as follows:
"To see that the interior of the Church buildings be kept clean—general assembly rooms, halls and rest rooms.
"Floors and floor coverings and carpets in aisles should be clean; benches and chairs should be well dusted; windows should be washed and curtains and draperies regularly laundered or dry cleaned. Drinking fountains, toilet rooms, and wash basins should be kept sanitary, and soap and towels should be regularly supplied.
"The sacrament service should receive special attention: trays and glasses should be clean; proper linen should be supplied; a convenient receptacle for washing hands prior to the administration of the Sacrament should be provided."
It was also suggested that Relief Society women see that "the main aisles of the general assembly room be carpeted."
In asking the Relief Society to see that the interior of Church buildings be kept clean, it was not expected that the women do the actual work, but rather that they cooperate with the custodian or others regularly employed by the ward bishop in seeing that the Church buildings be kept clean.
These two pictures illustrate the improvement that can be made in a home with very little outlay of cash. With pride in our hearts and a willingness to work much can be accomplished.
This assignment is one of the most important in all the program, and it is recommended that it be continued. We feel sure the women will respond and do their part as they always do.
It would be difficult to select the ward that is doing the most outstanding beautification work. So many are doing such a splendid job that we will not mention any individual ward. Wayne Stake, however, has conducted an unusually successful stake program in which every ward has taken part. The women took a very active part. Their leadership was outstanding; they worked themselves and encouraged others to help. In some cases where a mother could not actually participate in the work herself, she cared for the children of other women in order that they might participate. Some women remained at home and provided meals for the group of men and women who were helping to improve and beautify the Church buildings and surroundings under the direction of the committee or those in charge.
Through an exchange of labor, all wards in this stake were benefited and enabled to accomplish much more than if each ward had worked alone. All Church buildings in the stake, with only one exception, have been reroofed and the roofs painted. The exterior and interior of every Church building has been painted. Some buildings have been remodeled, and one building, erected in 1912, has been completed and dedicated. Many needed repairs have been made. New fences have been built and painted. Cement walks have been laid, and in two of the buildings new furnaces have been installed.
Much of the Church property has been landscaped, and the remainder will be landscaped in the spring. A complete transformation has taken place in all Church property in this stake through the stake beautification program.
The program to improve and beautify Church property and grounds everywhere will continue this year with as much or more vigor as in the past. A new feature, however, that is added to the program for 1941 is to improve and beautify all Church members' homes and surroundings. The general committee has felt from the beginning that active participation in ward beautification would carry over into the homes. It has done this in many places, but in order to stimulate greater activity in home beautification, we are asking the women of the Church to lend their usual enthusiasm and support to this phase of the program. Detailed suggestions for the home beautification campaign will be sent to stake and ward committees from time to time.
WOMEN'S PART IN THE CHURCH BEAUTIFICATION PROGRAM
Only At Fruit Trees Eva Willes Wangsgaard
Judith was walking to school alone. Her two sisters, Margie and Sally, and her brother, Artie, had gone early because they had to practice for the school play, but Judith had stayed to help Mother. The two and one-half miles was a long way when you were alone. She looked behind her for signs of company. Frieda Williams might be on her way. Judith remembered suddenly what Margie had told her: "Frieda says that she likes me better than she does you. Her mother told her she ought to like us both the same, but she can't." That wasn't exactly news to Judith, but it hurt just the same. Saturday when Frieda had come to play, and Margie hadn't been home, she hadn't stayed very long. And Judith had really tried to please her, too. "Let's play school," Judith had said, "and then we can practice our tables." "Gosh! I came over to play, not to study," was what Frieda had said. And when Judith had tried that game that Grandpa had taught her about hunting the flowers on the hill and seeing how many you could name, Frieda had said, "For goodness' sake! Quit showing off." So they had played "Guinny," but Judith had won, and Frieda had gone home angry. Margie said that Judith ought to let Frieda win, but she didn't know how to let down. Maybe she could miss the "guinny" when it was coming down from the air, and then it would only count one instead of five or ten as it did when you struck it a time or two extra. Or maybe if Judith took shorter steps when she measured Frieda's hit, she could make Frieda's score higher. But Frieda had let Judith pump her to town on her bicycle when they went to Primary.
Judith looked behind her again. There was the Williams' wagon coming down the road. The Williamses always drove their team and wagon, because they lived three miles from school, and there were five of them. They didn't always give the Rawson kids a ride, though, when they overtook them. Maybe they wouldn't this morning, either. Sometimes if one of the younger boys were driving, he would slow the team as they came near, but you'd better not try to get into the wagon or you would see how he whipped up the horses and went clattering off up the road in a whirl of dust. But today Joe was driving. Joe was different. He was kinder, and, besides, he was sweet on Margie, so maybe he would stop. There, he did, and Judith climbed in.
The Williams' wagon had three bows up with a cover over them. There was straw in the box, and the Williamses sat on that under the cover, but they didn't invite Judith to sit beside them. She sat in the back, out in the cold wind. Frieda's little brothers weren't like other kids Judith knew. They were always "smart-alecky." They said words that other children seldom said and did little mischievous tricks that were cruel and mean. Then they laughed at themselves and at each other in a cocky little way that said, "Ain't I smart?" They were acting smart now, just to rile Judith up. Judith got madder and madder, but there was nothing she could do. She couldn't even be heard if she yelled at them, what with their noise and the wind. She could hear how they giggled when they stopped for breath; the wind didn't carry their words away. She crawled to the back of the wagon, but she daren't climb out. They were going too fast, and she had her lunch bucket and her book sack. Just then they slowed to go over a bridge, and the ground sloped so that it was easy to slip out, so she did.
She walked up the road, her book sack over one shoulder and her lunch bucket swinging. She didn't mind walking to school, especially after the lift. It must have been more than half a mile. She wondered if the Williams' kids had missed her yet. They were slowing to go over Dry Creek. There, somebody was lifting the canvas. She wondered what they thought. She giggled, but suddenly she stopped. She'd probably done the wrong thing again. Nobody likes you to get the best of him. Well, she didn't care what the Williams' kids thought. She didn't care. Nobody liked her anyhow. Everybody liked Margie better. No, that wasn't true—Father didn't.
There was that night when Sally had slapped her, and there had been a loud fuss till Father had come into the room and asked, "What's going on here?" Sally had yelled with anger in her voice, "The little beggar spells my words as fast as Margie can pronounce them, and she doesn't give me a chance." Sally knew that Judith had only spelled two of them, and only those when Sally hesitated so long that Judith couldn't help wanting to give her a boost. Father had known what was the matter with Sally, who was six years older than Judith, because Father had stood puzzled a minute and then he had said, "That child's been held down long enough. You turn her loose. The next one of you who hampers her will have to answer to me." When he had left the room, he had taken Judith with him. He had had a long talk with her that night about responsibility. And he had said that she'd have to try hard to show consideration for other people, and to learn patience. "You might make it a matter of prayer. God knows the world has need of brains," he had said. She had felt old and solemn when he had kissed her good night and tucked her in. She guessed Father loved her a great deal. What else was it he had said? Oh, yes.... "It is only at fruit trees that people throw stones." But he had gone before she had found out what he meant.
And Artie liked her, too. He liked her to go to the field with him. Mother had funny notions about a girl working on the farm, so she wouldn't let Judith take a hoe. She made her take quilt blocks instead. Then Artie got lonesome walking down the long rows of sugar beets alone and grumbled because she sat under the poplar tree and sewed. He coaxed her to walk and talk with him. That was tiresome, though. At the bottom of the page in the speller, below Friday's lesson, was printed: "Count that day lost whose low descending sun Views from thy hand no worthy action done." Walking down the rows didn't leave anything to show for your afternoon, and the quilt blocks didn't get sewed. Still, it showed that Artie liked her.
And this year's teacher, Miss Snow, liked her, too. She was a stranger and hadn't taught Margie, so she didn't say as the rest of them did, "Why can't you be quiet and sweet like Margie?" She was nice to Judith, even when she finished her lessons too quickly. She just gave her something else to do or a book to read.
There she was at school. As she walked into the classroom, a bunch of kids yelled, "Hey, Judith! Did you get that fourth problem? Show us how." So as soon as she'd put her things away, she walked to the board and showed them. Most of them got it soon enough, but poor Luce didn't. Poor Luce couldn't get arithmetic. She couldn't even read very well, and she was older than Artie, too. So Judith gave her time to copy it before she erased it. Celinda didn't come to the board with the other kids; but when Judith was waiting, she saw her copying the problem, too. Judith heard Luce whisper to Celinda, "Judith's good, ain't she? I like her, don't you?" But Celinda said, "She's smart. She's just showing off."
Then the teacher called them to order and they couldn't talk any more. But Judith liked Celinda best of all the kids, and she wished Celinda would be nicer to her. Celinda was both smart and pretty.
After arithmetic class in the fourth grade, Miss Snow gave the class an assignment and started the work in the fifth grade. It was fractions, Judith noticed. Too soon, her hand was up. Miss Snow just looked at it a minute before she asked, "Well, Judith?" "I'm through," Judith said. "Bring me your paper," Miss Snow said. Judith did, and the teacher looked at it, and then just stood still again while Judith studied her and waited. "Take it to Mr. Baird," she said at last. Mr. Baird was the principal. The kids would tell Margie at recess, and Margie would carry it home, and there'd be the dickens to pay. Only bad kids were sent to the principal. "Run along," Miss Snow commanded, and Judith went.
Judith stood in the hall and thought. People were all so funny. Miss Snow was sending her to the principal for finishing too soon. And Mother got cross when Judith read at the churning or when turning the washer. Judith couldn't see what it mattered. The work got done just as well, and the fifteen minutes went lots faster. Yet all of them harped all the time about being studious and doing well in school. Well, she couldn't stand here all day; she'd better get into the office.
She knew the principal. He was Cousin Jonas, and he wouldn't eat her. Still, she was afraid. Cousin Jonas didn't like kids who got done too quickly. He thought quickness would be sure to lead to laziness. "I pity the bright girl or boy," he said every year at the exercises. He said that only those who had to work ever amounted to anything.
She came to the door of the office and went in. "Hello, Judith," said Cousin Jonas. "What is it?" "Miss Snow sent me," Judith choked, and handed him the paper. "Oh, yes. I remember that she spoke to me about you. How old are you now, Judith?" "Ten." "Hm...," he hesitated. "You're young enough as it is. Better try it though. Take this to Miss Snow." He wrote on a card and handed it to her.
Judith went back to the classroom, and Miss Snow read the card and then gave her a seat over by the window on the fifth-grade side. Judith beamed. She had wanted for a long time to try her hand at those fractions. She smiled at Mary Smith, but Mary turned her head and slid a little farther away in her seat. She looked back at the class she had left. Some of the kids looked up and smiled, but Celinda scowled and turned to Mary. They whispered and laughed and stole side glances at Judith. Then Celinda tossed her curly brown hair and looked straight at the teacher. Judith fretted about Celinda and wondered what she had done. She couldn't remember having done anything, but they used to be good friends.
At recess, she thought about the kids telling Margie about the trip to the principal, but that didn't matter now. Still, she was unhappy because Celinda wouldn't speak to her and had coaxed too many of the kids on her side. There were plenty of others, but Judith didn't think about that. She just worried first about Frieda and then Celinda, and then both together. What had she done?
School time was better. Classes were strange and interesting in the new grade, and before it could possibly be time, afternoon recess had come and gone, too. When school reassembled, Miss Snow said, "Mr. Baird has given us permission for the Halloween party. You may choose your committee now. One group will be enough. You may name three children and vote on them. The one receiving the most votes will act as chairman. The others will be helpers."
So the children began to think about names. Judith said, "I nominate Celinda," and Miss Snow wrote the name on the front board. Somebody named Judith, and the teacher wrote that next. Then a fifth-grader named Billy, and the nominations were over. Teacher let them vote by putting up their hands, and when the votes were all counted, Judith was a long way ahead.
Celinda stood up. "I don't want to be on the committee," she said, and flopped back into her seat. Miss Snow stepped forward. Judith saw that "I'll stop this nonsense" look on her face, and she thought quickly. She too stood up. "Please, Miss Snow," she said without even asking for permission, "May we meet right after school?" Miss Snow looked long and steadily at Judith, then suddenly she smiled, and Judith knew she understood. "I think that would be fine, Judith," she said. "Billy and Celinda, stay after school a few minutes tonight." Then she called the "paper passers" for spelling.
The fourth-grade lesson came first, and Judith had time to think. She knew now what was the matter with Celinda. She knew, because she had felt that way so much last year when all the kids had flocked around Celinda, and the teacher was always holding her up as a shining example. But Father had talked to her about that and had helped her a lot. Father said that all human traits could be helpful. He said that if you were jealous of a playmate and thought mean things about her or acted mean, you just got in the way of both of you. But if somebody got some honor that you expected or wanted very badly, then if you thought how nice it was for your rival and were pleasant and just worked harder to do better yourself. Well, then, she'd have to work harder to try to keep ahead, and you'd both grow.
Judith knew why Celinda had said she didn't want to act on the committee, too. Celinda did want to, Judith was sure. There was that time when Sally had told Judith she wouldn't take her to the Primary party. So when Mother had called Judith in to get ready, Judith had said, "I don't want to go." She had thought that Mother would say, "Why not?" Then she would get a chance to tell her about Sally, and Mother would make Sally promise to be nice to Judith. But Mother had just said, "All right. I won't clean you up till Father is due. Run and play." So Judith had had to pretend that she really hadn't wanted to go. She waited for Sally to speak, but she hadn't, and Sally, Artie, and Margie had all gone and left her to play alone all afternoon. The thought that they would think of her and bring her some candy from the party had kept a little hope burning the whole time. But when she saw them returning and ran to meet them, none of them had thought to bring her anything. So, young, she had learned that it doesn't pay to hurt yourself in the hope that you can make someone else feel sorry. They so seldom do. They seldom think about you at all, unless you are in their way somehow. So Judith didn't want Celinda to try that. She wondered, though, if Celinda would have reconsidered by after-school time. She thought she would—if no one reminded her, so she'd have to play the act out.
When school was over, the committee met. Nobody said anything about what Celinda had said. They just went quickly on to talking about the party. They soon had all the plans made: the place, the time, the games and the picnic. They were to assign the picnic tomorrow.
It was later than usual to be walking home. Judith knew she had better hurry or Mother would worry. Margie would carry the message about the committee meeting, so Mother wouldn't be cross; but the sun was almost down. Soon the air would take on that purple look. Judith had such a happy little feeling inside her. Far above the gold and pink and scarlet of the sunset was a little pond of blue with one large cloud and several smaller, whiter ones floating smoothly across the sky, looking for all the world like the old drake on the pool at home followed by the ducks on a blue October evening. The frogs had begun their trick of shaking the little sleigh-bells in their throats, and all the farm wagons were rolling homeward. None of them were going Judith's way.
Judith didn't have anything to worry about. It wasn't true about none of the kids liking her. She had thought too much about the ones who didn't and the way they behaved. Sometimes, even when playmates acted as if they didn't like you, they really did. Suppose some of them didn't. Some people don't like winesaps, and they're perfectly good apples anyway. There was nothing the apples could do about it. Thinking about apples made her think of what Father had said that night in the bedroom: "It's only at fruit trees that people throw stones." Judith smiled. She knew now. And it was the ones closest to the fruit who threw the sharpest stones.
It was a lovely evening. The kids whom she hadn't even thought about had liked her well enough to make her chairman of the committee, Celinda was going to work with her, and Mother wouldn't be cross about the visit to the principal. She'd be glad, instead. Why, today had been a grand day—just perfect.
THE WORRY TIME Laura M. Jenkins
A sitting in your sanctum when the evening shadows creep, Or lying on your couch at night—eyes closed, but not asleep, A pondering and a thinking on the doings of the day, On what you did or didn't do, or said, or didn't say, Repeating o'er within your mind the words that were so wrong, Or saying things you should have said—like some familiar song— A wondering if your friends would e'er forget your latest "break," And if in life you'd ever learn such blunders not to make— If you've ne'er felt that weary worry wrangling in your brain Until you felt you'd never dare to meet your friends again— Well—then there's one experience in life that's passed you by, And I'll just say you're lucky—yes—much luckier than I.
Wisdom is greater than strength— A wise man is better than a strong man.
The Relief Society Magazine Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. 28 APRIL, 1941 No. 4
Contents
Special Features Frontispiece—The Mitten.....Anna Prince Redd (Photograph—Willard Luce) 218 "A Day to Remember"................................................Vesta P. Crawford 219 America's First Easter—The Greatest Story Ever Told..................Isaac B. Ball 226 The Legend of a Masterpiece.....................................Margaret Stephenson 231 Beatrice Stevens Wins Recognition............................................. 234 A Doctor Challenges Alcohol.....................................T. J. Howells, M. D. 241 Gardens and Gardening.....Luella N. Adams, Relief Society General Board Member 243 Out of the Darkness.....Edith Smith Elliott, Relief Society General Board Member 249 Helpful Aids to Reading................................Vauna Smith Jacobsen 266
Fiction The Merry-Go-Round—Chapter One.................................Alice Morrey Bailey 235 Make-Believe Mother or Mother For a Day............................Vaunee T. Larson 262 You Know How Boys Are............................................Olive W. Burt 274
General Features Some Literary Friends (Teaching Ideals)..........................Florence Ivins Hyde 270 Happenings......................................................Annie Wells Cannon 253 Editorial: Understanding Heart....................................................254 Lula Greene Richards.............................................................256 Notes to the Field: Misuse of Library Books....................................257 Relief Society Magazine Referred to in Retail Journal......................257 Notes From the Field.............................................Vera W. Pohlman 258
Poetry The Mitten......................................................Anna Prince Redd 218 In Time.........................................................Grace M. Candland 225 "The Rains Are Over"...........................................Mrs. Marion Clegg 230 Faithful....................................................Beatrice F. Stevens 240 My Friendly Garden..........................................Della Adams Leitner 248 Appraise......................................................Lula Greene Richards 256 A Mother's Prayer..............................................Ida R. Alldredge 261 To My Mother..................................................Roberta Bates 265 Our Home.....................................................Althea Kimball 273
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
THE COVER
Crowds assembling for the general conferences of the Church are always of great interest. Each spring and fall, Latter-day Saints in large numbers gather from stakes and missions to be inspired and instructed by their leaders. The main meetings of the conferences are held in the great Tabernacle on Temple Square, one of the largest auditoriums in the world. The building seats about eight thousand people. The erection of the Tabernacle was begun in 1863, and it was sufficiently completed for conference services in October, 1867. The building is unique for its dome-shaped roof and unusual acoustic properties; it is considered one of the best places for hearing in the world. "It observes the laws of proportion and purity of style. Plainness and simplicity are its leading characteristics and show that the men who had the direction of its building were great mathematical and constructive artists." The photograph from which the cover was made was taken by Dr. T. J. Howells. The photograph is outstanding because of the excellence of its composition, the splendid lighting, and because it includes the statue of the Prophet Joseph Smith which stands in the center of the grounds just north of the Bureau of Information.
"The Mitten" (in Monumental Valley) Anna Prince Redd
Eternity is here. In this dim region, light When once invoked began to burn. Eons ensued. Age after age in anonymous turn, Dawn, noon, and breath-held night Looked down upon the solitude. Nothing here save water to invade The spacelessness. No motion but in waves blown High, rent, Curled backward to meet new waves grown Till land set up her monument. Ere "THE MITTEN"—Man now calls it— In this far, strange world knew season, A tree it knew, A cedar tree that girthed beyond all reach or reason Until by its own force it split: Yet still the jagged outline grew. Blistered. Splintered, limbs gone bare, It burned its heart to ring-flint, New each year. Beside the monument. Together they imprint God's time. Eternity is here.
"A Day To Remember" APRIL 6, 1830 Vesta P. Crawford
"A day now revered by hundreds of thousands... to be held in sacred veneration throughout all time... the Messiah Himself shall come."
On April 6, 1830, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized. In a scene of pastoral beauty, on a day in spring, six men pledged themselves to bear the standard of a restored gospel—to be witnesses for the words of God, revealed to Joseph Smith, the Prophet. "And thus arose a system which the world terms Mormonism, universally recognized as the most remarkable religious movement of modern times... Revered and defended by its disciples as the wonderful work of the Almighty, the veritable 'marvelous work and wonder' foretold by Isaiah and other ancient seers."
One hundred and eleven years is a long way to travel back along the road of time, and so much has happened to change America and the world that it is difficult for us to picture the events and appreciate the divinity and solemnity, the sacred significance, of one of the world's most important days. Before we come to the Whitmer farmhouse, before we open the door and visit with those six young men, let us first orient ourselves in the world of 1830 and see what was happening in America and in the older nations beyond the sea. Let us discover, if we can, why this year—1830—and this place—Fayette, New York, in the United States of America—were the time and place exactly propitious for the restoration of God's ancient word.
The nineteenth century was a time of enlargement of the ideas of freedom and liberty which the American Revolution and the French Revolution had proclaimed to an awakening world in the later part of the preceding century. In France, despite trouble and opposition, the people were moving steadily toward the establishment of their second republic. Even in Germany, the peasants were beginning to demand recognition as individuals and rights as citizens. In England, the Princess Victoria, one day to be a liberal empress, was eleven years old, a girl child being trained in the larger virtues of government. It was said that the clean wind of liberty was blowing in the world. But it had not, in Europe, reached a stage where a new prophet might deliver his divine message. And yet, these European nations were destined to send their people by the thousands across the great waters to the gathering in Zion. In America, the dream of the founding fathers for a more perfect union and greater individual liberty rose as a mighty tide in the "thirties.” Men and women, filled with hope in their new heritage, turned their faces to the West and surveyed the vast unclaimed frontier whose far boundaries few Americans had ever seen. Let us, for a moment, meet some of the noble and great ones who shaped American destiny and American dreams in that era of spiritual awakening. Andrew Jackson, a citizen-soldier, is President of the United States. It is he who has finally made political democracy an established fact. In seven days from this 6th of April, 1830, Andrew Jackson' will deliver one of the most significant speeches ever made in America—"Our Federal Union—it must be preserved." It has been seven years since _ James Monroe, fifth President of the United States, announced that doctrine of continental independence which now, in our time, has acquired a new and vital meaning. In this spring of 1830, Abraham Lincoln, now twenty-one years old, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL, 1941 is moving into Illinois. In this same year, John C. Calhoun is busy developing two tragic ideas—state's rights and nullification. Daniel Webster is lifting his voice in defense of an everlasting union. John Greenleaf Whittier, the Quaker Poet, is vigorously denouncing slavery in his "Haverhill Gazette." Noah Webster has just published his "American Dictionary of the English Language." Longfellow, at twenty-three, is Professor of Modern Languages in a New England college. Ralph Waldo Emerson, aged twenty-seven, is a Unitarian clergyman in Boston. He speaks of the dignity of the human spirit, of men and their infinite capabilities, of the liberality of the soul. In this year of 1830, men of letters, men of religion, and men of politics, speak the mighty word—LIBERTY. These are some of the names and some of the voices that are heard in America in the days of the "thirties." WHAT of the progress of the country? 'In one year, the first engine to carry a train in the State of New York will make its famous trip between Schenectady and Albany. There are no automobiles, and there will be none for sixty more years; no airplanes for seventy years. America, for the most part, is lighted by the sun and the moon, by stars and tallow candles. Where are the boundaries of the United States of America? Western New York is known as a wilderness, and certainly it is a frontier. But it is not the far frontier. The rich, broad valleys of the A DAY TO REMEMBER Mississippi are attracting settlers by thousands to "free" soil. It is said in these days of 1830 that Americans look ever to the West and that their feet itch for the feel of the long turnpike roads, for the forest trails, and for the fordings of the ~ great rivers. "Go West, young man, go West," is already echoed and reechoed along the eastern seaboard. America, like a newly-awakened giant, stretches its mighty limbs. And what of the Far West? What of those remote valleys beyond the Rockies where some day a great church, grown from a small beginning, will build its temples in the valleys of the mountains? Fur traders have traversed the valleys of Utah; Spanish priests have crossed its deserts and climbed its towering mountains. 'The first wheeled vehicle ever to cross South Pass was a mounted cannon which the fur trader, Ashley, took to Utah Lake in 1825. These were the first wheel tracks to mark the desolate trail which the Mormons, by thousands, were to pass along in later years. HE six young men who organized the Church perhaps were not that day thinking of a far-away home in the Rockies, and not one of them lived to see the Zion of the mountains. But the organization they made that day has been likened unto a stone thrown into a lake, the ripples whereof reach to the outermost shore. And the words of the Prophet have been carried so far that men in distant lands have said, "Let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and He will teach us 221 of His ways, and we will walk in - His paths." (Micah 4:2.) Let us femember, then, a day in the spring of 1830. In the green, rolling country of western New York, thirteen Finger Lakes, running north and south, glint in the sunlight. The fields of the Whitmer farm stretch toward the mirror-clear waters of Seneca Lake. It is a little more than thirty miles to the shore of great Lake Ontario. The border of Pennsylvania is some sixty miles to the south. Manchester and the sacred grove are north about twentythree miles, and a few miles beyond lies the little town of Palmyra, boyhood home of Joseph Smith, the Prophet. The acres of the Whitmer farm are broad and well tilled. The farmhouse is built strong and beautiful. The door of this hospitable house is never closed to anyone who seeks help or counsel or friendship from the kindly Whitmers. Suppose we open the door and enter. Suppose we shake hands with Peter Whitmer, Sr., well-to-do farmer, who, having prospered in the things of this world, now seeks for the riches of the spirit. Peter Whitmer is fifty-seven years old, the father of eight children—five boys and three girls. His wife, Mary, aged fifty-two, is known as a model housekeeper, a charitable neighbor, and a good Christian. The Whitmers have reared their children to be hard workers and to seek ever for the truth. Once an enemy of Joseph Smith tried to get Peter Whitmer, Sr., to deny the new gospel, but Peter only said, "Jesus Christ, yesterday, today, and forever." For months this large and com- 222 fortable home has housed, in addition to the Whitmers, the Prophet and his wife Emma, and Oliver Cowdery, second elder of the Church. It has been in this very house that much of the translation of the Book of Mormon has been accomplished, and near this home the witnesses saw the golden plates. Surely the Whitmer home and the Whitmers have already served the new gospel in its time of need. On this day, two of the Whitmer sons are to join with three Smith brothers and Oliver Cowdery to organize the new church in accordance with the laws of the State of New York which testify that a society, in order to be legally recognized, must have six members. Even in this early day, the young Prophet is eager to act in accordance with the laws of the Republic he loves, and is eager to serve. Here are the names of the six men who organized the Church: Joseph Smith, the Prophet, age 24 Oliver Cowdery, second elder of the Church, age 24. Hyrum Smith, older brother of the Prophet, age 30 Samuel H. Smith, a younger brother, age 22 David Whitmer, fourth son of Peter Whitmer, Sr., age 25 Peter Whitmer, Jr., youngest of the Whitmer boys, age 21 It will be seen that these six organizers are all young men, ranging in ages between twenty-one and thirty years. But this is a new church with a new vision, in a new country. This is a work "'which from its nature emphatically called for the enthusiasm, the faith, the hope of "Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, Discussion of Section 20, p. 138. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL, 1941 youth, and the youthful were most responsive to its call.' The Prophet at this time is in the full strength of his young manhood. He already exhibits many of the traits which are to distinguish him as his remarkable career progresses. One who was an intimate friend of the Prophet gives this description of him: "He was tall and well built, strong and active, of a light complexion, light hair, blue eyes... His countenance was mild, affable, beaming with intelligence and benevolence.... 'here was something connected with the serene and penetrating glance of his eye, as if he would penetrate the darkest abyss of the human heart, gaze into eternity, penetrate the heavens and comprehend all worlds." Oliver Cowdery, called the "second elder of the Church," was one of the first outside of the Smith family to hear of the Restored Gospel. Already he has acted as scribe for Joseph. He was a young school teacher boarding at the Smith home when he heard "the glad tidings" of the ancient faith brought again to earth. This Oliver Cowdery, who has for several months lived in the Whitmer home, will in two years marry the youngest of the Whitmers —Dorothy Ann. Hyrum, "of the faithful heart," although he is older, recognizes the divine calling of his brother, and his own high courage has already helped the Prophet to get the manuscript of the Book of Mormon into the 'Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 187. "Parley P. Pratt's statement, Preface to the Commentary on the Doctrine and Covenants, p. 19. A DAY TO REMEMBER hands of the printer. The young Samuel is ready and eager to follow the teaching of his inspired brother. David and Peter Whitmer were baptized almost a year before this day of organization. It was David who furnished the Prophet with food and supplies when he was working on the translation of the golden plates in Harmony, Pennsylvania. These, then, are the six who meet together on this day in spring, 1830, to organize the Church. The proceedings of the solemn occasion are best described in the words of the Prophet: "Having opened meeting by solemn prayer to our Heavenly Father, we proceeded according to previous commandment, to call on our brethren to know whether they accepted us as their teachers in the things of the kingdom of God and whether they were satisfied that we should proceed and be organized as a Church according to said commandment which we had received. To these several propositions they consented by a unanimous vote. I then laid my hands upon Oliver Cowdery, and ordained him an Elder of the 'Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints'; after which, he ordained me also to the office of an Elder of said Church. "We then took bread, blessed it, and brake it with them; also wine, blessed it and drank it with them. We then laid our hands on each individual member of the Church present, that they might receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and be confirmed members of the Church of Christ.... "We now proceeded to call out and ordain some others of the breth- 223 ren to different offices of the Priesthood, according as the Spirit manifested unto us; and after a happy time spent in witnessing and feeling for ourselves the powers and blessings of the Holy Ghost, through the grace of God bestowed upon us, we dismissed with the pleasing knowledge that we were now individually members of, and acknowledged of God, The Church of Jesus Christ, organized in accordance with commandments and revelations given by Him to ourselves in these last days, as well as according to the order of the Church as recorded in the New 'Testament. Several persons who had attended the above meeting, became convinced of the truth and came forward shortly after, and were received into the Church; among the rest, my own father and mother were baptized, to my great joy and consolation; and about the same time, Martin Harris and Orrin Porter Rockwell." ig will be seen that prayer played an important part in this organization. It has been said that the Church was founded on prayer. If Joseph Smith had not prayed for wisdom, then, perhaps, the Gospel might not have been restored through him. Prayer and the answers to prayer directed the finding of the plates and their translation, and prayer in all the years of Church history has been the forerunner of testimony, the evidence of faith. Significant in the records of this meeting are two great principles— the will of God and the consent of the people. Upon these two 'Joseph Smith, the Prophet, History of the Church, Vol. I, pp. 76-79. 224 principles the Church was founded and developed—the sovereignty of God and the free agency of his children. Surely the modern world seems to have largely forgotten these eternal laws, inherent truths holding power sufficient to save all men and all nations. - On this April day of inspiration and hope, the young Prophet has realized afresh "the source of spititual knowledge, and his life and his life's work have broadened; but his knowledge will not bring him peace in this world, except that peace of the soul that rejoices even in the midst of conflict—the peace that passeth understanding.... His testimony will arouse the wrath of men... Derision will laugh at his message to the world...." But on this day, the Prophet's heart is filled with thanksgiving, and he relates the joy that came to him when, that very afternoon, his father and mother and Orrin Porter Rockwell and Martin Harris were baptized and "were received into the Church." A few days from this Tuesday, on Sunday, April 11, Oliver Cowdery will preach the first public address of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in the weeks to come many more will join the Church. On June 9, 1830, the first conference will be held, and on the following day, Emma Smith, wife of the Prophet, will be baptized, as well as many others who have heard and believed in the words of Joseph and the record that "speaks from the dust." 'Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 58. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL, 1941 SUCH was the beginning of the Church as an organization. We might ask where, at this time, are ~those stalwart leaders who are to stand shoulder to shoulder with Joseph in the trying years to come. Where are Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball and Parley P. Pratt? Where are John Taylor and Wilford Woodruff and Lorenzo Snow? Brigham Young, now twenty-nine years old, is married to Miriam Works, and lives not far from the Prophet's home in New York State. He is practicing his profession, "carpenter, joiner, painter, glazier." It is more than two years before that autumn day when Brigham Young will journey to Kirtland, Ohio, to meet the Prophet. Heber C. Kimball, now twenty-nine years old, lives in New York State, where he makes pottery and studies the teachings of the Baptist Church. He will go with Brigham Young to visit the Prophet in Ohio. Parley P. Pratt, now twenty-three years old, will join the Church in September, 1830, and from that day forward he will be one to define the principles of Mormonism and carry the message to th world. John Taylor, this spring of 1830, has left his home in England, where he was a Methodist preacher, and has moved to Toronto, Canada. It will be six years before he joins the Church. Wilford Woodruff, now twenty-three years old, will not meet the Prophet until 1834, and Lorenzo Snow, now only sixteen years old, will be baptized in 1836. Thus, the new Church grew rapidly and attracted to its membership brave and courageous men and A DAY TO REMEMBER women willing to follow a prophet who had been accounted worthy to commune with the Father in Heaven and receive from the hands of an angel the ancient records of the Book of Mormon. It has been said that any belief is of little value unless it be "a light to your path, a guide to your steps, and a voice of counsel in times of difficult decision." Such a light and such a guide is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is not the mere strength of numbers that brings power to an organization, rather it is the ideals and the philosophy, the divine guidance, the unity and hope, that direct its development. 225 Today in America the voice of the Prophet may be heard again in the teachings of Mormonism. For, as Orson Hyde once said, ""The voice of God through American policy, with loud and thrilling notes, cries, Come unto me all ye ends of the earth, and be ye saved from the yoke of tyrants and from the chains and fetters of bigotry,... And regale yourselves under the tree of liberty, whose branches are rapidly extending and whose fruit is rich and desirable, and whose leaves are for 2 298 the healing of the nations'. Orson Hyde, Fourth of July Address, 1858. NIGHT Grace M. Candland How quietly the day gives place to night, And brings a thought of loneliness and dread With no escape, like moth caught in a web, As twilight folds away the fading light. But there is recompense, intense delight In those far constellations overhead In all their majesty, and I am led 'To contemplate creation's far-flung might. Yes, life must pause from rush and stress Of jostling crowds, the irritants that flay _ The tired nerves, and wear our hearts away But for those hours of sweet forgetfulness. Twice blest is night, its darkness soon will flee, And give us back tomorrow's constancy. America's First Easter: She Greatest Story Every Told Isaac B. Ball A Patriarch of Oakland Stake When Easter returns each year, we very properly meditate anew the incidents connected with the Lord's resurrection as they appear in the four Gospels. But Latterday Saints have in their possession a fifth Gospel within the Book of Mormon—III Nephi. Here we find recorded the events connected with the Savior's post-resurrection visit to the "other sheep" who were also to hear His voice. Of this ministry, Jesus himself declared to the Nephites, "So great faith have I never seen among all the Jews; wherefore I could not show unto them so great miracles, because of their unbelief." (Book of Mormon, III Nephi, 19:35.) It is well to have this story retold in brief form. Often, but Latter-day Saints, we trust, will turn to the fuller account in III Nephi as to a well of sweet, fresh water which endlessly refreshes the soul.
The Pilgrims' first Easter may or may not have made a great story, I do not know. I am not thinking of that American Easter observance, I am thinking of one of the greatest heart-throb stories ever written. It is a simple narrative in the Book of Mormon depicting the three-day ministry of the resurrected Christ among the Nephites—their delayed but most exquisite Easter. No other story could, I think, with equal potency feast the soul, purify the heart, enrich the mind, and fire the will for finer living. The world needs that story retold today and often. As a prelude to the Nephite story, let us first briefly sketch the Palestinian Easter. The darker the night, the brighter the dawn. In Palestine, the first Easter dawned after three gloomy*
*This article deals with the appearance of Christ to the Nephites. While technically, perhaps, this was not an Easter occasion, since it did not occur until after Jesus' ascension following His forty-day post-resurrection ministry in Palestine, still to the Nephites it was His first appearance after His resurrection; hence, the first American Easter.
days of disillusionment among the followers of Christ. Hear them wail, "We trusted it had been He which should have redeemed Israel." Instead, He lay silent in the tomb. True, He had told His disciples He would arise the third day, but this they could not comprehend. While they were thus beset with fears, the devastated Mary, seeking in vain for the torn body of her Lord, heard the words: "Woman why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou?" And then that one softly spoken word, "Mary." And Mary recognized her Lord; and throwing herself at His feet, she cried: "My beloved Master!" Each of the appearances of the resurrected Lord must have brought unbounded joy—that sudden appearance among the apostles secretly gathered behind closely guarded doors in Jerusalem; the unexpected presence on the shores of Galilee early one morning. Finally, with gladness we listen to Paul: "Brethren, I declare unto you... That he was buried, and that He rose again the third day... And that He was seen of Cephas, and then of the twelve. After that he was seen of about five hundred brethren at once; of whom the greater part remain unto this present.... After that He was seen of James; then of the apostles. And last of all He was seen of me also, as of one born out of due time." (I Corinthians 15:1-8.)
AMERICA'S FIRST EASTER
In the land of the Nephites, the first Easter dawned likewise after a sad and gloomy period. The three days in which the Savior lay in the rock tomb were days on this hemisphere of the direst destruction ever to come upon mankind. The sad and chastened people who were spared wept for the hosts of their dead for more than six long weeks amidst the ruins of their cities before their Easter came. Then one day, for some reason, the multitude had gathered about the temple, in the land Bountiful. Perhaps that temple was thronged day after day with awed worshipers, for were these people not a righteous remnant of the House of Israel? No doubt they were looking forward to the coming of the Lord in the very near future, for so it had been predicted, according to their records, six hundred years before, by the first Nephi who also had foretold the very destructions which now had overwhelmed their people. A great multitude were gathered together round about the temple on that particular day, and they were marveling and wondering one with another and were showing one another the great changes which had taken place. As they were conversing, a voice from heaven sounded in the ears of all that host! It was not a harsh voice, but a small voice with a peculiar quality which penetrated the listeners to the center, causing them to quake, piercing them to their very souls, and causing their hearts to burn. Not until they had heard it for the third time did they understand what the voice was saying: "Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—hear ye Him." Simultaneously, the figure of a man was seen coming down from heaven. Gently he descended and stood in the midst of them, while all gazed silently and transfixed, thinking yet that it was an angel. Not long had they to wonder. He stretched forth His hand and began to speak the most significant words ever spoken upon this continent: "Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified should come into the world. And behold, I am the light and the life of the world." And the astonished people fell to the earth in worship, for they remembered that it had been prophesied that Christ should show Himself unto them. The Savior then designed to give them irrefutable proof that he was Jesus, the Christ, who had been slain for the sins of the world. He bade them arise and come forth and thrust their hands into His side and feel the prints of the nails in His hands and feet. One by one they filed along, two thousand five hundred souls, until each had had the opportunity of thrusting his hand into the torn rent in the Savior's side and of feeling the prints of the nails by which He had been held to the cross. The entire multitude gave united expression to their surging emotions. With one accord, they cried out: "Hosanna! Blessed be the name of the Most High God!" And they fell down at the feet of Jesus in adoration and worshiped Him. Then Jesus repeated for them the greatest sermon ever delivered on earth—that which is commonly known as the "Sermon on the Mount." Having finished this discourse, probably hours in length, Jesus informed the people that He must now go to the other lost tribes of Israel. The people, however, were loath to have Him leave them, and stood looking toward Him in tearful silence which pleaded eloquently that He tarry longer with them. Immediately responsive to this appeal, Jesus called upon them to bring all who were in any way sick or afflicted—the lame, the blind, the halt, the maimed, the leprous, the withered, the deaf—and He healed them every one. Again, all the people, the healed and the whole, bowed down and worshiped Him and kissed His feet, insomuch that they bathed His feet with their tears.
After having healed all their sick, blind, and lame, Jesus called for their little children to be brought and set in a circle before Him. The story of His blessing these little children is perhaps one of the most touching and yet exalting in all literature, either sacred or profane. Standing in the center of the children, Jesus commanded the multitude to kneel upon the ground, and He also knelt upon the earth. Then He prayed to the Father. The things which He prayed to the Father the world will never read, because they could not be written. It must be content with the simple Book of Mormon report of the scene: "No tongue can speak, neither can there be written by any man, neither can the hearts of men conceive so great and marvelous things as we both saw and heard Jesus speak; and no one can conceive of the joy which filled our souls at the time we heard Him pray for us unto the Father." So great was the joy of the people, it consumed their strength, and they were overcome. But they arose again at Jesus' request, and He blessed them because of their faith, adding, "And now behold, my joy is full." When He had said these words, He wept. And He took their little children one by one and blessed them, praying unto the Father in their behalf. Then Jesus was again so moved that He wept the second time, and He called upon the parents to look at their little ones. As they looked, their eyes were attracted toward the heavens which seemed to be opening, and they saw angels descending out of heaven as it were in the midst of fire; and the angels came down and encircled the little ones and administered cheer and comfort to them, while the fire seemed to surround them. Later Jesus administered the sacrament unto the multitude and conferred authority to baptize upon His chosen Twelve. Then a cloud came and overshadowed the multitude, and Jesus departed from their sight.
On the succeeding day, a great multitude gathered together—so great it was in fact that it had to be divided into twelve groups. And the people were instructed and received the ordinance of baptism at the hands of the ordained Apostles. Like another Pentecost, the Holy Ghost fell upon the baptized saints. Fire from heaven encircled them, while angels came down and administered unto them. As a glorious consummation, Jesus came again and stood in the midst of them and ministered unto them. Then He commanded them to kneel upon the ground. While all were thus kneeling, Jesus commanded His disciples to pray, and He went a little way off and bowed Himself to the earth, praying: "Father, I thank thee that thou hast given the Holy Ghost unto these whom I have chosen... Because of their belief in me.... Father I pray that thou wilt give the Holy Ghost unto all them that shall believe in their words... That they may believe in me, that I may be in them as thou, Father, art in me, that we may be one." When Jesus had prayed in this sublime manner, He came and looked upon His disciples as they continued to pray to Him, and He blessed them and smiled upon them. The light of His countenance shone upon them until they were as white as His countenance and His garments—a whiteness exceeding all the whiteness ever seen upon the earth by the eyes of mortals. Bidding them pray on, the second time he went a little way off, and bowing, He prayed: "Father I thank thee that thou hast purified those whom I have chosen, because of their faith, and I pray for them, and also for them who shall believe on their words, that they may be purified in me, that I may be in them as thou, Father, art in me, that we may be one, that I may be glorified in them." Then Jesus came once again to the praying disciples and smiled upon them. They were still as white even as Jesus Himself—radiantly white. Again, the third time, Jesus withdrew a little distance and bowed in prayer to the Father, and "tongue cannot speak the words which He prayed, neither can be written by man the words which He prayed." But the multitude heard, and their hearts were opened, and they understood in their hearts the things which He prayed. The Lord continued with the people for three days, teaching them, expounding all things unto them, both great and small.
If we compare this period of divine manifestations in Nephite lands with similar events among the Jews, we notice at once a fitting harmony of teachings and spiritual demonstrations. Was it not the same Christ who ministered to the two segments of the House of Israel, and was it not the same Gospel message which He delivered? It is true that greater miracles were performed among the Nephites than among the Jews because, according to the Savior's own explanation, of their greater faith. The excellence of the Nephite record also gives us many important details. What a privileged people were these Nephites! According to recorded history, never before or since has a heavenly being thus mingled so freely and openly with an entire population. Two thousand five hundred people were present the first day, and the number increased day by day as word spread abroad. How many happy hours this multitude must have spent in the very presence of Jesus! Consider the marvelous things shown unto this great host, things of such surpassing glory and magnitude that no words of mortal man could express them. Consider the loving tenderness of Christ and His angels as they ministered to the little children; how He blessed them and prayed for them until He himself was so filled with ecstasy that He wept for joy—not once only, but twice. Finally, consider those transcendent words when He prayed to the Father for His disciples—for all the people and their children. Impressive beyond compare were His pleadings that His humble followers might be one in Him even as He is one in the Father. These words we read, and we feel their power to work changes in our own hearts. But what must have been the exquisite joy of the people when they heard His prayers, so exalted that no mortal heart could have conceived them and no mortal could have phrased them! O Father, may those prayers of the white-countenanced Christ on that first American Easter be answered this Eastertide and forever. May tens of thousands of Latter-day Saints live and labor in the sublime oneness with Jesus, even as He lives and works for us in perfect oneness with His Holy Father.
"THE RAINS ARE OVER" Mrs. Marion Clegg
The rain is over! The blue of the sky Is tinted with rainbow hues on high; While out in my bush, the song birds raise A tumultuous, glorious song of praise.
Flowers that bowed their heads to the storm Are smiling again—upright and warm; Lifting glad colors up to the sun Rejoicing that the rain is done.
The doubts that tore at my heart are still, Shamed by the faith in the songsters' trill; Humbled by the flowers' undaunted trust In a Power greater than rain or dust.
The Legend Of A Masterpiece How Raphael Painted His "Madonna of the Chair" on the Round Top of a Wine Cask Margaret Stephenson
The San Francisco Fair of 1939 brought from Italy one of the world's great paintings, Raphael's "Madonna of the Chair." Thus, to many thousands of us came our only opportunity to see this great masterpiece, for it is not probable that it will be shown in this country again, nor is it likely that many of us will have the good fortune to travel abroad and see this gem in its native setting. It has been called "the most beautiful picture in the world" this "Madonna della Sedia"; and while this is a sweeping statement, the whole world has long acknowledged the beloved painting as one of its treasures. Wherein lies the appeal of this picture? Is it the humanness of the little group, or does one deeply sense the divinity expressed in it? It seems almost too completely human to satisfy as the setting for a divine figure—indeed, divinity is symbolized only by faint halos over the heads of the Madonna and the adoring small St. John, and we know not whether to admire more the tenderness in the expression of the mother or the sweet gravity in the face of the child. So, perhaps, it is a mingling of qualities—the human and the divine—that endears the painting to all beholders. The "Madonna of the Chair" has been written of as the supreme picture of love, this absolute union of mother and child. Of no other of the Madonnas would this description be so true. A more perfect representation of mother love would be hard to find; therefore, it seems that its reputation is justly deserved.
There is a pretty and poetical legend told of this Madonna which also explains why the picture is circular in form. There once lived in the Italian hills, near Rome, a venerable hermit whose name was Bernardo. He built for himself a rude hut under a huge oak tree, where he spent his lonely days with only the music of the murmuring leaves for companionship. Old Bernardo loved but two things: this great oak and a girl named Mary, the beautiful daughter of the peasant owner of a vineyard nearby. Mary, who was not only fair of face, but kind of heart, daily carried food to the hermit; indeed, had it not been for Mary, old Bernardo would have known severe hunger. One day a storm wrecked his hut, and the hermit's life was saved only by his seeking refuge in the oak tree. Mary, in her anxiety for Bernardo, hastened to his rescue and took him to her home, where she tenderly cared for him until his death. Prior to his death, in a spirit of gratitude, he prayed God that the memory of these two, Mary and the oak tree, would live forever. It rarely seems to mortals that their prayers are answered, but this one was, as we shall see. Eventually the great oak was cut down, and its wood was made into wine casks. Mary grew to womanhood; she married and bore two children. She was a beautiful, dark-eyed country woman with no thought but that of joy in her children. Early one summer evening as Mary sat near an open window crooning to her last-born, with her elder son at her knee, a passing stranger looked into the courtyard and was entranced by the happy domestic scene. He stopped to admire it. At that moment, Raphael, for it was he, beheld the incomparable composition which he had so long desired. Genius was not necessary to appreciate the beauty of the scene, but genius such as Raphael's was necessary to capture the glory of motherhood in paint. Having no canvas at hand, he took the top of a wine cask nearby and sketched the group then and there in the soft Italian dusk. When the drawing was completed, he carried it away with him to his studio, and on this oaken barrel-head he finished the picture. It was the "Madonna della Sedia," commonly known as the "Madonna of the Chair." Thus was the prayer of the old hermit realized, and Mary and the oak received the crown of immortality. The picture was made at the time Raphael was working on decorations for the Vatican, between 1510 and 1514, when he was little more than twenty-five years of age.
Seldom has there been a more romantic or successful career than that of Raphael Sanzio. He was born on Good Friday in 1483, the son of a painter-poet. All of the circumstances of his life were peculiarly fortunate for the development of his art, and from his earliest years to the day of his death he seems to have been successful in everything that he attempted. Though highly gifted and very popular, he never allowed himself to fall into the snares which extreme popularity spreads before the idol of the hour. The great amount of work left by Raphael, and its excellence, are evidence that he did not waste his exceptional gifts or his time.
So great was his fame at the age of twenty-five that Pope Julius II summoned him to Rome to take part in decorating the Vatican. He so pleased Pope Julius and likewise his successor, Pope Leo X, that the Vatican became practically a museum of Raphael's works. Strangely enough, he died on Good Friday, just thirty-seven years from the day of his birth, and was buried in the Pantheon in Rome with all the honor due one of his genius. So far as is known, the great painting, "Madonna della Sedia," has always been a part of the State collection of the Medici. It was first mentioned in 1589 in a catalogue of pictures in the Tribuna of the Uffizi and was transferred some two hundred years later to the Pitti Palace in Florence. With the exception of a brief sojourn in Paris, as a result of Napoleon's plundering of Italian art treasures, and from whence it was returned to Florence in 1815, this masterpiece had never been out of Italy until it came, with other great paintings, to the San Francisco Fair. It was shown thereafter for short periods in Chicago and New York. Now it is at home again in the Pitti Palace in Italy where it is hoped it will hang unmolested through these turbulent times of plunder and destruction, so that future generations may see and enjoy its exquisite beauty.
Beatrice Stevens Wins Recognition
The Relief Society General Board is very proud of the recent recognition that has come to one of its members, Mrs. Beatrice Farley Stevens. On February 28, 1941, the University of Utah announced the selection of "Hail Utah" a composition by Mrs. Stevens, as its new Alma Mater song. The song was introduced to the student body on the occasion of the ninety-first anniversary of the founding of the institution. For several years, the school has felt a need for a new Alma Mater song which would be appropriate for use on all occasions, particularly those of a more formal nature. Efforts have been made at various times to secure such a song. Last year an invitational contest was held in the interest of securing something appropriate. A number of gifted composers were invited to enter their work in the contest. Mrs. Stevens was among those so honored. From the group of compositions submitted, three were selected to be privately voted upon by the student body. The voting resulted in the selection of Mrs. Stevens' song, "Hail Utah." The General Board is very grateful for the accomplished service which Mrs. Stevens renders to Relief Society. In addition to other responsibilities, she has for several years been an active member of the General Board Music Committee, and is its present chairman. She has worked diligently in furthering Singing Mothers' choruses throughout the Church, and the success of these choruses is a source of pride to the Society. She is perhaps best known to Relief Society women for her composition, "A Hundred Thousand Strong," written as a rally song for the Relief Society membership campaign. As a member of the music committee, she assisted in the preparation of the new Relief Society Song Book, which includes two of her compositions, "The Work We're Called To Do," and "Our Father In Heaven." She is also the author of "The Magic Bowl," Mutual Improvement Association prize-winning operetta. As we contemplate the accomplishments of Relief Society women in all lines, both collectively and individually, our hearts rejoice and we thank our Heavenly Father for His goodness to us. We congratulate Mrs. Stevens upon her achievements, and extend our best wishes for continued success in her musical activities. The words of "Hail Utah" are published on page 240 of this issue of the Magazine.
The Merry-Go-Round Alice Morrey Bailey
CHAPTER ONE
Alyn Fordyce tilted her violet hat over one violet eye and took stock of her possessions—gloves, crisp white linen handkerchief, and purse. Yes, she had everything, and she looked charming in the exclusive Mangone model suit. She could almost hear the envy in Bea McIntyre's voice: "Alyn, where in the world did you get that darling suit?" And Mary's sigh: "Alyn, you always look so perfectly right." Her suit would blend in with Josephine's faintly-orchid walls, be complemented by the centerpiece of violets Josephine was sure to have on her luncheon table.
Not many women of thirty-eight could wear violet, but for her it dramatized the lights in her blue-black hair, the protected delicacy of her pink-white skin. Not many women would pay eighty dollars for a suit—or could wear one advantageously when they got it. Alyn might be extravagant, as the girls often accused her of being, but good appearance offsets so many things. Cheap clothing was poor background and poorer taste. Alyn had no patience with women who bought cheap clothing. She took one lingering look at her apartment as she drew the door shut. It was a never-ending source of delight to her, even though John, her husband, sometimes complained that it lacked hominess. "Imagine me taking off my shoes and cocking my feet up for comfort any place in this house!" he had said once. And, indeed, Alyn couldn't. She was forced to admit that John had common urges. Sunshine filtered through the Venetian Blinds, and rays of light were reflected here and there on polished wood and crystal trimmings. It was easy to forget that each expensive piece of furniture and each exquisite decoration represented a struggle with John—polite and well-bred, of course, but, nevertheless, a struggle. The quiet beauty of the place was worth every bit of unpleasantness. She softly closed the door and turned to meet John, face to face. At a glance, she saw that he had come home again with one of his headaches—again when she so wanted to attend a luncheon. "But, John!" she expostulated inanely. "I've already called the taxi." How utterly unfortunate! Now she would miss the luncheon, and she had dressed so expressly.... Why couldn't he have been ten minutes later? She wished fervently that she had gotten away before John's arrival. "Run along," said John, thickly, looking at her with suffering eyes. "I'll pile up in bed with an ice cap. I'll be all right." "I wouldn't think of it," Alyn protested, but the idea tempted her. After all there wasn't a thing she could do. But someone at the party was sure to ask about John—his headaches were becoming more and more frequent, and everyone knew about them. She would be placed in the unpleasant position of either lying about him or saying that she had abandoned him for a social engagement. As seriously as the girls took their luncheons, that just wasn't done by any of them. John stumbled into bed, Alyn helping him off with his clothes and getting the ice pack for him with more solicitude than tenderness. He glanced at her briefly, gratitude shining through the pain in his eyes. "Thanks, Alyn," he mumbled, "you've always been an awfully good sport. I wish...." He subsided then, without voicing the wish, and she called the apartment office. "Tell the janitor to dismiss the taxi out in front. If the driver is unpleasant, pay him something. These people are so unreasonable." Then she called Josephine. "Josephine, darling. This is Alyn. Isn't this dreadful of me, but I give you my word that I was on my way there. I had the taxi waiting in front, and John came home with one of his headaches. I think it must be migraine, in spite of what the doctor says. I really am sorry. You give such wonderful luncheons. I really must have you all in. I'll plan something for next week," she offered. John moaned, and she hurried to give him one of the capsules that Doctor Prentiss had left, a sedative, of course.
After twenty minutes or so, John was quiet. Alyn couldn't tell whether or not he slept, but she knew he must be comparatively free from pain, and the capsule usually remained effective for three or four hours. The afternoon would be wasted for her. It was so annoying, for Alyn hated nothing more than idleness. "You are so active," her friends always said. And she was, too. She went to book reviews twice a week to keep up on current literature; shopping took up a great deal of time; and social obligations were almost a full-time job. To be idle all afternoon... Or perhaps she could take this time to plan the dinner she had been meaning to give ever since the McIntyres had given theirs. If she couldn't give a better dinner than Bea McIntyre.... She would serve lamb chops—double thick, shrimp salad, and that delicious cocktail of broiled grapefruit with brown sugar and butter. The cateress could make the rolls. No one could make them better than Geraldine—and, of course, she would have Geraldine. No one knew Geraldine's last name. She was simply listed in the directory as Geraldine, the Cateress, and was the one and only to the exclusive set. The thought of her brought up the matter of expense. John had always let her have everything within his power to give, but lately he kept harping about expense, and Geraldine was expensive. Nevertheless, Alyn would rather not give a dinner than have to scrimp. It was as much to John's advantage as to hers to make a good showing. After all, it was John who was not getting along. Alyn was trained and equipped to uphold a man of position and wealth, but John, after nineteen years of married life, was still a man working for a salary. To be sure, the salary was a flat five hundred a month and was not to be sneezed at, as her friends were always pointing out. "Six thousand a year," they put it, but Alyn couldn't shut her ears to the way other men made money nor her eyes to the things it bought. The girls were too well-bred to boast outright, but comparisons were inevitable. "I always feel funny inside on the eve of one of Wif's big deals," was Bea's way of putting it. "Business position has its penalties," Josephine was always reminding them. Alyn's mother hadn't wanted Alyn to marry John, but she had been so sure that it was right at the time. She wrinkled her brow, trying to remember the dim reasons why she had married John, but gave it up for the business at hand. Of course, it had been different then. Then her own family had money—the fine, old Merriweather family. She had been the lovely Alyn Merriweather, with a lively, almost certain, prospect of being wealthy in her own right some day. John's father hadn't been doing so badly himself, though her mother sniffed at him as being a newcomer. He had had large holdings in mining, large enough so that he thought John's start at two hundred a month amusing and "good for the boy"—a start, by the way, that her own father had given him simply by contact with the right people, a word spoken at the right source. John had been a bit difficult. "I'd rather make my own place than be given something by pull," he had objected. "Nonsense," her father had replied, "you'll make your place. They won't keep you long, even for me, if you don't." And John had taken the position because they wanted so badly to be married, and John simply refused to marry until he should be on a paying job. Alyn continued to plan the dinner: There would be Will and Mary Thorpe. Will owned a chain of theatres, and they were well-to-do. Mary made a boast of her ability to economize, but everyone knew that she did so because Will ruled the family exchequer with an iron hand. No doubt they would both die young, and the children would squander the money they had saved. Alyn didn't envy Mary, though she often found Mary's eyes on her in what she interpreted as something of pity. Mary needn't be so smug. Alyn wouldn't change places with her for all the bank balance Will could put up. John was not stingy. It was annoying, of course, not to have charge accounts at Hatterly's and the Red Market, at Tyson's and the other exclusive places of trade, like all the rest, but sometimes it was a distinct advantage. "Don't think of inviting me anywhere on the first," Doris Peterson often wailed, "I'm up to my neck in accounts and up to my ears in alibis." "Tory was furious when the bill for that hat came in. He said I could have stuck a sweet potato in a glass of water and grown one prettier." This from Francine Meade. Running bills was the one thing John would not tolerate, but Alyn was welcome to anything he had. Of course, she would invite the Haywoods, Jetta and Lane; and the Martins, Ruth and Bill. The Haywoods were in the jewelry business, and the Martins owned a string of laundries. Bill had once said that he had no idea how much he was worth. They were important people, all of them. There would be Jeff Peterson and Doris. She must invite the Meades and the Welshes; she owed them both invitations. That would be twelve guests. Bea and Wif McIntyre would be fourteen; Josephine and Rufus Randolph, sixteen. There would be eighteen in all, including herself and John. Alyn sighed. She had vowed never to have more than ten or twelve guests at one time again, and John would hit the ceiling. But she was obligated all the way round, and it was either that or have two dinners. She used the kitchen telephone extension to make a few tentative calls. She must not disturb John. She called the florist, the meat market and Geraldine, who hadn't an opening until a week from Thursday. Thursday! It would probably be a bad day altogether. It was a nuisance to be at the mercy of these people. "Let me check my appointments, Geraldine, and call you back."
As she put the receiver in its cradle, she looked up to see John swaying in the doorway, his hands at either side of his head. "Is that a dinner I hear you planning, dear?" "Why, yes, John. Why?" "Will you mind very much not giving it?" "Not give it? It's not too late to postpone it," said Alyn reasonably, biting back her annoyance. "I didn't mean postpone it. I mean not give it at all." "Not give it at all? Why, John, that's absurd. Why shouldn't I give it?" John looked at her, something like anguish in his eyes. It was the headache, no doubt. "Alyn, I hate to go into this, but I must have a talk with you." "Of course," agreed Alyn promptly, "but you'd better sit down before you fall, and let me get you something to eat. It might help that headache. There's nothing like drawing the congestion to your stomach...." "No." John waved away the thought of food and sat by her on the couch. He looked at her so long that it made her uncomfortable. What was he being so tragic about? "Alyn, we've been happy, haven't we? You love me, don't you?" "Of course." Alyn fidgeted, wishing John would come to the point. "I'd rather die than tell you this. Would it be very bad to start all over again?" "Whatever do you mean, John Fordyce? Start what over again?" "Alyn, I've lost my job." "You've lost your job?" repeated Alyn blankly. "Yes. I've known for a month, but I thought I could do something.... This is really the end—now, today!" "Well, you can get another. You didn't like this one anyway." Alyn smiled briefly. "No, Alyn, you don't understand. It isn't so easy as all that. I've tried for a month. You won't like the only thing I've been able to manage.... I've pulled every string that I thought might work, and it's no go. I'm out of a job and nearly out of money." "Out of money?" shrieked Alyn. "How could we be out of money?" "How indeed?" asked John ironically. "We've never saved a penny—a new car every year, clothes that cost a fortune, entertaining.... Oh. It has been everything—this apartment especially. Seventy-five dollars...." "Now, John, let's not go into that again. I know how you feel about this apartment. At least I should." Alyn was touchy where her beautiful apartment was concerned. It was her pride, her love, from the pale green and apricot of her bedroom to the ivory and deep blue of the living room, and she kept it spotless—with the aid of the cleaning woman, of course. John sighed. "Well, we've got to cut down. More than that—we've got to start all over, Alyn, with new surroundings, new friends, and I can't say that I'm sorry." "John, you're not asking me to give up my friends..." began Alyn. John laughed shortly. "You won't have to. They'll give you up when you can't offer competition any more, when you can't entertain, when you aren't in the swim." Alyn noted mentally that John said "you" instead of "us," and a fresh fury shook her. "After all I've tried to do for him," she thought. "My friends aren't like that," she informed him frigidly. "Besides, you're talking nonsense, John. You'll get situated in a few days. You can't help it, and everything will go on just the same. You're just being cowardly about this. What you need is will power, backbone...." "Perhaps you're right," cut in John, "now is the time to fight. Well, I don't feel like fighting. I'm sick of the way we live. I'm sick of a job that I've had to take a back seat on for the last three years. You might not know it, but I was shelved when Jacobs took over. I've only been kept on out of courtesy. I've eaten dust and humiliation. I've boot-licked and cringed, and I wish I'd quit before I was thrown out, but I didn't. And why...? So you could go to your silly teas, so you could invite so-and-so because she invited you, so you could dress better than women far more able to dress well than you. We haven't a friend who comes for the mere enjoyment of our company, and you know it. I have had enough of being apologized for. I won't be dragged in. I don't like it, and I never will...." "Why, John! You've never talked so before." She knew exactly what her mother would have said. John was being socially inefficient. He was anti-social, and Alyn had never known it before. What a hopeless situation! "Isn't it enough that I like it, John? I think you are being very selfish. It's all I have to compensate me for...." "I know—for not having children," finished John brutally, and Alyn began to cry. "I don't think you wanted children as much as you said, Alyn. With all the homeless waifs in the world.... Oh, there now, honey, I don't know what I'm saying. I'm a brute. I've stood about all I can stand. This thing has been preying on my mind, and these headaches...."
Alyn knew then that she had won. John could never hold out against her tears. She could afford to unbend a little herself. "John, I will help. I know a lot of inexpensive dishes we can have, and I can get rid of the cleaning woman. With the vacuum and all the cleaning equipment.... And I can cut down on clothes and ride the trolleys more." Thank goodness the spring cleaning was done and she had her suit. Her mind raced ahead. She could retrim her expensive hats for two or three dollars and buy accessories for her old clothes instead of buying new ones. She had read of such things. Certainly she would do anything within reason. "That's good for a starter, honey, but it will have to go much deeper than that. It isn't really so bad. I do have a job, but not one that you would call.... I got it on my own nerve, though, on my own personality. It's horticulture. I studied it in college. Remember how keen I was about it? The job starts at $150 a month. I just walked into Intermountain Milton Nurseries, without telling who I was..." "A hundred and fifty a month?" said Alyn, aghast. "You don't mean to say that you accepted..." "Why not? Whole families live on that much, Alyn. We can make it. We may not even have to lose the car. We can move to a smaller apartment. I looked at a nice little place for thirty dollars in the Piedmont...." "I won't!" said Alyn flatly. "I'll do everything else, but I won't move out of this apartment. I've spent four hundred dollars on the floors alone and fifty dollars for draperies. They'll never fit another window. Families!" she finished contemptuously. "You mean people who have no pride, no breeding. Persons! John, I will not live in poverty," she said with finality.
(To be continued)
HAIL UTAH Beatrice F. Stevens (New University of Utah Alma Mater Song)
Hail Utah, hail to thee, With joy we sing thy praise, To thee, dear Alma Mater, Our grateful voices raise; Noble thy destiny And worthy thine acclaim, Treasured in memory Thy loved and honored name.
Long may thy beacon tower O'er-look the inland sea, Below the snow-capped mountains Shine out in majesty; Long may thy light shine forth, Give vision clear and bright, Ever to conquer wrong And foster truth and right.
A Doctor Challenges Alcohol T. J. Howells, M. D. Health Commissioner, Salt Lake City, Utah, and Member of Utah State Board of Health
I am tired of making alibis for alcohol. I am sick of signing death certificates when the real villain behind the scene is whiskey. I make no apologies for alcohol. It is a drug, a poison. It has a definite place in medicine and in industry, but it was never intended to be used as a beverage. Some months ago, on the operating table in the Emergency hospital lay a young man. A police officer held an arm and kept the boy on the table. He was a fine-looking fellow in his early twenties, and a boy that any man would be proud to call "son." His girl companion was across the hall in the morgue. It was an automobile accident, and she was dead when the officers arrived upon the scene. The boy suffered from a rather large scalp wound, a few broken ribs and other minor injuries. It was evident from his actions that he was only partly conscious because of incoherent statements he was making and a rather low, muttering delirium that came from his lips. It took only a casual examination to reveal the fact that it was neither pain nor shock that caused this unconsciousness, but that it was the delirium of alcohol. Interesting is the fact that later in court witnesses testified that his girl companion did not drink. I am sick of caring for accidents, alleviating pain, patching people up, attending at the bedside of the dying, trying to comfort friends and relatives when the reason behind the tragedy is the drug and poison of alcohol. The law requires that after every death, violent or natural, a certificate must be made out by the attending physician. This important document is filed and often appears in court. It must give both the main cause of death and, wherever possible, name the contributing cause, also. During the last few years, I have signed several such death certificates where the car had failed to make the curve, the car ran into a truck, or the driver missed the bridge. They were all accidents contributing to the death of young people who were riding in automobiles. The death certificate read: "fractured skull," "internal injuries," or a "broken back," and the contributing cause of death read, and correctly so in each case, "automobile accident." And while it did not appear upon the record, yet each casualty was definitely traceable to the effects of the drug, alcohol. WE’VE done a good job in America with the drugs, morphine, codine, and heroin, and yet they were never as dangerous as alcohol. Today, you rarely see on the streets a drug habitue, and yet each morning's paper brings you the news of a disaster following some brain befuddled with alcohol while the toe rests upon the accelerator of a 95- horsepower automobile. It is sad that the young people 242 of America liave not yet learned in all of their study of chemistry that they cannot mix alcohol and gasoline. I am sorry they cannot see that the contributing cause in this great chapter of automobile accidents is too often "a couple of drinks." It is high time that we should strip this "killer" of its dangerous romance, its alluring garb, and pin the blame where it belongs, and show it up for what it is—a drug and a poison. It is an indictment against the American people that some of our smartest magazines carry advertisements of alluring and deceiving propaganda for this national "killer." I apologize to youth that artists paint deceiving pictures and that naturefakers and would-be athletes receive money for lying testimonials as to the value of this drug as a beverage. In the hospital room of the county jail recently, four young men, seventeen years of age, were confined and awaiting sentence for killing pedestrians while driving automobiles. Two of the young men admitted and showed evidence of drinking whiskey. There was some question about the third, and the fourth, beyond a doubt, was sober. I have felt that young men are RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL, 194) generally better drivers than the old, that there is quicker coordination between the muscles and brain of youth, than of age, and that, therefore, they are safer drivers. This poison, alcohol, slows the coordination of the brain and muscles; and the fact that four young men were at the mercy of the court awaiting judgment for having killed pedestrians is surely a challenge against this drug and the driving of youth. Because of the peculiar nervous mechanism and a certain instability, youth is more susceptible to the action and effects of whiskey. We have been slow to convict our drunken drivers, but now with the aid of the Drunkometer and the Laboratory's determination of the amount of alcohol in the blood, we are convicting more than go per cent of them. Part of the remaining 10 per cent are proved guilty by the disaster that follows in the wake of their wild rides. I can prove by hospital records, and without fear of contradiction, that 80 per cent of the fatal automobile accidents occurring in America are due to this drug circulating in the blood and brain of young people, too often indifferent, overprivileged and trying to show off. “THERE is nothing so hard and difficult as driving a racing automobile against time. On the Salt Flats in Utah, hour after hour, alone and locked in, I have endured this grueling test, the temperature in the car almost boiling, with mirage by day and flares by night to confuse and deceive me. Last summer I broke 84 world records under these conditions. I attribute my endurance to the fact that I have never tasted either tobacco or alcohol." (Signed) Ab Jenkins, (Racing Mayor of Salt Lake City, Utah.) Gardens and Gardening Luella N. Adams Relief Society General Board Member Thank God for a garden, be it ever so small; Thank God for the sunshine that comes flooding it all: Thank God for the flowers, for the rain and the dew; Thank God for the summer that brings me to you. BLESSED is the person who has an appreciation for all of earth's precious gifts. That person's life has thus been enriched and made happy. Heaven's gifts cannot be monopolized. Rich, poor, young and old can enjoy the sunshine and rain, flowers, birds and trees. Gardens are as old as the earth, and fortunate indeed is the person who has one, be it ever so small. We beautify the earth, make our homes and communities more attractive, and while doing this we receive physical, spiritual and cultural rewards. For real exhilaration of body and soul, get out at down when the dew is still on the flowers, when the birds are singing overhead and the air is laden with perfume, and enjoy the peace of the garden and close communion with nature. The gardener feels close to her Maker. She is dependent upon Him for the good earth, the rain and sunshine. To plant a seed and watch it grow into a lovely blossom is a miracle. Who can gaze upon an exquisite rose, smell its fragrant perfume, feel the touch of its velvety petal, and doubt that there is a Creator. A warden in a prison said, "The men who work in the gardens seldom, if ever, give trouble." Everyone loves a pleasant home surrounded with the beauty that can come only from flowers, shrubs and trees. The first step in making a new garden, or in remaking or adding to the one we have, is to do some real planning. Study the catalogues. Summer gardens are made in January. What is the purpose of our garden, and what will it include? The house, size of lot, and location will help to determine this. The small garden, well planned and well kept, is much more desirable than a large one carelessly laid out and neglected. Some gardeners have a notebook that they keep available at all times. Mistakes in gardening are jotted down, so that they will not be repeated. There may be a bare spot that must be planted for another summer, or some plants may be too tall or may clash in color with others. A noted English author says: "Some people say flowers never clash. I should like them to have heard what a certain geranium of my acquaintance said to a neighboring fuchsia last spring." The design of a garden is as important as the flowers and shrubs it contains. Keep it natural looking. Do not plant in straight rows unless the garden is formal. Inexperienced gardeners invariably crowd too much. Allowance for growth should be considered. It is never too LUELLA ADAMS ENJOYS HER GARDEN (Photograph, Courtesy Deseret News) late to rearrange where mistakes have been made. An expanse of well-kept lawn gives the impression of spaciousness. Neighboring surroundings are one of the important and often serious problems in beautifying homes. No matter how fine your garden and landscaping are, the effect may be ruined by old, unpainted buildings, broken-down fences, or unkempt, unsightly yards next door. Cooperation of all neighbors is essential in making a neat, attractive neighborhood. Now that there is: a state and chureh-wide movement for beautification, surely every home owner is "beautification conscious." IF possible, have at least one part of the garden private.. The family will enjoy an outdoor living room screened. From view where they can relax and eat a meal or entertain their friends. Provided there is space, every home should have trees. They lend atmosphere and dignity, provide shade, and furnish a background and a screen. Choose them very carefully, for they will stand as a monument long after the planter has passed on. Visualize your trees twenty years hence and make allowance for growth. Hardwood trees are preferable. 'They. Are longer lived, sturdier, and will not break so readily. Maples, hawthornes, locusts, European Linden, London Plane, Golden Chain and cut-leaved Weeping Birch are among the best. 'The boxelder, which is so common in Utah and Idaho, has served a fine purpose in the past. However, in GARDENS AND GARDENING most sections it has. Outlived its usefulness. It is unshapely, sends out out-shoots, drops many seeds and harbors boxelder bugs. 'The pollen of the boxelder also causes hay-fever, a serious affliction in this region. Mr. Rufus Johnson, Salt Lake City tree warden, says that boxelders cause much trouble among _ neighbors when planted along boundary lines and ditches, because they grow out of bounds and trespass on the neighbor's premises. Evergreens are indispensable in a well-planned garden. They are ideal for foundation planting, because they remain green all winter and do not grow out of bounds. Junipers and arborvitae are splendid where tall planting is required, at entrances to doors or by windows. Pfitzers and Sabina Junipers never grow tall, but spread over quite an area and are desirable for low planting under windows, by steps, etc. Coniferous evergreens, spruces, firs, and pines, grow very large in time, and are best used along borders and back in the lot where they have ample room to grow. There are a few broad-leafed evergreens that thrive in our locality and which add to any landscaping, such as Pyracantha, which has red berries in the fall and winter, Oregon Grape, Catoneaster, and Barberry. Evergreens should be planted very early in the spring while it is still cool. By all means plant evergreens. They cost more than deciduous trees, but their beauty all during the year justifies the additional expense. However, it is not necessary to plant them all the first year. Get a pair for the entrance to your yard or arrange for a grouping and add others as you. Can. 245 Flowering trees—cherry, peach, crab, and Paul's Scarlet Hawthorne —that have now been so perfected and improved, enhance any garden. Vines, such as grape, Hall's Honeysuckle, Boston Ivy, and the Silver Lace Vine, are indispensable for covering fences, walls, old buildings, or trellises. Shrubs are so important in our landscaping that no garden is complete without them. Once planted, they are a joy forever. 'The hardy lilac lasts for generations, requires no special soil and is a faithful, bloomer. Lilac planting for a community project would do much toward beautifying our towns. Plant the improved French Lilacs. Bridal Wreath is another favorite. Syringa, Philadelphus Virginalis (mock. Orange), a pure-white double, is a heavenly thing in June. Its blossoms are so fragrant that a single spray will perfume a room. We should never forget shrubs and trees that bear berries for the birds, such as the Rus-. Sian Mulberry and 'Tartarian Honeysuckle. Every yard should have roses, if only a few. 'The fewer grown, the. More choice they should be. Nothing can take the place of these aristocrats. Many of the old standard roses are fine and inexpensive. However, new improved ones are appeating on the market every year. At first, the new ones are quite costly. It is a splendid custom for friends to exchange slips. There is sentiment attached to a rose that one has raised from a tiny slip given him by a dear friend. Some of the new favorites are the Doctor, Eternal Youth, Dainty Bess, Dickson's Red, Rex Anderson, Eclipse, Will Rogers 246 and Matador. Ever-blooming Floribunda roses are very popular. They are prolific bloomers, making a mass of color all summer. These should be planted in groups, among shrubs or along borders. World's Fair, Permanent Wave and Anne Poulsen climbing roses are splendid when planted in the right place. HE garden that is well planned will have a maximum of blooming flowers all summer. Thought is required to keep continuous blooms, especially during the hot months. Real garden enthusiasts are those who look ahead, who work and plan. They don't get discouraged when the weeds begin to grow and the days get hot. Annuals assure continuous blooms throughout the summer. Don't fail to invest in a few packages of seeds." Gladiola bulbs planted at different times and blooming at intervals of a few weeks are desirable. Perennials are invaluable in any garden. The following faithfully present their blooms in the spring time year after year: the crocus, primrose, forget-me-not, bleeding heart, mertensia (the old-fashioned bluebell), and pansies, which are being improved every year. All that pansies require is loamy soil, plenty of water, and frequent picking. Spring time is tulip time, and what beautiful effects are possible if bulbs are planted with care! Groupings in front of shrubs, by steps, or long drifts along foundations are preferred. Tulip bulbs can be put in various places throughout the garden to brighten it. 1.See "From Seed-Packets to Blossoming Flowers," by Hazel D. Moyle, Relief Society Magazine, April, 1940, p. 217. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL, 1941 Be careful to combine the right colors, using those that complement each other. Flowers that will thrive in the shade are always in demand. Some of these are phlox, lily of the valley, columbine, which has an attractive foliage all summer, and Sweet Woodruff, a white, delicately-scented flower, that will do well under trees. By all means include iris—Siberian, Japanese, and German. German Iris is a hardy, dependable, beautiful flower that cannot be overrated. Resolve to add a new iris each year. The tuberous-rooted begonia is a shade-loving flower that is becoming very popular. The delicate, waxy blooms come in various shades. The bulbs are started inside in pots, then transplanted after all danger of frost is past. These must have absolute shade. Pots may be sunk in the ground. We would all do well to grow more white flowers. They give the impression of size, blend well with other plants, and look cool and refreshing. Some beautiful white flowers are: snapdragons, candytuft, phlox, Madonna Lilies, petunias and alyssum. The Japanese Anemone brings the spirit of spring in September. It likes morning sun and does well in loamy soil and well-rotted manure. Anemone roots spread and will soon furnish many plants. 'These flowers come in pink, lavender and pure white and, growing on long, strong stems, they are splendid for cut flowers. Don't fail to plant them. Chrysanthemums are another favorite of autumn. Great strides are being made in their development, so keep up to date. GARAGE 7 GARAGE Ca; Identical lots and houses are shown above, but that on the left is planted with no plan nor forethought, while that on the right shows all the material in the other garden arranged for beauty, use and charm. The legend for both sketches is: A—trellis, C—chair, E—evergreen, F—flowers, P—pool, R—roses, RG—rock garden, S—shrubs, ST—shade tree, V—vegetable garden, T—table, W—walk. (Sketch, Courtesy Maud Chegwidden and Salt Lake Tribune.) THE rock garden will be a great addition to any garden if built and planted correctly. Follow the dictates of nature-be natural. The rocks must be practically covered with soil. Too often they have the appearance of just a pile of rocks. Sabina Juniper, Mugho Pine, and the prostrate growing shrubs which are hardy and graceful are appropriate for rock gardens. Purple Aubrietia Alyssum, columbine, violas, for-get-me-nots, tulips, and numerous other plants are suitable. The lily pool affords a point of interest. If you cannot afford a large one, just sink a tub in the earth. plant your lilies and add a few gold fish for interest. Water-lilies thrive best in rather murky water. By all means make room for an herb garden. They are valuable for their sweet smells, savory odors, and appearance of just a pile of rocks. As seasoning for food. Parsley, mint, chives, sage or horse-radish, growing close to the kitchen door, are most useful. Lavender has a purple flower is used in making sachet. Lemon Verbena, Bergamot, and Spicy Pink get-me-nots, tulips, and numerous are old favorites. Fortunate is the family that has access to a vegetable garden. Vegetables taste when they are fresh.
If you live in a hot, dry locality, have a cacti garden. They are beautiful and very interesting. There are over five hundred known varieties of cacti. Yes, everyone should have a garden. Make the most of your surroundings and conditions. There are lovely shrubs and plants suited to every locality. Plant what will thrive; get the joy and satisfaction that comes from growing things. Make gardening your hobby. Surprises and satisfaction will await you every day. The seed you planted may have sent a tiny shoot toward the sunlight or a bud may have burst into bloom. Your garden will always be a peaceful retreat.
MY FRIENDLY GARDEN Della Adams Leitner
My garden is a friendly place, And, oh, so neighborly; Folks stop to chat awhile and show Their comradship with me.
We love to talk about the flowers, And oftentimes we find Some other bonds of interest— A kindredship of mind.
Here in exchange of new ideas And better ways to do, Are seeds of happy friendships sown That bear their blossoms, too.
The understanding flowers respond To all the care I give, And so my garden shows me how The friendly life to live.
Out Of The Darkness Edith Smith Elliott Relief Society General Board Member
"Through faith I create the world I gaze upon, I make my own day and night, tint the clouds with iridescent fires, and behold! Midnight is strewn with stars."—Helen Keller.
When I was a little girl, my mother took me to hear and see Helen Keller. She appeared in the Assembly Hall on Temple Square, where her teacher and companion told us that Miss Keller was born down in Alabama, a perfectly normal child. When the baby was only nineteen months old, she was stricken with a severe illness which left her sightless and deaf, and because she could hear no speech or sound, she was unable to imitate either. The only way she could communicate with her family was through motions. She learned early to smack her lips when she wanted candy. When Helen was six and one-half years old, Anne Sullivan of Boston went to her home to see if she could help the child. A great affection grew up between them, and Miss Sullivan gained the little girl's confidence, which made the teaching and learning more simple. As the child could neither see, hear, nor speak, Miss Sullivan gave her a lovely doll and had her feel it carefully. Then in the language of the deaf, she spelled out "D-O-L-L" on Helen's hand. In this way she taught her the names of objects. After Miss Keller had mastered the sign language and had learned to read Braille, Miss Sullivan explained to Helen that she spoke with her lips and made sounds with her voice. Helen then wondered if she could learn to speak this way. So she placed her fingers on Miss Sullivan's lips and felt the vibrations of her nose and throat as she spoke, and by some miracle of interpretation learned to say "it." She was an apt student, so eager to learn, and as time went on, she managed to say a whole sentence. She ran to her parents and said, "I'm not dumb now!" Miss Keller has had a splendid education. She is a graduate of Radcliffe College and holds the degree, "Doctor of Philosophy." Alexander Graham Bell took a great interest in Miss Keller's achievements and set up a trust fund in her name so that she could continue her educational activities. When Miss Sullivan died, a new companion was found for Miss Keller. She is Miss Polly Thomson, a most gracious, charming, intelligent, Scotch-born lady. She is devoted to Miss Keller and is very proud of her accomplishments.
I don't know of anything that has impressed me more than the evening I spent at that Helen Keller lecture. All through my girlhood, when obstacles came my way, I said to myself, "If Helen Keller has been able to overcome so many handicaps, surely I can master this situation." This thought has given me both faith and courage. She has helped all mankind similarly, whether they have met her personally or just read or heard about this remarkable character. I have now been given added strength to face life's sorrows and feel more appreciatively life's joys, because I have had the privilege of meeting and visiting with Helen Keller. Mrs. Belle S. Spafford, our Relief Society Magazine editor, and I, went by appointment to call on Miss Keller and tell her about some of the interesting accomplishments and present activities of our National Woman's Relief Society. We were greeted with a warm welcome by both Miss Keller and her companion, Miss Thomson, and we spent a happy hour in pleasant conversation. I told Miss Keller how happy I was to meet her personally and of the lasting influence she had had on my life. She was pleased to hear this and laughed heartily when I told her that I had never forgotten the beautiful pink dress she wore that night years ago. She said, "I loved the dress, too. I chose it myself." We had another good laugh when I reminded her that following the lecture the audience had been invited to ask questions. A gentleman had asked if she could tell color. Her answer had been, "Well, I can tell when I feel blue or when I'm in the pink and when I have a greenback in my hand." I am sure that this precious sense of humor has been a big help to her as well as to those who have shared in her wit. Miss Keller was delighted with our Relief Society work, and paid high tribute to the Mormon women. She was thrilled and stirred by the courage and faith of the pioneer women who sacrificed so much to come to a desolate, barren valley and build new homes and rear families. She said, "If that faith and courage of the pioneer women can be carried on from generation to generation, it will be the force that will keep Utah young." She commented on the physical and mental strength of our first women settlers and hoped that these qualities would be lasting, so that succeeding generations will bear strong children capable of building a great America. She had an unusually fine background of Utah history and a wholesome admiration for the great pioneer leader, Brigham Young. We told Miss Keller of our Relief Society motto, "Charity Never Faileth," and she said, "Yes, if your charity is accompanied by love." She went on to explain that charity in our day has become hard and unfeeling—just a dole. She was delighted that the Relief Society had maintained the old, the real, and the simple meaning of charity. She thanked us for the beautiful and unusual bouquet of flowers that our organization sent to her on her arrival in Salt Lake City. Mary Grant Judd selected it, and chose flowers of unusual shape and texture, believing that they would appeal to Miss Keller's sense of touch. Miss Keller appreciated the thoughtfulness and sent the following letter of thanks to the Relief Society general office:
"The floral beauty with which you have in such a lavish manner emblazoned my visit to Salt Lake City makes me feel how far words lag behind gratitude of the heart. There are so many to thank for blossom-laden baskets, each of which has a touching association or a happy memory for me to carry away! I can only tell you that these singularly varied and exquisite tokens of your good-will not only towards me but also towards my blind fellows, remembered, will keep my courage strong for whatever tasks I may find to fulfill.
"Gratefully saluting you and Salt Lake City, which I am proud to count among the standard-bearers in the work for the blind, I am
"Cordially yours, (signed) Helen Keller."
Another gift that Miss Keller received with enthusiasm was the Book of Mormon in Braille, prepared in seven volumes, presented by President Heber J. Grant. She expressed sincere appreciation for this gift. Mrs. Spafford explained the purpose of our Mormon Handicraft project. Miss Keller was greatly interested and commented upon the value of this activity in preserving the arts and crafts of all nations represented in our Relief Society membership. She was glad to hear that a Shop was maintained to serve as an exchange for the handicraft of Mormon people.
We enjoyed her observations on national and international affairs. Her great hope was that the present war would not take women backward. She is proud of the accomplishments of women and reminisced on their activities in all fields of endeavor, particularly in suffrage. She admired the stamina of the British women during this trying time and plead for loyalty to our own Government.
Dr. Helen Keller came to Salt Lake at the request of several Utah societies interested in the blind. She lectured in the Salt Lake Tabernacle, March 12, 1941. An enthusiastic and appreciative audience greeted her. Part of the funds from her lecture are to be used to continue the employment of Miss Alice Vick, who is sightless, deaf and speechless, but who, under the expert and inspirational teaching of Irene Jones, has learned to read and write in Braille. Miss Vick is employed to transcribe from a master copy, current information as well as other types of reading material. This copy is sent from a center for the blind, located in California. The transcribed material is then made available to the local blind. Besides the financial help which this employment gives to Miss Vick, it also provides her the satisfaction of helping others who are deprived of their sight. A portion of the funds raised from Miss Keller's lecture will remain here for other projects for the blind and a specified percentage will go to the American Foundation for the Blind, Inc., in New York, under whose auspices she was obtained. Miss Keller refused any compensation for her part in the project, thus proving what a sincere philanthropist she really is.
I think one has to meet Helen Keller to really appreciate her many gifts. Each morning she begins her day by reading the Scriptures, in which she is well versed. When at home, she walks for a while in her garden, "Thus," as she expressed herself, "I begin the day with two communions"—one with her Heavenly Father and the other with nature. She believes that if people would read the Scriptures more often and do more walking in gardens, our world would be a happier place in which to live. She radiates love and affection. She is vivacious and has a deep sense of appreciation for everything. She accepts the challenges of life with gladness and sees in each one an opportunity for greater self-mastery. Her keen intellect and her quaint way of expressing her ideas made our interview something long to be remembered. Through contact with her, one experiences in himself a rebirth of faith, hope and courage.
HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon
Behold! There is a rainbow in the sky, The Earth awakens from its lethargy.
Forty years ago this April, a group of choice women organized a society named The Daughters of Utah Pioneers. The objects: to perpetuate the memory of their courageous ancestors, the pioneers of Utah; to preserve landmarks; to gather and preserve historical and biographical records; and eventually to erect a fitting memorial, a symbolical shrine, a temple of art, which would serve the needs of the society. Today this last dream is on the threshold of fulfillment, for Governor Herbert B. Maw has signed a measure, passed by the state legislature, granting a choice piece of property for the site of such a memorial.
Natalie Wales Latham, socialite, opened a shop in New York to distribute yarn to women knitters for aid to Britain. Like magic, other centers opened, and within three months 600,000 garments were shipped, while hundreds of garments are still coming in for shipment.
Grace Moore, now a Metropolitan star, is being urged to return to pictures. Will her art yield to the golden lure?
Mrs. J. G. Falck of Ogden, Utah, for her outstanding patriotism, was presented recently with two testimonials by the United States Flag Association—"The Patriotic Service Cross" and a life membership in the association.
Mrs. Helen Johnson, world-famous traveler and hunter of big game, writer and lecturer, was recently married to Clark H. Getts, her business manager.
Angela Thirkell's latest novel, "Cheerfulness Breaks In," which the London Times calls "her latest confection," is another fair sample of the courage of the gifted English women who, through humor, are giving some brightness to the gloom of the hour. Jan Struthers is now in America discussing her famous heroine, "Mrs. Miniver."
Eve Curie, with other French citizens abroad, is likely to lose her nationality through a Vichy Government decree against citizens who are lecturing in America.
Queen Elizabeth is playing an heroic role during these war days in England. Smiling and sweetly feminine, she visits hospitals, barracks, police stations, and evacuees' billets, bestowing gifts and cheering words, especially upon children.
Ginger Rogers said, "This is the happiest moment of my life," as she received the Hollywood Academy Award for her outstanding work in moving pictures.
Pearl Buck's "Today and Forever," "No Stone Unturned," by Josephine Lawrence, "The Blue Cloak," by Temple Bailey, and "By Way of the Silverthorns," by Grace Livingston Hill, are some of the interesting new books by women.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
Amy Brown Lyman - President Marcia K. Howells - First Counselor Donna D. Sorensen - Second Counselor Vera W. Pohlman - Secretary-Treasurer Belle S. Spafford Nellie O. Parker Vivian R. McConkie Anna S. Barlow Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Achsa E. Paxman Mary G. Judd Rae B. Barker Luella N. Adams Gertrude R. Garff Leona B. Fetzer Marianne C. Sharp Edith S. Elliott Anna B. Hart Pauline T. Pingree Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. 28 APRIL, 1941 No. 4
EDITORIAL
Understanding Hearts
"I can tell you this, because you'll understand." These are words which we both hear and speak upon certain occasions. They are words which imply the capacity to comprehend, the ability to appreciate, and the capability to form reasoned judgments; they are words which infer a confidence in one's ability to see a situation in all its ramifications and to arrive at wise and just conclusions; they are words which indicate a faith in a sympathetic, understanding heart. How many of us really have "understanding hearts" when approached by a friend or neighbor? How many of us have a friend or neighbor with an "understanding heart" to whom we may unburden our souls in times of stress? The "understanding heart" is the great alleviator of vexation, worry and distress. Just to recite the trivial irritations of the day into a sympathetic ear will often clear away the annoyance and leave one undisturbed, while the more serious problems of life are almost insurmountable without the assistance that comes from an "understanding heart." Whether we be young or old, rich or poor, obscure or prominent, we have need for someone who understands—someone who sees not only what we do, but why we do it; someone who is acquainted with our motives as well as our conduct; someone who appreciates the obstacles we have encountered and who recognizes the struggle we have had; someone who fully comprehends all that is involved in our situation and consequently has a tolerant, sympathetic attitude toward us; someone who has compassion for our weaknesses and who recognizes our strengths and appreciates our achievements. Who does not value the "understanding heart"? Yet how much does any one of us really try to cultivate it within himself? We are complimented when people say, "You are so understanding." Yet we make little conscious effort to develop this desirable trait. We are not sensitive to all that another is up against; we fail to recognize all that is involved in his situation; we are too frequently biased, prejudiced or otherwise unfair; we do not take time to learn another's problems or to hear his story through. The greatest obstacle to understanding, however, is usually our own selfish interests and ambitions. Our vision is obscured by our own purposes, and we lose the larger view. The life of the Savior is a recital of perfect understanding. He understood the Samaritan woman and the woman taken in adultery; He understood Mary and Martha. In the selection of His apostles He evidenced perfect understanding, not only of the men and their capabilities, but of the needs of the people to whom they must minister. His final scene on the cross is the superb example of perfect understanding: "And when they were come to the place, which is called Calvary, there they crucified him and the malefactors, one on the right hand, and the other on the left. Then said Jesus, 'Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do.'" The Prophet Joseph was concerned lest Relief Society women should lack understanding, and through this lack lose fellowship with one another. He said: "It grieves me that there is no fuller fellowship;... By union of feeling, we obtain power with God." Union of feeling comes in no other way than through understanding. When time and experience have declared the worth of anything, why not exert ourselves to make it ours? While some people seem to be born with greater capacity to understand than are others, kinship of experience and conscious effort are twins which will open the doors of understanding to anyone. Experience comes with living, but effort is dependent upon ourselves alone. Why not put forth effort? Why not occasionally go behind the scenes and see what makes the play progress? Then we would better understand the actor's rendition of his lines. Why not endeavor to learn the problems which confront our fellowmen? Why not pause to lend a listening ear to a neighbor in distress? Why not seriously strive to gain an "understanding heart"? In Proverbs we are admonished: "With all thy getting, get understanding." Lack of understanding erects barriers and impedes progress; understanding generates love and furthers accomplishment. Of all organizations in the world, Relief Society should be an organization of "understanding hearts."
"Real indeed is human sympathy; the warm hand-clasp of confidence and love brings a rich inflow of new strength to him who is struggling, and the knowledge that someone dear to us sees with love and comradeship our future through our eyes is a wondrous draught of new life. If we have this, perhaps the loyalty of two or three, what the world says or thinks about us should count for little. But if this be denied us, then must we bravely walk our weary way alone, toward the sunrise that must come.
"The little world around us that does not understand us, does not appreciate our ambition or sympathize with our efforts, that seem to it futile, is not intentionally cruel, callous, bitter, blind, or heartless. It is merely that, busied with its own pursuits, problems, and pleasures, it does not fully realize, does not see as we do."
—From Great Truths, by William George Jordan.
Lula Greene Richards
April 8, 1941, marks the ninety-second birthday of Lula Greene Richards, first editor of the Woman's Exponent. The Relief Society General Board congratulates Mrs. Richards at this time. It congratulates her that her ninety-second birthday finds her in reasonably good health, able to actively serve the Lord in His Temple; that she enjoys exceptional mental vigor; that she retains and uses her literary gift. The following poem is one of Mrs. Richards' recent literary compositions:
AFTERWHILE (Acrostic) Lula Greene Richards
Loved one! While you were with me, day by day, Ere, summoned, you obedient bravely left, Venturing upon a new, untried, mysterious way, I had no thought of being thus bereft. Wisdom was yours to comfort, lead and guide; I walked and worked and worshiped at your side, Loving, beloved, trusting and unafraid, Learning high laws by which true lives are made. A contest entered like a stifling dream— Rigid and stern its bold attacks were laid; Death posed as victor—Love still reigns supreme. Realms of eternal light you now behold, Intelligence not yet with me to share; Celestial glories to your sight unfold; Help me to wait and patiently prepare. Angelic influence over me maintain, Rouse me from sloth, let error not beguile. Dearest, our troth—the prize—let us together gain; Sweet, pure, immortal, after a little while.
"Behold, blessed, saith the Lord, are they who have come up unto this land with an eye single to my glory, according to my commandments.
"For those who live shall inherit the earth, and those that die shall rest from all their labors, and their works shall follow them; and they shall receive a crown in the mansions of my Father, which I have prepared for them.
"Yea, blessed are they whose feet stand upon the land of Zion, who have obeyed my gospel; for they shall receive for their reward the good things of the earth, and it shall bring forth in its strength.
"And they shall also be crowned with blessings from above, yea.... They that are faithful and diligent before me."—Doctrine and Covenants 59:1-4
Notes to the Field
Misuse of Library Books
A disturbing report has recently reached the Relief Society General Board regarding the misuse of books and periodicals belonging to public libraries. It is reported that books are being defaced by pencil marks, that the corners of pages are sometimes turned down, and in some instances entire pages are being removed. Many of these pages contain valuable reference material. The proper care of books is important under all circumstances, but this is particularly true with regard to library books. Public library materials are provided for the benefit of the public. Books and periodicals are used many times by many people. Everyone is entitled to use them clean and undeleted. When a book is very soiled, torn, or when sections have been removed, it is not only unfit for use, but it must be replaced at the taxpayer's expense. The facilities of public libraries are invaluable to Relief Society women both in their homes and in their organization work. The excellent materials which they supply and the courtesy of librarians are sincerely appreciated. The General Board requests that Relief Society women everywhere cooperate in every possible way to correct the misuse and destruction of library materials. There is no finer way to express appreciation for the valuable service rendered by our public libraries than to see that great care is exercised in the use of the excellent materials which they provide.
Relief Society Magazine Referred to in Retail Journal
Mention of the Relief Society Magazine in publications other than our own is always of interest to us. In an article entitled, "Meet Forty Top-Notch Sales People," by O. Preston Robinson, published in the February, 1941, issue of the Journal of Retailing, a publication of the New York University School of Retailing, is the following paragraph:
"Unquestionably, many shoppers in retail stores have been forced to the conclusion that salesmanship is a form of pressure used by the salesperson to encourage them to buy merchandise they do not want. Any interested observer who listens may frequently hear such comments as, 'I do not like that clerk. He tries to use salesmanship on me,' or 'The salesperson made me feel so obligated that I felt I just had to buy.' Further evidence of the fact that shoppers have associated salesmanship with pressure comes from an article which appeared a short time ago in the official magazine of one of the oldest and largest women's organizations in America.' The article, entitled, 'The Psychology of Meeting Sales Pressure,' discussed some of the methods of salesmanship used in stores and pointed out how shoppers could meet and overcome the salesman's insistence.
"'The Relief Society Magazine, October, 1939. Published by the General Board of The Relief Society, Salt Lake City, Utah."
This reference to The Magazine not only indicates that it is being widely read, but that its contents are reliable and of sufficient importance to be referred to in a periodical endeavoring to acquaint its readers with dependable up-to-date information. The General Board appreciates this recognition of The Magazine.
Notes From the Field Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
Wherever the name does not readily indicate the geographical location of the stake or mission, the location of its headquarters is designated in parentheses. Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275.
Special Membership Activities
Gridley Stake (Yuba City, California)
Ruthe B. Samson, president of Gridley Stake Relief Society, submitted the accompanying picture of an oil painting by Phebe Carlin, member of the Relief Society stake board, which portrays the stake's membership peach tree. Each limb of the tree represents a ward or branch, and each peach a member of Relief Society. The artist adds a new peach to the picture as new members are enrolled. This painting, which measures about four feet by five feet, is displayed at union meetings. The painting is representative of the area in which Gridley Stake is located. In the background are the Sutter Buttes, a geographical freak in the Sacramento Valley, said to be the shortest range of mountains in the world. The Gridley Stake, which is composed of a Church population scattered through five counties, contributes to the Church welfare program by operating peach-canning centers.
Chicago Stake (Chicago, Illinois)
The University Ward demonstrates, by means of the clever exhibit shown in the accompanying picture, the efforts to reach, by 1942, the membership goal of 100,000 members. The ladders, by means of which members of the Society climb toward higher objectives of growth and service and attract the enrollment of additional members, are social welfare, homemaking, visiting teaching, literature, theology and social activities. Up these ladders of endeavor, toy figures strive to carry aloft the actual numerals which will change to reality the shadowy potential membership of 100,000. Lois E. Astin is president of Relief Society in Chicago Stake, and Emma Johnson is president of the Society in the University Ward.
Carbon Stake (Price, Utah)
The Carbon Stake Relief Society, of which Belle Johnson is president, held a reception and inspirational pageant, January 24, 1941, marking the close of a year of successful activity in the interest of increased membership with a 10 per cent gain during the year 1940, and a total increase of 60 per cent over the enrollment as of December 31, 1937. Following are excerpts from Mrs. Johnson's letter:
"We feel well satisfied with this report because we find more interest generally and a higher type of activity all over the stake, which we feel is due to closer contact during the drive and fresh ideas and talents of new members combined with the staunch faith and untiring efforts of old members. We closed our drive with a reception held January 24. The pageant was very inspirational and was followed by refreshments. The stake presidency met with us and they were well satisfied with our efforts.
"Our theme for this year's work was taken from the 'Save the Wealth Plan' used by the General Board at the general Relief Society conference in April, 1940. We closed with a pageant based on the theme of 'Onward and Upward Toward 1942.' There were a number of skits this year sent in by ward members which we will recognize in our union meetings."
Enclosed with the letter was the full text of the pageant, and of the winning themes and skits submitted by the various wards. Also enclosed were outlines of material presented at the monthly union meetings in the membership workers' department, giving indication of the enthusiasm and thoroughness with which this stake has planned its enlistment work and followed up its initial efforts.
These outlines are outstanding for their comprehensive approach to the assignment of building membership and for their recognition of the value of cooperation, not only of membership workers and officers, but of every enrolled member of the Society. The plans also emphasize means of stimulating the attendance of enrolled members, furthering acquaintanceship, and the importance of friendliness and sociability. In fact, the officers attribute much success to so simple an expedient as general adoption of the parting greeting, "See you next Tuesday." The various wards of the stake have shown considerable ingenuity in their development of local programs for enlisting the interest of prospective members and stimulating attendance at Relief Society meetings.
Yellowstone Stake (St. Anthony, Idaho)
The first outstanding event of the 1940-41 Relief Society season in Yellowstone Stake, where Ellen J. Murray is stake president of Relief Society, was a stake membership party held on the banks of the river. The program, which was entirely original, included songs and poems composed by members. Four prizes were awarded, as follows: a one-year subscription to the Relief Society Magazine to the member who had traveled the greatest distance (35 miles) to attend the party; a one-year subscription to the Relief Society Magazine to the mother with the most daughters present who were enrolled members of Relief Society; a one-year subscription to the oldest member present; and one of the literature course books to the ward with the most prospective members in attendance. Membership parties were also held in wards on the first Tuesday in October, where the coming year's work was presented through the medium of original skits. An original pageant, "What Membership in the Relief Society Means to Us," written by Ada B. Christenson, was presented as a feature of the Relief Society conference held in each ward of the stake. An interesting achievement of the Yellowstone Stake Relief Society during the past year was the float entered in the Pioneer Day parade, July 24, commemorating "Fifty Years of Statehood" for Idaho, which won first prize.
A MOTHER'S PRAYER Ida R. Alldredge
Dear children of ours, I wish I could tell you The joy that we feel when success comes your way, The thrill that it brings when good fortune befalls you, The depth of our feelings on this Mother's Day.
We know that your problems are varied and many And sometimes the goal that you seek seems too high, But still we have faith that you'll keep right on climbing, The heights you'll attain in the sweet by-and-by.
Dear children of ours, our sons and our daughters, How oft we would shield you from evil foreseen Or lend you the vision matured through experience, But still you must tread where our footsteps have been.
Perhaps in God's infinite wisdom and mercy He sends you forth into the thick of the fray When we, with less vision, would fear for your safety And cramp your activities day after day.
If you will remember that through your attainments We live and rejoice, but when you slip we fail, You'll double your efforts and plant your feet firmly And keep right on climbing life's venturesome trail.
God grant that you'll reap where the harvest is heavy And cast from your life all the tares in your way, That you may live richer and better than we have, Is the wish of your mothers on this "Mother's Day."
Make-Believe Mother or Mother For A Day Vaunee T. Larson
The school bell shrilly tolled the noon hour in Middleton. Miss Martin stuck her knitting needles into the ball of blue yarn and dropped it into her knitting case. Then she took her usual noon-time seat in the rocker before her front parlor window. She parted the stiffly-starched lace curtains ever so slightly and peered out expectantly. Soon the children would pass by her house on their way home from school. For years and years it seemed, she had been watching them go by. None ever came in. Hardly anyone else in town ever came in either, unless they came to ask for a donation for this or that, since she was the richest woman in the town—the whole county for that matter. Her sensitive spirit had been hurt time after time by the attitude of people toward her. In reality, she wished to help with all their charities, yet because she believed it was her money people wanted more than her friendship, she had withdrawn herself from them. She rarely ever left the silent, dim, old-fashioned house where she lived alone with a couple of faithful servants. The children she watched today were daughters and sons of children she had watched this selfsame way years before. How excited and happy the children were today. This was the Friday before Mother's Day, and the grade school was having its annual Mother's Day program, just as it had done years before when she herself went to the Middleton grade school. She hadn't been to a school program since she graduated, and today she wished, more than anything else, that she could attend. Of course, anybody could go who wanted to, but it was chiefly attended by the children themselves and the mothers and friends they invited. It was a tradition that each child be represented, if not by his mother, at least by a relative or friend. Silly of her to even think of going. She would be the last person in town anyone would invite. If only that Mrs. Davis, chairman of the school lunchroom committee, hadn't been so inquisitive when she came with the other committee members to ask for a donation, she would gladly have given even a greater amount than they asked. Then today she would be attending the program as an honored guest. My, but the children were happy about their few extra hours holiday! Miss Martin knew they had until 2:30 that afternoon to get scrubbed and into their best clothes and back to school in time for the program.
Dorthea Diana Jones, eleven and one-half years old, was distinctly not one of the happy children this noon hour. She was walking rapidly, all but running, ahead of a group of girls who were taunting her unmercifully. Julia Lee Davis, a beautiful golden-haired girl, seemed to be leading the chant: "Dorthea can't take anyone; Dorthea can't take anyone. Can you Dorthea?" "Who'd be her guest today, I'd like to know," Julia Lee shouted. "My mother says she and that uncle she lives with are just—just 'derelicks.'" This last jibe goaded Dorthea beyond her endurance. True, she and Uncle Pete were the poorest people in the town, but they were good people, and not "derelicks"—whatever that was. She turned to Julia Lee, "Listen, you be still. I am taking a guest. She's my make-believe mother." Then she wished she had not said it, for there was no one she knew whom she could invite. If she went back on her boast, the girls would never forget it, and they would make life even more miserable for her. "Who'll it be? Rich Miss Martin?" the girls laughed. Dorthea kept silent. At the corner she turned and walked slowly down the street, thinking of the enormity of the falsehood she had told.
Hattie was serving lunch to her mistress when the ancient doorbell sounded long and loud. This rare occurrence so excited Miss Martin that she jumped up quickly. "Never mind, Hattie, I'll see who it is." A pigtailed, freckled-faced little girl in a faded gingham dress was contemplating the bell seriously when Miss Martin opened the door. Dorthea had not expected to see such a small, pretty lady. Had Dorthea been older and more experienced, she might have likened Miss Martin to a dainty Dresden-China lady. "Are... Are you Miss Martin?" the girl asked in an awed tone. "Yes," came the pleasant reply. "Well, I'm Dorthea Diana Jones, and I've come to ask a favor of you." "Well, child, come in and tell me what it is you want." "You see, I have no real mother to invite to our school party this afternoon. I thought if you weren't too busy maybe you'd be my make-believe mother and go with me." There was such a tense, pleading look in the upturned face of the child that Miss Martin was not surprised to hear herself reply: "Why, yes, Dorthea, you come by for me, and I'll be glad to go." As an afterthought, Dorthea added wistfully, "Of course, it isn't a real party—there won't be any refreshments, but I think you'll like the program." Miss Martin knew about Dorthea and her uncle, Pete Jones. Dorthea's uncle, had had a hard time getting steady work, though Hattie's husband said he was a good hand. Miss Martin mused a moment as she watched Dorthea run happily out through the gate. She believed tomorrow she would offer Pete Jones a steady job as her gardener. It wouldn't hurt to spruce up her lawn and shrubs a bit. He and Dorthea could live in the servant's sunny quarters over the old carriage house, too. It would be nice to have the child around—she was so bright looking. HE children were seated by grades on the front rows of seats in the auditorium. Julia Lee Davis, MAKE-BELIEVE MOTHER OR MOTHER FOR A DAY 263 264 whispering excitedly, was the center of an admiring group of girls. "Guess smarty Dorthea Jones was afraid to come this afternoon." 'Then she stopped, surprised, for seated at the end of the row was Dorthea, proud and calm. "Who came with you?" the girls whispered, and then giggled cruelly.: "You'll see," came the surprising answer. The program started promptly at 2:30. One by one, each child presented a poem or monologue to the assembled group and received the thundering plaudits of friends. Julia Lee was the only one to stumble through her lines. It seemed to her _ the only person she could see was Dorthea, who wasn't scared at all and sat there the whole time, smiling. Then it came Dorthea's turn. She was the very last one on the program. Her teacher had heard of the noon time scene and had placed her name last so that if she failed to appear the program would not be disrupted. To the astonishment of Miss Seers, the teacher, Dorthea presented her poem better than any of the others. She spoke clearly and distinctly with no trace of the singsong voice which had been her teacher's despair during the rehearsals. Julia Lee and her friends did not clap at the finish as they had done for the rest, until they heard loud applause coming from the back of the room. They turned to stare. 'There was Miss Martin, of all people, clapping and beaming until the rest of the audience had taken her cue. Then Dorthea, enviously watched by the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL, 1941 sixth-grade girls, made another bow and took her seat. Mr. Buck, the principal, silenced the audience by going to the front of the stage. Clearing his throat importantly, he said: "Ordinarily the program would be over, but I have several unexpected and interesting announcements to make. I only learned of them this noon." The audience listened attentively as he continued, "Miss Mary Martin, who came as the honored guest of our excellent student, Dorthea Diana Jones, has kindly donated money with which to buy the permanent fixtures of a stove and refrigerator for our school lunchroom." Surprised clapping followed this. Announcement. Mrs. Davis, rising a bit from her seat, craned her head this way and that trying to find Miss Martin in the crowd. "And," Mr. Buck raised his hand to keep the crowd still another moment, "Miss Martin has prepared a surprise for us in the lunchroom. I think she wants you to lead the way with her, Dorthea." HOw important and dignified Dorthea felt with all eyes upon her as she and Miss Martin started up the aisle together. It was a curious procession of grownups and children that followed them. Dorthea opened the door to the lunchroom, and then her dignified air fell away before her natural, spontaneous excitement, for at the long tables were places set for everyone with big helpings of ice cream and cake just waiting to be eaten. Mrs. Davis and Julia Lee hurried to sit by Miss Martin and Dorthea. Then the most incredible thing happened. Just as she had whispered to the other girls, Julia Lee whispered to Dorthea: "Wouldn't you like to come to my birthday party next Saturday?" Dorthea knew now that the magic circle surrounding Julia Lee had opened to let her in Mrs. Davis had heard her daughter's invitation. She leaned close to Miss Martin, "I'm asking the mothers of the girls to Julia Lee's birthday party next Saturday afternoon, and I'd like to have you come with Dorthea." Miss Martin nodded her assent, while she thought to herself, "Looks like my life is going to be very gay from now on." When the guests had gone, Dorthea stayed to help Miss Martin and Hattie clear the tables and put things away. "Maybe, Miss Martin, you'll let me do something for you sometime. You've been so nice to me today." Dorthea's voice quavered perilously near tears. "I’ll tell you what you can do for me," Miss Martin returned with a smile, "You can let me keep on being your 'make-believe mother.' " Impulsively, Dorthea put her strong, young arms about the frail, little lady. With that loving gesture, she transferred to Miss Martin all the love she had cherished for her unknown mother. "Tll let you be my 'make-believe mother' forever," she murmured happily. A TO MY MOTHER Roberta Bates My mother's eyes are like the stars; Since time began for me Their light has filled my universe— Shall fill eternity. My mother's voice is all the music Of the world caught in one song— A song of roses in the rain, A hymn of birds at dawn. And like the soft deep shadows That at close of day begin To fold the world in deep content, Her love has wrapped me in. I MAKE-BELIEVE MOTHER OR MOTHER FOR A DAY 265 Helpful Aids To Reading Vauna Smith Jacobsen "Books are the food of youth, the delight of old age; the ornament of prosperity, the refuge and comfort of adversity; a delight at home, and no hindrance abroad; companions at night, in traveling, in the country." MODERN-DAY revelation gives divine guidance on reading: "And set in order the churches, and study and learn, and become acquainted with all good books, and with languages, tongues and people." (Doctrine and Covenants 90:15) With compulsory education for children up to eighteen years of age, it is believed by many that all people in the United States read extensively. This is an erroneous idea. At least 25 per cent of our people will never do much reading. They have neither the ability nor the desire. "Tests of 3,000 subjects show that the reading ability of the average American just measures up to that of a normal sixthgrade boy."" The term "reading" may be applied to two utterly different types of experience: first, skimming the daily paper and light fiction contained in periodicals; second, enjoyment and appreciation of books of real worth, books that have stood the test of time. Newspapers are read by nearly everyone, men reading them a little more extensively and carefully than women. Periodicals and magazines come next in popularity. John E. Lodge, "Do You Know How To Read," Popular Science, September, 1937- *F. K. W. Drury and W. E. Simnett, What Books Shall I Read, p. 9. —Cicero. Periodicals have increased in volume 170 per cent since 1900,' and they are read by about 75 per cent of our people. Only 50 per cent of the reading public go to books for their reading enjoyment. It is to be regretted that this source of pleasure and information is so neglected. The most popular types of books read, listed in the order of their popularity, are as follows: fiction, personal hygiene, the next war, and administration of justice." Why do we read? Several motives may be stated. Most people feel a need to keep acquainted with current events. This, no doubt, accounts for the almost universal use of the newspaper. Books are our most complete and accurate source of specific information and are, therefore, used extensively by those who seck to advance in certain fields of work. Many more people, however, read books for sheer pleasure and relaxation than for any other reason. This is an honorable motive and needs no apology. One of the true tests of good literature is that it brings enjoyment. Reading is a habit to be deliberately cultivated. By this means alone can a taste in literature be acquired. It is not the quantity—merely the 2Lodge, Op. Cit. 3. Drury and Simnett, Op. Cit. HELPFUL AIDS TO READING number of pages read—that leads to an appreciation of the written word. The quality of the work and the effect that it has upon our lives should be the deciding factor in our choice of reading material. The good things we remember, the enrichment of our lives, and the inspiration to be better, make reading worth while. 'The plan for each day should include time for reading some good written work, just a few minutes will suffice if no more is available. After a period of a few months or a year, the amount accomplished will be a surprise. The present trend of contemporary novels is for long. Stories. Hundreds and hundreds of words cover hundreds of pages. Gone with the Wind is an excellent example of this. When we consider the number of persons who have found time to read this book, it appears obvious. That the number of hours required for reading is not the reason for the limited amount of reading done by many people. Where there is sufficient interest, the time for reading will be found. Yet, lack of time is the primary excuse of those who do not read. Abbe Ernest Dimnet in the Art of Thinking, says, "Do not read good books—life is too short for that. Only read the best. And of those only read what gives you the greatest pleasure. The busier you are the more severe your selection should be. But you have no time, you say. Are you sincere? No time? Examine your conscience and answer. Is there no time you can reclaim, not from your work, not from your exercise nor from your family or friends, but from pleasure that really does 267 not give you much pleasure, from empty talk at the Club, from inferior plays, from doubtfully enjoyable week ends, or not very profitable trips? Do you know how to gather up fragments of time lest they perish? Do you realize the value of minutes? VERY BUSY PEOPLE ALWAYS FIND TIME FOR EVERYTHING. Conversely, people with immense leisure find time for nothing." Get the reading habit and capitalize on the wealth of the ages. THERE is a technique of reading that should be mastered. 'This skill comes only with practice. In reading a line of print, the average reader's eyes jump from word to word instead of from group to group. He will halt from six to eight times in reading a_ten-word sentence, though he ought to do it in three or four jumps. This causes undue eye strain and requires an excessive amount of energy. 'The practice of reading groups of words instead of individual words makes reading easier. Most people read too slowly. A sixth-grader reads about 200 words a minute, a high school student 295 words, and a college man 325. A very unusual eight-year-old boy read comprehendingly 2,000 words a minute. The normal adult averages somewhere between the sixth-grader and the high school student, but this speed can be increased with proper attention given to spacing and through making a conscious effort to read faster. Lip movers are handicapped because they read only as fast as they speak. We should force ourselves to read at a pace faster than is comfortable. Dr. Guy T. Buswell of the University of Chicago, 268 who made the tests which resulted in the above findings, says: "You're never learning when you're comfortable." Reading in bed upon retiring, an act indulged in by many, is not conducive to thoughtful reading. Material of a lighter nature may be enjoyed in this manner, but careful study and concentration should be attempted when the mind is clear and the body rested. It is not necessary to read through every printed word. Adapt thoroughness of reading to the nature and purpose of that which is read. In Lord Bacon's Of Studies we read: "Read not to contradict or confute, nor to believe and take for granted; nor to find talk and discourse, but to weigh and consider. Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested." HE responsibility of teaching children proper reading habits and a love for literature lies with the parents. Brigham Young called to mothers, saying, "Mothers, will you be missionaries? We will appoint you a mission to teach your children their duty; and instead of ruffles and fine dresses to adorn the body, teach them that which will adorn their minds." No greater help to mothers can be found than good books. William Frederick Bigelow has written this: "Could we give one gift to every child We should choose the love of books." A child's first introduction to literature comes when' his mother reads to him, The bedtime story *Popular Science, September, 1937. Known. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL, 1941 hour, is a time of priceless worth. Aesop's Fables, Anderson's Fairy Tales and similar stories have long been used by mothers to satisfy the desire for make-believe. When a child receives his first reader, a desire to possess books is born. A wise mother plans to have interesting and appropriate books accessible. This does not mean she buys them all. Many libraries make it easy to have good books with little or no expense. As the desires and experiences of the child increase, the type of books he reads must change to meet his needs. Many desires of the growing child may be met and many problems solved through the characters he meets and loves through his reading. The adolescent period is an important period in the development of the child. Great care and understanding must then be used in guiding him to choose the proper type of books. At this age there is a tendency to break away from familiar paths and try the unknown. A poor choice of reading matter at this age may have an unwholesome effect. Good stories of adventure, animals, Indians, and some mystery stories may aid patents in overcoming some of the problems of this age. SOME women have not had the opportunity in their youth to cultivate a taste for good literature. The very term "literature" may even frighten them away from a study of good books. Good literature may be enjoyed by young and old alike. Its message is universal. An earnest desire on the part of the reader is all that is needed to open up new fields of enjoyment. The price of books in first editions may make HELPFUL AIDS TO READING their purchase prohibitive, but reprints of many choice books are always available at moderate prices. No discussion of books and reading would be complete without a word on the Bible. Francis C. Stifler called it, "The Unread Best Seller." The fact that the Bible may be purchased in chain stores proves that it sells. The American Bible Society in a little over fifty years distributed over one hundred million Bibles. In the United States in 1939, it was published in eighty-two languages, while parts of it have appeared in 1,039 different tongues. The extent of its influence and its great value are difficult to measure. We know, however, that it is not read and enjoyed enough for its true worth and beauty. There is a true lack of knowledge as to how to read it. Professor R. G. Moulton's Modern Readers' Bible is so arranged as to make the reading easy and enjoyable. 'The Bible content is arranged into literary forms, such as poems, stories, songs, and so on. The customary reading of a few isolated sentences or verses each day does not lead to a true appreciation of the literary value of the book. Two men were discussing this greatest of all books. The first complained, "I can't enjoy reading it. There are so many verses I do not understand." 'The second replied, "Forget those. The ones that bother me are the verses I do understand and cannot live, such as, "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them.' " There are three services which books may render in the home: they 279 may be ornaments, tools, or friends There is an air of distinction and true beauty in a well-filled case of attractively-bound books. But if their contents are never known, the greatest part of their value has been lost. Each home ought to have books to be used as tools, and the children should be taught how to use them. There should be at least an atlas, a dictionary and an encyclopedia. In these days when libraries are so accessible, the family can look to the library for many tools they may need. Perhaps the greatest use of good books is their use as friends. The time and extent of their visit is at the reader's command. They may be picked up or put away at will. Yet one can always find the advice, the understanding or inspiration he needs if he is familiar with the works of our great writers. No lover of books is ever alone. Pleasure obtained in this way increases as age comes upon us. From books we gain inspiration, companionship, an outlet for our pent emotions, forgetfulness from our sorrows, and we experience joy in the fulfillment of our unsatisfied desires. Our greatest reward for good reading, according to the Doctrine and Covenants 130:18-19, will come hereafter. "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde No. VIII Seaching Gdeals HERE is an old legend which tells of a mother praying by the cradle of her infant child, that it might be blessed with some special gift. She hears the voices of angels. "I am Health!" says one. "Whomsoever I touch shall never know pain." "I am Wealth!" another cried. '"Whomsoever I touch shall never know want." "I am Fame!" said a_ third. "Whomsoever I touch shall be remembered." | A fourth declared: "I am power! Whomsoever I touch shall have dominion." "I am Wisdom!" said a fifth. "Whomsoever I touch shall have knowledge." "T am Love!" cried the sixth. "Whomsoever I touch shall win the world's affection." Then came the last of the angels, the voice of the seventh, "I am none of these. Whomsoever I touch shall have High Ideals!" And the mother cried with outstretched arms, "You, with the High Ideals, touch my child." Embodied in this ancient legend is the eternal truth that in the power to live by ideals lies salvation. DEALS are important, because they determine the type of life we live. If they are what they should be, through them we are able to resist temptation and gain mastery over ourselves. Some knowledge of the teaching of ideals is important to parents. Mr. W. W. Charters, Professor of Education at the University of Chicago, has written a book entitled, The Teaching of Ideals, which is extremely valuable to parents and teachers. Professor Charters jumps right into the principles involved in the teaching of ideals. "An ideal will not grow," he says, "if a desire for it is not created. No one will become honest if he does not believe in honesty, nor industrious if he does not admire industry. Superficially, he may act like honest men but will not possess the ideal. We must love righteousness before we can become truly righteous." Next, we must develop a plan of action. '""Ihe desire to be neat, etc., should be followed by a plan of applying the ideal to the situations of life. A boy may desire to be neat but not know exactly what to do until you tell him to hang up his trousers, or pick up his socks. Careless teachers merely say, 'Do better,' or 'Get to work,' but artistic teachers develop these procedures in great detail to a point where the children know what to do." If we want to have children actually develop desirable traits rather than merely feel a desire to possess them, it is essential that we show them exactly how a trait is manifested in different situations; for example, after telling the story of the SOME LITERARY FRIENDS gallantry of Sir Walter Raleigh, ask, "What would he have done in a street car, or at the door of his home upon greeting a stranger?" Another principle in developing ideals is that of practice. "The test is found in conduct, not in desires. For an ideal to be developed, it is necessary that it be carried over into behavior. To become a part of one's life, actions which express the ideal must be reduced to a habit." To develop love for one's neighbor, it is necessary to do something for one's neighbor. The thing we strive for is to unconsciously act in accordance with the ideal; for example, to be unconsciously neat or honest or courteous. Concentrating upon the right procedure, it is possible to accomplish in a short time what might require a long period by letting nature take its course—just as Burbank with ten years of intensive culture developed variations - in plants which would have taken 500 years if left to nature. "It is possible by intensive training to change in a comparatively short time a person's attitude from one of unfriendly criticism to one of friendliness, which could never be attained without guidance. Ambition can be intensively developed; accuracy can be improved by attention; initiative can be increased; and resourcefulness is one of the easiest traits to work upon. "There is a limit, though, to trait development. An insensitive boor can never become as tactful as an intelligent gentleman. An easy-going person can not achieve vaulting ambition, nor can an impulsive person develop. The good judgment and 271 poise of a Socrates. But the germs of high ideals are found in most children. Develop them." Mr. Charters disagrees with those who believe in "original sin." He contends that a child inherits more good than bad tendencies, and we must make environment serve our ends. There is always something unattainable about ideals, but we can attain them to a great enough degree to make them of infinite value, for upon them depends largely our behavior, and our behavior is one of the most important things in the world to us. We must remember this principle: character grows only through conduct and action. Moral instruction is largely wasted unless it is applied to our own problems. This is often difficult to do. Talks about the virtues are useful in creating desires, but to say to a child, "Be polite," is useless unless you show him that being polite involves such things as arising from his chair when a guest enters the room or offering his seat to a lady or older person. A child must deal properly with numerous cases of politeness before he becomes polite. 'This can not be done hurriedly. Only by "line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little, there a little" can right behavior be developed. Literature and history offer a storehouse for the building of ideals. Such terms as courtesy, neatness, thrift, are abstract terms, too general to be understood by children unless followed by assignments they are able to carry out; for example, the story of the "Prodigal Son" has, in my opinion, a wealth of material for a lesson in thrift. The Prodigal 272 wasted his money, as well as his life, while away from home. To be sure, he was feted by his father because of the joy he felt at his return, but his money was gone. He must begin all over again. It would take a long time to catch up with his brother. A proper time to tell this story is when a child is tempted, as he so often is, to spend his money for some foolish thing. After the story, be sure that he puts at least some of his earnings in the savings bank. Unless he does that, the story has lost much of its value. T is natural for all of us to repeat an action from which we get satisfaction and to avoid the things that bring annoyance. Mr. Charters says, "To induce children to learn, we must reward them; to induce them to discard an activity, we must penalize them.... Rewards may be material or spiritual. Material rewards do not always follow a good action. Frequently a man sacrifices wealth for a quiet conscience or the approval of friends. Some satisfaction is immediate and some is future. Boys and girls work their way through school because they have pictures of future success. These future satisfactions are of tremendous power.... "Seldom do we experience pure satisfaction or pure discomfort.... There is always a mixture of pleasure and pain." In speaking of the ideal of honesty, Mr. Charters says, "The reputation that a man's word is as good as his bond may cause him to forego wealth and the happiness which comes from its possession. 'To many men, there comes a tragic moment when they have to choose between making a fortune questionably or RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL, 1941 losing it by remaining honest. When they decide to be honest, they do not experience pure pleasure. 'They think of what they might have had and regret the spiritual necessity for ~ their choice. "A high school coach once failed to create sentiment in the student body against the boys smoking during training season. He finally said he would remove from the team any boy who smoked, making his plea to the boys on the basis of loyalty to the school. Before the game, he caught the star halfback smoking. A real problem arose. Without him, the game was lost. But he must keep his promise or lose his prestige as coach of the champion team and have the hostility of the students. He removed the boy and lost the game, but the next year the team did not smoke." It is important that we develop high ideals of a spiritual nature. Without them, people will inevitably follow the path of least resistance. In spite of the beauty of life, if we face it honestly we realize that it brings unhappiness that few people are able to surmount without help. Religious ideals solve this problem most effectively. Religion offers us the channel of prayer, which is vital in the problem of living up to ideals. Another modern writer, Miss Harkness, Professor of Biology in Elmira College, says of prayer: "It is the process by which ideals are enabled to become operative in our lives. It does not impart ideas, but it clears the way to straight thinking. It will not enable one to pass examinations by giving knowledge to the lazy, but it will enable SOME LITERARY FRIENDS one to think clearly about the knowledge acquired. It will strengthen one's moral reserves under temptation. If prayer can thus clarify and motivate ideals, it does the most important thing that could be done." The question may arise, "How may we know whether ideals are right?" Gangsters often live up to their ideals. 'The author says the determining factor must be that that thing is nght which brings the most good to all people. Miss Harkness says, too, "In most issues, the principle of what is good for the majority, together with judgment of consequences, will make the way clear for moral living." She further says that all epochs in history in which faith prevails, whatever its form, are noble, soul-elevating and fruitful for the present and for after times; while all epochs in which unbelief wins an unhappy victory, vanish and are forgotten by posterity. I believe that the old-fashioned custom of repeating sentiments has a definite place in the teaching of ideals. Even though they are not always lived up to, they have their influence upon our behavior; for example, such sentiments as the following: "Strength of will is the test of a young 273 man's possibilities. It is the long, steady pull, the unconquerable purpose, the unbroken effort, that win the battle of life." —Marsden. "A man should never be ashamed to own he has been wrong—which is but saying in other words that he is wiser today than he was yesterday.''—Pope. "Knowledge is the golden ladder by which we climb to Heaven."—-The Mother of Michael Pupin. "You are richer today than yesterday if you have laughed often."—Plato. "Each day we must exercise the mind as each day we must exercise the body." —Plato. "If the world smiles not on you and me the fault is ours."—Mother of Martin Luther. "An injurious truth has no merit over an injurious lie. Neither should ever be uttered." —Mark Twain. "Labor to keep alive in your breast that little spark of celestial fire, conscience." — George Washington. "You cannot prevent the birds of sorrow from flying over your head, but you can prevent them from building nests in your hair." —Chinese Proverb. "And spite of the fancies of youth, There's nothing so kingly as kindness And nothing so royal as truth." Quotations from The Teaching of Ideals, by W. W. Charters, used by permission of Macmillan Publishing Company. OUR HOME Althea Kimball I love our little home by these tall trees, The flowers near the door, the soothing brecze. And with our children happy playing here I could almost believe this Heaven dear. And then at night when cool darkness falls I like to feel the safety of these walls. You Know How Boys Are Olive W. Burt The beautifully-dressed, kind looking visitor paused for a moment beside Stevie's desk, and tenderness flooded her face in answer to the pleading in the little boy's eyes. The visitor turned to Teacher and spoke softly. Janet's heart stood still, absolutely still, fora moment. Then, as Janet had known she would, the visitor looked across the room at the little girl, said something more to Teacher, and walked slowly to the door. As she opened it, she looked back at Stevie's bright head and pleading eyes. Janet felt the sting of tears on her lids, and she wanted to lay her head on her geography book and cry. She didn't have to look at her brother to know how his swaggering shoulders had drooped, how his soft lips were twisted in an effort to keep from quivering. He knew, as well as Janet did, what had happened. But the lady had looked so kind, so understanding. Janet had almost hoped the little scene would have a different ending this time. Teacher came back into the room, and Janet noticed that even she looked sad. She spoke brightly enough, but as she passed Stevie her hand patted his shoulder ever so gently, and the lump in Janet's throat grew bigger still. She was afraid she couldn't get through the lesson, but she bent her eyes on the page and read with determination, "The Missouri River...." Outside the schoolroom where the primary-grade children of the Home sat studying, the sun was shining with the clear, bright splendor of April. Leaves were coming out on the trees, and birds were twittering here and there. Summer, Janet knew, was definitely on the way. It would be here before long—and there seemed no hope that she could get Stevie out of the Home before then. All last summer, when the little boy had been so restless, she had put him off with promises that winter was the best time to get a new home. And that they probably would be lucky around about Christmas. "Folks that don't have any kids get thinking about it at Christmas," she explained. "You wait and see. When they start getting ready for Christmas, they'll want some kids in their house, and that's when we'll get a real home of our own. Just wait and see!" And they had waited through the long, hot months, contenting themselves with the brief outings afforded by service clubs and the one exciting week at camp given by some wealthy benefactor to all the children in the Home. Then, as Christmas had drawn near, Janet had begun making plans, definite plans for their change to a home of their own. She had taught her brother all the little extra things she could think of, things that would make the folks happier and more satisfied with their bargain. For if once they got into a home, Janet meant that they should stay there, if any effort on her part could assure this. YOU KNOW HOW BOYS ARE But one by one the visitors had come, had chosen this child or that, and had left Janet and Stevie. So in the end they had gone, with the few others left in the Home, to a big tree in the dining hall. Some school children had brought them gifts and had sung carols for them, and Stevie had cried himself to sleep, while Janet had had no heart to comfort him. Janet didn't blame those nice people. Many of them had wanted Stevie, big as he was. Of course, they all wanted babies if they could get them, the smaller, the better. But when there were no more babies, they'd take children, the smallest first. But, even though Stevie was five and a big boy, they all wanted him. They would stop beside his desk, and he would raise his bright, curly head and smile, and they would turn to Teacher. Then Teacher had to tell them of Janet. Mummy had made them promise not to send one away without the other. She hadn't known what it would mean, she had just wanted to keep them together, always. So the visitors would be told of Janet, and they would look across at the homely ten-year-old and turn away—what was the fun of making Christmas for a child like that? Janet knew exactly how they felt because once, coming along the hall, she had heard one of them trying to get Miss Thomas, the superintendent, to let her have Stevie only. Janet had thought, after that, that she would tell Miss Thomas to let Stevie go—there was no use in keeping him from a good time just because no one wanted her. But she knew that the little boy would not 275 enjoy one minute of the holiday or one bite of the dinner without his sister. 'The thought of letting him go away from her permanently never entered her head. But now it was coming summer, and Stevie would be cooped up in the city again all through the long, hot days and the longer, hotter nights. She couldn't keep him happy with promises this year. She couldn't. JANET blinked the tears from her eyes as Teacher rapped for attention. It was Current Events class, and each child must read some item he had clipped from the newspapers reserved for that purpose. Janet rummaged through her desk until she found her clipping—an exciting item about the "Quints," whom she adored. She let her eyes rest upon the familiar text, which she had practically memorized for the class, and thought about Stevie and herself. It was funny about them. They looked a lot alike, both red-headed and freckled. Her hair was just a shade or two lighter than her brother's, just a shade or two—but that made all the difference. And her freckles.... Folks liked freckles on a little boy, but they hated them - ona girl. The tears came again, and to keep them back, Janet turned the clipping over and began to read the other side. Suddenly she was really reading it. It seemed to be a letter, for it began: "Dear Sunshine Lady. "I am coming to you with my problem because you have helped so many, many people. My little girl, three years old, flies into the most terrible tantrums every 276 time she cannot have her own way. Can vou tell me what to do with her?" There was some more about the little girl, and then, printed plain and clear was an answer. It was a sensible answer, Janet thought, but one she wouldn't have figured out for herself. It was given in a friendly tone, and Janet felt at once as if she knew this Sunshine Lady. She had never seen anything like this in the newspaper before, and she wondered whether anyone could write and get an answer from the Sunshine Lady. As soon as Library period came, Janet hurried to the newspaper rack and took down the Morning Star. She turned the pages eagerly, and at last came upon the "Sunshine Corner." She read every word and found that anyone could write and ask any kind of question, and the Sunshine Lady would answer it. Her advice seemed so sensible, so friendly, that Janet was filled with wonder. If the Sunshine Lady could answer all of these questions, solve all these problems, perhaps she could help a worried little girl, too. Slowly Janet's plan took shape. Determined to waste no time, -the 'little girl set to work to put it into effect. She had some stationery that had been given to her at Christmas. She had never had to use any of it, but she knew what it was for. The next morning, she slyly brought to the study room some of the paper and an envelope, and at study time, using her clipping as a guide, she wrote her letter. She started it exactly as the mother had: done: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL, 1941 "Dear Sunshine Lady, "I am coming to you with my problem because you have helped so many, many people." After she had written that much, the rest came easy, and she wrote as she had never written before, pouring out her troubles to the sympathetic helper who waited, somewhere, to answer her. "You know how boys are," she wrote. "They have to have a yard to play in and a dog, and they have to whistle and make a noise like an airplane. They don't need so many clothes in the summer. They like to wear trunks most of the time, especially if they live near the seashore. Girls can get along in a Home all right, but with boys it's different." Then she explained how she must find someone who would take her along with Stevie: "I can work like everything, so I wouldn't be much trouble. I can even make beds like they do in hospitals." The letter took four whole pages, written on both sides, but at last it was done and folded and stuffed into the envelope. Janet gave her lessons no thought as the end of the study period sounded. She was wondering where she could get a stamp to mail the letter. Janet knew, though she didn't know where she had learned it, that every letter must have a stamp on it. She was sure she could ask 'Teacher for one, but then she would have to explain about the letter, and Teacher might even want to read it. Janet didn't want that. She didn't want to have anyone know about it until she had seen an answer in the "Sunshine Corner." But then, as if in answer to her need, Teacher, at her deck, slit open an envelope and tossed it into the YOU KNOW HOW BOYS ARE wastebasket as she read the letter it had contained. Janet's eyes, alert as a squirrel's, saw that the discarded envelope bore a stamp, and that the stamp seemed to be perfectly new. Janet watched for a chance to get that envelope, and before the day was over she had found a moment when she could slip it from the wastebasket into her copy book. She felt a little bit guilty as she thought about it. But then, she thought, Teacher had thrown the envelope away. She was sure she would have said yes, if Janet had asked for it. That night Janet carefully. Examined the envelope and found that, as she had thought, the stamp was almost new. There was a little black mark across it, but it wasn't all blotted and blurred like so many old stamps. She felt sure it would carry her letter to the newspaper office. Very, very carefully she prized the stamp from the envelope. 'Then, with a little dab of glue, she fastened it in the proper corner, addressed her letter to the Sunshine Lady of the Morning Star, and considered her next step. She felt she was right in keeping her letter a secret. Not that Teacher or Miss 'Thomas would scold _ her, but they might think she didn't like the Home; they might feel bad to think she wanted to leave them— and the whole staff adored Stevie and might not want to let him go. Then, too, nothing might come of it. Maybe the Sunshine Lady couldn't answer questions about orphans. But Janet thought she couldn't bear it not to try, now. She decided at last to slip the envelope in the pile of letters that always waited in the front hall for the 277 postman to pick up. It was the only way she could think of to get the letter into the postman's hands. If it were only summer, she thought, she could meet him in the yard. He often stopped to joke with the children when they were playing. But then, if it were summer, it would be too late. EARLY the next morning, Janet slipped stealthily into the front hall and placed her letter among those found there. 'Then she slipped along the corridor to the classroom and faced the difficult task of waiting for the next day's paper to come. Janet was ashamed that 'Teacher had to speak sharply to her several times that day. She just couldn't keep her thoughts on her lessons. She kept wondering what the Sunshine Lady would think when she opened the letter. She must be a beautiful woman, Janet thought, with hair like the sunshine and eyes like summer skies. 'Thoughts like these made her forget geography dates and places; made her forget to turn the page in reading class; made her forget how to spell the simplest words. As soon as study hour came, Janet rushed to the library and began to search through the columns of the Morning Star. 'There was the Sunshine Lady's corner, all right. But, though she had answered a number of queries, Janet's was not among them. Janet went back to her seat thinking, "Of course, not today. She maybe wouldn't get it till today. But tomorrow!" But tomorrow there was still no answer in the Sunshine Lady's column, nor was there the next day. 278 Then, just after study period was over, Connie, who answered the door and carried messages from the office to the teachers and helped dress the children, came into the room and spoke to Teacher, looking at Janet as she whispered. Suddenly Janet was afraid. She didn't know why. But the purloining of the envelope, the secretiveness of her actions, the worry of the past few days all lumped together in her mind to form a spectre of disaster. Teacher spoke softly: "Janet, you are wanted in the office!" The office! That was terrible! Only very, very naughty children were sent to the office—or those who were being called for by some relative or someone who wanted to see about adopting them. Janet knew it wasn't either of the last two.... She followed Connie down the long hall, slowly, taking each step deliberately. Her throat was throbbing. Well, if Miss Thomas had seen the letter, if anything had happened, she would take the consequences. She had only been trying to find out what to do for the sake of Stevie. Boys were different.... Connie knocked on the door, and when Miss Thomas said, "Come in," she opened it and pushed Janet into the room. Janet looked at Miss Thomas and thought, "She doesn't look cross. She looks especially kind." "Janet," said the superintendent, "here is a gentleman to see you. He is Mr. Knowlton of the post-office department." Janet turned toward the man, a quiet, elderly person in a gray suit. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL, 1941 He held her letter and its envelope in his hand. "Come here, Janet," he said kindly. She stepped closer to him. "Did you write this letter?" he asked, holding out the folded, bulky pages. Janet nodded, wondering. "Yes, sir," her lips formed the words mechanically. "And did you put it in this envelope and put this stamp on it?" and he held out the envelope: with the stamp neatly pasted in the corner. Again Janet nodded. She knew she should answer as she had been taught, but her voice wouldn't come at all. It was the stamp, then. Stealing from the wastebasket was as bad as stealing from a purse.... "Where did you get the stamp?" the man went on. Janet made her eyes look straight into the gray ones.” "From Teacher's wastebasket." Mr. Knowlton smiled suddenly, reassuringly. "Don't be afraid, Janet," he said. "T am not going to hurt you. I am just trying to find out about the stamp. Did you know it had been used before?" "Yes, sir. That is why I took it. I wouldn't have taken a new stamp. Miss Thomas knows I wouldn't. But Teacher threw this into the wastebasket, and I needed a stamp so bad eatIt was just as good as new, though," she added, hoping he would understand. The man put his arm about her and drew her closer. "Didn't you know that you must YOU KNOW HOW BOYS ARE never use an old stamp on a letter?" he asked. Janet shook her head. "It was just like new," she repeated. "But that isn't the point," the man said graciously. "Do you know why you put stamps on letters?" Janet shook her head. Mr. Knowlton looked up at Miss Thomas, his eyes asking a question. The superintendent said, "I don't suppose the child does. She is only ten, and she has had, unfortunately, few reasons to write letters. I imagine that we have stamped the one or two thank-you notes she has sent to benefactors, and we have never thought to explain it to her." Mr. Knowlton nodded. "TI see," he said. Then he turned to Janet again. "It's this way, Janet," he explained, "Our Government, Uncle Sam as we call it sometimes, delivers all the letters that go from place to place in the United States. The Government carries them, protects them, delivers them. A long time ago, private men did this work and charged what they thought it was worth—sometimes two or three dollars for one letter. But the Government found that it could do the job for just a few cents a letter, and this would save everyone money and make it easier and safer to write to each other." Janet was listening with her whole mind. The man's voice was so low and quiet that she felt almost as if she were reading some pleasant book. "Now in order to collect this money," Mr. Knowlton went on, "Uncle Sam has each person who mails a letter buy a stamp. He gets the money, and this pays him for his work. But if a person uses the same 279 stamp twice, you can see that Uncle Sam doesn't get paid for delivering the second letter. He is cheated out of the few pennies he charges." Janet's lip quivered. "I know you didn't mean to cheat Uncle Sam," Mr. Knowlton added quickly. "It was just a mistake, and Pll explain it to him—so everything will be all right. Now do you want to put a new stamp on the letter and have us deliver it for you?" Janet shook her head sorrowfully. "I haven't a new stamp," she said. Miss Thomas opened a drawer and took out a stamp. "Here is one, Janet," she said. "I would gladly have given you a stamp had you asked me for one. Don't you know that?" "Yes, Miss 'Thomas,' answered Janet. Then, "But I...." She hated to say, "I didn't want you to see the letter." She hoped the superintendent wouldn't ask to see it. And she didn't. She handed the stamp to Janet. Mr. Knowlton removed the old stamp, and Janet put the new one in its place. "Shall I drop the letter into the mail box for you?" he asked kindly. Janet looked toward Miss Thomas. She had rather lost interest in the letter. Maybe it wasn't such a good idea after all. But Miss Thomas nodded her head. "If it is important, that would be the quickest way to send it," she said. So Janet nodded, dumbly, to Mr. Knowlton. She wondered whether Miss Thomas knew what was in the letter. Maybe she had read it before Janet came in. Well.... "You may go to your class, now, Janet. And you won't forget what Mr. Knowlton has told you, will you?" 280 Janet shook her head. Her tongue seemed thick and dry in her mouth, so words wouldn't come out. She walked slowly out of the room and down the hall. THAT afternoon at play period she did not feel like running and playing with the rest of the children. She was worried. She didn't know why. She sat over in one corner of the playground, close to the fence, and let the warm spring sunshine beat down upon her. Maybe, maybe it was all right. Stevie came up to his sister. "Wassa matter, Janet?" he asked. "Come and play Green Light with uss Janet shook her head. "Tm thinking, Stevie," she explained. "Thinking" had always been a good excuse for sitting still and not playing. "You go play. I’ll watch." She crouched back under the lilac bush. 'The little leaves were just beginning to show at the tips of the brown buds. She loved the lilac tree at any time of the year, but right now she thought it was, perhaps, loveliest of all, with the slender brown branches knobbed with the green-tipped buds. "Hello, there!" A jolly voice roused her, and she looked up, startled. Over the fence was leaning a freckled-faced, smiling young man. "Can you show me which one of the kids is Janet?" he asked amiably. Janet waited, very still. She wondered whether she ought to own up who she was. What would the superintendent think? There had been too much excitement for one day. But as she watched the young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL, 1941 man, she saw a strange light come into his laughing eyes, and she knew he recognized her. Janet had no idea how he had guessed. "So you're the young lady' herself!" he cried gaily. "Well, if this isn't a bit of luck! And you're sitting here all by yourself?" He vaulted over the fence and sat down by her. "Why aren't you playing with the other kids?" "T was thinking," whispered Janet. "Thinking about that swell home you're going to get?" So it was her letter again. "You know, that is just what I was thinking about, too," the pleasant voice went on. "You?" Janet's lips formed the word incredulously. "How did you know?" "Very simply," he answered. "You see, I know Mr. Knowlton. And I know the Sunshine Lady. In fact, I work for the same paper she does. My desk is just across the room from hers. Well, I was in Mr. Knowlton's office this morning when he came back from seeing you. He told me about you and the... Er... Stamp." Janet wondered what he thought of her, and dropped her eyes so that she couldn't read the answer in his own. But he laughed gaily. "That's a mistake we all make when we start writing letters," he said. "I remember the first time I wrote to Santa Claus. I did exactly the same thing. But they were expecting it at Christmas time, so they didn't even bother to check up on it. You just surprised them a bit, your letter coming along in the spring like this. I suppose though," he added seriously, "they were pretty certain YOU KNOW HOW BOYS ARE it was just a mistake, right from the first. But they have to check up, to be sure." Janet felt better and looked up at the young man again. He went on, "When I got back to the office, I asked the Sunshine Lady if she had your letter. It came in with the one o'clock mail, and she showed it tome. She is going to answer it tomorrow morning, but she thought it would be a mighy good plan to have a picture of you to go along with the letter, so folks would kind of feel acquainted with you, you know." Janet drew back and flung her arm up over her freckled face. "Not me!" she cried, "not a picture of me! 'That would spoil the whole thing. But Stevie... If you had a picture of him!" The young man considered. "I see your point," he agreed. "Folks do like little boys, don't they? But some folks like little girls better still. Say, how would it be if I took both of you together?" Janet shook her head. "Not me. I don't want my picture taken." "Gosh, this is going to be tough on me. What shall I tell the Sunshine Lady when I get back? She is going to be mighty disappointed." Janet thought a minute. "Does the Sunshine Lady want it very bad?" she asked. "Does she? Why, she has set her heart upon it. In fact, I think she has already written her story for the paper, and she'll have to do it all over again if she doesn't have that picture." Janet asked timidly, "Is the Sunshine Lady nice?" 281 "Oh, definitely!" smiled the young man. "She looks just like her name." "Well, then...." sighed Janet. "Well, then...." "Ts Stevie handy?" asked the young man, not waiting for Janet to say more. "Stevie!" Janet sounded the clarion call that always brought the little fellow running. He came panting up to his sister's side. A group of children, turning at Janet's cry and seeing the young man, came trooping behind Stevie. Janet put her arms around her brother. "This man wants to take our pictures for the Sunshine Lady," she said. Stevie favored the young man with one of his charming smiles, and the others crowded closer. Suddenly the camera clicked, and Janet knew that the ordeal was over. "That was easy, wasn't it?" grinned the young man. "Take our pictures, too!" cried the others, so the obliging young man gathered them all into a nice group and took their pictures, too. Then, just as the bell sounded to call them back into the building, he vaulted over the fence again and was away with a wave of his hand. JANET thought she had better tell Teacher what had happened, but there was no need. The children went chattering into their room. They gathered around their teacher crying, "We had our pictures taken! We had our pictures taken!" It all came out, then, and Janet could see that Teacher was worried. She got the children busy at their tasks and then left the room. When she returned, she said nothing about the pictures, but went on with the work. Janet wondered what had happened, but it was too late to change it now—unless the superintendent telephoned to the Sunshine Lady. That would end it all. That would be too bad. Janet went to bed, worrying about tomorrow. But at last she fell asleep so deeply that she was unprepared for the brightness of the sun when she awoke the next morning. She didn't have time even to slip out of bed before the superintendent entered the dormitory. She came and sat on the edge of Janet's cot. She held the morning newspaper in her hand.
"Look, Janet," she said gently. Janet looked. There on the page held toward her was the picture of her and Stevie. She looked rather wide-eyed and serious, almost ready to cry, she thought. Her freckles didn't show very much, and she really looked kind of pretty. But Stevie! My, he was cute, smiling and dimpled and his freckles shining out from the page. Janet wanted to kiss him as he stood there in the picture, in the shelter of his sister's arm.
"It's a lovely picture, isn't it?" smiled the superintendent. Janet nodded. She couldn't speak.
"Shall I read you what the Sunshine Lady says?" Miss Thomas asked. Then she read the story, which told of Janet's trouble in getting her letter mailed to the Sunshine Lady, and then, printed nice and wide and in black letters so it was easy to read, was Janet's letter, exactly as she had written it.
"I am going to let that letter speak for itself," the Sunshine Lady wrote after the letter, "Can it be possible that in this city there is no heart generous enough to answer it?"
"Do you know, Janet, this letter of yours is going to get you a fine home, I am sure. Already this morning I have had half a dozen phone calls about you—people who want to take both you and Stevie into their hearts. Of course, they must come here and talk to you, and you don't have to go with anyone till you find the right one, but I am sure that among the nice people that have called there will be someone who has just the kind of home you want for Stevie."
"Now," she put on a business-like air, "you'd better get up and get dressed. Have Connie comb your hair prettily and put a ribbon on it. You won't need to go to the schoolroom today, because it will interrupt the work to keep calling you out. Go to the playroom instead, or to the library, and I'll send for you when I think it is necessary."
At the door she stopped and came back and put her arms around Janet. "You're a sweet child," she said tenderly, "we are all going to miss you—and Stevie. But little girls must have homes...."
"Oh," Janet felt a sudden pang of anguish. They had been good to her. "Oh, it isn't me so much. I like it here, really I do. But Stevie needs to get out in the country...."
Miss Thomas smiled and kissed Janet. "It's all right," she said, and left the room quickly.
Janet had never spent such an exciting day in her whole life. Every little while Miss Thomas would send for her, and she would go down to the parlor and there would be a nice man and woman, and they would ask Janet to go home with them and be their little girl. And they wanted Stevie, too. Janet was too bewildered to think, and Miss Thomas told her not to try to think today, but just to wait.
Toward the middle of the forenoon, Janet opened the parlor door to find the smiling young man who had taken her picture and a lovely, lovely lady with golden hair. She caught her breath. "The Sunshine Lady!" she whispered.
The Sunshine Lady bent down and put her arms about Janet. "How's it going, Janet," she asked. "Are nice people coming? Do you think you will find a good home for you and Stevie?"
"Oh, yes!" breathed Janet. She drew in deep breaths, the better to smell the sweetness of the glorious creature. "Oh, yes. They are all nice, very nice. But there have been so many—."
"Take your time, kid," grinned the young man. "You've got 'em coming, so be choosy!"
"Have Mr. and Mrs. Allen—Robert Allen—been in yet?" the Sunshine Lady asked Miss Thomas over Janet's head.
"Not today," Miss Thomas answered in surprise. "Mrs. Allen was in a few days ago, but not today."
"She called me early this morning," the Sunshine Lady explained, "even before I was out of bed. She'd seen the paper and remembered seeing Stevie and Janet when she was here. She said she would be in first thing this morning, just as soon as her husband returned from Green City. I thought she might have come before now."
After some more talking and joking, the two left, but not before the Sunshine Lady had promised, "We're going to be great friends, Janet. I'll see you often, no matter where you go."
Janet went back to the library. She felt very happy, and it seemed as if the floor under her feet had suddenly become a floor of rubber balloons, so light she felt as she ran along the corridor. She hadn't even begun to read a story when she was called back into the parlor. She went eagerly. Somehow, she felt sure this was to be the right one. And it was!
There in the parlor was the kind-looking, beautifully-dressed woman whose visit a few days earlier had started the whole affair. With her was a man, who, somehow, looked almost as boyish as Stevie.
Miss Thomas introduced Janet to Mr. and Mrs. Robert Allen. Janet smiled shyly. "Yes, I know," she said.
"You know, Janet?" queried the woman with interest. "But how?"
"I saw you when you were in the schoolroom. I was praying that you'd take us."
"You dear child!" The woman knelt beside Janet as the Sunshine Lady had done. "How callous and unseeing grownups are," she said. "Can you forgive me, and would you really like to live with us?"
"Oh, yes!" Janet didn't have to try to make this sound convincing.
"How can you tell?" Janet looked into the kind eyes. "I can tell," was all she could say.
The man knelt down, too. "Do you think Stevie will like us, too?"
"Of course," smiled Janet.
"Then it's all settled, as easy as that?" asked the man, turning to Miss Thomas.
Miss Thomas smiled. "As easy as that!" she said. Then she added, "I explained everything to Mrs. Allen when she was here the other day. There are some formalities, but they won't take long. Do you want to take the children now or come back for them?"
"Oh, let's take them now. We've been slow enough about this business already. Just think, we might have lost them entirely!"
So Stevie was brought, and the good news was told to him. He accepted it with a shy smile. He had known that they'd get a home some time. The two children gathered their possessions and by the time they had told everyone goodbye and were ready to leave, Mr. and Mrs. Allen were ready, too.
Janet and Stevie were very quiet as they climbed into the big sedan at the side door. Mr. Allen said, "Do you want to sit up here in front with me, Stevie? We'll let the womenfolk have the back seat to gossip in."
As the car rolled along the highway in the bright April sunshine, Janet looked back at the Home. She didn't know whether it was tears in her eyes or whether the sun had suddenly gone behind a cloud, but everything looked dim and wavering. Stevie and Mr. Allen were talking dogs and baseball in an intimate way. They seemed to have forgotten the other two, and Janet felt a twinge of loneliness.
A friendly arm went about her and drew her close. "I'm mighty glad I've got you," whispered a tender voice, "otherwise, I'd be left quite alone, it seems."
Janet smiled tremulously. "Oh," she apologized for Stevie, "he doesn't mean anything. You know how boys are!"
"Yes, I know," laughed the woman, "but girls... Well, they're different, aren't they? We're going to have a job taking care of those two, Janet." And she bent and kissed the top of Janet's head.
The sunshine was shining again. From a turn on the hill road, Janet looked back. The Home was smiling in the sun.
"And whatsoever ye shall do, ye shall do it in my name; therefore ye shall call the Church in my name; and ye shall call upon the Father in my name that he will bless the Church for my sake.
"And how be it my Church save it be called in my name? For if a Church be called in Moses' name then it be Moses' Church; or if it be called in the name of a man then it be the Church of a man; but if it be called in my name then it is my Church, if it so be that they are built upon my gospel.
"And if it so be that the Church is built upon my gospel then will the Father show forth his own works in it." (Book of Mormon, III Nephi 27:7, 8, 10.)
Why Adults Should Drink Milk
Today pure milk is conceded by everyone to be an ideal food for infants and growing children. Unfortunately, drinking milk is often looked upon as something for children and invalids, and the milk-drinking adult is looked upon with derision and raised eyebrows. Modern science offers evidence to overcome this prejudice, showing that a hearty consumption of milk promotes strength and virility as well as general good health. Every heavyweight champion of the last ten years has used milk and dairy products freely, and these are prominent on the training table for college athletes. Nowadays the workman's dinner pail includes a bottle of milk because working men find it gives strength and steadier nerves. An official of a large commercial organization found that the efficiency of his office force could be improved at least 25 per cent by giving them a glass of milk at 3:30 each day. The fatigue which sets in about that time is postponed by drinking milk. Children, we are told, should have a quart of milk a day, and adults not less than a pint. Because an adult has more or less ceased to grow, he does not need the growth promotion qualities, but does need its general sustaining virtues and nutritive value. Milk, called the "perfect food," contains practically every one of the food elements needed to maintain human life. It has fat, carbohydrate, protein, minerals, fluids and vitamins—a combination unequalled by any other single food.
The Relief Society Magazine Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. 28 MAY, 1941 No. 5
Contents
Special Features Back of frontispiece—Message From President Heber J. Grant........................285 Frontispiece—Vera W. Pohlman, Rae B. Barker, View Membership Chart..............286 Relief Society Conference............ Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 287
OFFICERS' MEETING President's Report and Official Instructions.......... President Amy Brown Lyman 291
DEPARTMENT MEETINGS Relief Society Magazine................................................302 Mormon Handicraft.....................................................308 Work Department......................................................309 Membership..........................................................312 Centennial.........................................................325 Music..............................................................329 Secretary-Treasurers................................................330
GENERAL SESSION—Forenoon Gaining Momentum For a Day of Triumph...........................Rae B. Barker 331 The Strength of the Relief Society—Counselor Donna D. Sorensen................333
Our Sister Organizations Speak The Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association........President Lucy Grant Cannon 336 The Primary Association..............Superintendent May Green Hinckley 338 Together We Build...........Oscar A. Kirkham, Member, National Staff, Boy Scouts of America 339
GENERAL SESSION—Afternoon The Light Still Shines in the Darkness.......... Counselor Marcia K. Howells 342 The Gospel—Our Spiritual Armor..................... President Amy Brown Lyman 344 Elder Harold B. Lee.....................................................349 Assistants to Twelve Appointed..............................................351
Fiction The Merry-Go-Round—Chapter Two.................................Alice Morrey Bailey 355
General Features Happenings......................................................Annie Wells Cannon 352 Editorial: The Strength of Testimony...........................................353
Poetry Love's Miracle................................................May Booth Talmage 348
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
Message From President Heber J. Grant Relief Society General Conference April 3, 1941
I appreciate the invitation to speak at your meeting, but the doctor feels that it would be unwise for me to do so, which I regret, for my heart is full of gratitude to my Heavenly Father for the faithfulness and devotion of the sisters of the Relief Society who are doing, and who always have done, so much for the comfort and encouragement of those less fortunate than themselves. The Relief Society is a great help to the Priesthood in carrying on the work of the Lord. It is the duty of the mothers to "teach their children to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord," to care for the home and make it attractive and beautiful, a center of faith and affection. Your organization helps in all of this.
We are living in anxious and troubled days. Forces are abroad in the earth which threaten to destroy the peace of the world and to overthrow our form of government. Many of your sons have been called into the service of their country. This is a matter of deep concern, of course, to mothers and to all of us. It is necessary that the people turn to the Lord, that they seek Him in humility, that they keep His commandments, and that they serve Him in spirit and in truth, with the assurance that He will not forsake the righteous nor turn away those who seek Him.
I pray that the spirit of peace may abide in your homes and fill your hearts with love and the light of eternal truth. Let us hope and pray that the hearts of all men may be softened and turned towards the Savior, the Prince of Peace, the Redeemer of the world, that good will toward men may find a larger place in the hearts of men.
I commend you, my dear sisters, for your faithfulness, and pray that the blessings of our Heavenly Father may be upon you and your loved ones now and forever.
Relief Society Conference April, 1941 Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
"The Gospel—Our Spiritual Armor" was the theme of the semi-annual general conference of Relief Society, held in Salt Lake City, Wednesday and Thursday, April 2 and 3, 1941. This theme characterized not only the general sessions in the Tabernacle on Thursday, but was evident in the officers' meeting and department sessions of Wednesday. Counselor Marcia K. Howells was chairman of the April conference committee on arrangements, which included ten other members of the General Board. Inasmuch as the Society is in the final year of preparation for the observance of its centennial in 1942, and inasmuch as its objective is 100,000 members by that time, centennial and membership plans were special features of this conference.
Schedule of Meetings
President Amy Brown Lyman presided at the officers' meeting in the Assembly Hall which opened the conference on Wednesday, and at the two general sessions held in the Tabernacle on Thursday. Eight department meetings, held Wednesday afternoon at the times and places indicated in the accompanying schedule, were conducted by their respective chairmen. The schedule lists the various meetings comprising the conference, and includes the reception held Wednesday evening and the presidents' breakfast held Thursday morning, together with their respective chairmen of arrangements. Counselor Howells presided at the breakfast, which was open to stake and mission Relief Society presidents, or their official representatives. All Wednesday sessions of the conference, and the reception, were for stake and mission officers and board members. The two general sessions in the Tabernacle on Thursday were open to all Relief Society officers and members, and the public.
SCHEDULE OF MEETINGS
Wednesday, April 2, 1941 Officers' Meeting - Assembly Hall, 10:00 a.m.-12:00 noon - President Lyman - 1,000
Departments— Mormon Handicraft - 18th Ward Chapel, 2:00-2:30 p.m. - Nellie O. Parker - 250 Work Department - 18th Ward Chapel, 2:30-3:45 p.m. - Leda T. Jensen - 250 Social Welfare - Assembly Hall, 2:00-2:50 p.m. - Leona B. Fetzer - 400 Relief Society Magazine - Barratt Hall, 2:00-2:50 p.m. - Belle S. Spafford - 150 Centennial - Assembly Hall, 3:00-3:30 p.m. - Mary G. Judd - 400 Membership - Assembly Hall, 3:30-4:00 p.m. - Rae B. Barker - 400 Music - Barratt Hall, 3:00-4:00 p.m. - Beatrice F. Stevens - 150 Secretary-Treasurers - Young Building, 3:00-4:00 p.m. - Vera W. Pohlman - 110 Reception - Newhouse Hotel, 7:30-9:30 p.m. - Pauline T. Pingree - 800
Thursday, April 3, 1941 Presidents' Breakfast - Hotel Utah, 8:00-9:45 a.m. - Nellie O. Parker - 170 General Session - Tabernacle, 10:00-11:45 a.m. - President Lyman - 4,000 General Session - Tabernacle, 2:00-4:00 p.m. - President Lyman - 6,000
Representation and Attendance
Members of the Riverside Stake Relief Society Board were in constant attendance at the three main entrances to the Assembly Hall at all sessions held there on Wednesday, greeting the officers attending the meetings, distributing printed programs, and assisting in the registration of attendance. All twenty-two members of the General Board were present at the conference. One hundred thirty-six of the total of 137 stakes of the Church responded to the roll call in the officers' meeting—all but Oahu in Hawaii. Although most of the stakes are concentrated in western United States, the three eastern stakes—Chicago, New York, and Washington—were represented, as were the three stakes in Western Canada—Alberta, Lethbridge, and Taylor—and also Juarez in Mexico. Eleven mission Relief Society presidents were also in attendance, representing nine of the twelve missions with headquarters in the United States—all but Eastern States, New England, and Spanish-American—and including the Canadian and Mexican missions. A meeting of these eleven mission Relief Society presidents with the general officers and editor of the Magazine was held Monday, April 7, at 10:00 a.m., in the offices of the General Board, for the consideration of the special problems of Relief Society in the missions.
President Heber J. Grant sent a written message (reproduced in full on back of frontispiece) to the conference, which was read at the closing session in the Tabernacle by Counselor Marcia K. Howells. President David O. McKay addressed the final session of the conference, honoring the Tabernacle audience with his presence throughout the entire meeting. His address, "Today's Need—Spiritual Awakening," developing the theme of the conference, will be printed in full in a later issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Also to be presented in full in a future issue of the Magazine are the addresses of Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin of the Presiding Bishopric, "Relief Society—An Aid to the Bishops," and of Elder Stringham A. Stevens, member of the General Church Welfare Committee, on "Church Welfare," both of which were delivered in the department meeting on social welfare.
Supporting the Relief Society in its objective of 100,000 members by the end of this year, Lucy Grant Cannon, President of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, May Green Hinckley, General Superintendent of the Primary Association, and Oscar A. Kirkham, member, National Staff, Boy Scouts of America, and Executive Secretary of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, all addressed the first general session in the Tabernacle, which was devoted to the anticipation of the Relief Society centennial. Elder George D. Pyper, General Superintendent of the Deseret Sunday School Union, offered the invocation at this session. General officers of the Church auxiliaries, and wives of the General Authorities of the Church also attended various sessions of the Relief Society conference, including Vilate R. Ivins, Addie E. Hardy, and Rachel Grant Taylor, wives of members of the First Council of Seventy, who offered prayer at the general sessions. The invocation at the officers' meeting was given by Ella P. Bennion, president of Oquirrh Stake Relief Society, and the benediction by Mary L. Barton, president of North Davis Stake Relief Society. General, stake, and mission officers were honored at the evening reception by the presence of President and Mrs. J. Reuben Clark, Jr.
Music at the Conference
Devotional organ music by Alexander Schreiner, Tabernacle Organist, appropriately began the first session of the conference in the Assembly Hall. Lily Priestley rendered organ music at the close of this meeting, and at the beginning and end of the department meetings held in the Assembly Hall, and also accompanied the congregational singing at all meetings in the Assembly Hall, which was directed by Beatrice F. Stevens, chairman of the General Board's music committee. The Relief Society rally song, "A Hundred Thousand Strong," composed by Mrs. Stevens, was sung at the close of the membership department in the Assembly Hall, under the direction of Agnes M. Bolto, president of Granite Stake Relief Society, and at the close of the first general session in the Tabernacle, under the direction of Laura B. Heslop, chorister of North Weber Stake Relief Society. Especially featured at both general sessions of the conference were the combined choruses of Singing Mothers from Mount Ogden, North Weber, Ogden, and Weber stakes, composed of approximately 325 singers, and directed in rotation by their respective stake directors, Mathel Ridges, Laura B. Heslop, Eva P. Greenwell, and Nellie Purrington. Dr. Frank W. Asper, Tabernacle Organist, was at the console during both general sessions.
Centennial Plans
Helps for stakes and wards planning for local observances of the centennial of Relief Society on its hundredth birthday, March 17, 1942, were presented at the centennial department, Wednesday afternoon. A summarized list of features being planned by various stakes, titled, "Glimpses of What Some Stakes Are Planning Looking Toward Their Centennial Observances," was distributed to the representatives of all stakes and missions in attendance. Additional copies are still available and may be had upon request to the office of the General Board. At the forenoon general session in the Tabernacle on Thursday, which was devoted to anticipation of the centennial, an unusual feature was the dramatization from the diary of a Relief Society woman, entitled, "Pioneer Portrait," presented through the medium of a radio broadcast, by KSL players, under the direction of Erma Felt Bitner, demonstrating the effectiveness of both this type of material and this means of presentation for a centennial observance. The radio continuity was arranged by Mary Grant Judd, chairman of the General Board's centennial committee. Mimeographed copies of the script, obtainable upon request to the office of the General Board, may be helpful to stakes planning to present this or similar historical material through the medium of a local public-address system.. Membership Growth Lending impetus to the closing months of the four-year campaign for increasing Relief Society membership by one-third to 100,000 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941 members by 1942, was the membership department on Wednesday afternoon, the general session on Thursday forenoon, and an exten- — sive array of pictographs (reproduced elsewhere in this issue of the Magazine) exhibited in the Assembly Hall throughout the first day of the conference, and at the reception Wednesday evening. On display for the third consecutive year: was the membership arch, originated by Rae B. Barker, chairman of the membership committee, its softly lighted gold, blue, and white blocks appearing effectively against the rich brown wood of the Tabernacle organ. (For description and significance of the arch, see Relief Society Magazine, May, 1940, page 290.) An unusual feature of the Wednesday afternoon membership department was the "Inquiring reporter" interview with membership workers from five stakes. Mimeographed summaries of this feature, "The Inquiring Re: porter Interviews Membership Workers," are available to stake and mission membership workers upon request to the office of the General Board. Summarized Report of Proceedings Condensed accounts of the proceedings of the various sessions of the conference, presented according to the order of meetings listed in the schedule on page 288, follow. The minutes of the presidents' breakfast are an exception to the listed order, inasmuch as the instructions given by all three members of the General Presidency appear immediately following the official instructions of the President at the officers' meeting, and the two stake reports of welfare RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE projects, also given at the presidents' breakfast, will appear in connection with proceedings of the social welfare department. Space of the May issue of the Magazine is insufficient for the entire report of the conference proceedings, but this issue contains all addresses and material relating to the especially featured centennial and membership activities, which are to be printed, and also information as to the availability of those materials to be distributed only in mimeographed form. Otherwise, the only reports withheld from this issue are as follows: To appear in June issue— He 291 Tabernacle address of President David O. McKay; annual report of General Secretary-Treasurer given at the officers' meeting; entire report of proceedings of social welfare department, including also the two reports of welfare projects in Big Horn and Sharon stakes given at the presidents' breakfast. To appear in later issues— Talks given at the officers' meeting by three recently returned Relief Society mission presidents—"Our Lives—the Greatest Sermon," Mima M. Broadbent; "Spirituality in the Missions,” Mary T. Clayson; "The Heritage of the Mormon Home," Priscilla L. Evans; 'Tabernacle address, "Planned Living," by Vivian R. McConkie, member of the General Board; "Editorial Policies," given in Magazine department, by Belle S. Spafford. Officers Meeting President's Report and Official Instructions Amy Brown Lyman, General President N behalf of the General Board, I welcome you here today to this most important meeting—the general officers' meeting. One of the joys of our general conferences is to meet thus intimately with you— the key women of our organization who bear so much responsibility in connection with the work. We feel as Paul did when in his epistle to the Romans he spoke of his desire to be with them that they might all be comforted and lifted up together by their mutual faith. The object of our semi-annual conferences, as you know, is to give inspiration, direction and unity to our work and to renew our devotion to it. May this object be fulfilled. We are indeed grateful to you for your efficient and unselfish service. I am sure the General Authorities appreciate your activity in, and support of, the Church welfare program. We wonder sometimes how you accomplish so much. We know we can depend upon you at all times. You have our confidence and love, our faith and prayers, and we ask you humbly for your faith and your prayers in our behalf. We appreciate the splendid and oftentimes streriuous work of our ward presidents and the work of the other ward officers and special workers, all of whom you are directing so ably. We appreciate the work of our class leaders, both stake and local, who are so diligently building up our educational departments, in many instances the work approaching the professional. We take great pride in the work 292 of our visiting teachers. We feel that they are performing their work with dignity, and that they are confining their discussion in the home to subjects which have been outlined for them, and which are in harmony with the spirit of Relief Society and the spirit of the Gospel. We are pleased to note that the teachers' messages this year are bearing fruit in that they are stimulating attendance at Priesthood meetings. What a fine thing it is that our women are gaining a better understanding of the work and duties of the Priesthood, and that they are showing a willingness to support, encourage, and sustain their husbands and sons in this work. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941 Organizations and Reorganizations Since our last conference, twelve stakes and two missions have been reorganized, and five new stakes have been organized (listed below), bringing the total stakes in the Church to 137. We appreciate the splendid work done by these retiring officers, and plead for their continued interest and support in their home wards. We welcome the new officers and wish them every success in their new undertakings. A stake president, recently released, has written us, "I am enjoying a much needed rest and receiving a great deal of joy and comfort attending my ward Relief ORGANIZATIONS Stake *# ormerly Part of R*, Cottonwood Cottonwood Stake Appointed President Lucile B. Madsen Ethelyn D. States Mary M. Christiansen Gladys E. Huish Dorothy Ronnow REORGANIZATIONS Keno California Mission San Diego California Mission Southern Arizona California Mission Uvada Moapa and St. George Stakes Stake or Mission Released Stakes Alpine Maud D. Christensen Ensign Radie O. Hyde Grant Lois D. Cannon Gunnison Ila, D. Childs Inglewood Jennie Cluff Moapa LaPriel S. Bunker Nampa Minnie L. Rose Nevada Anna M. Aljets Pasadena Lena E. Woodbury Phoenix Elnora D. Shupe South Los Angeles Blanche S. Hoglund Teton L. Emma Cordon Missions Australian Della M. Judd California _ Nelle L. Macdonald Appointed President Fern A. Walker Lucena R. Card Martha W. Brown Orlene L. Henrie Josephine Prestwick Mae L. Larsen LaVera Aston Nellie C. Brunson Irene Ethel Boice Mabel D. Mortensen ' Hazel Neville Sadie H. Harris June C. Orme Minnie B. Blood Date December 23, 1940 February 9, 1941 February 9, 1941 March 2, 1941 January 12, 1941 Date January 19, 1941 January 31, 1941 March 16, 1941 January 26, 1941 January 8, 1941 January 5, 1941 February 23, 1941 November 10, 1940 March 28, 1941 November 16, 1940 October 27, 1940 September 29, 1940 February 27, 1941 February 10, 1941 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Society meetings. I was very happy when my ward president asked me to be a visiting teacher." Summer Period Our educational year, which has been very successful, draws to a close at the end of May. Activity during the four months following May will not be so strenuous. It will consist of a monthly work-and-business meeting, monthly visits by the visiting teachers, and, in September, preparation work for officers. (For recommendations as to membership activities during the summer of 1941, see page 313 of this issue of the Magazine.) As was indicated at the general conference last October, arrangements may be made for each visiting teacher to have one month free, if desired, by using substitute teachers or having teachers go singly one or two months, as necessary, during this particular period. September is a busy month for officers, however, being taken up with preliminary meetings when duties of officers and official instructions are reviewed and plans completed for the year's work. With each new year there are many new officers who greatly appreciate the help they receive in these meetings held preliminary to the regular educational year, which begins with October. Summer Contributions For General Fund So many requests have been made for suggestions on how to keep up the general fund in the wards, that the General Board has decided to make recommendations modifying the former ruling that all contribu- 293 tions collected by the visiting teachers be placed in the charity fund. The Board now recommends that during the period of eight months, beginning with October 1 and ending May 31, the funds collected by the visiting teachers be placed in the charity fund; and that during the period of the four months beginning June 1 and ending September 30, the funds collected by the visiting teachers be placed in the general fund. This change is to become effective in June, 1941, and the new plan should be thoroughly explained in Relief Society ward meetings before the end of May so that the families contributing, as well as the teachers themselves, will understand the procedure. Relief Society Projects Announcement was made at the general conference of Relief Society in October, 1940, that the General Board had modified and extended the use of Relief Society charity funds to include not only emergency relief and health and child-welfare purposes, as formerly, but also Relief Society welfare projects. Therefore, the need has arisen for clarification of Relief Society projects in relation to Church welfare projects. It is recommended that welfare projects initiated by Relief Society organizations, and financed from the charity funds, take the form principally of service projects, rather than production projects. This recommendation does not preclude Relief Society women from continuing to give service in connection with Church welfare projects, such as those relating to sewing and food preservation, but it is not expected 294 that Relief Society funds will be used to furnish and equip Church welfare centers. However, Relief Society charity funds may be used for equipment for Relief Society welfare projects which remain in the possession of the Relief Society, such as sewing machines, for example, even though such equipment is used part of the time in giving Relief Society service in conection with Church welfare projects. Examples of Relief Society service projects which may be financed from charity funds of the Society are— preventive and corrective health work, particularly with respect to maternity and infancy; child-welfare services of various types, including dental service for those unable to pay, and other greatly needed services for children; housekeeping service in emergencies, such as sickness and death, for those who are unable to pay, et cetera. Disbursements from Relief Society charity funds for service projects may include reimbursement for professional or other necessary workers, such as doctors and nurses, and expenditures for the necessary equipment and supplies for conducting such service projects. Service projects are designed to provide some of the needed welfare services which are not now ordinarily available from other Church funds, or from public funds. Change in Time of Magazine Campaign and Annual Subscription Report Suggestions have been received from many stakes that the time of the intensive, one-month campaign for Relief Society Magazine subscriptions be changed from the fall RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941 to the spring. We realize, however, that conditions vary from stake to stake and that it is impossible to designate any one month which would be most satisfactory to all stakes and missions. Therefore, the General Board decided at its meeting of March 26 to extend to stakes and missions the opportunity of conducting an intensive one-month campaign in the interest of the Magazine at any time during the year which is most convenient and timely for them, rather than to require a simultaneous campaign during the one-month period ending October 15, as formerly. It is expected that stake and ward Magazine representatives will continue to distribute their work throughout the year, insofar as possible, that each stake will conduct an intensive onemonth campaign at the time most suited to its local conditions, and that the time of the intensive effort be uniform for all wards in the stake. Irrespective of the time of year when the intensive campaign is conducted, the annual Magazine subscription report will cover the calendar year ending December 31, rather than the former Magazine subscription year ending October 15. (See page 303 for detailed instructions. ) Membership Goals Three years ago, the General Board inaugurated a four-year campaign to increase membership in the Relief Society to 100,000 members by the centennial year, 1942. 'This objective called for a membership increase of one-third, or 25,000 more than the 75,000 members who were on the'rolls as of December 31, 1937. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE This general goal of an increase of one-third over the enrollment as of December 31, 1937, has been applied generally in the various stakes and missions as their respective goals. It has been recognized, however, that all stakes and missions could not increase their membership at the same 'rate, because of varying conditions. In some districts, a large proportion of eligible women was already enrolled in Relief Society prior to the inauguration of the four-year campaign; other sections of the Church with a much greater number of potential members could easily increase more than one-third; and in still other areas, local conditions have justified some inevitable losses. In order to more closely relate the membership quota of each stake and mission to its actual possibilities, the General Board decided at a recent meeting to compute membership quotas on the basis of 60 percent of the number of Latter-day Saint women rather than on an increase of one-third over 1937 in all instances. This decision was made after a careful analysis of the membership statistics of all stakes and missions. There has been no change whatever in the announced goal of a Church-wide increase of 25,000 members during the four-year period ending December 31, 1941, in order to bring the total membership to 100,000 members by 1942. 'The task of enrolling the additional members has simply been reapportioned among the stakes and missions so that each district is assigned a like proportion of its eligible women as its individual goal. In order to reach our goal by the end of this year, an increase Of 9,000 members is re- 295 quired, and there are approximately 86,000 unenrolled women from which they may be enlisted. I call your attention especially to a little article in the Magazine for March, 1941, page 159, entitled, "Are You Enrolled As A Member Of Relief Society?" When members move away from a ward, officers should urge them to affiliate in the new ward in which they locate. Annual Dues I am wondering if we do enough follow-up work in the matter of annual dues. Let us not hesitate to remind any member regarding her dues. I was talking with a woman the other day who works and who can not attend meetings. She was surprised to learn from the secretary that she had not paid her dues. All she needed, she said, was a reminder. I am wondering, also, if we are giving a membership card as a receipt for individual dues. Iam very proud to carry my card in my handbag. Work-and-Business Meetings It is reported that a few wards, on work-and-business day, still prefer to carry on sewing activities while the short topic is being presented, instead of concentrating entirely on the subject at hand. It is the desire of the General Board that handwork be dispensed with during the formal topic presentation, which should cover approximately fifteen minutes. This shows proper respect to the teacher. At the close of the lesson presentation and during the informal discussion, there is no objection to handwork going forward, 296 In designating the ward leaders on work-and-business day, it is suggested that the one directing the work be known as "work leader," and the one directing the discussion be known as "home topic leader." Class Leaders and Lesson Work In the blue bulletin for November, 1940, it was recommended by the General Board that all lessons be given on the published dates for their presentation; and that if a ward class leader finds it impossible to give her lesson on the proper date, she should secure a substitute to take her place, well in advance of the day. This not only makes for the desired uniformity throughout the organization, but it enables stake officers and board members and other visitors and invited guests to know in advance when lessons are to be given in which they are especially interested, and it helps them to plan their visits accordingly. It was also urged that ward class leaders take an interest in the whole educational program, not only in the meetings where they are to conduct lessons, and that they participate in all class activity. Some teachers have felt that it is only necessary for them to attend on the day they teach. An exception to this plan would be where a class leader is regularly employed away from home, and can attend only on the day that she presents her lesson. Social Science Lessons For a number of years, the lessons scheduled for the fourth Tuesday of the month have been titled, "Social Service." In recent years, as the courses have referred to educational work rather than to principles of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941 social work, it is felt that a broader title should be used which would cover both phases of the work. We shall, therefore, in the future use the title, "Social Science," for this course. Blue Bulletins The blue bulletins, issued by the General Board to stake and mission Relief Society presidents, should be carefully read, not only by stake presidencies, but by the entire stake board. This should be done in order that the contents may be understood by all and that the special suggestions regarding any one department may reach that department head; for example, all messages regarding the lesson work should reach the class leaders. The information in the bulletin should then be adapted, enlarged, or modified according to the needs of the wards, and passed on to them. "Handbook of Instructions"And "Progress of the Church" A copy of the "Handbook of Instructions" for stake presidencies, bishoprics, and other Church officers, has, through the courtesy of the Presiding Bishop's Office, been sent to all Relief Society stake presidents. It is hoped that stake officers will read the book carefully, and place it on file for reference. The answers to many questions that come up regarding Church policies are found in this volume. The "Progress of the Church," which is likewise sent to Relief Society stake presidents through the courtesy of the Presiding Bishop's Office, should also be carefully read and placed on file. Relief Society Centennial Our centennial is drawing near. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Only one year remains before that event. We have been greatly pleased with the interest you are manifesting, and we are interested in your plans for local observances on March 17, 1942. As has been announced, the general Church-wide celebration will be held in Salt Lake City in connection with our next April conference. The Salt Lake City stakes, because of their close-in location, and because of their desire to avoid repetition and duplication in the City, have consented to hold their commemoration exercises in connection with the Church-wide celebration in April. March 17, however, will not be overlooked by them in their local units. Anthology of Relief Society Poems We are pleased to announce that during the next year the General Board expects to publish a book—an anthology of Relief Society poems. In 1924, one year after the establishment of the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest, it was decided that a selection of poems by Utah women be made with a view of publishing them in a book eventually, and a committee was appointed to take up the work. In 1939, it was proposed that an anthology of poems by Utah women be prepared as a feature of the centennial celebration, and one year later, in 1940, it was definitely decided by the Board that an anthology of poems be published as a feature of the Relief Society centennial, to consist of prize poems designated in the annual Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest, and of other. Poems selected from published writings of women of the Church, Sister 297 Annie Wells Cannon, former member of the General Board, has been authorized to prepare the anthology in cooperation with the General Board's committee on the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest, and the work is well under way. We feel sure that the women of the Church will welcome such a volume. Beautification By way of follow-up work, we mention again the importance of the beautification program of the Church. Whata fine picture we will have when every family has made an - effort to improve its home and surroundings, and when every community in the Church has done its best to set up and maintain a standard of civic pride and beauty that will be an inspiration to every resident therein. "Secret Pal" Movement Questions have come to the General Board regarding the "secret pal" movement which has been adopted in a few of our local wards and branches. As was indicated in our blue bulletin of January 15, 1941, the General Board does not favor this movement within our organized units, and recommends its discontinuance. We call attention to an editorial in the Relief Society Magazine for November, 1939, page 746, describing the activities of this nature and setting forth the attitude of the General Board relating to them; also, we call to your attention the following excerpt from President Joseph F. Smith's Gospel Doctrine, page 483, on this subject: "IT would like to say that it is expected of the Relief Society... That they will 298 have a watchcare over all its organizations ' among the women of Zion... And see toit that... Cabals are not formed, that secret combinations may not get a foothold." We wonder sometimes if our women need a little more attention from one another. Are we sociable enough? Are we hospitable enough? Does any woman come to Relief Society and go away without anyone speaking or talking to her? Registration of Graduate Nurses The General Board is pleased to cooperate with the Nursing Council on National Defense by requesting stake and mission Relief Society presidents in the United States to announce, through their local Societies, the plan of the Council to take an inventory of the nursing forces of the country in order that experience and qualifications of: all nurses will be available when selecting personnel in the event of an emergency. 'This inventory is being conducted by means of a schedule to be filled in by all registered nurses, irrespective of age, including those actively employed and those who are married or retired. It is believed that there may be many registered nurses not now employed in nursing work who might be available in a national emergency. Each state in the nation has its own registration bureau, and every graduate nurse should contact the bureau in her state and obtain a schedule to be filled in and returned to the bureau. In the blue bulletin of March 14, 1941, a list of addresses of registration bureaus was enclosed. Traffic Accidents We are wondering if Relief Society RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941 women cannot be helpful in the country's effort to lessen traffic accidents, in which over 32,000 people were killed in America last year, and thousands of others were injured. A number of our fine young people have been killed or injured in automobile accidents during the last year. Many accidents are caused through carelessness, through nonobservance of traffic rules, and through reckless driving caused by drinking. People should refuse to ride with reckless drivers: or with drivers who have been drinking. Even a single drink makes a driver A campaign for safety in this direction seems most important. We believe Relief Society women can be powerful factors in creating public opinion in the interest of traffic safety, respecting both automobiles and pedestrians. Protection of Our Young People The Presiding Bishopric, in a recent issue of the "Progress of the Church" has called attention to the fact that many of our young people who leave home to secure employment, attend school, or to settle in other localities throughout the United States, often lose contact with the Church. They are thus deptived of the protection which the Church provides, and of the opportunity for participation in religious activity. 'The Church, on the other hand, is deprived of their cooperation and help. Next to the home, the Church feels a responsibility: for its young people, and feels that every effort should be made by its officers everywhere to keep in touch with them and to encourage them in Church activity. It is suggested by RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE the Presiding Bishopric that parents and bishops combine their efforts in this respect to the end that none of our young people lack opportunity for Church affiliation, participation, and protection, no matter where they are located. Parents can be especially helpful by informing bishops and mission presidents of the presence of young people who have moved into their localities. The Relief Society, which has branches throughout the Church, is ever ready to give its help in this direction, and to seek out Church members, and extend to them the hospitality of the organization. Alcohol Education Pamphlets on the "Injurious Effects Resulting from the Moderate Use of Alcohol" (note the word "'moderate'"'), were recently mailed to the various stakes with the suggestion that they be distributed by the visiting teachers. When the supply was finally available for distribution, it was found that the number was not sufficient for distribution to every Latter-day Saint home. Accordingly, a reduced supply of pamphlets was mailed. If these pamphlets are later reprinted, you will be notified so that you may order additional copies, if desired. We hope that through these pamphlets, and other means, officers and teachers will be able to stimulate an interest in this subject, and bring about a realization of the bad results of even moderate drinking. Read and ponder over the article in the Magazine for April, by Dr. T. J. Howells, entitled, "A Doctor Challenges Alcohol." Let us make it our mission to develop sound and 299 proper public opinion relative to this matter. It has been said that public opinion, when united, organized, and aroused, is more powerful than armies. Conditions Adjacent to Military Camps I would like to call attention to the dangerous conditions which are developing around our military camps. 'The Chief of Staff of the United States Army in public appeal recently said: "Human nature being what it is, establishments for the purpose of selling liquor are becoming increasingly active in the communities adjacent to the camps, and in some communities there has been an influx of persons of questionable reputation. Here we have on the one side a sordid business for the accumulation of money, and on the other the interest of every parent in the United States who has a son in the Army, not to mention the responsibility of the War Department to develop an army of the highest quality. 'This situation must be brought under control before it grows serious. "It is in this field, in the communities in the vicinity of our troop concentrations, that the War Department urgently desires the assistance of every welfare organization in the country.' I am sure we feel that the best safeguards our boys can have against temptation, vice, or sin, are proper religious ideals, good standards, and good habits well established. These make the safest armor anyone can have in moments of weakness. In addition, however, it is well for them to have proper scientific and practical information regarding those things which are destructive to both body and soul. If our boys will adhere strictly to the standards of the Church and the teachings of the Gospel, and keep themselves intelli- 300 gently informed, they stand a very good chance of being safe from all evil. Relief Society womcn, we arc sure, will discuss these serious matters with their sons, these beloved boys who are being called into training, and will warn them of all dangers. We are sure also that they will cooperate with Church authorities in any suggestions, plans, or aid which might be recommended to help fortify our boys against these evils. The National Woman's Christian Temperance Union has _ recently established as its slogan, "Let us help to defend our defenders." To this end, it has "pledged its RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941 cooperation and aid in the. Creation of a better environment and the establishment of more recreational facilities in the vicinity of military and naval posts." The following excerpt is quoted from a newspaper release originating at Pensacola, Florida, March 28, 1941: "Fifteen houses, their doors posted with signs announcing the prevalence of venereal diseases, were under quarantine here today as the Federal Government intensified its campaign to suppress prostitution near army and navy centers." This is a marvelous step forward in the defense and protection of our boys.  Instructions At Presidents' Breakfast President Amy Brown Lyman Attendance Not a Prerequisite for Enrollment The idea seems to be prevalent that a woman cannot be enrolled as a member of Relief Society until she has attended meetings three times. The General Board does not have a ruling to this effect, and wishes it to be clearly understood that attendance at Relief Society meetings is not a prerequisite for enrollment as a member. The Relief Society Handbook, page 182, states that "It is not recommended that new members be enrolled until it is known: that they are really interested and expect to give their allegiance to the organization." While it is desirable that all members of the Society attend meetings as regularly as possible, it is recognized that there are many women unable to attend meetings because of old age, illness, employment, or other reasons, who, nevertheless, wish to affiliate with the Society and who value membership therein.
Singing Mothers For Centennial Concert
Plans are being made for a large chorus of Singing Mothers, to be composed of small delegations from the various stakes and missions, to present an evening concert as a part of the general centennial observance in Salt Lake City in April 1942. There is no requirement that singers be sent for this occasion, but the General Board extends to each stake and mission an invitation to send a delegation of nine—preferably a balanced group of three first sopranos, three second sopranos, and three altos. (See also Music Department, page 329.) Although it will be possible for comparatively few of the numerous members of choruses of Singing Mothers to participate in the concert in Salt Lake, it is expected that choruses of Singing Mothers throughout the Church will be featured extensively in local observances of the Relief Society centennial in their respective wards, stakes, and missions.
Relief Society Magazine Binder
A substantial, well-made cover, into which single copies of the Relief Society Magazine may be inserted or removed at will, was displayed for the information of Relief Society workers, with the announcement that if the demand for such a binder warrants arrangements for a quantity order, single copies may be made available at cost, 75¢ postpaid. The capacity of the cover is twelve copies of the Magazine, and the title, "Relief Society Magazine," is stamped in gold. (Note: Because of the immediate favorable response, an order has since been placed with the manufacturer, and announcement will be made as soon as binders are available for distribution.)
Counselor Marcia K. Howells
Mormon Handicraft Shop
Counselor Howells compared the incident of 65 years ago, when a collection of handiwork by Mormon women, sent to the world's fair in Philadelphia, was returned unopened, with the present wide geographical distribution of Mormon handicraft through the medium of the Gift Shop. She commented on the concentration of skills from many lands, brought by converts to the Church, which, combined with American designs and crafts, lend great variety and interest to the stock of the Shop. Emphasis was given to the fact that many incomes are supplemented through the sale of products of home industry at the Shop, and that in some instances the entire family income is derived through this means. Growth during the past year was evident from the fact that there were more visitors at the Shop, more articles were received and sold, more individuals received incomes from this source, and more individuals, wards, and stakes subscribed for membership in the Shop.
Temple-Burial Clothing
Counselor Howells reviewed the history of the General Board's temple and burial clothing department, which was established about thirty years ago by direction of the General Authorities of the Church, for the purpose of properly preparing temple clothing. Because of reports that temple-burial clothing is sometimes improperly placed on bodies, that articles of clothing are not always made according to authorized patterns, and that the clothing is publicly exhibited in some establishments, Relief Society presidents are requested to give general supervision in their communities with respect to temple clothing which is either made or kept in stock locally, and with respect to the dressing of women in temple-burial clothing. The Relief Society stake board may appoint a responsible woman to see that clothing is properly made and placed before burial; Priesthood authorities will doubtless arrange for a like service with respect to placing temple-burial clothing for men. All stake and mission Relief Society presidents recently received a new supply of mimeographed instructions on "Suggestions for Making Temple Burial Clothing," and "Directions for Clothing the Dead Who Have Received Their Endowments."
Counselor Donna D. Sorensen
Sunshine Workers
The General Board recommends that no additional "sunshine workers" be appointed in ward and stake Relief Societies. Wherever such workers are now functioning, they need not be relieved of this assignment at once, but it is recommended that, as soon as opportunity arises, this work be gradually transferred to the visiting teachers, inasmuch as it seems to be a logical extension of their present assignment.
One Class Leader for Each Department
The General Board recommends that only one class leader be appointed for each of the Relief Society educational departments. It is felt that the handling of this assignment alone will not over-burden any class leader now that the educational year has been reduced to eight months. Wherever a class leader is unable to conduct her class, it is her responsibility to arrange for someone to carry forward her work during the class period.
Women Urged to Get Out of Debt
Counselor Sorensen urged the women to heed the admonition of the Authorities of the Church to get out of debt. At present it would appear that there will be a period of prosperity in connection with the defense program, and it was suggested that families rid themselves of the burden of debt during this period. Women can assist their husbands in this matter by a curtailment of their own wants and by a wiser expenditure of money.
Relief Society Magazine Department
Achievement Recognition
Counselor Marcia K. Howells expressed the appreciation of the General Board for the service given by all representatives of the Relief Society Magazine. Because of their outstanding work last year, fourteen pages of the Magazine were required for the honor roll in recognition of the 519 wards and branches with subscriptions equal to 75 percent or more of their Relief Society membership. As a personal award for their services, 258 Magazine representatives received a year's subscription to the Magazine at the close of the 1940 subscription campaign. The honor roll is divided into three classifications, according to the number of Relief Society members enrolled in the various wards or branches. The four Magazine representatives who obtained the highest percentages in each classification were especially congratulated at this session, and those in attendance were introduced to the audience. (See honor roll published in the Relief Society Magazine, December, 1940, pages 859 to 872, for names of the twelve representatives—four at the head of each classification—and their respective wards and stakes, who were recognized at the April general conference.)
Instructions for Relief Society Magazine Representatives Vera W. Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
Change in Time of Magazine Campaign
The General Board decided, at its meeting of March 26, 1941, to extend to stakes and missions the opportunity of conducting the intensive one-month campaign in the interest of the Relief Society Magazine at any time during the year which is most convenient and timely for them, rather than to require a simultaneous campaign during the one-month period ending October 15, as formerly. It is expected that stake and ward Magazine representatives will continue to distribute their work throughout the year, insofar as possible, that each stake will conduct an intensive one-month campaign at the time most suited to its local conditions, and that the time of the intensive effort be uniform for all wards in the stake.
Change in Time of Annual Subscription Report
Irrespective of the time of year when the intensive campaign is conducted, the annual Magazine subscription report will hereafter cover the calendar year, ending December 31, rather than the former Magazine subscription year ending October 15. Except for the difference in the period covered, the report forms will be the same as those used for 1940, and the objective—a subscription list equal to the number of enrolled Relief Society members—will remain the same. The ward subscription report, covering the calendar year ending December 31, will be required to reach the stake Magazine representative by the following January 5; the stake subscription report will be required to reach the office of the Relief Society Magazine not later than January 15. The honor roll of stakes and missions, heretofore published annually in the December issue of the Relief Society Magazine in recognition of those Relief Societies and their Magazine representatives reporting a subscription list equal to 75 percent or more of their total Relief Society membership, will hereafter be published in the March issue of the Magazine. Because of the changed time of subscription reports, which is to become effective this year, the annual subscription report for 1941 will necessarily cover not only the entire calendar year of 1941, but also the latter part of the year 1940, in order to include all subscriptions entered since the 1940 Magazine subscription report was submitted, ending October 15, 1940. Accordingly, the 1941 report will cover the period beginning October 15, 1940, and ending December 31, 1941.
Changes to be Noted in Printed Bulletin of Information
Stake and ward Magazine representatives are requested to make note of these changes in their printed Bulletin of Information for Relief Society Magazine Representatives; stake representatives may also attach to their own reference copy of the printed bulletin the mimeographed summary of instructions given at the April general conference of Relief Society.
Expiration Service to Individual Subscribers
All subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine which began with the issue for July, 1940, or later, now have the month of expiration designated in connection with name and address of the subscriber appearing on the Magazine. Example: Mrs, Magazine Subscriber, 1842 Relief Society St., Our Town, Everywhere. 96-3 Dec. (The numerals are code references to stake and ward in which subscriber lives—only the designation of the month relates to expiration.) Magazine representatives are requested to explain this service to subscribers, so that they will know how to tell when their subscriptions will expire. It is suggested that Magazine representatives make it a point to refer to the subscriber's Magazine when entering a renewal, in order to be sure that the renewal subscription begins with the correct month, and in order to be sure that the name in which the subscription is entered is the same as that now appearing on the Magazine.
Expiration Service for Magazine Representatives
Beginning with the subscriptions which expire with the issue for June, 1941, and continuing thereafter, Magazine representatives will be notified of expiring subscriptions in their respective stakes and wards by means of the following procedure: The stake Magazine representative will receive each month a group of slips covering all expiring subscriptions for the month. On each of these slips will be reproduced the address label. These slips will be sorted into groups and designated according to the wards in which the subscribers live, so that the stake Magazine representative can distribute to the ward representative, each month, slips giving information as to the expiring subscriptions in their respective wards. It is believed that this service will be a convenience to ward Magazine representatives in securing renewals. It may also be advisable for the stake Magazine representative to make note of the number of such expiration slips delivered to each of the wards, and to obtain later a report of the number for which the ward Magazine representative was able to obtain renewals.
Magazine Supplies to be Sent only on Request
Hereafter, Magazine supplies (receipt books, order forms, business-reply envelopes) will be sent only on request. The change permitting each stake to choose the time for its one-month intensive campaign makes it necessary for each stake to order its main supply for the year prior to the particular month of its intensive effort. Magazine representatives should always keep on hand a supply of the necessary receipt books, order forms, and business-reply envelopes, but these supplies should be used only for the purpose intended. Stake Magazine representatives are requested to follow up, whenever there is a change in ward Magazine representatives, to see that supplies on hand are turned over to the incoming representative, and to see that incoming ward representatives are supplied with a copy of the printed "Bulletin of Information for Relief Society Magazine Representatives."
Deductions from Remittances
Since business-reply envelopes have been made available to all Magazine representatives for transmittal of subscriptions to the Magazine Office, deduction for postage from subscription payments enclosed with subscription orders is not allowable, except for foreign postage. Deductions for money-order or check fees are permissible. The Magazine office cannot assume losses which may occur in connection with remittances in the form of currency.
Complaints and Adjustments
The Magazine office will replace, if possible, any Magazines which are not received by subscribers, provided non-delivery to the subscriber is due to a mistake in the office of the Magazine, as, for example, if the Magazine office should send the Magazine to an address other than that submitted with the subscription, or if the Magazine office fails to enter a subscription which has actually reached the office. In those instances where amends cannot be made by supplying the missing numbers because, in the meantime, the supply of such numbers has been exhausted, amends will be made by extending the subscriber's subscription for a corresponding number of months. In all instances where nonreceipt of the Magazine does not appear to be the fault of the Magazine office, no adjustment will be made. If, for example, a subscriber does not receive the Magazine because of failure to notify the Magazine Office of change of address, or because the address entered with the subscription was incomplete, or the name inaccurate, the Magazine office does not feel obligated to make adjustments. In order to reduce to a minimum the complaints and dissatisfaction of subscribers, Relief Society Magazine representatives are urged to be sure to enter complete and correct names and addresses when submitting Magazine subscriptions, and to notify the Magazine office immediately of any complaints or instances of non-delivery of the Magazine. Carelessness of the Magazine representative in these respects, and the resulting inconvenience and dissatisfaction to subscribers, may cause the loss of subscriptions. Do not use the subscription order form when sending a complaint or other communication to the Magazine office; use ordinary correspondence or business-size letter paper, or a postcard.
Directing Magazine Activities Through The Union Meeting Leone G. Layton Counselor, Wells Stake Relief Society
The most important part of the work of a stake Magazine representative is, in my opinion, to help ward Magazine workers to be truly Relief Society Magazine representatives. It is just as important for Magazine representatives to be familiar with all phases of Relief Society work as for any other officer. They should know the objectives of the Society, its history, its accomplishments, the reasons for future hopes, why we are desirous of greater membership, the reasons for visiting teaching—in short, they should truly be representative Relief Society women. They should value their calling and see in it the great possibilities of missionary work for the Society and their Church. They must have a sincere desire in their hearts to let their sisters know of the opportunities and development that await them. Wells stake is the largest in the Church in membership. We have ten large wards, and so our representatives have to secure a large number of subscriptions. However, we try not to think of percentages, except as a measuring stick to see how many of our sisters we are reaching. Our desire is to let every woman in our stake have the "Voice of Relief Society" in her home. We feel that any home is a better place to live if it has the influence that our Magazine brings. In my work in Relief Society, I have yet to meet a sister who does not want to fully measure up to the requirements of her calling. Our problem as stake leaders is to be effective enough in our work to help her to measure up to her desires. Naturally, we can be of greatest assistance to Magazine representatives through our union meeting work. The first Magazine meeting held at the beginning of this season's intensive drive was in the home of one of the stake Relief Society executives, and was social in nature. We invited the ward executive officer in charge of Magazine work (this was in most instances a counselor) and the Magazine representative of each ward. It is just as important for executive officers to have a vision of the Magazine work as it is for the representatives. Because the meeting was social in nature, there was a friendly spirit; the new workers became acquainted easily and a fine enthusiasm was felt. At this meeting, the sisters were given an opportunity to really get acquainted with the Magazine—to see it in a new light. Study of the Magazine showed them that each issue is so planned that the needs of our sisters all over the world may be met, and that all may feel the unity in our organization. The Magazine must remember our sisters in Africa, Australia, Asia, Europe, the islands of the sea, the countries of South America, Alaska, Canada and Mexico, as well as those living in all parts of the United States. All are one in the Gospel. We carefully analyzed the latest issue of the Magazine. Its theme was pointed out, and attention was called to the relationship between the cover picture and content; articles and stories were evaluated, and their appropriateness for the issue was revealed. The sisters were advised that each issue is similarly planned, and they were encouraged to carefully analyze each one in order that they might properly interpret it to others. This study of the Magazine made the women feel that they really knew it; what really counted, they were converted to its worth. At the close of this first meeting, every sister was asked to express her feeling toward the work, and a very inspirational "Magazine testimony meeting" was held. There was no necessity for constant check-up during the campaign. The sisters were told that, knowing how busy they were, we would not bother them with calls, but we would welcome calls from them as progress was made. Knowing how sincere was our interest, they kept us informed at frequent intervals. The final reports came in promptly and accurately. At the second union meeting, held after the campaign, we discussed our progress. We decided that as our objective was, after all, not merely numbers of subscriptions, but the "Voice of Relief Society" in every home, our real work was facing us. It was not enough to make sure that the Magazine was in every home, but we must see that it benefited the subscriber to the fullest extent. How could this be accomplished? It was suggested that inasmuch as ward executives set forth the policies and standards of Relief Society in their wards, we might, as unobtrusively as possible, begin by helping these busy women to get full benefit from our Magazine. Then we could reach out further. We planned to do this in some such way as the following: "Have you read the article on the Constitution this month?" If they had not, we would try to interest them in it. Whenever the sisters see the Magazine representative, we want them to think of the Magazine, not in terms of, "She'll ask me to subscribe for it," but rather, "She has something interesting to tell me." The third union meeting was spent in furthering our plans to represent the Magazine adequately. Of course, we have all encountered women who say they simply have no time for reading. We prepared to break down their defense. Articles on reading were studied, such as, the value of reading, what our reading should do for us, how we might cultivate the reading habit, what constitutes correct reading habits for children in the home, what type of magazines we should put before our young people, how time for reading might be programmed. Suggestions were made for followup work on subscriptions; for example, we recommended that a slip of paper be given out at the door on Relief Society day, asking such questions as, "Are you preparing to renew your subscription?" or "Have you read such-and-such an article this month?" It might contain a simple statement, such as, "Be a friend to your neighbor—tell her of the Relief Society Magazine." The value of the Magazine to particular groups was the topic for discussion at the fourth union meeting—the value to the ward president, the value to visiting teachers, the value to enlistment workers, et cetera. Then, we discussed the comparative value to the ward organization of a Magazine representative who, in reality, adequately represented the Magazine, and one who was merely a "subscription-getter." We decided that the work of the Magazine representative was as great or as small as she chose to make it; that the Magazine was largely dependent on its interpreters, and representatives should study that they might interpret better and thus help build our organization. In evaluating the Magazine, a magazine menu entitled, "Balanced Rations for a Periodical 'Table,' from the book, What Shall I Read, was placed in the hand of each woman. The menu included the types of magazines considered necessary to a well-balanced diet. The following are some of the interesting listings: Grace before Meat—Religious Magazines; Soup—Picture Magazines; Roasts—Quality Magazines; et cetera. If our Magazine were completely meeting the needs of its readers, then through the year it would contain some of each kind of "food" indicated in this menu. We checked our Magazine against the listing. It was a great satisfaction to find that the quality and variety of content in our own Magazine measured up to what is considered necessary to a wholesome, well-balanced, magazine-reading diet. We went from that discussion very proud to be Relief Society Magazine representatives. Although we regard our program as year-round, our last union meeting of the season of necessity was a preparation meeting for the next fall's intensive work, inasmuch as we hold our one-month intensive campaign in the fall. At this union meeting, each representative prepared a concise report of her accomplishments, and hopes. We checked up on ourselves to see if we were by any chance still "subscription-getters," or if we had in reality become ward officers. We evaluated our work to see if we had accomplished our objectives in interpreting a reading program and if our sisters were feeling our friendly interest in them.
Mormon Handicraft Department
Mormon Handicraft Marches On
Lucile W. Wolf, manager of the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop, demonstrated a variety of unique and attractive articles from the Shop which sell unusually well, and emphasized the importance of good materials, care in the selection of colors, and perfection in workmanship. She told of the increasing demand for certain articles which is extending to a growing number of women the opportunity for marketing their handiwork. As the first example of stakewide participation, she told of the Nampa Stake Board Relief Society, which has sponsored the making of saleable articles in all wards of the stake, netting hundreds of dollars for the several women consigning their handiwork to the Shop. Women were urged to specialize in designs which have historic interest, such as the seagull, the sego lily, wheat and pioneer motifs. The coming Relief Society centennial in 1942 and the Utah centennial in 1947 are expected to center interest on the Society and the State, increasing the demand for Mormon handicraft.
How Relief Society Can Encourage Handicraft
Appealing to leaders of Relief Society work meetings to take advantage of the time allowed for handiwork, Luella N. Adams, member of the General Board's Mormon Handicraft Committee, spoke of the importance of preserving native American skills and also those brought from foreign lands by converts to the Church. She encouraged work leaders to seek out women with special skills in handiwork, and to arrange for them to teach others at the monthly work meeting. Although the principal purpose of this meeting is to sew for the needy, welfare sewing service ordinarily does not occupy the entire time of all the women in attendance, and many of them welcome the opportunity to teach and learn handiwork of various types, such as tatting, netting, crocheting, knitting, weaving, and fine quilting. Opportunity for creative expression on this day will arouse interest and enthusiasm in the work meeting and may also be the means of bringing into the Society as new members many women who can make a valuable contribution.
The Work Department
Sewing Exhibits
Of special interest to sewing leaders, as well as to other Relief Society workers, were the exhibits representative of three types of sewing projects—remodeled used clothing, utilization of knit-goods remnants, and clothing made from new material in Relief Society work meetings. These exhibits were on display Wednesday afternoon and all day Thursday in Whitney Hall, where the sessions on Mormon Handicraft and the Relief Society work department were held. The exhibit of remodeled clothing was arranged by Adelia Busch, manager of women's department, Northern Utah Region of Church welfare program, who talked on conservation of clothing, and who distributed, upon request, hundreds of paper patterns of designs well adapted to the utilization of used clothing. Emma G. Phillips, president of Liberty Stake Relief Society, described not only the special project conducted by the Tenth Ward, where remnants of knit goods were converted into a variety of clothing, but exhibited many useful novelties work meetings in her stake. The representative array of clothing made from new materials was selected and arranged by Emma J. Barton, manager of women's department, Salt Lake Region of the Church welfare program, who told of the value to the Salt Lake Regional storehouse of the sewing service given during the 1940-41 season at the regular monthly ward sewing meetings of Relief Societies of the Salt Lake Region.
Relief Society At Work
(a) Conservation
Adelia Busch, manager of women's department, Northern Utah Region of the Church welfare program, emphasized the opportunity presented by the Relief Society work meeting for teaching and demonstrating the importance of consistent remodeling of clothing as a means of family economy. Many women who come to the welfare sewing center have never used a needle and know nothing about drafting or using patterns or cutting materials. She decried the general lack of information and skill on the part of mothers and homemakers in making the best use of the materials at hand, in using a needle, and in drafting or using patterns and cutting materials. Most women, however, are eager and willing to learn to help themselves if given the opportunity. At the Church welfare sewing center of the Northern Utah Region, one day a week is set aside as "opportunity day," when anyone is welcome to come for advice or to secure patterns to help them with their sewing in the home. Following is an example of the value of this service. One woman reported that she had six boys, but that only two of them could go to Church at the same time, as the family could afford to buy only one large jacket and one smaller one, and that the three larger boys and the three smaller ones were taking turns going to Sunday School. This mother was taught to make the required jackets from used coats which were made available to her, the only cost being 55 or 60 cents per jacket for the necessary elastic and zippers. The next week all six of her boys were in attendance at Sunday School. A little personal attention opens a new world of interest and activity for mothers. Stating that wasted clothing is extravagance, that the remodeling of clothing is not a sign of poverty, but of good judgment and economy, Mrs. Busch appealed to work leaders to make a valuable contribution to the general welfare and social adjustment of the people of the Church by converting them to the good sense and economy of remodeling and properly caring for the clothing they already have.
(b) Ingenuity
Emma G. Phillips, president of Liberty Stake Relief Society, described the experimental project in the use of remnants of knit goods which was conducted at work meetings during the 1940-41 season by the Tenth Ward Relief Society of this stake, at the suggestion of the General Board. Twenty-five women participated in this project, giving a total of 191 hours of sewing service. The total cost of the remnants, findings, and supplementary material was $14.17, from which a variety of 37 articles was made at an average cost per garment of 38 cents.
(c) Welfare
Emma J. Barton, manager of the women's department, Salt Lake Region of the Church welfare program, told of the value of and some of the problems involved in the sewing service given in the interest of the Church welfare program by the Relief Societies of the Region at the monthly sewing meeting during the 1940-41 season. This project was conducted as an experiment, under the direction of the General Board, and in cooperation with the Salt Lake Region. Now nearing successful completion, this project has demonstrated the effectiveness and values of this type of Relief Society cooperation with the Church welfare program, chief among which Mrs. Barton listed the three following factors: 1. The project has stimulated an awareness of the Church welfare program among hundreds of women, who, because of their fortunate financial conditions, are not otherwise brought into close contact with the welfare phase of Church work, and who have now had opportunity to labor with their hands to help provide for those less fortunate than themselves. 2. It has provided a uniform program for the monthly Relief Society work meeting which has been both instructive and productive. 3. By producing about 3,500 articles, such as percale dresses and aprons, and outing, broadcloth and crepe sleeping garments, the Relief Societies relieved the regional sewing center to such extent that it was able to devote more time to the production of overalls, corduroy pants, work shirts, etc., made in connection with a training project in the operation of commercial power machines. Many women and girls, after a six-month training course on these machines, are placed in private industry.
Better Buymanship Leda T. Jensen Relief Society General Board Member
Women receive varying degrees of training for the manifold duties of homemaker. Some have formal, academic training, others receive their only training in the home of their parents in a very informal way. Many are continually striving to become more efficient in the home through attendance at classes conducted by state agricultural colleges, by the Parent-Teacher Association and other adult groups, by reading current periodicals and other literature, and by listening to radio programs. Our economic status, our health and that of our family, the size of our family, and our desire to improve, determine the amount of time we have and are willing to devote to self-improvement in the field of homemaking. The importance of the home is being recognized more and more by individuals and organizations interested in the welfare of mankind. There is no more important work for women than that of homemaker and mother, but all too often a girl receives far less concentrated, consciously directed training for this important part of her life than for almost any other field of interest. Every mother deserves credit for all the help she gives her daughters in preparation for building their own homes, but changing concepts of the techniques of homemaking problems require our constant attention if we desire to learn and to grow in our ability to provide better homes. So, the General Board feels that any discussion carried forward on work-and-business day should center around subjects related to the home—homemaking subjects, which will help us to help ourselves in the most practical ways. We wish again to emphasize that discussions on this day are optional, depending on the time available and the needs of the wards. They should not detract from the successful completion of needed supplies for the poor and unfortunate. Also, the treatment of the subjects should be free, easy, and informal, and the discussion method of teaching used. For the past three years, we have offered for your consideration the important subject of nutrition. This year, 1940-41, the lessons have been published in the lesson department of the Relief Society Magazine. The same procedure will be followed for 1941-42, and the subject to be presented is consumer buying under the interesting, general title, "Better Buymanship." There are four definite activities connected with the homemaker's consumption program; namely, those of manager, buyer, user, and citizen. The lessons outlined will discuss problems connected with the consumer as buyer, and a further limitation, necessary because of time, will confine the subject to better buymanship of fabrics and clothing. There are several definite and important reasons why this subject has been chosen. These reasons are brought out in the first lesson of the course which will be published in the July issue of the Magazine. We feel that you will see the wisdom in the choice when you read the first lesson and those that follow, and when you try to incorporate in your buying the knowledge contained in the course, "Better Buymanship."
Membership Department
Appreciation, Report, and Recommendations Rae B. Barker Relief Society General Board Member
The splendid effort sustained for three consecutive years in the membership-building program is genuinely appreciated by the General Board, both for effort and accomplishment. Many have worked courageously against great odds. Much has been done and much more can be done. The growth in membership during the past three years is unparalleled by any similar period in the life of the organization. The greatest increase in any one year previous to 1938 was, in round numbers, 3,500 in 1921. The average yearly increase during the three years of the present membership campaign is above 5,000. We recognize for outstanding achievement in membership increase the following missions with 75 percent or more of their families represented by Relief Society members: Brazilian, Argentine, Samoan, Mexican, Tongan, New Zealand, Tahitian, and New England; and the following stakes: Juarez, Big Horn, Wayne, Snowflake, San Juan, Panguitch, Moapa, St. Joseph, and Deseret: We also recognize the following missions which have made the greatest increases from 1937 to 1940: Texas, Northwestern States, Mexican, New England, Western States, East-Central States, and Eastern States; and the following stakes: Seattle, Denver, Portland, Carbon, and Oakland. The percentage of increase in each instance is shown in the table on pages 318 to 320. (Representatives of these stakes and missions who were in attendance at conference were introduced individually at the evening reception, by Belle S. Spafford, of the membership committee, and their membership gains were announced. ) We are happy to greet the new workers who are with us for the first time. For their information, and by way of review for others of us, a brief statement about the present fouryear membership-building program may be appreciated. The term "membership-building" has a double connotation—(1) building the individual through opportunities which come with membership in Relief Society, and (2) building the organization through the added strength of new members. At the close of 1937, when Relief Society membership was approximately 75,000, a campaign was launched for a Church-wide increase of one-third, or 25,000 additional members, in 313 order to bring the enrollment to 100,000 by 1942, our centennial year —a goal consistent with the number of eligible women in the Church. One hundred thousand members by 1942 is only the numerical measure of our objective. We need to remind ourselves often that the real purpose in the membership campaign is to extend the benefits of Relief Society to more women; to gather in our Latter-day Saint women to enjoy the Gospel as it is expressed through Relief Society. Missionary work has been curtailed in many countries. Perhaps it is time to do more missionary work at home. Far too many are missing what our Church offers to its women. Women, especially in the first half of the past century, struggled hard to get recognition and privileges such as have been extended to us in this organization. They worked with great devotion to woman's cause, knowing all the time that not they, but those who followed, would enjoy the full fruits of their efforts. We can best show our gratitude for the woman's organization in our Church by making a real effort to bring it to others, so they too may share its benefits. General Board Recommendations For Membership Campaign The General Board makes the following recommendations for the remainder of the year 1941 in the interest of membership: (1) That an intensive membershipbuilding program be conducted during the remaining nine months of the year (1941) rather than during the limited period of three months (October 1 to December 31), as heretofore. (2) That a membership-building program be conducted during the summer with the assistance of visiting teachers, directed 314 by ward presidents and membership coordinators; that during the months of June, July, August and September, visiting teachers be given helpful membership instructions at the regular monthly work-andbusiness meeting when they report their regular visits. (3) That a membership department be conducted in connection with each union meeting held during the remainder of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941 1941. In view of the fact that most stakes will not hold union meetings during the month of May, it is recommended that a special stake meeting in the interest of membership efforts during the summer months be held in May. (4) That ward Relief Society conference programs for 1941 include some interesting phase of membership building. Membership Pictographs COLORFUL array of membership pictographs (blue lettering and characters on a cream_background, with the goal line in bright red) extended across the entire forty-foot rostrum in the Assembly Ilall throughout the first day of the conference, and was also displayed at the evening reception. This huge chart, rearranged and greatly reduced in size, is reproduced on pages 321 to 324, portraying the 1940 ratio of Relief Society members in relation to the number of Latter-day Saint families in each stake and mission. In fitting this reproduction to the pages of the Magazine, the actual figures relating to each stake and mission have been omitted, but appear in the form of a separate table on pages 317 to 320. Three large supplementary summary charts were also displayed. The entire exhibit, which was explained at the officers' meeting by the General Secretary-Treasurer, and at the membership department by Rae B. Barker, chairman, served to demonstrate and emphasize the individualized membership goal of each stake and mission, formerly considered in terms of a membership increase of one-third over 1937 by the end of 1941, and now designated as 60 percent of Latter-day Saint women in the respective stakes and missions. (See page 294.) Church-wide figures indicate that during the first three years of the four-year campaign to bring the membership to 100,000 by 1942— which means by the end of 1941— a gain of 21 percent representing 16,- ooo members has been made; that the present membership of 91,064 represents 51 percent of the approximate total of 177,000 women in the Church; and that there are more than 86,000 unenrolled women from which to draw the 9,000 additional women which must be enrolled this year in order to attain the centennial goal of 100,000 members. This means that, in general, 1 of every 10 unenrolled women must be enlisted. Each character in the charts represents 10 percent of all the women in the particular stake or mission to which it relates, based on number of Latter-day Saint families reported in their respective annual reports for 1940. The dark women represent the proportion of women in_ each stake who are now enrolled; the outlined characters represent the proportion of women in each stake who are not enrolled. The vertical RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE line running through each section indicates the 60 percent goal, emphasizing the fact that the new individualized goal puts all stakes and missions on an equal footing with respect to their possibilities. Those stakes and missions where the line of dark women marches right up to the goal line have reached the established quota; where the line of dark women extends beyond this line, the goal has been exceeded; those instances where the line of dark women has not reached the goal line indicate the stakes and missions on which the Society is depending for the total increase of 9,000 members to be gained during 1941. Because there are no compiled data showing the number of eligible women in the stakes and missions, the number has been estimated as being the same as the number of Latter-day Saint families, on the assumption that there is approximately one woman in each family who is eligible for membership in the Society. It is recognized that there are no women in a small _ proportion of the total families, but inasmuch as only 6 of every 10 families are required to be represented in order to reach the goal, it is believed that the margin of 4 of every 10 families is ample to allow for those homes in which there are no eligible women. This factor will also be offset somewhat by the fact that in some families there are two or more women eligible for membership. The possibility of enrolling women from at least 60 percent of the families has already been demontrated by a group of 66 stakes and missions, whereas only 38 stakes and missions have made increases of onethird or more since 1937. 315 A few examples will serve to more clearly explain the reason for shifting the basis for computing the membership quotas of the different stakes and missions. Seattle Stake, which has made the exceptionally fine record of an increase of 91 percent since 1937, nevertheless had only 35 percent of its eligible women enrolled by the end of 1940. Compare this situation with Wayne Stake, which has added so few members during the past three years that its rate of increase is only 6 percent. The reason for this small increase is at once evident when it is found that Wayne Stake actually has 81 percent of its women enrolled, that it evidently had 75 percent enrolled in 1937, and, therefore, that it is beyond the range of possibility for this stake to increase its membership by onethird, unless it were able to enroll a woman from every family in the stake and a few others as well. Even though Seattle Stake has nearly doubled its membership since 1937, there still remains a group of about 7oo unenrolled women in the stake from which it will strive to enroll the additional 263 members required in order to bring its ratio up to 60 percent. The final status of each stake at the end of 1941 will be computed on the number of Latterday Saint families in the stake at that time. This fact will be especially appreciated by those wards and stakes where the Church population has declined during the past three years through removal to newer residential sections, cutting into membership gains previously made and reducing the number of unenrolled women from which new members might be drawn. An example of the 316 effect of such a situation on Relief Society membership may be seen with respect to the Hawaiian Mission. Instead of an increase in membership during the past three years, this mission reports the loss of more than one-fourth of its members. This may have been due to removal from the mission, or to a more accurate report of membership. In either case, it would be unfair to expect this mission to increase one-third over a former larger enrollment. To do so would mean requiring this mission to enroll every Latter-day Saint woman in the mission and a considerable number of non-members of the Church as well. 'The inequality of requiring Seattle Stake to enroll only 1 of every 4 women, and requiring the Hawaiian Mission to enroll of every 4 women is readily apparent. It is noted, however, that despite its losses, the Hawaiian Mission has more than reached the goal of 60 percent. Chart 2 (reproduced on page 317 ) shows that 66 stakes and missions have already reached or exceeded the 60 percent goal, but there are still more than 15,000 unenrolled women in their midst from which they may continue to build even further. Some stakes, despite their best efforts, may be unable to reach the 60 percent mark, and, therefore, the enrollment of more than 60 percent of the women in some of the other stakes will help considerably in bringing the total membership to the grand total of 100,000 by the end of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941 this year. In the second group are 31 stakes and missions which closely approach but have not yet reached the goal; in order to do so they must, during 1941, enlist, on the average, 1 of every 8 unenrolled women in their localities. In the third group are 41 stakes where from 40 percent to 50 percent of the available women are enrolled; they should enroll on the average 1 of every 4 unenrolled women in their wards. 'The fourth group consists of 19 stakes and missions where only about one-third of the women are members of the Relief Society; they have a larger field in which to work and need to enlist at least 1 of every 3 women. Although there are only 4 stakes in the fifth group, with rates of from 20 to 30 percent, nevertheless, these 4 stakes, if they reach the 60 percent goal, will supply one-fourth of the additional 9,000 members needed, for in these 4 stakes alone there are 5,000 unenrolled women from which at least 2,300 additional women should be enrolled in order to bring this group up to the goal line; these stakes should work for 1 member from every 2 unenrolled women in their wards. Stakes and missions will designate as membership goals for their local Relief Societies 60 percent of the Latter-day Saint families on record in each respective ward and branch. *Editor's Note: Pictographs were planned by Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer, and prepared under her direction. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 317 CHART 2 IN WHICH GROUP ARE YOU °? FIND YOUR APPROXIMATE RATIO IN CHART 3 — YOUR EXACT FIGURES IN TABLE | PERCENT OF STAKES AND ¢ £ 100,000 BY 42 GROUP WOHEN MISSIONS Gee LED Tone iF EACH GROUP ENLISTS ENROLLED IN GROUP FROM ITS UNENROLLED WOMEN TABLE 1 RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS IN RELATION TO NUMBER OF LOS. FAMILIES 1940 Based on Data Reported by Stakes and Missions in 1940 Relief Society Annual Reports (Note: The data presented in this table are in support of Chart 2 (above) and Chart 3 (pages 321 to 324). Im preparing this table adjustments were made with respect to stakes and missions affected or created by division since 1937. Stakes and missions are listed in Table 1 according to rank, based on their respective percentages of Relief Society members to total women -- the number of L. D. S. Families being considered as the equivalent of total women. The approximate ratio of enrolled women, counting each character as 10 percent, is shown for each stake and mission in alphabetical order in Chart 3, which also shows the rank by means of which the exact figures for each stake and mission may be found readily in Table 1. The table also shows the numerical and percentage growth in membership from December 31, 1937, to December 31, 1940. Membership losses since 1937 are indicated by a minus sign preceding the figures in these same columns. The figures in the two right-hand columns -the number of additional members required to bring the stake or mission to the Relief Society membership goal of 60 percent of L. D. S. Families, and the number of unenrolled women from which they may be enlisted — will either increase or decrease as the number of L. D. S. Families changes, and therefore these figures, representative of the situation at the end of 1940, should be used only as a general guide with respect to quotas for 1941. The ratio of each stake and mission in relation to the 60 percent goal will be computed at the end of 1941 on the number of families reported at that time.) 318 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 194} elief Society Members Increase fin Relation to Families Additional Stake or Mission 40 Number Nanver Members enrolled Number Percent/ L. D. S. Members Required Women (See note page 317) GROUP 1 60 PERCENT AND OVER  49,235 |33,873 | 68.80 —— | 15,362 1 | Brazilian 19 | 35.18 47 73 1155.32  | Argentine 33 | 24.09 135 170 | 125.93 — — 3 | Samoan — 22 |- 4.92 374 425 |113.64, — 4 |Mexican 139 | 76.37 287 321 |111.85 — --- 5 | Tongan 41 | 23.16 204 218 | 106.86  — 6 |New Zealand 160 | 37.04 560 592 |105.71 == — 7 | Tahitian - 11 j- 4.15 254 254 |100.00 — 8 | Juarez 10 6.49 174 164 | 94.25 ——10 9 | Big Horn 134 | 20.97 906 773 | 85.32 — 133 10 | Wayne 20 5.69 459 371 | 80.83 = 88 11  Snowflake 126 | 23.91 825 653 | 79.15 — 172 12 | San Juan 73 | 24.66 A472 369 | 78.13 a 103 13 | Panguiten 74 | 18.18 623 481 77.21 --- 142 14 | Moapa 131 | 29.24 765 579 | 75.69 = 186 15 |St. Joseph 16 2.65 822 620 | 75.43 -- 202 16 | Deseret 110 | 18.49 935 705 | 75.40 = 230 17 |New Englana 42 75.00 131 98 | 74.81 --- 33 18 | Benson 89 | 14.13 967 719 | 74.35 === 248 19 | Moroni 23 5.05 645 478 | 74.11 = 167 20 | Smithfield 185 | 36.63 958 690 | 72.03 = 268 21 | Eastern States 110 | 63.95 392 282 | 71.94 — 110 22 | Alberta Th | 12.94 908 646 | 71.15 — 262 23 | Garfield 19 | 4.59 609 433 | 71.10 _ 176 24 | San Luis 58 15.51 615 432 70.24 — 183 25 | Millard 126 | 24.14 ' 929 648 69.75 --- 281 26 | North Sanpete ~ 32 |- 4.34 1,015 705 69.46 ——310 27 | Bear Lake 85 16.83 851 590 69.33 — 261 28 | St. Johns 86 | 23.01 567 393 | 69.31 aes 174 29 | Canadian 8 6.95 178 123 | 69.10 "= 55 30 | Emery 53 6.63 1,237 847 | 68.47 —_ 390 31 | Moon Leke - 21-.78 376 256 | 68.09 Be 5 120 32 | South Sanpete 86 12.32 1,165 784 | 67.30 --— 381 33 | Mount Grahan 106 | 21.20 903 606 |} 67.11 -— 297 34 | Phoenix 107 | 40.84 552 369 | 66.85 = 183 35 | Hawaiian ~169 | -26.24 711 475 66.81 === 236 36 | East Central States 191 | 73.126 680 452 | 66.47 = 228 37 | Texas 305 1123.93 832 551 | 66.23 ~-- 281 38 | Northwestern States 613 | 77.59 2,134 | 1,403 | 65.75  731 39 | Zion Park 37 10.76 580 381 | 65.69 — 199 40 | Raft River 9 4.86 296 194 65.54 ==> 102 41 | Rexburg 328 | 36.69 |] 1,867 | 1,222 | 65.45. 645 42 | St. George 43 7.30 972 632 | 65.02 - 340 43 | Duchesne 70 36.84 402 260 | 64.63 — 142 44 | Bannock 47 | 15.41 546 352 | 64.47 — 194 45 | Minidoka 108 | 28.57 754 486 | 64.46 — 268 46 | North Central Stutes 81 | 30.92 537 343 | 63.87 —— 194 47 | Lethbridge 82 | 22.04 Tu 454 | 63.85 a 257 48 | Porineuf 102 | 25.69 783 499 | 63.73 — 284 49 | Carbon 425 | 60.63 || 1,770 | 1,126 | 63.62 644, 50 | Bear River 99 | 11.12 1,557 989 | 63.52 — 568 51 | Franklin 108 17.63 1,137 719 63.24.__ 418 52 | Teton 58 | 15.33 691 435 | 62.95 — 256 53 | Yellowstone 167 | 30.53 1,137 714 | 62.80 —— 423 54 | Blackfoot 229 | 33.53 1,457 912 | 62.60 — 545 55 | Reno 45 23.81 374 234 | 62.57 2m 140 56 | Kanab 22 6.79 556 346 | 62.23 --- 210 57 | Oneida 65 11.33 1,029 636 | 61.81 -- 393 58 | Sevier 94} 17.421 1,026 634 | 61.79 Sos 392 59 | Santaquin-Tintic 6 1.35 733 450 | 61.39 283 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 319 Relief Society Members, Increase in Relation to Families |[Additional] UnRank| Stake or Mission 1937-40 Number Number Members enrolled Number|Percenti| L. D. S. Members Percent]] Required ' Women Families|) (See note page 317) 60 | Taylor 61 | 14.02 809 496 | 41.31 — 313 61 |Star Valley 119 | 25.00 971 595 | 61.28 — 376 62 |North Sevier 31 8.68 638 388 60.82 —_—- 250 63 |South Sevier 71 *| «14.73 914 553 | 60.50 — 361 64 |Cassia 30 | 18.40 321 193 | 60.12 — 128 65 [Southern Arizona 43 | 14.93 551 331 | 60.07 — 220 66 | Shelley 97_| 21.37 919 551 _| 59.96 -—~ 368 GROUP 2 50 — 60 PERCENT — —— | 41,304 |22,291 | 53.97 2,491 19,013 67 |Nebo 112 | 22.05 1,039 620 | 59.67 3 A19 68 | Malad 39 7.24 978 578 | 59.10 10 400 69 |North Idaho Falis 133 | 27.82 1,047 611 | 58.36 17 436 70 |Gunnison 66 | 19.42 697 406 | 58.25 12 291 71 | Cache 93 | 10.57 1,673 973 | 58.16 31 700 72 |Western States 198 | 49.62 1,199 694 | 57.88 25 505 73 |Lost River 63 25.40 545 311 57.06 16 234 74 |Uintah 183 | 37.81 1,170 667 | 57.01 35 503 75 |Nampa 61 26.29 515 293 56.89 16 222 76 |Montpelier 66 | 11.87 1,098 622 | 56.65 37 476 77 | Australian 22 | 11.52 377 213 | 56.50 13 164 78 | Palmyra 59 8.87 1,309 724 | 55.31 61 585 79 | Morgan 24 9.41 510 279 | 54.721 27 231 80 |Nevada 88 | 25.21 799 437 | 54.69 42 362 81 | Wasatch 129 | 23.89 1,226 669 | 54.57 67 557 82 | Hyrum 49 7.96 1,223 665 | 54.37 69 558 83 | Beaver 22 4-84 878 477 54-34 50 401 84 |Maricopa 147 | 24.83 1,371 739 | 53.90 84 632 85 |Twin Falls 110 | 47.01 639 344 | 53.83 39 295 86 | Logan 104 | 12.26 1,779 952 | 53.51 115 827 87 | Uvada 54 | 23.48 532 284 | 53.38 35 248 88 | Juab 15 3.17 916 488 53.23 62 428 89 | Rigby 144 | 19.51 1,658 882 | 53.20 113 776 90 | Idaho 28 | 11.72 508 267 | 52.56 38 241 91 |Southern States 310 | 43.91 1,934 | 1,016 | 52.53 4s 918 92 |European Missions 2 -04 8,659 | 4,483 | 51.77 712 4,176 93 | Woodruff 78 | 19.26 936 483 | 51.60 79 453 94 | Utah 237 | 40.72 1,591 819 | 51.48 136 TT2 95 | Burley 106 | 21.54 1,165 598 | 51.33 101 567 96 |Box Elder 19 | 12.53 || 2,094 | 1,069 | 51.05 187 1,025 97 |South Los Angeles 227 56.61 1,239 628 50.69 115 611 GROUP 3 40 - 50 PERCENT - || 44,984 |20,567 | 45.72 6,423 24,417 98 | Boise 9A | 37.75 687 343 | 49.93 69 344 99 | Portland 173 71.49 835 415 49.70 86 420 100 | Parowan 170 27.07 1,614 798 A944 170 816 101 | Timpanogos 66 | 20.12 802 394 | 49.13 87 408 102 |South Davis 193 28.76 1,760 864 49.09 192 896 103 | Blaine 93 25.20 1,029 462 48.90 155 567 104 |Central States 54 | 13.27 946 461 48.73 107 485 105 | Young 25 14.71 401 195 48.63 46 206 106 |California 265 | 37.59 1,999 970 | 48.52 229 1,029 107 |San Diego 30 28.57 279 135 48.39 32 144 108 |Idaho Falls 166 32.87 1,388 671 48.34 162 Tai, 109 |North Weber 175 22.46 1,982 954 | 48.13 235 1,028 110 |Gridley 40 22.86 447 215 48.10 pS) 232 111 |Long Beach 173 44.70 1,165 560 48.07 139 605 112 {South African - 46 |-29.49 229 110 48.04 27 119 113 |Los Angeles 126 | 38.53 948 453 | 47.78 116 495 114 |Tooele 251 | 46.65 1,659 789 | 47.56 206 870 320 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941 Relief Society Members I Increase in Relation to Families ||Additional} UnRank| Stake or Mission 1937-40 Number Number Members' | enrolled Number/Percent]] L. D. S. Members] Percent Required | Women Families (See note page 317) 115 | Lehi 11 2.86 838 396 | 47.26 107 442 116 |Union 59 | 27.96 57L 270 | 47.04 715 304 117 | Summit - 13 |- 4.68 567 265 | 46.74 75 302 118 | Spanish-American - 62 |-40.26 199 92 | 46.23 27 107 119 |East Jordan 153 | 20.68 j| 1,932 893 | 46.22 266 1,039 120 | Lyman 64 | 17.73 920 425 | 46.20 127 495 121 |North Davis 118 | 21.30 1,456 672 | 46.15 202 784, 122 | Roosevelt 24 6.90 813 372 | 45.76 116 441 123 | Sacramento 109 | 44.86 TTL 352 | 45.48 112 422 124 | Sharon 132 | 37.82 1,059 481 | 45.42 154 578 125 | Chicago 23 9.66 586 261 | 44.54 91 325 126 |Oquirrh 145 | 25.22 1,617 720 44.53 250 897 127 |South Summit 7 1.72 938 AL5 | 44.24 148 523 128 | Alpine 36 9.07 981 433 | 44.14 156 548 129 | Kolob 145 30.66 1,423 618 43.43 236 805 130 | Provo 93 | 23.48 1,130 489 | 43.27 189 641 131 |Big Cottonwood 76 | 20.00 1,059 456 | 43.06 180 603 132 |West Jordan 63 | 11.50 1,432 611 | 42.67 248 821 133 |Pioneer 189 | 23.71 2,320 986 42.50 406 1,334 134 |Weiser 78 | 26.53 882 372 | 42.18 157 510 135 | Pocatello 240 | 30.46 |} 2,439 | 1,028 | 42.15 436 1,411 136 |Northern States 108 | 21.26 1,500 616 | 41.07 284 884 137 |San Bernardino 70 | 33.98 682 276 | 40.47 133 406 138 {Washington 33 | 13.41 693 279 | 40.26 137 Al, GROUP 4 30 - 40 PERCENT — — || 35,087 |12,551 | 35.77 8,501 22,536 139 | Bonneville 186 | 35.03 1,865 717 | 38.45 402 1,148 140 | Oakland 233 | 59.74 1,624 623 | 38.36 351 1,001 141 |Ogden 172 | 18.94 || 2,839 | 1,080 | 38.04 623 1,759 142 | Weber 267 | 44.35 2,292 869 | 37.91 506 1,423 143 |San Fernando 160 | 57.35 1,180 439 | 37.20 269 TAL 144 | Pasadena 96 | 27.35 1,211 447 36.91 280 764 145 |Wells 230 | 25.73 3,061 | 1,124 | 36.72 113 1,937 146 | Oahu 16 3.62 1,251 458 36.61 293 793 147 |Granite 92 | 14.98 1,964 706 | 35.95 472 1,258 148 |Mount Ogden 262 | 44.03 2,401 857 | 35.69 584 1,544 149 | Liberty 219 | 25.44 3,054 | 1,080 35.36 752 1,974 150 |Grant 159 | 22.62 2,456 862 35.10 612 1,594 151 |Seattle 175 90.67 1,051 368 35.01 263 683 152 |New York 48 | 27.59 649 222 | 34.21 167 427 153 | Highland 183 28.15 2,437 $33 34.18 629 1,604 154 |Salt Lake 56 | 10.29 1,772 600 | 33.86 463 1,172 155 | Cottonwood 62 | 11.50 1,844 601 | 32.59 505 1,243 156 |San Francisco 45 | 14.29 1,127 360 | 31.94 316 767 157 {Denver 128 72.232 1,009 305 30.23 301 704 GROUP 5 20 — 30 PERCENT — 6,754 | 1,782 | 26.38 2,270 4,972 153 | Inglewood 111 | 48.497 1,143 340 | 29.75 346 803 159 | Riverside 69 | 16.47 1,648 488 | 29.61 501 1,160 160 | Ensign 106 | 32.12 1,637 436 | 26.63 546 1,201 161 | Emigration 68 | 15.11 2,326 518 | 22.27 877 1,808 ALL GROUPS 16,000 | 21.18 [77,364 [91,064 | 51.34 8,936 | 86,300  Adjusted RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS IN RELATION TO NUMBER OF LOS FAMILIES | REPRESENTS 10 PERCENT OF ENROLLED MEMBERS { REPRESENTS 10 PERCENT OF UNENROLLED WOMEN ALBERTA #408804006 = ALPINE  BANNOCK RRA RICE « BEAR LAKE #444448688 27 BEAR RIVER #4898 R 288 50 BEAVER #99995 BENSON 8 $99 9888E68 a  #444 EAEE BIG HORN AASRR HERS BLACKFOOT #9994 82856 s« BLAINE §=— #4 BOISE SAREE ARG BONNEVILLE $4882 9 2618 10 BOX ELDER #88945 888 0 BURLEY #489488 888 «: CACHE on CARBON 288 CASSIA  CHICAGO #4486868s COTTONWOODS SAGE STAKE DENVER $480¢/8060¢., DESERET #400d@0060 DUCHESNE ##84H#P i608 EAST JORDANSSRAR S88 EMERY s#40@#608; A ng ENSIGN = FFB EEE 00 FRANKLIN #44608000 GARFIELD ##448##688 2» GRANITE $4486.60 088.0 GRANT $44806f2008 GRIDLEY #49988: 808 GUNNISON $#8888R.088 1 HIGHLAND $##8888888 HYRUM PPPASP PAS « IDAHO JUAB 322 STAKE KANAB KOLOB LOGAN #4485000 LONG BEACH  LOS ANGELESS##99 LOST RIVER #$4898R089 1 LYMAN #94686 0 MALAD #4444106 MILLARD = $499989228 2» PEL OLE | sisi 26EL6 6 6 MOON LAKE #988 8880)20 MORGAN HERSRONE MORON #44849 MT. GRAHAM #8448 98586 > RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 194) MOUNT OSDENS#OS A208 8 NAMPA $8989.20». NEED SAAAAHNNE NEVADA = PBS BEER EE oo NEW YORK ###208R 808. NDAVIS FALLS N. SANPETE ##489#8228 2c N. SEVIER BAAR 6a NWEBER $400870006 DAH = ARH DAKLAND #898800 886 so OGDEN s#8hGGRORR. ONEIDA S484 MOHE DQUIRRH #4492888 2 PALMYRA $#44448880 7. PANGUITCH $444884820 PAROWAN = #8999 22086 0 PASADENA ###488R808.. PHOENIX $$889S8008  STAKE RANK RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE | STAKE RENO REXBURG RIGBY STEENG 60 RIVERSIDE ### 28 6R 898.0 ROOSEVELT $9899 612000 0 SACRAMENTO #4998543096 ST. GEORGE $40980 ST. JOHNS 2. ST. JOSEPH UL: SALT LAKE #488808 0088 |. Euros HAF EHIO8 SAN DIEGO #44895868 "FERNANDO S#4425F 898 FRANCISCO 156 323 SAN JUAN $848808000-- SAN LUIS #ARRSHHE 88 2. SANTAQUIN -TINTIC SEATTLE SEVIER SHARON SHELLEY #MSSRHR NE os SHITHFIELDSAAAAHEE SS SNOWFLAKE $999 9989°" BLAM ATE GAGS. 5, SANPETE #9998988 ». S. SEVIER #SS8HE088 5. SUMMIT AGREE vn "ARIZONA, HRS HEE STAR VALLEYSSS S808 SUMMIT = - SHARES, TAYLOR = $444 #42288 TETON  TIMPANDGOS #$4895122.0 STAKE RANK 324 STAKE .. TOOELE TWIN FALLS #44986008 05 UINTAH —$44448#5 966  UNION = UTAH = WASATCH #AAHERE8E « WASHINGTON #4995 3886 WAYNE = $40 WEBER = WEISER #4998008 4 WELLS  #APASEHGEE us WEST JORDAN $4882 83988 WOODRUFF #4449886 YELLOWSTONE S 99990086 3 YOUNG = #4 SFREFERG ZION PARK ##98888598 ARGENTINE #449980999 AUSTRALIAN #48888088 7 BRAZILIAN $449990089 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941 CALIFORNIA $4499 ¢43 84 10 CANADIAN $#$99066006 20 MES MHNNNGH OA STATES Sn ae ee STATES SUTesiOns #HEHEERORG HAWAIIAN § $89949R888 MEXICAN §$$SSSS0006. NEW ENGLANDSS 44488858 NEW ZEALANDS AS99840 008 STATES #48088 NORTHERN $§H 40645806 NST RTES SAREEGHEES 2 SAMOAN §=- 488 448 SORERICAN S#444G6 688 1 STATES #40086H006 AMERICAN  TAHITIAN TEXAS TONGAN WESTERN STATES MISSION RANK RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 325 Centennial Department Pageants Nellie O. Parker Relief Society General Board Member THE Relief Society centennial calls for a very impressive and delightful observance. A beautiful pageant, carefully planned and effectively staged, is one appropriate means of commemorating this great once-in-a-lifetime occasion. The pageant, in which action is carried on by groups rather than individuals, is a very valuable means of awakening community interest and spirit, and it offers many opportunities for friendly cooperation. It can crystallize sentiment and foster ideals. Through the medium of both the eye and the ear, the emotions are stirred, the soul is uplifted, and one receives a rich, spiritual experience. The pageant probably originated with the old mystery plays which were enacted on platforms drawn along the street. Modern pageantry, however, is more than a mere spectacle. It is dramatic in construction, and consists of scenes or episodes directly bearing on a historical, educational, social or allegorical theme treated from an aesthetic standpoint. A true pageant is beautiful and artistic. According to Linwood Taft, a collection of historical scenes is not really a pageant unless each contributes to the upbuilding of the general theme and moves toward a climax. He says the episodes or scenes should be gems strung together on a golden thread of plot or continuity. The pageant may employ speech, pantomime, dancing, marching, music, singing and colorful pictures. The effectiveness of the presented picture will depend on the vividness of the episodes—the grouping and massing of color, the costumes, stage and lighting effects, the quality of the speeches and dialogues, the beauty of the dancing and the appeal of the music. There should be proper balance and blending of all the arts employed—music, drama, poetry, color harmony in costumes, and stage pictures. Each must contribute to the theme. No one art should be overworked; for example, there should not be too much reading, dancing, singing, et cetera. "The costuming and its coloring," says Nina Lamkin, "constitute one of the most important parts of the pageant." The director of costumes should be familiar with a wide range of colors and materials to avoid monotony and secure harmony and beauty in the pictures. An understanding of fabrics is necessary—silk reflects light, wool gives soft tones, while cotton absorbs light. White satin, when decorated with aniline dyes, makes elaborate costumes. Turkish toweling treated to a coat of aluminum paint makes a good coat of mail. A pageant should attract rather than repel; a poor pageant defeats its own purpose. As the pageant has recognized dramatic and artistic form, there are rules governing its writing and production. (See "Pageantry," by J. Karl Wood, published in the January, 1941, issue of the Relief Society Magazine, page 26.)
Other Possibilities for Our Centennial Programs Anna B. Hart
Relief Society General Board Member
PROBABLY never before have Relief Society women in all stakes worked more definitely, more purposefully, more cooperatively, and more zestfully, than at present. Relief Society women in all stakes are striving to know more of a century in all its moods and accomplishments. From the oldest stake to the newest, from the most densely populated to the most scattered, all stakes are planning an observance on March 17, 1942. What a privilege it will be to work during the hundredth year. The pageant, one of the most widely selected means for observance, has already been treated. Now I will suggest other possibilities.
Organization
First, let us consider organization. The centennial observance should be a great leadership project. It should be so great that it touches every woman. The material should be chosen wisely. Getting material involves time and research. If research committees were organized early and would spend a few hours a week, what an enormous amount could be accomplished. An attempt should be made to obtain cooperation with all groups who have information and interest in this great project. We should become acquainted with the research projects of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers; we should get clubs and other organizations interested, as well as our business houses. We should get all women working on one committee or another. We should seek cooperation from our families and the other great organizations of our Church, and always seek guidance from those who hold God's Priesthood. Many ways will be used to stimulate interest in this huge observance. Some stakes will organize and sponsor contests in pageant-writing, in song-writing and poetry-writing. Others will gather authentic Relief Society stories. You have been given today a mimeographed copy of an authentic story, which is a sample of a type of story dealing with typical Relief Society projects and Relief Society members, such as the centennial committee hopes the local organizations will collect for use in their centennial observances. This story which you have, might be an inspiration to all of us to find stories of Relief Society in our own locality. We should catalogue pieces of information obtained from our observation and reading. A newspaper clipping, for example, often becomes very valuable.
Approaches to Learning
Second, let us consider approaches to the learning of a given thing:
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
(1) Studying the thing itself. We all agree that if we could have every experience firsthand, if we could see all places and become acquainted with all through actual living, other search would not be necessary. Most of our experiences are limited, and our life span is not a century. So after we have exhausted our knowledge here, we attempt other approaches.
(2) Studying a picture or representation of the thing. It will be necessary for all to choose wisely from the past. It will be necessary to choose methods just as wisely. The commercial world discovered long ago that one of the most effective and universal means of appeal is through pictures, charts, diagrams, posters, slogans, placards, et cetera. The number of visual and auditory aids has increased tremendously in recent years as new developments have opened up greater possibilities for their use. Within the last few years, new forms have appeared. Among these are the motion picture, radio, phonograph, museum, lantern slides, film strip, opaque projector, and sound slide film. Visual aids will be used by the stakes in many of their programs. Where there is a public address system, it can be very helpful at the centennial observance: voices can be projected and much can be done effectively without the need of costumes. The exposure of a picture for a few seconds will often produce more accurate and more vivid images than will a verbal description involving several minutes of talk. March 17, 1942, will be a time of exhibits with unlimited possibilities. One stake will exhibit a "Still Parade" of miniature floats suggesting some of the Relief Society activities of the century, such as, westward trek, wheat, maternity, welfare, et cetera. The parade will be stationary, and the crowds will do the moving. There will be exhibits of the educational work of Relief Society through the century. Costumes of a hundred years will come to light, and they will be displayed attractively. The choicest of art needlework of the past span will be shown—quilts with intricate designs and the finest of stitches, handwoven material, hooked rugs, and even old furniture will remind us of the industry of Relief Society women. Other types of creative work of Relief Society women would add color and culture in the form of painting, etching, wood carving, and sculpture. There will also be on exhibit completed centennial arches that will be a credit to many a ward and stake. One of the spots in the exhibit room, where we would enjoy lingering longest, might be a Relief Society picture gallery—a gallery of portraits. How fascinating could be such an exhibit, properly labeled. Many dramatizations, and dramatic forms, will be represented in tableau or represented life situations. The stage setting, costume, lighting, and mechanical effects will be sufficiently effective to create the necessary illusion as to place and character.
(3) Being told about it. What a wealth of material can be given to us from the older Relief Society women in our communities, who have seen many years of the century. Their sons and daughters can also give much valuable information.
(4) Reading about it. Copies of the Relief Society Magazine and the Woman's Exponent are precious. Each article has a background that if known could enrich our knowledge greatly and be stimulating for centennial programs. What a valuable Handbook we own in our Relief Society. Old roll books and minute books should offer us much material. What intimate glimpses of character we can often get from a letter or diary. Always the true life stories which can be found through reading stimulate us and give us rich material for our programs. How many stories must have been retold at rag-bees and quiltings. We can read about them, and they can stimulate us and give us rich material for our programs. As Daniel Webster once said, "We live in the past by a knowledge of its history, and in the future by hope and anticipation...." So again we live the lives which our ancestors lived, endure in part what they endured, and "partake in the rewards which they enjoyed." One stake is planning to obtain a plot of ground and plant trees in memory of Relief Society women. Many stakes are planning booklets. Some suggest membership scrapbooks with pictures and life sketches of all present members. Others suggest historic scrapbooks. Many centennial books of remembrance will be made. The members of one stake are planning to make a Relief Society cook book compiled from recipes submitted by members. There will be 1942 souvenirs for all members of many stakes. Many beautification projects have been suggested—centennial flower shows, home-betterment projects, more attractive gardens. Many will find hidden beauty or make the commonplace have a different glow.
Observance
Third, let us consider observance. Much might be said concerning the possibilities of centennial observance. In many stakes, music will play a very important part in the programs. It is a "blender of soul with soul." Probably in every stake Singing Mothers will participate; hymn festivals and concerts will be given. One suggestion would be a hymn festival using hymns of our earlier gifted women: Eliza R. Snow, Emmeline B. Wells, Emily Woodmansee, Suza Young Gates, Hannah Cornaby and others. Some stakes might feature original songs and home stake writers. Many stakes will feature, somewhere in the series of observance events, the dance. Old-time dancing will be featured, such as the plain quadrille, varsovienne, schottische, polka, waltz, two step, et cetera. Banquets are planned by many stakes—and such original ideas. One stake will feature old-time and modern dishes. Of course, most stakes will have birthday cakes with one hundred candles, but one stake has planned to let the oldest and newest member blow out the candles. For place cards, old portraits of women could be used. Silhouettes of the Relief Society officers would be interesting as place cards, or as hall decorations. Picnics, festivals, receptions and numerous other activities will be held. Dramatic sequences, plays, pantomimes, and tableaus will be used in many programs. Story-telling "fests" would be appropriate. An informal stage grouping featuring true experiences could be given and stories beautifully retold. A Relief Society poetry festival as one part of the observance might offer sincere enjoyment. Many women could also participate in reading poetry written by Relief Society women, and those especially gifted could read their own. There are many more forms of observance.
Tangible Results
In planning the programs for different stakes, tangible results are anticipated. Many stakes are planning to leave something to their wards and stakes—a plaque, a complete and accurate bound history, a memory book, a picture. Probably some stakes will leave a box of valuable memories to be opened in twenty-five or fifty years.
Conclusion
Many of these have been your suggestions for observance. We know that the field of choice is wide, but always in the choosing a great objective should be kept in mind, and the spiritual power of this great observance should always be felt. Many of your programs are crystallized by now. Stakes are conscious that it takes time, many parts and people to make a whole. Many stakes will choose carefully, but not too much, and do especially well what is chosen. The presentations will be honest, full of human interest, real. Some part of the program will be delicately seasoned with humor. Humility and prayer will lift all observances. The observance will be a time of appreciation and thanks to all—a time of friendliness, a time of greater neighborliness, a joyful period. Through it all, there should be spirituality and love, and deep appreciation.
Music Department
PLANS for the appearance of choruses of Singing Mothers at local celebrations of the coming Relief Society centennial, and also at the general observance to be held in Salt Lake, characterized the music department. Beatrice F. Stevens, chairman of the General Board's music committee, announced that, as part of the general centennial observance, it is planned that a large chorus of Singing Mothers will be assembled for an evening concert, presenting, as a part of the program, "Resurrection Morning," by B. Cecil Gates. The present plan is to invite each stake and mission to send nine women to participate in the chorus. Mrs. Stevens explained that each group is to be well balanced and to consist of three first sopranos, three second sopranos, and three altos. In selecting stake delegations, a number of things must be taken into consideration, including the musical ability of the women, the fact that the women will have to be away from home for three or four days or more, that the trip will be expensive, and that the women themselves will have to bear the financial burden of it. Mrs. Stevens also announced that, in further preparation for the centennial music program, a music department is to be held at the coming October conference. In the meantime, specific instructions as to music for the centennial, as well as other information, will be published at frequent intervals in the "Notes to the Field" department of the Relief Society Magazine. It was recommended that new officers read and study the series of articles by Wade N. Stephens, beginning with the article entitled, "The Conductor and the Organist," published in the September, 1939, issue of the Magazine, page 630. These articles continue through the issues of October and December, 1939, and of January to May, 1940, inclusive. J. Spencer Cornwall, conductor of the Tabernacle Choir, gave a discussion and demonstration entitled, "Be the Conductor Who Conducts," emphasizing the importance of expression. Wade Naisbitt Stephens, Tabernacle Organist, assisted by Alta B. Cassity, pianist, instructed the choristers and organists in the rendition of the cantata, "Resurrection Morning."
Secretary-Treasurers Department
THE time of the secretary-treasurers' department, Wednesday afternoon, was devoted entirely to a consideration of the next edition of Relief Society record books and visiting teachers' report books, which are to be issued toward the close of this year and to go into use at the beginning of the year 1942. Each stake and mission representative attending the department received a tentative copy of the new visiting teachers' book, and of the new ward record book, in preliminary proof form. These proofs formed the basis of the discussion, and were retained by the secretaries in attendance for further consideration and discussion with ward presidents and secretary-treasurers at their next union meeting. The suggestions of many stakes and wards for changes in the record books previously submitted at the request of the General Secretary-Treasurer, had been taken into consideration in the preparation of the tentative proofs distributed at the conference; it is hoped that further consideration of these preliminary copies in the various stakes will engender additional suggestions for improvement, or general approval of the proposed changes already incorporated in the proofs. It is regretted that there are no copies of the proofs available for those secretary-treasurers who were not in attendance at the conference, but the opinions of secretary-treasurers who were present from three-fourths of the stakes are considered to be adequately representative. Further suggestions and comments, both from secretary-treasurers in attendance and those who were not present, will be welcome, and should be sent to reach the General Secretary-Treasurer not later than July 1, 1941.
General Session—Forenoon
Gaining Momentum For a Day of Triumph Rae B. Barker
Relief Society General Board Member
IMPORTANT issues seem naturally to crowd themselves to the front for consideration. For that reason our Relief Society centennial, with the membership-building program as an integral part of centennial preparation, is brought to the attention of all Relief Society members in this general session of the conference. In its centennial, Relief Society is preparing to commemorate an historic occasion, the importance, the significance and the far-reaching influence of which, we cannot fully appreciate. In the birth and substantial growth of this organization, we find verification of the statement that "there is nothing more persistent than an idea whose time has come." Approximately a century ago in this country, an idea was struggling for acceptance. It was the idea that women must advance to a position where they could be a more vital force for good in the world. That idea kept persistently pushing up through the thought strata of that time, much as volcanic eruptions inevitably break through where the earth's crust is thinnest. With a fundamental belief that their status could be improved, a few courageous and far-seeing women gathered others (and also some sympathetic men), and worked consistently for woman's advancement. There is ample evidence that the movement had divine approval. There could have been no more powerful instrument to implement its progress or to give life to that idea and to set it in motion than the inspired Relief Society program for women set forth by a prophet of God. In confirmation of this thought, President Amy Brown Lyman, in the Deseret News of March 15, 1941, said: "Relief Society women feel that the official recognition of the women of the Church by the Prophet Joseph Smith was one of the most important movements inaugurated by him. It is remarkable and almost incomprehensible that in those dark days for women 100 years ago, he, above and in advance of all other men in public life, both saw the necessity for woman's individual expression and expansion, and gave her full opportunity in this Church to realize these through an organization. The only explanation must be that it was with a prophetic eye that he saw and comprehended the full importance of the mission of women, who are the mothers and first teachers of men." At the time of Relief Society's establishment, the Prophet Joseph said, "this Society shall rejoice." Truly there was then cause to rejoice; and now as we prepare to celebrate the hundredth birthday anniversary of the organization, there shall again be occasion for great rejoicing. We will prize highly the privilege of actively participating in the Relief Society centennial. It is a once-in-a-century event; therefore, it will be a unique experience for all of us. On that occasion, as we recount the accomplishments, the triumph of Relief Society's century of service, and remember that we are blessed to live in this day when the opportunities for women are unparalleled in all history, we will experience a crescendo of hallowed joy. In the observance of our centennial, which will be national and international in scope, we will honor the noble characters who fostered Relief Society, and we will review the colorful and significant achievements of the organization in all the communities, cities and towns. Their composite accomplishments tell the story of the progress of the parent organization. We hope to do more than this. From our vantage point at the close of the hundred-year period, we can begin to see in perspective the epic story of Relief Society. It will be our united purpose to show what this prophetic program for women has meant to a people and a time; and, further, through an evaluation of the past, to attempt to see more clearly our direction, our mission for the future. We could profitably think of our centennial observance as Relief Society's "commencement program." This organization, companion to the Priesthood, must meet its work for the future, whatever that work may be, armed with its greatest strength—the strength and stability which comes from a unified organization of all the women, the mothers of the Church. Then can we be the power for good that the Prophet foresaw. To the end that we attain the maximum strength possible within the century, a point of achievement which we have termed "Keystone Strength," the membership-building program was launched far enough in advance to reach our centennial goal of 100,000 members. With approximately 177,000 families in the Church, our aim does not seem an overzealous one. The degree of our success up to date is indicated by the following figures, which represent the membership growth. The enrollment in 1937 was 75,064; in 1938 there were 80,240 enrolled members; in 1939 the enrollment was 86,142; in 1940 it was 91,064. We have just one more year to interest 8,936 of our sisters in becoming Relief Society members. There are approximately 86,000 Latter-day Saint women unaffiliated with Relief Society. Each year's growth makes the next year's goal easier to achieve. The task decreases as the number of workers increases. The numerical strength of Relief Society in 1941 compared with the number enrolled at the close of 1842 is as that of a rushing river beside a rippling brook. As we grow in size, we gain momentum; we move faster and in a wider path. The accelerated growth of membership in the past three years is a sound basis for our optimism. The new members for a single year would comfortably fill the Tabernacle. Multiply that by three, and you can visualize what a vast congregation there would be if only these new members of the past three years were assembled. Surely, victory is in sight. At this point, however, the situation calls for sustained effort. There must be concerted effort from our president to the last member. It needs to be directed, well-organized effort. Most important—it must be individual effort. The president of the International Chamber of Commerce says, "Great movements which ultimately meet with success have one thing in common—the unity with which those identified with them tackle the job they have set for themselves." The women of Relief Society have many times demonstrated the sound truth of that statement. Because we so unitedly and so wholeheartedly take hold of every important assignment, because each one gives so freely of herself, we are confident that the centennial goal will be attained. We have confidence in the worthwhileness of Relief Society and its program. We have confidence that every woman who has actively experienced its worth will be satisfied only after she has made a sincere effort to give at least one other woman the same privilege she has had as a member. It is the time now to remember the epigram which reads, "On the sands of hesitation lie the bones of countless millions, who at the dawn of victory sat down to rest, and resting died." That will not be our story. Rather will we work with the spirit of our sisters who pioneered the work in 1842. Reading from those early minutes, we find this counsel: "put your shoulders to the wheel and work with your might. We will not work alone for we have entered this work in the name of the Lord. Let us go forth boldly." As we set out on our final year of a century's work, the General Board feels to say as did the report at the close of the first year of Relief Society in 1842: "More has been accomplished than our most sanguine anticipations predicted and through the assistance and blessing of God, what may we not hope for the future." Our strength in numbers and in terms of total good given and of good received by many, many thousands of women since 1842 will set our centennial anniversary apart as a day of triumph.
The Strength of the Relief Society Counselor Donna D. Sorensen
NOT so long ago, I returned from a trip which took me a couple of days' journey down the coast, and there I saw the mushroom-like growth of camps, and young men out on the rolling hills in drill. I was uneasy and felt insecure and sad. My thoughts turned to my Heavenly Father, and I felt that surely that which we need sorely at this time is faith. We need to exercise our faith in a loving Father in order to fortify us to meet our experiences in these the last days. Immediately, I thought of this great organization to which I am so closely allied, and I felt comforted and grateful. For the strength of the Relief Society lies in its ability to engender faith in God and in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Faith is the gift which is to be ardently desired in these days when it would seem that the perilous times which have been prophesied are even now in the process of fulfillment. The ability of this organization to instill faith was demonstrated to me recently when I read a husband's biography of a noble woman of this Church. He speaks of her devotion to her Church activities and says: "But best of all she had faith in God, and her faith carried with a splendid force into the most important of our affairs. It was her doing in the main that our two boys went on missions. I wanted them to go when we were a little better prepared for it, but she wanted them to go before we became less able to send them." The past century has been aptly called "the woman's century," because so many marvelous opportunities have been given to women for the enrichment of their lives and their personal development. Dozens of organizations have sprung into existence to meet the demands of women. But what is there about the Relief Society which makes membership in it such a soul-satisfying experience? Why should this organization in preference to other women's organizations of the world possess with such distinction this quality of nurturing faith? In the first place, the very origin of this organization was within the Restored Church, the true Church, and came into existence by the will of a prophet of God who had seen our Heavenly Father and who had received revelations from Him. Sometimes we are prone to view this matter rather casually, when in reality this fact is of great significance. In the second place, this organization has functioned from the beginning under the direction of the Priesthood, and receives the advice and counsel of men entitled to inspiration from God. We do not stand alone in the work which we plan, but are sustained and guided by such direction. In the third place, most of the women composing this organization have been baptized and had hands laid upon their heads by those in authority and have been given the gift of the Holy Ghost, which will guide and direct them and show them things to come. These days are days when error is rampant. Satan realizes that the time is short, and he is diligent in leading astray all the souls he can deceive. It is vitally necessary, therefore, for us to have the Spirit of the Lord with us to lead and direct us and assist us in realizing the difference between truth and error. Then again, women in this organization learn faith in God and love for Him because they are provided with opportunities for charitable expression. This organization has a marvelous amount of good will to its credit wherever it has existed, because without thought of earthly remuneration, thousands have gone about "doing good" even with the same spirit which characterized the Savior's earthly ministry. The need determined the service, and the more urgent the need, the greater the service. A year from now we shall be celebrating the centennial. A glorious centennial hinges on our ability to bring into the organization every woman who can belong, and to have her actively interested. Our arms are extended to women of good character. The title of "Sister," by which we address one another, is indicative of the love we have for each other. All of us are more or less acquainted with the work missionaries of this Church have done, but do we visualize the membership drive as a missionary program? We were amazed and delighted at the work done by the home missionaries in the stakes of this Church last year when there were baptized, by their efforts, 2,203 people into the Church. Mothers can be missionaries, too, in the upbuilding of God's kingdom by laboring with those who are born within the Church to retain them as active members. We want 100,000 such missionaries in as many homes, promoting the cause of righteousness and strengthening Zion preparatory to the second coming of the Savior. A large membership and a glorious centennial are connected. Now you say, "But what can I do, as an individual, with my limited power to enlist women in the Relief Society?" I think the key to the growth of this Society lies in the spirit of friendliness which each member may display. Powerful nations of the earth have today become indifferent in their attitude toward the individual, who has been swallowed up within the State. The complexity of our own national society has dulled our feelings of obligation to the individual. The world generally has become too busy and the relationships too impersonal. I like to visualize the vast army of Relief Society women as possessing the personal touch. I like to visualize them as individuals who have learned the give and take of human association; women who have a great sympathy for all the dreams of humans and a loving understanding of all their harassed ways. Because we are women and because we possess the Gospel, we are particularly blessed by both nature and training to further a mission of kindness. All of us have hoarded friendliness, hoarded handclasps, hoarded good will, while in our own vicinities some of our sisters sit apart unknown to us but yearning for recognition and some small display of friendliness. Yet we might say: "... The things we may do seem so small often—hardly big enough to count in life's full flow of pressing material needs—but the greatest Friend man ever had went about doing small acts of kindness: feeding the hungry, mending the broken, comforting the sorrowing, pointing a way, reviving the spark of hope in the dead ashes of endeavor, offering a hand to people in the depths of despair... And He did it for the people round about Him. And because many of these remembered and passed the good of it on to another, steadily multiplying the will to help, now, after nearly 2,000 years, His way is still fresh before us—the only way." And what will this leaven of humility and friendship accomplish? Let me illustrate it by quoting from a recent letter written by the wife of one of the mission presidents: "In talking to a Relief Society president in a little branch at..., she told me that when her family moved into the town they found a number of women who had been born in the Church but had gotten clear away from it.... She was anxious for a Relief Society, but not one of the women except herself was really living so as to be a leader. So this valiant little woman, in her sweet and tactful way, encouraged these other women to live right and help her to build a real Relief Society. She RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE--MAY, 1941 has done a most commendable piece of work, and I found a really wonderful group of humble women serving their Heavenly Father and their neighbors." Will you share the wealth of the Relief Society with others this coming year by interesting your neighbor? Will you serve and love as Jesus did, in all humility, even more individuals than heretofore? Will you extend the mother love which you possess and which stretched to encompass each succeeding child, to now encircle those who are hungering for recognition? Beneath the insecurity and the materialism which surrounds us, will you guide and enlist those who would strengthen their faith? + Our Sister Organizations Speak The Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association President Lucy Grant Cannon HE Relief Society organization is the pride of the women of the Church. The Mutual Improvement Associations of the Church are looking forward to participating with you in your centennial. Jubilees were established by direct commandment of God. In the days of early Israel, each seven years was a year of rest for the land. Every fifty years not only did the land rest, but it reverted to its original owner. Slaves and bondsmen were freed, and the people celebrated various events that had occurred during the fifty years that had passed. Epochal events have always been and, I hope, always will be celebrated. 'The birth and glorious resurrection of Christ will be celebrated till the end of time. The great centennial of the Church, to those of us permitted to participate, was the most outstanding event of our lives. The fifty years of M. I. A., celebrated 15 years ago, brings back memories of the beauty and strength of our youth. As I watched 10,000 virile, handsome, valiant young people march under the banners of truth down the streets of Salt Lake, I uttered a silent prayer of thankfulness to my Father in Heaven, for it was borne in upon RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE my soul that our youth would not fail the great cause of the Church. Sister Lyman and I were permitted to attend the centennial of the woman's movement in November of last year. There was gathered at the Hotel Commodore, in New York City, women from all over the United States, Canada, Mexico and South America. These women had come together to celebrate the efforts made by women of America to get immediate admission to all the rights and privileges that belong to them as citizens of the United States. One hundred years ago, a group of women who were the approved delegates from the Anti-Slavery Society of the United States spent eighteen days on a sailing vessel to attend a convention in London. They presented their credentials, but instead of a hearty welcome, the first day of the congress was spent debating the question as to the right of these women to take their seat with men, a thing unheard of before in history. The final decision was that the women might stay, but they should sit behind a curtain and hear the reports. It is interesting to know that several of the men who were in the delegation would not sit with the body of delegates, but sat with the women behind the curtains. On returning home, these women began a militant fight for the rights of women. Although it took seventy years before they were given free suffrage in all the states of the Union, they steadily obtained all the rights which made them equal in citizenship with their husbands and brothers. HE) women of the world have gone far since that day one hun- 387 dred years ago. One hundred years ago, no woman stood in the pulpit or presided over a meeting; one hundred years ago, no woman was a clerk in any store—men measured ribbons behind the counter. When one intrepid merchant put a woman behind his country store counter, his store almost had to close because the people of the town boycotted it. Three avenues of support were open to the unmarried woman—she could be a maid, a school teacher for the lower grades or in a private home, or she could be a nurse or midwife. Today practically every field is open to women— science, literature, medicine, theology, social service, business, law; in fact, all the professions. With what pride do we women of the Church point to that epoch-making event when Joseph Smith called a group of young women together and organized them. One of my very early recollections is of the celebration in the 13th Ward of the Relief Society anniversary. Grandmother had a copy of the original minutes. This document was taken to the Society and read yearly. I remember reading it with much interest. The history of the Relief Society is one of glorious achievement. Countless thousands of women have been helped through its activities. Countless thousands of people in distress and despondency have been rehabilitated and made happy and secure. I am sure I can promise and pledge the enthusiastic support of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association in the efforts of our sister organization to reach its 100,000 membership goal.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941
Our Sister Organizations Speak
The Primary Association Superintendent May Green Hinckley
I AM greatly complimented with the invitation to speak here this morning, and to cooperate in making the membership of the Relief Society one hundred thousand on its hundredth anniversary. My time is limited, so in five minutes I am going to give you five reasons for joining the Relief Society:
First, I want to be and ought to be a better woman than I am. There is not a woman in the Church who, in her finer moments, would not like to be a better woman, a better mother, a better example to her friends and family. This organization will help them; it will help me in many ways to be a better woman. It will direct me in my thinking, guide me in my actions, build up my faith, train my mind, school my feelings, inspire me with a love for others and for my Creator.
Second, the strong women in the organization need helping, reinforcing, and the weak ones in it need encouragement. I want to help the strong women who are struggling to carry forward the mission and purpose of this great organization. They will appreciate the help I can give. They need and deserve the help, and I ought to give it to them. By my example, I can help the weak members. By my words, I can encourage them. By my deeds, I can win their confidence, inspire them to do more and to do better. I can help the strong and encourage the weak. That is my second reason.
Third, I can do good through the organization. The Relief Society is a wonderful organization, with definite aims and objectives that appeal to me. Its work is organized and planned with the greatest care, and it is officered by select women; all working together, we can accomplish wonders. We can direct legislation, bring about reformations, help those who are in need, help in emergencies, provide in times of adversity. How feeble the efforts of a single woman would be! I want to join the Relief Society because of the good I can do through it.
Fourth, inspiration and stimulation come through association with good women who are engaged in a great cause. Where will I find a group of women better in all that those words imply? Who could mingle with the humblest group of Relief Society women without being inspired with their self-forgetfulness in their service to others, their willingness to give and go without? You will find among them the real heroines of service. The cause itself appeals to one, awakens in one's soul the noblest impulses and inspires all who have the love of humanity in their hearts with a desire to help, to do something. I need that stimulation and inspiration. Therefore, I should join the Relief Society.
Fifth, I believe in preserving the sanctity of the home and the integrity of the family. Therefore, I want to support all the influences, efforts, and organizations that build these and protect them. Perhaps the major contribution which this great organization makes is the influence which it fosters at the fireside; the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
help which it gives mothers in building and making happy the home; the practical lessons it gives in making the home beautiful and attractive; the cultivation of that spirit which makes the home a refuge, a center of peace, love and faith. The Relief Society fosters all of the qualities that sanctify the home, that strengthen and protect the family. The home is the foundation of civilization, and this organization makes a direct and positive contribution to its advancement and protection. Therefore, I want to join it.
Together We Build Oscar A. Kirkham
Member, National Staff, Boy Scouts of America
I HAVE three enthusiasms about Relief Society work. One is the Singing Mothers, and I do not mean just singing in groups as this glorious chorus has sung for us this morning, but when I first heard the phrase, "Singing Mothers," it had great meaning to me. I thought of a night when I came home from the opera in Berlin, when I was a student. I was going to my little apartment in the third court back, where I was living on "bread and spread," literally, in order to stay with my studies. It was just at Christmas time, when on my way home I was halted by a sweet voice that I heard coming out of the basement in this third court back from the street. It was a woman—a woman who made her living washing. She was singing that song which has gone round the world—"Holy Night." I was halted by the sweetness of it, and I have never forgotten it. That same night I heard Melba in grand opera, but the singing mother down in the basement, singing a lullaby to her babe, crept closer to my heart. That is one of my enthusiasms about Relief Society, and I hope and pray that it will never give up this delightful activity of Singing Mothers, and may it creep out into every home, that women will sing there.
I have another enthusiasm, and that is the craft work that is done in Relief Society. I think there is magic in what people do with their hands. I invite everyone to make something with her own hands. My sister one day brought a relic to me of our family life years and years ago. My mother died when I was a boy of about eleven years, but when I saw the little white knitted stocking she had made, there was magic in that sight; there was something divine in it. Without further deliberation, God bless us with the spirit of making things into which we put our hands and hearts. May this be continued in Relief Society.
My other enthusiasm is a very general one to which I sincerely pay tribute, and that is the weekly Relief Society meeting. Why should a man have interest in that? Let me illustrate it by a story. It is about a friend of mine in Australia. It was a Sunday morning, and he was out with his sheep in the hills of Australia. He was weary; he was alone, way out in the hills by himself. There was no disturbance, only the moving of the sheep; all was quiet on that hillside. While he sat there, all at once he heard a voice. He looked around and wondered if it were his imagination, as he thought he was alone. But he heard a voice and, as it became more distinct, it was a singing voice, and then it came nearer, and in a few moments, over the hill, with the spirit of buoyant youth, a boy came, singing. With a bundle of books under his arm, over the hill he came singing, "Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear"—the Latter-day Saint hymn. He was a Mormon missionary boy. My friend said, "I was so delighted with this charming entrance into my life that I said to this young fellow, 'Won't you stay with me a day or two? My, I have enjoyed your coming in this dramatic way.'" And the Mormon missionary boy, who had traveled from one city to another, came and stayed with the man and brought him the Gospel message. Here is the point: The boy came from a home where "Come, Come, Ye Saints" was sung by a Relief Society mother who was a constant attendant at the weekly Relief Society meeting, thereby adding greatly to the testimony of that missionary boy. These three are my enthusiasms, for I know that in these weekly meetings something came into the life of that mother that she gave to that boy, and over the hill he went singing the Gospel song and brought the Gospel message to a friend of mine, far, far away in the hills of Australia.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941
THIS organization has set its heart on a great task. There is no turning back. You cannot fail, and the men of the Church want to help you succeed. There must be 100,000 members in this organization on this centennial occasion. I want to say sincerely that I want to join with you. I want to sit down under this gallery when this celebration is on, and say, "It is mine. It belongs to me, for I have obtained one, two, or three new members." Please get this into your hearts, and then your goal will be accomplished. Why, if every member of this very group that is here today would take the responsibility of obtaining just three members—if every person who is in this house today would say, "I take the challenge; I know a person who lives nearby who is not a member. I am going to ask the Lord to help me to go into that home and bring that sister out," we would achieve our goal.
When but a lad, I sat in one of the windows of the Salt Lake Temple at the time of its dedication. Although young, I remember the inspirational story of the building of this sacred structure, how through the many years men toiled unceasingly in their devotion to its construction. Near me sat an old man. I remember his long beard, his kindly face, and the joy he had in telling friends nearby that practically through the entire period of construction he had assisted on the building. In later years I have often thought of this kindly face and the happiness of this man who that day knew that his hands, with many others, had made possible this home of sacred ceremonies and ordinances.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
Just recently I was up at the mouth of Little Cottonwood Canyon. One of our fine organizations had placed a marker there. It tells the story that near this spot men toiled, cutting the granite rock from the mountain that went into the building of the Salt Lake Temple, and it pays a fine tribute to them. Yes, it is together we build. It is this often far-flung cooperation that makes possible the accomplishment of a great objective. This very worthy objective of yours, of 100,000 members at the time when your centennial celebration will be realized, will only be realized when men and women in far-distant places catch the vision of its accomplishment, and where small wards and branches throughout the length and breadth of the Church do their part. The man in the canyon helped build the temple. The women in far-off Canada, Mexico, or on the islands of the sea, will build the 100,000 membership. It is together we build.
LEADERSHIP is going to play an important role, and that is whom I feel I am talking to this morning—men and women who have responsibility and leadership, and I include men, for only together we build. No man has ever truly succeeded in life unless he has had somewhere in his life the inspiration and the helpfulness of a woman. It is only a selfish thought that a man has when he does what he can in his strength and influence for the blessing of an organization of women—he is helping himself most. To illustrate this point, let me draw upon an experience I had with boys in France. I remember one day, as the evening came on, standing on a hilltop in northern France with a group of French and American boys. We were overlooking an old city which had been partially destroyed in the first World War. As we stood looking over these tumbled-down sacred walls, an old French lamplighter, in his interesting cap and gown, came to the hilltop where he was to begin his evening's service of lighting the lamps down through the city. We Americans were struck by his interesting uniform and the methodical and patient way in which he went about his work. Here he lighted one lamp which was easy; another he found difficult to light, and he had to climb the post and clean out the lamp and work a bit with it before the light was made sure to burn through the night. And so, from one side of the street to the other, he went about his duty. He hadn't gone far until the group became interested in a new impression which they were receiving, for a highway was being lighted; it was taking definite form. Before long, we looked down into the city and up the hill beyond and saw the beautiful line of lights on each side of the street. His devotion to his work, his patience where lights did not burn easily, had been rewarded in the fact that as the night came on the highway had been made safe for the traveler.
One word of application, and we have it firmly fixed. As you go forward in this task, one sister will come easily; she is waiting right now for your invitation and your friendship. But there may be another one where the light does not burn, and you must work and pray, but, oh, the satisfaction you will have when you finally get this sister to accept your invitation! If you know of an unenrolled sister, give that sister some particular work to do, some
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941
little thing, and watch her grow under the magic of service. There is a task ahead. Let us build together.
General Session—Afternoon
The Light Still Shines in the Darkness Counselor Marcia K. Howells
THE disciples of Jesus were chosen by Him many years ago to become messengers that they and their message should be a light in a world darkened with moral and spiritual gloom. Recently, at an electrical science exhibit, the marvels of which thrilled many Salt Lakers, the director displayed a small lamp no bigger than a lead pencil and half as long, and yet this lamp had the capacity of 1,000 watts and gave off light almost equal to that of a thousand candles. Somewhere in the attic of our home is an old candle mold once used by my grandmother. What a thrill it would be for her now to know that one small bulb is capable of generating more light than a thousand of her candles—and yet she prided herself on making good candles.
The Psalmist sang, "Thy Word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path." (Psalms 119:105) In a world darkened by unbelief, distrust, and war now comes the light of our Gospel with its plan of salvation, not alone spiritual salvation, but temporal salvation also. I marvel at this great Church welfare program. I am proud of the important part the Relief Society has played in this great benefaction. What a "light in the darkness" this Church welfare program is! I heard a great banker from the coast say, after just one-half hour's visit to the Welfare Square, "This thing is so big, this program is so comprehensive, it makes the Mormon people the outstanding group in any society in America today."
Some of the best writers in America have recently accused us of being soft and weak—too much rich food, stimulation, overheated houses, automobiles and a general lack of discipline. I came from Chicago on the Union Pacific Railway recently. The roadbed follows the old Pioneer Trail. It is a long journey through Iowa, Nebraska, and Wyoming, and I grew weary and complained. Looking out of the window, I saw the Platte River, a great Pioneer landmark. I thought of the brave women in the handcart company walking all those weary miles pushing a handcart, caring for children, and preparing a scant meal over an open fire. I felt ashamed for complaining. Perhaps too much luxury is making us soft, and caused Dr. Alexis Carrell to say, "To combat dangers from within and without, the race must enormously strengthen itself. If there is to be any regeneration of our people, it must take place in the small laboratories of our private lives—daily drill and years of discipline in matters both large and small can make a man over in most of his conduct. Restraining our appetites for indulgence and indolence, for food, alcohol and tobacco, all these are priceless discipline."
Of all the memorials found in Westminster Abbey—and I hope that wonderful structure will survive the ruins of war—there is not one that gives a nobler thought than that life lesson taught by the monument to Lord Lawrence. Inscribed on the monument is simply his name, the date of his death, and these words: "He feared man so little because he feared God so much." The world is beset with so much distrust, so many fears—fear of famine, storms, earthquakes; the fear of disease, war and so many other things. Yet, there is so little "fear of God." I looked up the word, "fear," and found, with reference to God, it meant "solicitude and reverence for constituted authority." Fear of God is accompanied by obedience, and people who fear God will keep His commandments. I was interested in hearing of the sign that was posted during the bomb raids in England: "If your knees knock, kneel on them." Recently a juvenile court judge in one of our big cities, who over the years had interviewed 30,000 boys, gave ten reasons for their delinquency. The judge gave the first reason as "lack of religious training." He said that the strongest possible religious atmosphere is required to create righteous lives and that we are only better as we live better.
Job speaks of "a song in the darkness." To the Latter-day Saints the Gospel is now the "song in the darkness"—a song of hope that eventually the gloom will be dispelled; the song that whispers comfort to tired hearts weary with the stress of life. You mothers with missionary sons or daughters who carry this light to those who sit in darkness, how proud you should feel. How glorious is this Gospel light; how far its rays shine! My boy recently carried it to the country which writers have often referred to as "Darkest Africa." Today we have in that country chapels, Saints, investigators, and many friends. After laboring in South Africa, my missionary boy, along with other missionaries, regretted to leave that wonderful mission.
Ours is a religion of everyday life. It isn't folded up and put away with our Sunday clothes. It remained for Brigham Young to say: "We do not allow ourselves to go into a field to plow without taking our religion with us. We do not go into an office, behind the counter to deal out goods, into a counting house with the books, or anywhere to attend or to transact business without taking our religion with us. If we are on a pleasure trip our God and our religion must be there, and whether I am preaching or praying or laboring with my hands for an honorable support, I am serving God as much in one place as in another."
It seems to me that this is the doctrine that makes our religion "a light that shines in the darkness." In one of the Prairie states where twilight is short and darkness comes at sundown, there lived a little old grandmother and her small grandson, alone on a farm. Farm duties were many and arduous. The grandmother did the chores after dark, guiding herself around the barn and feeding and watering the cattle by the light of a little old lantern. The boy hung
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941
on her skirts, stumbling because he could not see the way. Finally, he said, "Grandma, let us both carry the light, then we both can see the way." In Relief Society we all carry the light so we may all see the way. Martin Luther prayed long years ago, and his prayer is equally appropriate today: "Stand by me, O God, in the name of Thy dear Son, Jesus Christ, who shall be my defense and shelter, aye, my mighty fortress through the might and strength of Thy Holy Spirit."
The Gospel—Our Spiritual Armor President Amy Brown Lyman
IN support of our conference theme—"The Gospel—Our Spiritual Armor"—I should like to read an extract from Paul's epistle to the Ephesians: 6:10-18. "Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil... That ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and, having done all, to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness; And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace; Above all, taking the shield of faith wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God: Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints;"
As I face this great congregation of Relief Society members who are fortunate in their lives today, I am thinking of the more than 8,000 of our devoted members who are living in countries involved in this cruel war. They would fill this entire Tabernacle. I am thinking of those 8,000 homes filled with worry, anxiety, dread and sorrow. And with these we think also of the millions of others who are innocent victims of this terrible tragedy, and of how helpless we are in the matter. One thing we can do, however, is to pray earnestly that men's hearts will sicken and turn from this bloody carnage, and from the false philosophies which have brought it about. Another thing we can do is to try to live and encourage others to live according to the only pattern that will bring permanent peace and righteousness to the earth.
In these troubled days, people everywhere are naturally turning to serious thinking and are searching for
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
something dependable with which to anchor their lives and their hopes. They feel the need of trying to do something which is sound and permanent. They ponder over government and politics, economic and social welfare, ethics and religion. And in their searchings, many are finding their greatest comfort and solace in religion, and are turning to their churches for help and inspiration. Our magazines and newspapers are devoting more space to religious subjects today than they have for many years; and editorials on the need of spirituality are appearing frequently. There is a definite trend in this direction.
It is interesting to observe that for a decade or more many of our great thinkers, outside of purely church circles, have been contending that "the greatest need in the world is religion"; that there should be a "return to religion"; "a recall to religion." It is regrettable that there is often a tendency for people, when they are successful and prosperous and the good things of life are theirs, to feel so adequate within themselves that they do not sense the need of spiritual guidance, and often forget even to be grateful to the Giver of all good; and that it is only when reverses come, when trials and tragedies come, and seemingly insurmountable barriers are placed before them, that they turn to God. But how wonderful that it is never too late to approach Him who is all-forgiving and ever ready to help guide and protect His children, and shower blessings upon them if they will but seek Him and His ways! How wonderful that it is never too late to accept the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which was taught and demonstrated by Him personally and which has been restored in its fullness in these latter days!
We as Latter-day Saints believe—and many other people believe—that the gospel of the Master is the greatest source of spiritual strength known to man. It is a philosophy of unselfishness and brotherly love, gentleness and peace, faith and hope. If the Christian peoples of the world who are believers could live it, they would not only experience the greatest happiness, joy and satisfaction they have ever known, but they would be a blessing to their fellowmen. There would be no room in their hearts for envy, malice and animosity. They would not hate their neighbors, wish them ill, or seek to destroy them. The teachings of the Gospel are the exact opposite of the false, man-made doctrines and theories prevalent in many places today which engender selfishness, hate and ruthlessness; doctrines which hold that the great moral and religious teachings of the Bible are outmoded; that human personality and even life itself are no longer sacred and are only a means to an end; that might makes right.
Of the two commandments set forth by the Master as the greatest commandments, the first is the easier to live. It is not hard to love the Lord—the Giver of all good gifts and blessings—the Creator of Heaven and this beautiful earth; it is not hard to love Him with our hearts, soul and mind. But it is difficult to love our neighbors as we love ourselves. And, furthermore, it is difficult to do unto others as we would be done by, to return good for evil, to love our enemies; difficult to forgive; difficult not to judge. However, the nearer we can live according to these teachings, the greater the contribution we can make to society, and the nearer we will be to the goal to which all good Christians aspire.
WITH the belief that the greatest source of spiritual strength known to man is the Gospel of our Lord, we might list three great, major aims with respect to this belief: first, to study the Gospel diligently; second, to strive to obtain a testimony of it; third, to try to live it in its fullness. I believe the greatest motivation in stimulating men to righteous endeavor and living, comes from a testimony. A testimony is more than a collection of facts. It is a combination of knowledge, conviction, faith and inspiration. It is dynamic and forceful in character. I am persuaded that it is the greatest armor one can have as a protection against temptation, weakness and sin, and the greatest sustaining force in trials and tribulations. For a testimony righteous men have been burned at the stake. For his testimony our beloved Prophet went to his death. For His testimony our Lord and Master was nailed to the cross.
I should like to go back in our own history and point out instances in the lives of two women which show what they were able to meet and overcome because of their faith and convictions and their devotion to the Gospel of our Lord. These women to whom I refer were both members of the Nauvoo
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941
Relief Society. They were Mary Fielding Smith, wife of the Patriarch, Hyrum Smith, and mother of the late President Joseph F. Smith; and M. Isabella Horne, one of the most prominent Relief Society officers of her day, who was treasurer of the old Central Board of Relief Society, and later of the General Board, serving in these capacities twenty-one years.
Mary Smith, in a letter to her brother, Joseph Fielding, who was then in England serving as one of the seven missionaries who introduced the Gospel there in 1837, wrote from Nauvoo, giving a word picture of the sacrifices and trials and faith typical of that day. Her letter, reproduced in an old copy of the Millennial Star, I found when I was in England; it is dated Commerce, June, 1839 (the city, later known as Nauvoo, was then only a few months old), and reads in part as follows:
"My very dear Brother: As the elders are expecting shortly to take their leave of us again to preach the Gospel in my native land, I feel as though I would not let the opportunity of writing you pass by unimproved....
"It is now so long since I wrote to you, and so many important things have transpired, and so great have been my afflictions, etc., that I know not where to begin; but I can say, hitherto has the Lord preserved me, and I am still living to praise Him, as I do this day. I have, to be sure, been called to drink deep of the bitter cup; but you know, my beloved brother, this makes the sweet the sweeter....
"You have, I suppose, heard of the imprisonment of my dear husband, with his brother Joseph, Elder Rigdon, and others, who were kept from us nearly six months; and I suppose no one felt the painful effects of their confinement more than myself. I was left in a way that called for the exercise of all the courage and grace I possessed. My husband was taken from me by an armed force, at a
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
time when I needed, in a particular manner, the kindest care and attention of such a friend, instead of which, the care of a large family was suddenly and unexpectedly left upon myself; And, in a few days after he left, my dear little Joseph F. was added to the number. Shortly after his birth I took a severe cold, which brought on chills and fever; this, together with the anxiety of mind I had to endure, threatened to bring me to the gates of death. I was at least four months entirely unable to take any care either of myself or child; but the Lord was merciful in so ordering things that my dear sister could be with me all the time. Her child was five months old when mine was born; so she had strength given her to nurse them both.
"You will also have heard of our being driven, as a people, from our homes in Missouri, and from the state.... This happened during my sickness, and I had to be removed more than 200 miles, chiefly on my bed. I suffered much on my journey; but in three or four weeks after we got to Illinois, I began to amend, and my health is now as good as ever it was. It is now little more than a month since the Lord, in His marvelous power, returned my dear husband, with the rest of the brethren, to their families, in tolerable health. We are now living in Commerce [Nauvoo], on the bank of the great Mississippi River. The situation is very pleasant; you would be much pleased to see it. How long we may be permitted to enjoy it I know not; but the Lord knows best what is best for us. I feel but little concerned about where I am if I can keep my mind staid upon God; for, you know in this there is perfect peace. I believe the Lord is overruling all things for our good....
"As to myself, I can truly say, that I would not give up the prospect of the Latter-day glory for all that glitters in this world. O! My dear brother, I must tell you, for your comfort, that my hope is full, and it is a glorious hope; and though I have been left, for near six months, in widowhood, in the time of great affliction, and was called to take, joyfully or otherwise, the spoiling of almost all our goods, in the absence of my husband, and all unlawfully, just for the Gospel's sake, (for the judge himself declared, that he was kept in prison for no other reason than because he was a friend to his brother), yet I do not feel the least discouraged: though my sister and I are here together in a strange land, we have been enabled to rejoice, in the midst of our privations and persecutions, that we were counted worthy to suffer these things.... If it had not been for my faith and hope, I should have sunk before this; but, blessed be the God and Rock of my salvation, here I am and am perfectly satisfied and happy, having not the smallest desire to go one step backward."*
Sister M. Isabella Horne, who crossed the plains in 1847, writes in her journal as follows: "After the martyrdom of our beloved Prophet and Patriarch, the saints were permitted to remain in Nauvoo until the temple was completed. Soon after this the people were driven from their homes in the middle of winter, during heavy snow storms and severe frost. I, with my family, crossed the Mississippi River in the month of February, 1846, and camped with the saints on Sugar Creek. After that the river froze over and other companies crossed on the ice. Early in the spring we commenced our weary journey through mud and storm to find a home among the savages in the Rocky Mountains. When we arrived at Council Bluffs a call was made upon President Young by the Government for five hundred of our able-bodied men to go to the Mexican war, which prevented us from continuing our journey and necessitated our going into Winter Quarters, where we were seriously afflicted with that dreadful disease—scurvy. In June, 1847, the saints were organized into companies to follow the pioneers, and I was with the first company that left Winter Quarters. The trials, hardships and privations that the people of God endured on that long and weary journey were great and can only be understood by those who experienced them.
"Children were born on the way before we reached Council Bluffs, I myself giving birth to a daughter at Pisgah. The company started forward on the third day after.
*Mary Fielding Smith, Millennial Star, Vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 40-42, (June, 1840).
"When our pilgrimage was over we found ourselves in a barren waste, inhabited by Indians [Utah]. But we were glad to find a resting place where we could worship God without fearing our enemies were coming upon us. The weather was favorable for building, and the brethren immediately began to saw logs and erect small log houses, into which many of us moved, without having either doors, windows, or floors.
"Here again there were many difficulties to overcome. The ground was full of snakes which used to crawl around and into our houses, but these were soon killed or frightened away. The timber was so full of bugs that it was years before they were entirely subdued. The mice also were very numerous, running over us by day and night, and destroying considerable clothing, etc., which caused inconvenience and trouble. We were also obliged to live on short rations, digging roots to add to our store, in order to make our supplies last until something could be raised for food. During that winter many of the Mormon Battalion arrived, and we were under the necessity of sharing our food with them. We could put a little grease into a dish with a rag in it to make a light, and parch
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941
a little wheat to make a warm drink, but when it came to making soap we were put to our wits' end to get material to make enough to do our washing. I can hardly tell today how we did succeed. But the Lord opened our way and blessed us with cheerful, contented spirits and thankful hearts. "I well remember the first harvest home we celebrated. Apostles Parley P. Pratt and John Taylor called upon the sisters to prepare a feast. They prepared what food they could from their meagre store and set a long table in the Fort. Although the food was plain and everything was done in a humble way, our hearts flowed with thanksgiving to our Heavenly Father for the blessings conferred upon us. Our table decorations were sheaves of wheat and other things that had been: raised. Although the crops were light, we had enough to last us another year, and some to spare to our brethren and sisters that came the following year. "The second year of our being in the valley the crickets threatened to destroy our crops; men, women, and children had to fight them; many were driven into the ditches of water and were piled where there was any obstruction, bushels upon bushels. The Lord sent the gulls to devour them and thus we were saved from starvation." LOVE'S MIRACLE  May Booth Talmage Each year in cherry-blossom time, The flood-tides of my soul o'erflow, When from my upper casement I behold The miracle of glory wrought below. No bare brown, lifeless-looking limbs— Unsightly—cheerless now before me rise, But massive perfume-laden clouds Of snowy loveliness bring glad surprise. Are human lives like trees to outward view, Now cold and bare, congealed by winter's gloom? Anon love's warmth and sunlight filter through And lo! Life's greatest miracle—a soul in bloom! 'Elder Harold B. Lee Henry A. Smith Member of the Deseret News Editorial Staff ELDER HAROLD BINGHAM LEE, 42-year-old managing director of the Church welfare program, was sustained a member of the seemed mature beyond his years; who has always manifested a remarkably simple, yet deep and abiding faith in the Gospel of Jesus Christ; ELDER HAROLD B, LEE Council of the Twelve Apostles at the general conference, April 6, 1941, to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of Elder Reed Smoot. Elder Lee is a man who has always who has never sought personal aggrandizement and yet one who in the space of a few short years has arisen to positions of prominence because of marked ability, diligent effort and Page 349 350 a willingness to sacrifice private desires in humble submission to the wishes of those who stand in authority. Many other things might be said of this man, glowing word tributes paid him by those more skilled in use of the pen, but to the Relief Society members of the Church he is most welcomed into this high Church council because of his humanitarianism and his profound, loving interest in the individuals of the Church. In the space of five short years, he has endeared himself not only to the Priesthood of the Church, but to the women as well, for his wise and efficient direction of the Church welfare program in which the Relief Society plays such a vital role. Elder Lee's contributions to the Church have been many, and as he has served the great welfare organization he has also served the Relief Society. Perhaps few of the General Authorities, prior to their appointment to present positions, have had such direct contact with this organization as has the new Apostle. As he has visited about among the stakes and wards in the interest of the welfare program, much of his work has been with the Relief Societies, to whom he has often given credit for carrying a great deal of the burden of the fast-growing program. ° On more than one occasion Elder Lee has attributed to the women of the Church the greatest proportion of accomplishments in welfare work. From the inception of this program, Elder Lee has envisioned the proper place in it of the Relief Society as aides to the Priesthood in doing good works and "looking after the poor." Typical of his thinking along this line in the early days of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941 program is an excerpt from the March, 1937, issue of the Magazine: After quoting the words of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, made at the organization meeting of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, on March 17, 1842, Elder Lee said: "In this plain and direct statement of ' the Prophet Joseph Smith, the relationship of the Relief Society organization to the Priesthood quorums is clearly defined. It is the direct responsibility of each Priesthood quorum to look after its own members; and the Relief Society organization is an auxiliary to the Priesthood, or as the Prophet Joseph stated, they are 'to provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor' and to 'search out objects of charity' and relieve distress...." | THs new Church leader enters upon his duties with an understanding of the problems of the Church gained from first-hand knowledge. He has been in the kitchens and welfare centers of the Relief Societies in all parts of the Church; he has stood in the fields and factories of the Priesthood quotums; he has gone into the timber lands and coal mines of the welfare program; he has shared in the problems ds well as gloried in the accomplishments of the thousands of men and women who are engaged in this program. Elder Lee acquired his background for the great welfare program and its many problems when as a 31-yearold stake president he had these same problems to solve for his own people. He became president of the Pioneer Stake in 1929, at the start of the depression years. The members of his stake were in the vast majority dependent upon the mines, mills, smelters, railroads, and industries for their livelihood, and he soon found ELDER HAROLD B. LEE himself face to face with a fast-growing and almost insurmountable problem. With his associates he set about perfecting a program to provide opportunity for self-help and independence on the part of those in need of assistance. Out of this simple step, which grew from year to year as the needs advanced, Elder Lee gained first hand experience for a greater mission, which became his when he resigned from his stake presidency and gave up a promising political future as a member of the Salt Lake City Commission, to devote full time to launching and directing the Church welfare program. The other Church experiences of this new Apostle consist of service in Pioneer Stake as stake superintendent of Religion Classes and Sunday Schools, and one year as a counselor in the stake presidency. He also filled a mission in the Western States Mission. Flder Lee was born in Clifton, Idaho, March 28, 1899, a son of Samuel M. And Louisa Bingham Lee. His early education was received in Idaho, and after his return from the mission field he attended the University of Utah. He taught 351 school in Idaho prior to his mission and afterward served five years as a principal in two schools of the Granite district in Salt Lake County. Elder Lee is a loving husband and the father of two fine daughters, Maurine, 16, and Helen, 15. The new Apostle has a friendly and likeable personality. He is a pleasant traveling companion and an intelligent conversationalist. He has few if any hobbies besides his family and his work, though he likes the out-of-doors and can often be found in the early hours of the morning at work in the gardens about his modest home. In his early manhood in Idaho, Elder Lee was a member of an orchestra, and now, ofttimes, he will be found at the keys of the piano. In many of the meetings out in the stakes when launching the great welfare program, it was interesting to find Elder Melvin J. Ballard leading the singing and Elder Lee at the piano. Those who are privileged to know Elder Lee intimately, have the reward of a loyal friendship and close association with a man whose humbleness and spirituality are a source of inspiration. 7 icadtiedte) to dite. Clavelec Appointed 'l' the morning sessions of the general conference of the Church, April 6, 1941, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., announced the appointment of five assistants to the Twelve Apostles: Marion G. Romney, president of Bonneville Stake; Thomas E. McKay, former president of Ogden Stake and acting president of the European Mission; Clifford E. Young, president of the Alpine Stake; Alma Sonne, president of Cache Stake; and Nicholas G. Smith, president of Northwestern States Mission. In announcing the appointment of these brethren, President Clark stated that the rapid growth of the Church in recent times, the constantly increasing establishment of new wards and stakes, the steadily pressing necessity for increasing the missions in numbers and efficiency, and the continual multi- (Continued on page 358) HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon. Now earth in flowered loveliness holds sway, And spreads her brilliant treasures o'er life's great highway MISS ANNA JARVIS, of Philadelphia, sent a note to a friend to spend a day with her. The day was April 10, 1907, which was the anniversary of her mother's death. During the visit, Miss Jarvis conceived the idea of making a day—the second Sunday in May—a universal holiday honoring "the best mother in the world—your mother," the observance to be the wearing of a white carnation. During the year of her untiring labor, through letters and public talks, she never contemplated the thought that the day would in any way be commercialized, and always held herself to the simple custom of giving and wearing flowers. Memorial Day, the other holiday in the month of May, is also a day of remembrance with flowers, sacred and solemn. Would that this year it might bring peace! HELEN WILLIAMS, I termed "Cattle Queen of Nevada," and only woman member of the Nevada State legislature, was considered one of the most efficient members of the assembly. Miss EMELINE YOUNG WELLS, prominent in civic and Church work, who died recently, was curator and guide in the relic hall at the Utah State Capitol for thirty years. For her remarkable service, the Daughters of Utah Pioneers dedicated a city rose garden in her honor. Beautiful Annie Low Rich, Page 352 of Ogden, leader in social and cultural activities, Elizabeth Cannon Giauque, specialist in home economics and catering, Jeanette Sharp Lenroot, of Tooele, and Mary Ray, of Fillmore, were among a group of notable Utah women who died this spring. EDITH NOURSE ROGERS, of Massachusetts, has introduced a bill in Congress to grant women army status in the War Department, placing them in arsenal work under civil service. FAY LUCILLA COX, world's champion woman parachutist, has been assigned to inspect and train air corps cadets at the Rankin Aeronautical Academy at Tulare, California. LADY NANCY ASTOR, who is Mayor of Plymouth—an English town which suffered a recent air raid —is now in trouble with the laborite leader because she raises flowers on her estate instead of vegetables. HYLLIS BENTLEY is "spinning tales" in America on her book, "What is Happening in England now." Ellen Glasgow's, "In This Our Life," Phyllis Bottome's, "Mansion House of Liberty," and Vicky Baum's, "The Ship and the Shore," are late novels with a war background written by women. Anne Jarvis, a Utah girl, has just issued a volume of original poems. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Amy Brown Lyman - - - Marcia K. Howells - - - Donna D. Sorensen - - Vera W. Pohlman - - Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow Achsa E. Paxman Mary G. Judd Belle S. Spafford Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE - President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Luella N. Adams Gertrude R. Garff Marianne C. Sharp Leona B. Fetzer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Pauline T. Pingree Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton Editor - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Vol. 28 MAY, 1941 No. 5 CO— EDIT ORIAL m9 She Strength Of Jestimony A TESTIMONY of the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ is a priceless possession. He who has one is indeed blessed. His life has direction and purpose. He is fortified to meet the tempests, and his soul knows peace. He has an appreciation of the true and abiding values of life, while the glittering, shallow, superficial things which challenge the efforts and waste the energies of many men, do not trouble him. He goes forth to meet each day with a love of God and man in his heart and with the calm assurance that that God whom he loves also loves him and will direct his course and bless his pursuits. A testimony is a living, growing thing. It is nourished by faith, prayer, learning, and the application in our daily lives of the principles which we believe; it is strengthened by expression, while powerful testimonies borne by others lend conviction to our own. Since the beginning of time, countless souls have_ possessed strong testimonies of the truth of the Gospel of our Lord. The ancient patriarchs, Adam, Seth, Enoch, Noah, and others, had the Gospel. They, no doubt, bore testimony of its truth. The testimony of Abraham was so strong that when the Lord commanded him to take his son Isaac, whom he loved, and go to the land of Moriah and offer him there for a burnt offering, "Abraham rose up early in the morning and saddled his ass and took his son to the place which God had told him of." He built an altar and kindled the fire with his own hands and would have slayed his son in obedience to God's command had not an angel of the Lord stayed his hand, saying, "Lay not thine hand upon the lad... For now I know that thou fearest God." The disciples of Jesus knew of a certainty that He was the Christ, the Son of the Living God. Jesus asked them, "Whom do men say that I am?" And Simon Peter answered, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God." So powerful was Paul's testimony before King Agrippa that the King said unto Paul, "Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian." In the latter days, the truth of 2523 Page 353 354 the Gospel has burned in the hearts of righteous men, and their testimonies have strengthened the wavering and pointed the way to "light and truth" for thousands of souls. Today we have in our midst good men who are great by virtue of the power of their testimonies. At our recent conference, we were privileged to hear these testimonies, and our own were strengthened because of them. Never in the vigor of his young manhood has the testimony of President Heber J. Grant been more impressive and more convincing than when, in the full ripeness of his years, he declared: "I know as I know that I live that it is God's work and that Jesus Christ is the Son of the Living God, the Redeemer-of the World." 'This testimony penetrated the hearts and touched the souls of all who heard it. The conviction of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., inspired the people with confidence in Church leadership when he said, "Of these things I have the same knowledge that I have that I live. Of all peoples, we are, with this knowledge, the most blessed on the earth." The sincerity of the testimony of President David O. McKay was trevealed in the concluding words of his address: a more marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. I most sincerely bear witness that the Church of Jesus Christ is that marvelous work." Testimony is not confined to men alone; women may possess it with equal conviction. The strength of the testimonies of the women of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941 Church was revealed in our own Relief Society Conference. President Amy Brown Lyman, in addressing the general session of the conference said: "I believe the greatest motivation in stimulating men to righteous endeavor and living, comes from a testimony. A testimony is more than a collection of facts. It is a combination of knowledge, conviction, faith, and inspiration. It is dynamic and forceful in character, I am persuaded that it is the greatest armor one can have as a protection against temptation, weakness and sin, and the greatest sustaining force in trials and tribulations." Counselor Marcia K. Howells referred to the Gospel as "the light that shines in the darkness"; while Counselor Donna D. Sorensen declared: ""The strength of Relief Society lies in its ability to engender faith in God and in the Gospel of Jesus Christ." - Our membership-building program was referred to as a missionary movement designed to bring all Latter-day Saint women into active service in the Society, that they might know there is "vitality and power" in the Gospel. No one can doubt the need in our troubled world for an abiding testimony in the hearts of men and women everywhere of the truth of the Gospel. No one can doubt the need for an application of the principles of the Gospel in the lives of men and nations. Blessed are Latter-day Saints who are privileged to meet together in semi-annual conferences to learn of God and His ways and to have their testimonies nourished by the inspired wisdom of great souls whose own testimonies never waver. The Merry-Go-Round — Alice Morrey Bailey Chapter 2 SYNOPSIS ALYN FORDYCE, proud of her background of family and wealth, is shocked when her husband, JOHN FORDYCE, whom she has never considered a great success, announces that he has lost his job—which he has never liked, but which paid a salary of $500 a month—and has taken a job with MR. MILTON, of the Intermountain Milton Nurseries, working at horticulture—which he has always liked, but which pays only $150 a month. He is stubborn about using their brilliant social connections to obtain a more lucrative position, and Alyn accuses him of selfishness, reminding him that she has always lived well, and, though she may have gone a little beyond their means, she had to have some compensation for her inability to have children. "You couldn't have wanted children so badly—with all the homeless waifs there are in the world," John says. John finally exacts a promise from Alyn to economize, but she rebels at giving up her expensive apartment. "I will not live in poverty," she tells John. ALYN didn't give the lavish dinner she had planned, nor did she have the luncheon she had mentioned to Josephine. She wondered, as the days went on, what everyone thought of her, and imagined the little pointed remarks, veiled by policy, that were perhaps being passed about her: "Poor, dear, Alyn, she isn't entertaining much these days. I wonder if, after all, she isn't quite up to snuff socially. 'The darling rushes about so.... Doubtless that's it—doubtless." She remembered John's accusation: "You invite someone because someone invited you." Of course, John was wrong. It was really ill-bred of him to think such a thing. | One really had to be brought up in good taste to appreciate true hospitality, and John's background.... "T won't explain," she promised herself. An explanation would admit the need of one. Instead, she went about serenely—outwardly at least—accepting engagements as always, attending luncheons as she was today. John balked at dinners, and she was obliged to decline all invitations, temporarily, of course, until John got over some of his silly notions. Rail at him and storm as she would, she couldn't get him to see that now was the time to make the most of his opportunities to make contacts with influential people. "But I am making contacts, Alyn, the kind I enjoy. I tell you, dear, that this thing has a future. This is what I've always wanted to do—the thing I enjoy. Just today I showed Mr. Milton a sport on his apricot tree, one branch that blossomed earlier than the rest of the tree." Alyn turned a deaf ear. John was — hopeless. John was actually digging in the earth. He wore old clothes and came home grimy. It made Alyn's heart positively sick within her. This was the first tragedy, barring death, of course, to enter her life. "Alyn, for goodness sake, where are you?" Bea's voice pierced her thoughts—Bea's laughter. "Nothing but the income tax return could produce a brown study like that in me. Page 355 356 I've spoken to her six times without a sign that she heard me." Then, Bea was off to a hilarious tale of how she and Wife made out their income tax papers, not forgetting to wail about -the huge sum they had to pay, "And, my dear, isn't it simply awful about 'Private Enterprise'?" she finished. "How is John, lately?" asked Josephine. "It seems ages since I saw him. I was sorry you had that engagement and couldn't come to my dinner. Does John still have his headaches?" "Why, no," said Alyn, searching her mind swiftly for information about John's headaches. No, he hadn't said a word about headache since he lost his job, except to tell her what the doctor said. "John hasn't had a headache for a month," she elucidated. "I'm so encouraged with him. He went to Doctor Fielding, and he told John that it was nothing but nerves." "Do you suppose it's his job, Alyn?" spoke up Mary. "He's still with Edmunds and Pierce, isn't he? Such confining work...." Alyn had the distinct feeling that every eye was upon her, but she was spared, mercifully, from answering, by Bea's voice. "Oh, Alyn, Wif swore that he saw John down at Milton's Nursery the other day, but it turned out to be just a working man, a common laborer. I assured Wif that that wasn't John." This was ghastly. Thank goodness the party was breaking up. Alyn couldn't bear another word. "Can I give you a lift? I see you haven't your car," offered Josephine, and Alyn was on the point of accepting, when Bea's voice cut in: "Didn't you hear Alyn say she's walking for her figure?" she asked
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941
Josephine. "Besides, I want you to go with me. I've spotted the darlingest little hat to go with my black suit, and I want your opinion before I buy it." "Run along, Jo," said Alyn, indulgently. "Bea's right. I have three pounds to lose somehow. It will be just a brisk walk home." How shocked they would be if they knew that Alyn didn't have even trolley fare in her expensive purse. They must never know, decided Alyn grimly. Soon John would be settled, and they would forget this awful time. "John has gone over to Bradley and Coombes," she could hear herself saying, "such nice people to work for, a broader chance for advancement...." Or, "Fairbanks, Stocks and Bonds...." She might mention any one of a dozen fine old firms. Then they would look back on this time and maybe eventually joke about it. Thank goodness Bea and Wif hadn't had a closer look at John down at Milton's Nursery.
ALYN stopped to admire the hats in the window of Charlotte's Chapeaux. What gorgeous things they were! She had almost forgotten this little, exclusive shop. It had been months since she had been in it. She wondered who its buyer was now, and she caught herself making a mental note that she must buy her next hat there. Then she remembered that she wasn't in the market for a hat very soon. A well-dressed woman came out of the shop and walked up the street ahead of Alyn. One block, two, three, and then they were out of the business district. The woman was still five paces ahead of Alyn. Together, their footsteps made an
THE MERRY-GO-ROUND
odd little sound-pattern. Alyn fell to wondering about this woman. She was slim and wore her powder-blue and navy suit with an air of good breeding. She was faultlessly groomed; her clothes were immaculate and her shoes trim. She walked and carried herself with grace and dignity. Alyn found herself wishing for a glimpse of the woman's face. As if in answer to her wish, an envelope slipped from under the woman's arm and fell to the ground. "I beg your pardon," said Alyn, "you've dropped something." "Thank you," smiled the woman, stooping to pick it up. Without intention, Alyn saw the name on it—Judith Wyatt. She also saw that the girl's face was in keeping with the rest of her—a mingling of sweetness and reserve; patrician chiseled eyes, lips and nostrils; a modern woman without sophistication; a woman whose glance was straightforward and honest. She was beautiful without being pretty, and Alyn was aware that this attractive woman was to become a mother. "Isn't it wonderful to have spring again?" the girl said, falling into step with Alyn. "I love to walk." "I've become so lazy it's almost work for me," Alyn said. "I'm going to do more of it," then grimly to herself, "from force." They fell into conversation easily, talking with increased eagerness of peach blossoms and mental telepathy, of the latest book—agreeing with perfect understanding or disagreeing frankly without rancor. When Alyn turned in at the marble steps of the "Penguin," she had not talked enough to this woman. "I'm sorry to leave you," she said.
357
"My husband will be home for dinner soon. I suppose yours will, too." "How I wish that were true," said Judith Wyatt. "My husband died six weeks ago." She turned swiftly, too swiftly, and continued up the street. Alyn went slowly up the steps, regretting keenly her unwitting probe into this raw wound. Who might the girl be? She couldn't be Judge Oldham's daughter who had married the man from Boston; Judith Wyatt would be too young for her—about twenty-six or seven, Alyn guessed. Nor could she be the Churchill girl whom everyone said was awkward. Alyn knew all the fine, old families, but it was simply amazing how the younger generation grew up and out of your knowledge. "Who might this girl be!"
THE clock said five-thirty when she entered the house. John would be home in an hour, and what in the world would she prepare for him? She made a hasty inventory: There were greens enough for two skimp salads, a can of pork and beans and three slices of bread. Well, she would not eat bread. The two eggs and the slice of bacon, with one of the bread slices, would do for John's breakfast. Beyond that there was nothing. How ghastly! It was three more days until John's pay day. There was nothing she could cook, either, except a bit of rice in a package and a few prunes. She hadn't realized things were quite so bad. She was glad her mother hadn't lived to see this day. John soon came in, trailing bits of earth on the white tiles of the bathroom, talking endlessly of trees and bushes.
358
"We shipped trees enough for a whole orchard to a farmer out in Gillam. I'd like to see the orchard in ten years. Maybe we will. They were the finest trees in the world. I wish you could see those Lombardy Poplars, Alyn. They make the most beautiful sight. I'm going to bud that apricot sport if it turns out well. Mr. Milton gave it to me. I'll tell you, honey, there's something about a tree...." John sat down and helped himself plentifully to the beans, continuing his monologue until Alyn thought she must scream. The beans disappeared, the salad, and the bread slices, one by one. The dishes were bare; every one on the table was empty. John half reached for another helping, looking around in that helpless, hopeful way, and then laid down his knife and fork. "Is this all you have, honey? Mercy, I'm hungry. My appetite certainly improves working out-of-doors. I could eat twice as much. You'd better cook larger lots." "Cook larger lots?" said Alyn bitterly. "We're out of groceries entirely." "Out of groceries?" parroted John maddeningly. "Certainly! What did you think I
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1941
might buy them with? What might I use for money?" Alyn couldn't resist asking. John's face was grave. "You can't mean we are out of money, Alyn? I gave you one at the first of the month. This was awful—actually to be fussing about food, like any common family. Alyn's answer was testy. "You gave me eighty dollars, John. That was to do for everything." "And quite enough, too, dear," said John reasonably. "You were to spend it for food." "Well, other things came up. I had forgotten about sending my winter things to the cleaner's. That was ten dollars I couldn't help spending. After all, if you have nice things they must have care." This was undignified, having to account for her money like a child caught stealing pennies. It was humiliating! How could John do this to her? At any rate, the money was gone, and John would have to do something—but she couldn't help wondering what. John offered no comment; he just read his paper with indifference. John was not the same man he used to be at all.
(To be continued)
Assistants to the Twelve Appointed
(Continued from page 351)
plying of Church interests and activities, had built up an apostolic service of the greatest magnitude. Accordingly, the First Presidency and the Twelve felt that in order to adequately meet their responsibilities and carry on efficiently the service of the Lord they should have some help. The five men sustained for this service are all well qualified through years of devotion to the Church. Each has served his Church in the auxiliaries, Priesthood quorums, and missions. Each has held positions of trust and leadership. Their strength added to that of the other General Authorities should indeed be a factor in forwarding the work of the Lord.
OTARION HEARING AID
Not just another hearing aid but something new and better. If your hearing is impaired, you will be delighted with the new range of sound and clearer tone made possible by four tiny Otarion radio tubes, the smallest ever made. Small, easily concealed, inexpensive to operate.
Compare Otarion with any other hearing aid regardless of price. Budget plan available.
Discuss your hearing problem privately with a trained expert in our office, without obligation or in your home if you prefer. Call or write for the interesting story of Otarion.
OTARION of Salt Lake DONALD G. LYMAN
Self-confidence is the first requisite to great undertakings. —Samuel Johnson
LARKIN MORTUARIES
Ogden, Utah Los Angeles, California 466 24th St 6003 Compton Avenue Telephone 821 Jefferson 1244
Salt Lake City, Utah 260 East South Temple Dial 4-9126
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Life Insurance
HOME OFFICE HEBER J. GRANT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PRESIDENT
LESSON PREVIEW
The Cover
"The Bride" is the title of the cover picture of this issue of the Magazine. When the new-green of spring has changed from its unbelievable freshness to the full-leafed assurance of summer, roses bloom in warm beauty, scenting June nights with their fragrance. The world awakens again to love. Charming brides pledge their love in marriage; noble minds are linked through spiritual ceremonies. The joy of a bride is perhaps the dreamed-of happiness which surpasses all previous joys of her life. When solemnized in the House of the Lord, hers is the promise of lasting love and eternal progression. "The Bride," the cover picture, is from a drawing by Evan Jensen. The model is the artist's wife, Beth Boggess Jensen. —Ruby Johnson.
Index to Advertisers
Deseret Book Company Inside Back Cover Fisher Baking Co. Outside Back Cover L. D. S. Business College Inside Back Cover Larkin Mortuaries Outside Back Cover Utah Power & Light Co. Inside Back Cover
The Songster Anna H. Michie
Out in the apple tree sits a gay songster Tilting so lightly among the sweet blooms, Gladness and joy he is sowing about him, Cheering the world with his full-throated tunes.
Now, do I see why his song is so joyous, Why he is singing with such lusty pride; In their new nest in the branches close by him, Happily listening, sits his young bride.
Sing, little warbler, your joy is supernal, Cheer the whole world with your song of true love; Sadness departs on the wings of your music, Up soar my spirits to blue skies above.
The Relief Society Magazine Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. 28 JUNE, 1941 No. 6
Contents
Special Features Back of contents—The Songster Anna H. Michie Back of frontispiece—Let Us Sing to Love Inez Ruth Stevens Frontispiece—St. George Temple Today's Need—Spiritual Awakening—(April Conference Address) President David O. McKay Temple Marriage T. Edgar Lyon Fragrance Clarissa A. Beesley A Sacred Past Preserved in a Sacred Place Joseph J. Cannon Cycling in Denmark Gertrude R. Garff Let's Make it A Reading Summer Marba C. Josephson Social Welfare Department (Relief Society General Conference, April, 1941) Stringham A. Stevens Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin Alice H. Osborn Alverda Partridge Eva G. Gillespie Annual Report (narrative) Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Annual Financial and Statistical Report Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
Fiction The Blue Dress Vera Mayhew The Merry-Go-Round—Chapter 3 Alice Morrey Bailey
General Features Paris Letter Annie Wells Cannon Editorial: Those Who Are Chosen Notes to the Field: Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest Relief Society Centennial Short Story Contest
Lessons Lesson Preview—1941-42
Poetry The Songster Anna H. Michie Let Us Sing to Love Inez Ruth Stevens The Bride's Father Speaks to the Bridegroom Olive W. Burt Jay Rubark Oram Phyllis Clayton Mid-Summer Peace Celia Van Cott
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 38-2741, Ex. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
Let Us Sing to Love Inez Ruth Stevens
Let us sing to love which is from God, For love is found in all the universe. Love, like the still waters, is deep; It is refreshing to the weary traveler.
Love has the strength of the mountains And endures even as they. The heart is uplifted by it as a bird that soars above the mountain, singing.
Love has the straight growth of a tree reaching for sunshine; It bears fruit in rich abundance.
Love has the brightness and warmth of the sun, The glory of its rising, And the quiet of its setting.
Love is the shadow of a tree at noon-day And a welcome shelter in storm.
Nowhere can be found anything like love For it has the beauty of a moonlit valley, And it is a bright star; It has the delicacy of a newly opened bud, And it fills the soul as the perfume of a rare flower.
It is wildly beating as the high-tossed waves of the sea And as calm as a desert evening With whisperings and the caress of gentle breezes.
In love There are heights unclimbed, There are depths unsounded, There is vastness unmeasured, And there is the intimate closeness of the drop of dew hidden in the flower's heart.
Let us sing all together in praise of love, For love is wonderful past understanding. It is a choice gift from God.
ST. GEORGE TEMPLE
Site Dedicated on November 9, 1871. Temple Dedicated on April 6, 1877, by Elder Daniel H. Wells.
(Courtesy N. B. Lundwall)
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. 28 JUNE, 1941 No. 6
Today's Need—Spiritual Awakening President David O. McKay (Relief Society General Conference, April 3, 1941)
THIS large audience is an inspiration, and to address it, a great responsibility. I was just thinking that scarcely a century has passed since the Prophet Joseph organized the Relief Society in Nauvoo. Just a little group of women assembled on that occasion. Only through a prophetic eye could the Prophet possibly visualize what the Relief Society is today in strength and influence, and I am sure very few individuals could have even imagined it. I am happy to have the privilege of meeting with you this afternoon if for no other reason than just to partake of the inspiration of this gathering and to hear the inspired singing from the Weber County Singing Mothers. It is a privilege just to be here. I am in hearty sympathy with the aim of the General Board to increase the membership of the Relief Society, and I sincerely trust that you will all unite with them in making the membership by the end of this year 100,000. There is a potential membership of over 170,000. I express that wish and give that admonition not merely that you might have a larger membership, but because I know that the Relief Society is one of the most potential factors in the Church for spiritual influence. I will not say that I have not inherited that thought, for as a boy I have heard my revered father say that if it were a question of educating either the boys or the girls, he would educate the girls, because they would influence their families in the home. I am a firm believer in the statement that "the mother makes us most." Now with these few thoughts in mind, I submit to you the importance of increasing the membership of this very potent organization in the Church. I commend Sister Lyman, her counselors, and the members of the Board upon their efforts to extend the influence of the Relief Society into more homes. When Sister Lyman invited me to be present on this occasion, I asked if she would not submit some topic. In reply she submitted several, one of which she has already Page 363 364 announced. Introductory to that, I would like to read two quotations. One is from John Pierpont who pays his mother this tribute: "She led me first to God; Her words and prayers were my young spirit's dew— For when she us'd to leave The fireside every eve, I knew it was for prayer that she withdrew. How often has the thought Of my mourn'd mother brought Peace to my troubled spirit, and new power The tempter to repel! Mother, thou knowest well That thou hast bless'd me since my natal hour." In anticipation of what I would say to you, I have had in mind the thought that any spiritual awakening throughout this Church will have its source largely in the home, where the mother's influence is most potent. The other quotation deals with two courses of life. Again I think they are fundamental, and I wonder why the world does not see that the success, the happiness, and the peace of mankind depend upon the statement made in these two verses. I quote from Paul: "For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and peace." To awaken spirituality in the hearts of men and women has been the Lord's purpose since He declared: "By the sweat of thy brow, thou shalt earn thy bread." Throughout the ages man has had his choice of making the aim of his life either spirituality or sensuality; spirituality or temporality; spirituality or intellectuality. Now I do not wish to imply that spirituality and intellectuality may not exist in the same person, they may—also temporality and spirituality, but not sensuality and spirituality. But man usually centers RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 194 his thought and action upon one or the other. The subject suggested, that the greatest need today in this world is spiritual awakening, implies that spirituality should be the up- — permost thought in our minds. Only through spiritual awakening has man made progress in his slow, continuous, upward climb since the divine edict "multiply and replenish the earth." The only thing which places man above the beasts of the field is his possession of spiritual gifts. Superior intellectuality without spiritual virtues may tend only to make men more beastlike. Man's earthly existence is but a test as to whether he will concentrate his efforts, his mind, his soul upon things which contribute to the comfort and gratification of his physical instincts and passions, or whether he will make as his life's end and purpose the acquisition of spiritual qualities. "The thing a man does practically lay to heart," says Carlyle, "and know for certain concerning his vital relations to this mysterious Uni-. Verse, and his duty and destiny there, that is in all cases the primary thing for him, and creatively determines all the rest.... And, I say, if you tell me what that is, you tell me to a very great extent what the man is, what the kind of things he will do is." That philosopher never spoke anything nearer the truth. Now, sisters, I ask you to imagine what condition man would have been in if God had never revealed Himself to man. Just imagine man placed here with his knowledge taken away from him; that is, his memory of his pre-existent state. If the Lord had not revealed Himself, I have no idea of what would TODAY'S NEED—SPIRITUAL AWAKENING have happened. The saving of his life, and the perpetuation of his species would be his sole aim; indeed, there would be nothing else to live for. When he got thirsty, the water would quench his thirst; when he became hungry, the fruits of the field would satisfy his hunger. He would feel the warmth of the sun by day; leaves and reeds would make him a comfortable bed at night. Skins of animals would keep him warm. When another man would come to rob him, or try to seize from him a luscious piece of venison, or some fruit which he had collected from the tree, a fight would ensue. The gratification of appetite and passion would be man's sole aim, and thus, as the Book of Mormon plainly states, man became "carnal, sensual, and devilish by nature." In a word, he would be just an animal. The Lord anticipating this, revealed Himself to man and gave the Gospel Plan. In order to assist man to rise above the earth and earthly things, and to keep his heart from being centered upon them, the Lord suggested or, indeed, commanded man to take of the "firstlings of the flock" and offer them as a sacrifice to God. Have you ever thought of it? The best, which ordinarily would be for self, must be given to a higher power—the first step in spiritual uplift. When man thus denied himself, and conquered his physical appetite, and paid reverence to someone higher than himself, he approached nearer his Maker—there was a spiritual awakening. Two Ways of Life There is a most significant sto of two boys—one who heeded God's commandment, and offered sacrifice, 365 paid his devotion to Deity in accordance with the command of the Lord. The other failed to do it because his heart was centered upon the things of the earth. As a consequence he became grasping and selfish and murderous. He choked his soul with greed. He stifled his spirituality. He became jealous and envious, and finally murdered his brother. In that simple account of Cain and Abel we find the story of the race. The man who sets his heart upon the things of the world, who does not hesitate to cheat a brother, who will lie for gain, who will steal from his neighbor, or who, by slander, will rob another of his reputation, lives on a low, animal plane of existence, and either stifles his spirituality or permits it to lie dormant. To be thus carnally minded is death. No truer word was ever spoken or written. On the other hand, the man who tills the soil, garners his fruit, increases his flocks and his herds, having in mind making better the world in which he lives, desiring to contribute to the happiness of his fellows, and who does all things for the glory of God, will, to the extent that he denies himself for these ideals, develop his spirituality. Indeed, only to the extent that he does this will he rise above the plane of the animal world. Commenting upon this, Rudolph Eucken gives the following: "I cannot conceive of the development of a powerful personality, a deep-rooted and profound mind, of a character rising above this world, without his having experienced a divinity in life above, beyond the world of sensible reality, and as surely as we can create in 366 ourselves a life in contrast to pure nature, growing by degrees and extending to the heights of the true, the good, and the beautiful, we may have the same assurance of that religion called universal." Paul has in mind these two courses of life when he writes: "But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another. "This I say, then, Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. "Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these: Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions,. Heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like, of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. "But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no law. "And they that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. "If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. "Let us not be desirous of vain glory, provoking one another, envying one another." Evidently, judging from Paul's letter, spiritual awakening was a crying need among the Galatians in the days of the Apostles. Jesus emphasized the same need when he said: "Labour not for the meat which _perisheth, but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of man shall give unto you: for him hath God the Father sealed." World Conditions Today A few years ago we were inclined to think that since history began man has made great progress. ToRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941 day as we look at world conditions, we are convinced that progress-is not one thousandth part of what it should be. Selfishness, envy, hatred, conquest, mass-murder, are on a rampage throughout the so-called civilized world, and love and peace and joy are being banished from the hearts and homes and lives of men. With all our boasted civilization there never was a time when spiritual awakening and spiritual ideals were more needed. Civilization has grown too complex for the human mind to visualize or to control. Unless man comes to a speedy realization that the higher and not the baser qualities of man must be developed, then the present status of civilization is in jeopardy. Life on the animal plane has as its ideal the survival of the fittest—kill or be killed, crush or be crushed, mangle or be mangled. For man, with his intelligence, this is a sure road to anguish and death. The spiritual road has Christ as its goal. 'The individual lives for something higher than self. He hears the Savior's voice saying: "I am the way, the truth, and the life." Following that voice he soon learns that there is no one great thing which he can do to attain happiness or eternal life. He learns that "life © is made up not of great sacrifices or duties, but of little things in which smiles and kindness and small obligations given habitually are what win and preserve the heart and secure comfort." Life is an ever-flowing river on which one embarks at birth and sails for fifty, sixty, seventy, eighty, or more years. Every year - that passes goes into an eternity never to TODAY'S NEED—SPIRITUAL AWAKENING return, yet each carries with it into the past no weakness, no bodily ailment, no sorrow, no laughter, no thought, no noble aspirations, no — hope, no ambition—all these with every trait of character, every inclination, every tendency remain with us. In other words, our lives are made up of daily thoughts and actions. We may resolve to let all our sorrows and weaknesses go with the passing time, but we know that every thought, every inclination, has left its indelible impression upon our souls, and we shall have to deal with it today. So live, then, that each day will find you conscious of having wilfully made no person unhappy. No one has lived a wellspent day who at night tosses his head on a sleepless pillow because of a stricken conscience. Daniel Webster once said that the greatest thought that had ever occupied his mind was the realization of the fact that "'there is no evil we cannot face or flee from but the consequences of duty disregarded." Our conscience remains with us and will be with us at the end, to pain us for duties violated or give us comfort for duties performed. _ Danger of Unlimited Destructive Forces" Never before in the history of the world has there been such need as today for spiritual awakening. Not that man is more depraved, not that he is less religious, but that he has in his grasp such seemingly unlimited mechanized power. If you put bombs in the hands of an inexperienced child he is likely to blow himself to pieces. To a degree that is just what we are witnessing today in the world. In the hands of  367 undeveloped, spiritually-dead people has been placed the power of explosives, the radio, the airplane, the submarine, all the concentrated power of electricity, and even that of the breaking up of the atom. Unless there is a spiritual awakening, civilization is threatened. The carnal-minded in the world are causing heart-aches and threatening the extinction of the race. Hope Dawning But the sun of hope is rising. Thinking men and women are recognizing the need of man's looking up toward the heavens instead of groveling in response to the animal instinct. One man, commenting on this, said that if all the destroyers of civilization could be eliminated, and the traits of the rest of us that come from destructive strains could be eliminated, an approach to the Millennium some hundred years hence is by no means inconceivable. Men's Hearts Must Be Changed Spiritual awakening in the hearts of millions of men and women would bring about a changed world. I am hopeful that the dawning of that day is not far distant. My faith in the ultimate triumph of the Gospel of Jesus Christ assures me that a spiritual awakening must come. It will come through the acceptance of Jesus Christ and obedience to His Gospel. I believe that there never was a time in the history of the world when there was such a need for a_ united, determined stand to uphold Christ and the Restoration of the Gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith as there is today. With all my soul I believe it. 368 Influence of Mothers As I intimated in my introduction, one of the most potential influences in awakening spirituality in the hearts of mankind is found among the mothers of men. I repeat, it is the mothers who make us most. If you mothers believe in God sincerely, and exemplify that belief in your daily words and actions in the home, your children will believe also. If you are skeptical and doubtful of the efficacy of the Gospel, your children are very likely to partake of your skepticism and doubt and grow up disbelievers. I am not unmindful, when I say that, of the undesirable influences to which our children are subjected when they get out from under your care. I know what they are, and so do you. But in the midst of these influences there is always the memory of mother, and what she would like you to do, and that is an anchor, a safe anchor in the midst of temptation. "The mother, in her office, holds the key Of the soul; and she it is who stamps the coin Of character, and makes the being who would be a savage But for her gentle cares, a Christian man, Then crown her Queen o' the world!" Conclusion In conclusion, sisters, it is true RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941 that more spirituality is the need of the hour. For thousands of years, men have sought in vain for peace and progress in temporal and physical aims. Let us hope that in the carnage, bloodshed, and _ suffering that such aims have brought upon the world, we may be witnessing the birth of a new era in which men will learn "not to cause a brother to stumble, nor to despise one of our Father's 'Little Ones'"—an era in which men will know that it is "more blessed to give than to receive"—an era in which men will strive to love the Lord their God with all their might, mind, and strength, and their neighbor as themselves. In a world in which men truly believe that "to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace," the Restored Gospel of Jesus Christ, spirituallyminded mothers, and exemplary fathers are the most effective means of bringing about such spiritual awakening. God bless you—the army of mothers enrolled under the banner of Relief Society! Your power is potent, your influence is great. God inspire you that you may use it for the salvation of your most precious heritage, your most precious possession—the children of Zion. Ye + S¢XTOW therefore hearken unto me, O ye children: for blessed are they that keep my ways. Hear instruction and be wise, and refuse it not. Blessed is the man that heareth me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the posts of my doors. "For whoso findeth me findeth life, and shall obtain favour of the Lord. But he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul: all they that hate me love death." (Proverbs 8:32-26.) FOR the Lord God is a sun and shield: the Lord will give grace and glory: no good thing will He withhold from them that walk uprightly." (Psalms 84:11) é66"7INHEY that trust in the Lord shall be as mount Zion, which cannot be removed, but abideth forever." (Psalms 125:1) Parents and the Temple Marriage Problem T. Edgar Lyon Associate Director, L. D. S. Institute of Religion NOTE—In an attempt to understand what factors are impressive when youth faces the problem of selecting a marriage ceremony, a questionnaire was submitted to a large number of college students and some M Men and Gleaners. Each person was 'requested to comment on the factors that would tend to persuade a young person to choose a temple marriage in preference to one performed by civil authority. The statements and discussions contained in the following article represent the opinions expressed by these young people. A study of the various points suggested should be enlightening in directing parental effort toward a solution of this problem, as they represent the item of greatest interest to many young people. MARRIAGE will probably be the greatest single decision that I shall ever have to make in life. It will demand making such great adjustments that I feel I cannot make them alone. I shall need all the help I can get to make a success of it, and I would not dare venture into it without the complete blessing of God and the certainty of its permanence." In these words one Latter-day Saint girl expressed her attitude toward the necessity of temple marriage. 'The lamentable fact is, however, that many of the young people in the Church are not imbued with this conviction. A perusal of the statistics of those of our young people who avail themselves of the opportunity to marry in the temples and of those who accept civil ceremonies reveals an inherent weakness in the influence that the parents and the Church have had in this respect. Were this not true, so many Church members would not be content to accept an inferior and commonplace ceremony for a superior and more idealistic one. Modern educational methods and instruction, especially in the fields of sociology, psychology and philosophy, are prone to leave the immature youth with a conception that all customs and morals—the so-called folkways and mores—are the result of an evolutionary growth, resulting from trial and error practice. Marriage, as one of the strongest of the mores, according to these views, was at first merely a bargaining with parents for a mate. Later it became a matter of common consent on the part of the contracting parties. Still later, as society became more complex, marriage received legal recognition and was licensed and controlled by the political authority of society. Such an interpretation naturally weakens the concept with which people view the sanctity of marriage and has contributed to the current notion that marriage is simply a matter of contract between parties and may be broken at will if - society allows such dissolution of the marriage bonds. In this respect, the Latter-day Saint has a very definite obligation to teach that marriage is not man-made, but rather that it is ordained of God and had divine approval before either the bargaining. Contract, or civilly recognized forms Page 369 370 had their existence. “The Bible is explicit in this regard; and to the latter-day Church, the Lord has said: unto man." (Doc. And Cov. 49:15) This is one concept that is fundamental and should be stressed by parents and impressed upon the minds of children long before they reach the marrying age. HE following question was asked of a large number of intelligent young people of marrying age: "If you were about to be married, what factors would influence you to marty in the temple in preference to a civil or other religious ceremony?" A tabulation of the responses, given independently, indicated that the greatest single influence would be the example of the parents themselves. Some agreed that this decision would be made consciously, as a result of close scrutiny, while others thought it would be made rather unconsciously. All were agreed, however, that regardless of the method by which the conclusion was reached, the parents' marriage would be the greatest single influence. If their parents had been married in the temple, had thought enough of the temple ceremony to return to the temple periodically as a means of being reminded of the joyous wedding day, their covenants to each other, and the thrill of the concept of being together in the eternal worlds, then certainly the children would feel that such procedure was the best way to insure a successful, happy and permanent marriage themselves. 'They would want to secure the same joy from it that their parents had achieved, and would consider it a privilege to do. Marriage is ordained of God. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941 so, rather than a burden or a troublesome inconvenience. One of the greatest appeals that the temple marriage ceremony can make to youth is its sacredness. The massive, dignified edifices we call temples are the real "'Houses of the Lord." 'They are more than meeting houses, chapels, or cathedrals,. Regardless of how ornate the latter may be. The buildings have been dedicated to and hallowed by unselfish, "other-worldly" work. They afford seclusion from the cares and reminders of the world about us. They afford quiet, repose, and spiritual vigor for those who enter their portals. Within the sanctuary of such a structure one feels released from outside influences and senses an approach into a closer relationship with God. A marnage at the altar, rather than in a county court house, home of a bishop, or one's private home, is symbolical and soulstirring. It signifies a willingness to sacrifice all one has in the service of the other contracting party, and together to sacrifice their all in the service of God. Another factor that needs stressing if we are to create a desire to have marriages solemnized in the temples is the concept of the eternity of the marriage covenant. When youths truly fall in love, they will not be contented with a desire for companionship that is restricted to mortality. Youths are radicals and want to go the whole way, not merely part way. So strong is this conviction that accompanies love that numerous people who have never heard of an eternal marriage ceremony, and who may have actually been taught that in the hereafter there is no such thing as a marriage rela- tionship or a continuation of individuality and personality, nevertheless believe that their love is divine and eternal. When this conviction, due to strength of emotional love, can come to people who are uninstructed in the Gospel, it can certainly be intensified in the youth of the Church by proper interpretation. Furthermore, the concept of having an eternal share in the love of our parents and children, as well as our soul-mate, is a powerful urge to see that one's marriage secures divine sanction. It makes it possible for the parents to fulfill their obligation toward their yet unborn children by seeing that they are born under the covenant and thus become heirs of salvation. That temple marriage is one of the greatest of privileges, rather than an obligation, is worthy of emphasis in our teaching of youth. It is, in the first place, restricted to certain individuals; namely, those whose ideals and conduct conform to certain standards. Furthermore, such a marriage places man and woman on an equal footing. The Priesthood of the man becomes a shared blessing of the woman. Within the temples men and women are on a plane of equality, and neither receives more nor is required to give less than the other. 'Temple martiage is unique, distinctive and restricted—it is not for everyone who wills it, but for those who have made themselves worthy of the privilege. There is a permanence about temple marriages that is a vital argument in their favor. Statistically, they are more certain to be lasting than are civil marriages. This is natural, because they are, as a rule, more selective, less hasty, and are entered into more sincerely than the other class. But in addition to these factors, there is another vital point. People approach temple marriage with a conviction that they want it to be a permanent union that even death cannot break. They have no mental reservations, no room for as much as a doubt that their marriage may not be happy, and no idea that they will get married by civil law and then later go to the temple. With confidence they enter the temple to ask God's blessing for an eternal union, based upon the highest ideals that can fill the human heart. This confidence, this mental certainty, results in a matrimonial tie that enables them to meet the obstacles and vicissitudes of life with fortitude and confidence, rather than discouragement or mutual disgust, because they had the battle of life half won when they started. NE vital phase of temple marriage, about which there is the greatest curiosity on the part of young people and the greatest reticence on the part of the older ones, is that of the nature of the endowment and the place of the temple garment in daily life. Certainly much could be said that would be encouraging and enlightening. The following quotation from Elder John A. Widtsoe's Rational Theology contains an excellent summary: "The endowment given to members of the-Church in the temples falls into several divisions: First, there is a course of instruction relative to man's eternal journey from the dim beginning towards his possible glorious destiny. Then, conditions are set up by which that endless journey may be upward in direction. Those who receive this information covenant to obey the laws of eternal progress, and thereby give life to the knowledge received. Finally. PARENTS AND THE TEMPLE MARRIAGE PROBLEM 371 372 it is made clear that a man must sometime give an account of his deeds, and prove the possession of divine knowledge and religious works. It is a very beautiful, logical and inspiring series of ceremonies." (Pp. 126, 127, 1937 edition) This might be further amplified by use of Talmage's House of the Lord, in which he indicates that through the use of the eye, the ear, the emotions, and active participation in ceremonies, the divine plan of life from eternity to eternity is impressed upon the open mind. | The approach to the purpose and wearing of the garment must be made in a constructive, positive manner. It is a symbol of God's protecting care. It is a constant reminder of our sacred vows, our ideals, our hopes, our covenants, and our obligations toward God. As such, it affords us mental protection and spiritual strength, the consequences RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941 of which are of incalculable value in the face of strife, discouragement or temptation. To wear it is a privilege, not an inconvenience. A person may build a house, with its walls, roof, and floors, and then add plumbing and heating facilities. With a few articles of furniture he may live in his abode, but it is certainly not a finished home. 'The addition of an appropriate decorative scheme, draperies, furnishings, and proper landscaping will all enhance the beauty of the house and make it a nicer place in which to live. Temple marriage does this to the marriage which the state sanctions. It adds to its beauty, richness, appropriateness, and places it in its proper setting—a jewel mounted to catch the rays of divine light on its every facet. THE BRIDE'S FATHER SPEAKS TO THE BRIDEGROOM Olive W. Burt I stood there once, where you now proudly stand, And felt the same deep surge of tenderness For one who came to lay her trembling hand Within my own; and watching you, I guess How you are vowing now no time shall dim This ardent sympathy with mood and whim. As down the ribboned aisle we slowly move You think your heart can hold no more of love. But on another and more poignant day You'll stand here where [ stand, playing this part, And all this shining love will dim to gray Compared to that which then constricts your heart. You think that you adore your tremulous bride, But when your daughter walks here at your side, Oh, then you'll realize that your heart pours Its fullest love upon a bride not yours! Fathers Clarissa A. Beesley GIOVANNI PAPINI, in his Life of Christ, describes the affection of a father as the most perfect, pure, and disinterested love in the world. He says: "The father does for his son what he would do for no one else. His son is his creation, flesh of his flesh and of his bone, grown up by his side day by day, a completion and a complement of his own being. The old man lives again in the young man. The past sees itself in the future. He who has lived sacrifices himself for him who is to live. The father lives in the son, and feels himself exalted.... He has seen him grow up at his feet, he has warmed his cold little hands between his own, he has heard his first words, eternal miracle ever new! He has seen his first wavering footsteps on the floor of his house. Little by little, he has seen a soul shine out in that body created by him, a new human soul, unique treasure beyond price!"' We thank Papini for these words; for helping us to penetrate, however dimly, a father's heart, and to understand, however imperfectly, the hidden springs of his emotions. And not alone upon the son, but upon the girl-child also is lavished a father's devotion, with an added tenderness beyond expression. She is the light of his eye, the constant joy of his heart. In her he sees maturing again the flowers of feminine grace and charm which have delighted him in both his mother and his wife. There is scarcely anything more heart-warming than to witness the pride with which a father glows each time a new spirit comes into his home. He has suffered the mental pangs, if not the physical, necessary to the giving of life to a new individual. His anxiety for both mother and child has been great; his emotions have been intense. But after the pain and travail are past, both father and mother rejoice with deep gratitude. Into the home of every righteous couple is heard again the song of the angels, "Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given." Fortunate is the child whose father knows how to play and who leads him by the hand through the smiling days of innocence and through youth's tempestuous journey. Fortunate are both father and child who grow up in close companionship. To exchange confidences and to pray together under the stars is a sacred experience. "I must go out to the hills again To the lone hills standing by, And all I ask is a few friends And my own boy standing by." Often in our blindness, especially in our youth, we take fathers too much for granted. Without analyzing carefully, we somehow know that in the everyday affairs they will always be "standing by," saying little but understanding much, interested in our problems, smiling at our mistakes, sometimes reproving if we have misbehaved, giving advice which long experience has taught us we shall do well to heed. We feel deep down in our hearts that whatever happens "Dad" will in some way help us out. In the more severe crises what a bulwark is father! In time of trouble he still doesn't say much, but he does things. His quick decisive action, his kindly smile, his sympathy and protecting arm are there. Because we are so secure under this protection, we scarcely appreciate the strength that is guarding us. He has provided the home that shelters us; with his hands and brain he earns the means to give us daily bread and raiment. Often he carries financial problems we little dream of, and which he hides away lest they mar the happiness of his family. He is keenly sensitive to words of appreciation and acts of consideration shown him, which cost so little to express. A father and daughter of sixteen were together, teasing each other, for fathers do love to tease. He, in fun, was naming some of her faults, and she was combating them. But at last she said, "Well, anyway, I love you," and the light that came into his eyes was pleasant to see.
LATTER-DAY SAINT manhood reaches its highest pinnacle in fatherhood, for in this he is most like God. The Latter-day Saint father realizes the responsibility that is his, as well as the unspeakable blessing, in being permitted to beget sons and daughters who are indeed immortal spirits, children of the great Eternal Father of us all. Holding the Priesthood, he can officiate in giving a father's blessing and name in infancy; he can perform the baptismal ceremony which will admit that child into the kingdom of heaven; he can confer upon his son the same Priesthood which he himself holds. He leads or directs in family devotions. In times of illness and distress he can bless and invoke the powers from on high
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
to heal and to comfort. His is the responsibility, in conjunction with his companion, to teach his children the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and to prepare them for life's mission. Lessons in industry, loyalty, honesty, are taught daily in the family group. He does not command obedience but wins it by the power of his leadership. The late Jesse Knight, when asked how it was that his children obeyed him so readily, said, "I generally try to find out what they want to do and then tell them to do it." Great fathers we have known, fathers who have set before their sons and daughters mighty examples of faith and nobility, who have showered such a wealth of affection upon them that forever after its warmth and glow have remained with them. Such a father was President Joseph F. Smith. His children received his tenderest solicitation and love. He never met them, in the home or on the street, while they were young and after they were grown to manhood and womanhood, without saluting them with a kiss. He surrounded them with the Gospel atmosphere; he taught them with all his power and by his own shining example to love the Lord and keep His commandments. In the last moments of his life he declared that his children were his greatest treasures. Though the years may have multiplied, and we may have traveled far in life's accomplishments, yet we yearn for parental sympathy and counsel, and we are blessed indeed if it is still within our reach. In the presence of a good father and noble mother there is always inspiration.
FATHERS
One never moves downward but upward when he goes home to the ones who have given him life. Not only the prodigal, but each one of
375
us, may sense fully the significance of the words of confidence and hope, "I will arise and go to my father."
WHEN I WOULD PASS Jay Rubark
When Spring has come And life, waking from a winter's sleep, Bursts forth, vibrant, fresh, pregnant, To build again a new world Of holy beauty, engendering faith and hope eternal In a day of resurrection That speaks of progress never ending,— Then I would pass.
When the snow still mantles Half way down the mountain side, And the foothills greening, Slope gently to the flowered valley floor Where sprouts the grain in teeming fields To feed the bodies of strong, virile, on-marching youth Bearing forth the torch of ever-lasting good,— Then I would pass.
When the sun sinks low Above the western hills A shining, golden, glowing disc, Emblem of a living, burning shield Of righteousness, draped with Gorgeous, flaming clouds of glory Witness of a heaven where dwell the saved,— Then I would pass.
When the light on the eastern cliffs Sweeps upward to be lost in dusk And the rich glow of living amethyst Fades into the steel grey Of twilight, and then darkness, the realm Where day dies and fecund dawn is born, The herald of the sun-lit day to come,— Then I would pass, Silently, in peace.
A Sacred Past Preserved In A Sacred Place Joseph J. Cannon
TIME is the great destroyer of values—the old house, the old horse, the old dress, the old automobile may have been depreciated by it more than by wear. Yet time is also a creator of values. As soon as sufficient years have gone by to take from an object all utility, they may add increasing value to it as a relic. The hat, clothing, furniture that have gone out of style, and which you are ready to give to the Deseret Industries, may, if properly preserved for a hundred years, be so valuable that people will travel distances to see what odd things were worn and used way back in 1941. This is particularly true if you are a noted or a notorious character. The fact that things accumulate interest with the years is one of the reasons for museums. If left to the corruption of moth and rust, articles soon go out of existence, but in a museum they live on, enhanced by the flight of decades and the centuries. If you are imaginative, if you like to travel back and live with people and in situations that are past, come with me into the museum on Temple Square at Salt Lake City. Let's go through the east gate. It's a small portal, and you get a thrill as you pass through it and find yourself inside where the flowers are smiling joyously at the blue sky. We'll not stop to talk about the great Temple on our right. It's beginning to show the signs of age. Maybe you would like to see the weathering cleaned off, but more likely you think this gives character to the structure, like lines in the faces of great people. What about this low log house in the corner? Does anybody live in it? Would anybody like to live in its one room? Why keep it there? Because it is old; because it tells how the pioneers lived. Don't you feel how Sister Deuel must have rejoiced when she walked into it the first time and compared its roominess and comfort with the restricted space of a covered wagon? Let's go inside the museum and visit the east room. Pictures of an angel and seven men are in this place. The heavenly being is Moroni, the ancient prophet, in the act of delivering to the care of a young, modern prophet the record of his people, the Book of Mormon. It is a painting by Louis A. Ramsey. Looking at it, one finds the story of that great miracle easy to tell to strangers. Going clockwise, the next picture, also by Ramsey, is of Joseph Smith during his manhood. In the company of this room he looks very youthful. The pioneer leader, Brigham Young, comes next, a good painting by G. B. Matthews. In its old-fashioned frame the picture of John Taylor in white satin coat was done by Lorin S. Pratt from a painting by Constant in Paris in 1850. Wilford Woodruff is next, painted by a Chicago artist; then Lorenzo Snow, by Ramsey, Joseph F. Smith, by Ramsey, and Heber J. Grant by Lee Greene Richards. Guides tell their guests that the Priesthood and the keys of the Kingdom came from heaven by angelic visitation and descended from one of these prophets to another until they reached the present holder. As you step into the main room of the museum, you see at your right a grand piano. It is in good condition—at least the woodwork is. It must have been a joy to the Kimball family after its long journey across the plains. They say that when the oxen looked up at the lofty peaks of the Rockies, their hearts failed them, and they refused to pull their burden farther. The men dug a big hole, put the piano into it, wrapped in buffalo robes, and covered it with brush and earth. The next spring they went back and hauled it into the valley. Other furniture of this spot is from the Lion House, the home of President Brigham Young. The gilded mirror on the wall is from the Gardo House. Do you remember the Gardo House? It occupied the lot where the Federal Bank building now stands on the corner of State and South Temple streets. It was a magnificent place with Mansard roof—oh, but we're getting away from the museums. You touch reality, just a bit of it, and it stirs the memory and ignites the imagination so that you find yourself far afield. How that collection of spinning-wheels takes you out of this age of speed back to the days when the household was the factory for much that our forebears ate and wore! Spinning went on while the family members knit and read, peeled apples and sewed carpet rags before the open fireplace. There was spinning in solitude when the men and boys were in the fields; spinning when furtive glances were cast out the window to see whether Indians might be approaching. Nearby is a churn. A short time ago when Helen Keller visited the museum, we guided her hands to this familiar household article, the bane of childhood a generation ago. Miss Keller pumped the paddle up and down and laughed at her memories. Then we lifted the ox yoke nearby. She ran her hands over it and then under it, and we let it rest there a moment. "It was heavy on the animals," she said in her strange voice. "The Bible says, 'His yoke is easy and His burden is light.' I understand that better when I lift this." Against the wall is the throne and other properties from the Salt Lake Theater. What memories they evoke! Edwin Booth used them in his time. Lawrence Barrett, Henry Ward, Louis James, Robert Mantell employed them to enhance their magic art. And earlier, Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, George A. Smith, Willard Richards and their associates, those titans of the past, stirred with emotion and joy as they watched the sweet illusion behind the footlights.
BUT let us look at this row of cases. These things are too valuable to be left in the open; they must be put behind glass. First, let us look at this little exhibit of a buffalo skull. It has a message written in a beautiful hand on the whitened bone: "Pioneers camped here June 3d, 1847, making
A SACRED PAST PRESERVED IN A SACRED PLACE
377
378
15 miles today. All well. Brigham Young." From the standpoint of showmanship this is a great possession. The trouble with it is that the Pioneers did not travel 15 miles on that day, for it was Sunday, and, besides, Brigham Young did not write it. Remembering that it was the custom to leave such bulletins, one of his sons-in-law did it, employing a fine imagination but a poor historicity. The first of the formal cases is occupied appropriately by relics of Joseph Smith. Here we have his military cloak, epaulets, and swords. These, with the well-known picture of the Prophet addressing the Nauvoo Legion with saber raised, carry the impression that Joseph Smith was a military man. Doubtless remembering Far West, where he, a non-combatant, was betrayed into the hands of the militia, court-martialed and condemned to be executed the following morning, he desired that the new city of Nauvoo have a militia of its own. This strange privilege was granted by the Illinois legislature in which Abraham Lincoln sat. The Prophet succeeded, after a time, to the command of the Legion. He never took part in a battle, and when the crisis came and he needed the defense of the Legion to save his life, he gave himself into the hands of Governor Ford and the Carthage Greys, and issued orders for the Legion to deliver up its arms. In this case, we have the handkerchief given by the Prophet to Wilford Woodruff on that memorable day of healing on the banks of the Mississippi, in 1839. When Joseph instructed Brother Woodruff to wipe the faces of some sick children
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
and promised that they would be healed, he also told him that as long as he kept that handkerchief it would be a token of friendship between them. There is in this case a wisp of the Prophet's hair, which tells his complexion. That lock is golden, and suggests something of his expressive and hopeful nature. Joseph was a blue-eyed man, as were Presidents Young, Taylor, and Woodruff, and as is President Heber J. Grant. President Lorenzo Snow and President Joseph F. Smith had gray eyes. In one of the cases devoted to Joseph Smith and his time is the watch worn by President John Taylor in Carthage Jail at the time Joseph and Hyrum were slain. There is a scar under the figure "one." This marks where the bullet struck, and the back shows the lump its force caused. It would appear that President Taylor wore his timepiece, contrary to custom, with the face outward. He had been desperately wounded, and, as a matter of fact, carried the bullets in his body to the end of his days. As he seemed to be falling through the window, a musket ball from outside stopped him, and his body fell in the room instead of to the ground, where he would have met certain death. A moment later, Joseph plunged through the same opening. His body was set up against the curb of the well, and a squad of the militia fired a volley into it. This was unnecessary, as Joseph was doubtless dead when he struck the ground.
IN the case devoted to President Brigham Young there are two in-
A SACRED PAST PRESERVED IN A SACRED PLACE
379
teresting signatures. One is that of Thomas Ford, Governor of Illinois, appointing Brigham Young Lieutenant General of the Nauvoo Legion. This same Thomas Ford, by his cowardly conduct, abetted the death of the former Lieutenant General of the Legion, Joseph Smith. The other signature is that of President Millard Fillmore, naming Brigham Young governor of the Territory of Utah. For three years the people had been living practically under religious government, their attempts to get into the Union as the State or the Territory of Deseret having failed. In September, 1850, Congress admitted the Territory of Utah, and President Fillmore appointed Brigham Young its first governor. The news of all this did not reach the people until four months later, in January, 1851. That set of wooden gears up there in the case brings vivid pictures of the Pioneers carefully charting their way across the plains and mountains. First, they tied a red rag to the spoke of a wheel, and a man went along beside the moving wagon counting the revolutions. But Orson Pratt and William Clayton thought out, and Appleton M. Harmon built, a measuring device which they called a roadometer. It was perhaps the forerunner of the speedometer of today, though its limit couldn't have been much above 15 miles a day. In the next case are some specimens of the Mormon crickets. These wingless, beetle-like insects almost succeeded in taking the lives of the Pioneers, and they have acquired their name from their near victims. The dictionary calls them Mormon crickets, and the government issues bulletins under that name regarding their destruction. They have a wide habitat. Tourists say that they are now found as far back as Minnesota. The Pioneers had a great desire to become self-sustaining. Here are samples of glass they manufactured, paper made in their own mill, nails they cut or forged by hand, iron they smelted and cast, silk that they produced from the cocoons of worms they had fed on mulberry leaves, cotton grown in their own fields and spun and woven into cloth, linen they made from their own flax, pottery they shaped and burned, and many articles of their own handicraft and art. Across the aisle is the generous gift of Mr. Herbert S. Auerbach, who has been collecting what he calls Mormoniana for many years. He has given to the museum the furniture he obtained from Nauvoo, used in the home of Joseph Smith—chairs, tables, footstools, candlesticks, candle molds, a metal lantern with slits for the escape of the candlelight, a high-post bed, used in those days with a canopy, another bed and a baby's crib—articles a century old that show the taste and culture of the Nauvoo period. Joseph Smith's home was probably one of the best in the Illinois of that day. Some time this space may be adorned with murals depicting the life of the Prophet. Next to this is the beautiful art work of the Fairbanks family, showing in color and statuary the trek across the plains. John B. Fairbanks did most of the painting, though three of the panels were done by his gifted son, J. Leo. The sculpture is the work of another famous son,
380
Avard. This art recess is a lovely evidence of Utah culture in addition to the great story it tells.
MY how wordy I have been. I have run out of space and have only started on the museum. Many of the contributions of the Pioneers I have omitted. I have said nothing about the Indian room, nothing about the gifts of our missionaries from all parts of the world. And yet I wonder if that is not the right way. You shouldn't go to such a museum to pack neat bundles of information away in your mind like merchandise on a shelf. You go to spend a little time quietly with the past. If you hurry you are apt to lose the spell it casts. Under the best of conditions a repository like this can contain only part of things—a board from the door of Liberty Jail, a watch made by Heber C. Kimball, pipes from the Tabernacle organ, a long-barreled rifle owned by
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
Kit Carson. It is for us to reconstruct the whole from the suggestion of the part. We must build up the dramatic story of the noble prisoners in the Missouri jail, the prophetic counselor of Brigham Young, with hands of an expert craftsman the thoughtful Joseph Ridges building a cathedral organ out in the desert, the adventurous scout cruising these mountains with his good rifle in the crook of his arm. Here we touch life, not the life of today, which, because of its nearness, may seem commonplace, but the life of the past. And because that life has flowed into the ocean of years, it becomes romantic and stirring and significant. And since life is a tremendous experience and a magnificent adventure, we are likely to see its reality more clearly in a museum than in the scenes in which we and not the figures of the past are playing the parts.
OUR YOUTH Phyllis Clayton
Youth of our nation, stand firm and true, Hold fast the ideals of the Red, White, and Blue, Throw back your shoulders, hold up your head, Let nothing dismay you or hinder your tread.
Inspired by courage of those gone before, Loyal to patriots and trusts as of yore, Meet the world squarely, with eyes clear and bright, Glad you are learning to do what is right.
Live that each day makes you better for living, Learn and gain knowledge from those who are giving, Love and be loyal to ideals so true— Youth of our nation, we're depending on you!
The Blue Dress A Short Story Vera Mayhew
NANCY looked with longing eyes at the old pink pitcher on the second shelf of the kitchen cupboard. It held a hoard of fifty-cent pieces, quarters, some small change and even a few dollar bills—ten percent, in fact, of all her chicken and egg money she had earned all summer. It was her tithing, and she was going to Church in town next Sunday and pay it to the bishop. At least, that was her plan. That's what she had saved it for. With one part of her she wanted to do the thing she had planned. But there was that troublesome other part—the part that liked to dress up and look pretty and that wanted to buy the new dinner dress she had seen in Capwell's window the day before when she had been in town with Ren. It was so exactly her blue. She stole a look at herself in the mirror above the sink and smiled at the image that looked back at her. A year of hard work hadn't dimmed the luster of her yellow hair nor coarsened the beauty of her clear complexion. She had taken good care of that. She looked at her hands in the soapy dishwater. Covered with rubber gloves they were. When her sister had protested at the lovely Nancy marrying a farmer, Nancy had answered that Ren loved beauty as much as any man and that she would take good care not to lose hers. She had taken care. She was as lovely now as when she married the year before. Her clothes were beginning to be shabby though. She and Ren went out a good deal in spite of the work, and clothes don't last forever. Next Saturday night was the annual dance of the Farmer's Alliance. Ren was chairman. They would have to go, and she really didn't have a thing to wear. Thoughtfully she poured out the soapy water, rinsed her cloths and her dish pan. She cleaned up her sink and took her towels out to the line. As she stepped back into the kitchen, her eyes went again to the pink pitcher. "I'll just get the pitcher down and see how much I have," she thought. She stacked the money in neat piles on the kitchen table. There were six dollar bills, twenty half dollars made four piles, and almost thirty quarters made three more. In all there was nearly twenty-five dollars, and the dress had been priced at twenty-two dollars and ninety-five cents. That would cover the sales tax and everything, she thought. She sighed deeply as she pushed the money back into the pitcher and put it on the cupboard shelf. By the time Ren came in to lunch, Nancy's head ached with thinking. "What's the matter, honey? Not sick, are you?" Ren asked solicitously. "Mustn't get sick for the big shindig Saturday night." "I'm not sick," Nancy answered. "I've just been wondering what I could wear." "Oh, so that's what's worrying you. The little bird's feathers are a bit limp and bedraggled." Nancy smiled at him. "I didn't
381
382
think there would be so many places to go out here, and my trousseau didn't include many evening clothes. I've worn everything I have about to pieces." Ren's face was grave. "I know, sweetheart," he said. "I wish I could tell you to go to town and get anything you wanted. Last year's nut crop being a failure sort of put the strings on us. There may be money after this year's crop is sold, but I can't be sure. Too bad you didn't use the poultry money for clothes." "That's what you said before, dear, but we have enjoyed the living room rug and draperies. I'm glad we bought them. Really I am, dear. If you get a good price for things this fall, I'll splurge. I'll buy my trousseau all over again," Nancy said. "But meanwhile?" Ren asked. "Darling, I am sorry. I'd like to give you everything that goes with beauty like yours." "Silly," Nancy answered. "I'm just a farmer's wife, and I have everything I want, thank you."
ALL afternoon the thought of the money in the old cream pitcher bothered her. She had always paid her tithing before. All the while she taught school a tenth of every check had gone to her bishop without question. Paying tithing was just something you did. You didn't any more think of things you could buy with your tithing money than you did of the things you could buy with your neighbor's money. It just wasn't yours to think about. Why, then, should she be thinking this way now? She could hear herself telling her mother that she would continue to live her religion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
whether Ren was a member of the Church or not, and that some day he would join. She was sure of it. They had been married a year, and now she was not so sure of it. Ren made no objection to her going to Church, but he was never willing to go with her. He laughed a bit at what he called her funny notions at not drinking tea or coffee, but he never urged her. "Go ahead, chicken," he said, "your life's your own. You don't exactly share my idea of a good time, but if that's your way it's O. K. by me." She had never wavered before. Resolutely she put the thought of the blue dress out of her mind. She'd wear the rose-colored lace. If it was a little faded and had been expertly darned in a place or two, it would look all right under the artificial lights. There, with that decided, she could do something else. It wasn't as easy as thought. The vision of the blue dress kept coming between her and any task she set herself. She began to wish she hadn't gone to Oakland with Ren yesterday. If she hadn't seen the dress, she wouldn't want it, she would never have thought of getting a new one. What made her think she could use tithing money for it anyway? After dinner that night Ren said, "You look so tired, dear, I'll help you with the dishes." "I'm not really tired, and you've worked so hard all day," Nancy answered, "go into the other room and read your paper. I'll be right in." But Ren was stubborn and followed her into the kitchen and took a clean towel from the drawer. As they washed dishes, they chatted about the farm and the dance,
THE BLUE DRESS
skirting nimbly around any mention of the dress. Neither of them wanted to bring that up again.
REN carried a stack of plates over to the shelves, and as he put them away, he lifted the pink pitcher to put it out of the way. "This thing's heavy," he said, "what have you in it?" "Nothing," Nancy answered, trying to make her voice light. They had talked about tithing once before. It was all right for her to go to Church and follow her taboos, but she couldn't spend his hard-earned money to support any church. But this was her money. She had earned it herself, and they had agreed she could spend it as she wished. Still there was no use getting into a discussion about it. "It doesn't lift like nothing," he said, and peered into it. "Hmmm, money! Weren't you the girl who was wishing for a new dress just this noon? This must have been one hiding place you forgot when you dug up the money for the rug and draperies. Well, lucky you did, I'd say. You can go to town tomorrow and buy the dress." Nancy didn't answer, and Ren continued. "If there isn't enough here, it might be I could let you have a dollar or two." Laughing, he hugged her to him and began an intricate step about the kitchen floor. "Folks, meet Mrs. Harvey, the belle of the ball," he said. Nancy's heart was heavy. It seemed like her problem had been solved for her, but she wasn't happy about it. She should have put the pitcher back farther on the shelf or onto a higher one where he wouldn't see it. She couldn't tell him why she had saved the money. They
383
went into the living room, and each picked up a book and began to read, but Nancy couldn't keep her attention on the printed page. She kept going back in her mind to the scenes of her childhood. She remembered the time her father was on a mission and her mother had worked so hard in the store to keep it going until her father got back. Mother had to make it pay enough to keep the family and send Father what he needed, too. How many times she had gone with Mother to pay the tithing. She remembered the bishop saying one time, "Sister Thurston, it seems like you pay a tithing keeping your husband on a mission. I know you have use for this money. Why don't you just keep it?" Mother had simply answered, "Would you deprive me of the blessings of a tithe-payer?" The bishop had looked a little surprised, and said, "The Lord will bless you for your faithfulness." Mother had never doubted that she had been blessed. She had been able to keep her health under the double duty of the store and the home while Father had filled a full-time mission. Now, I'm afraid to speak up and tell Ren that I saved that money for tithing, Nancy thought miserably. I'm not a very worthy daughter of a strong mother. Again she tried to see the words before her, and again a mental vision obscured the page. She could hear her father's voice in family prayer, thanking God that a certain check had been delayed too long in the mail to be among those lost when the bank failed in the depression of 1932. They had none of them questioned that the delayed check was the bless-
384
ing of Heaven to a faithful tithe-payer. "Ren," she said, her voice a bit breathless, "that money in the pitcher.... It is twenty-four dollars and ninety cents." "Will that buy a dress?" he asked. "I could make it up to thirty, I think." "It isn't that. There is enough for the dress, but I don't want the dress. That is, I want it, of course, but... Well... That money is exactly one-tenth of the poultry money for this summer. Ren, dear, don't you see? It's my tithing. I owe it to the Lord." He just looked at her, amazement written on every line of his face. Then he shrugged his shoulders helplessly. "Well, I said that money was yours, and it still holds, but it seems pretty silly to me. Did it ever occur to you that a tenth is a pretty big slice of one's income to donate to any cause, no matter how worthy. How do you know someone else's wife won't have a new dress on it?" "Oh, Ren," Nancy said almost in tears. "I told you before that the tithing money builds churches and temples and hospitals and is put in trust for a time of need." "I know you told me. But how do you know?" he questioned. How did she know? What difference did it make? It was paying the money that brought the blessings, not how it was spent. "Look, honey," Ren said, "you take the car and go to Oakland tomorrow. Buy the dress to wear Saturday night, and when the crops are sold I'll give you the money and you can pay your tithing, if it's so important to you." How could she resist Ren? Of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
course, he wanted her to look nice. He should be proud of his wife on an important night in his life.
THE next morning Nancy lagged with her work, but it was finally done. She put the money in her bag and climbed into the car and drove out the ranch gate. Ren was there to see her leave. "Get yourself a bang-up lunch," he called. "Go to the Leamington." As she drove along the country roads, Nancy scarcely saw the scenes that usually enthralled her on a drive to Oakland. Even when she came through the Broadway Low-level Tunnel and got her first glimpse of the Bay she didn't stop, as she usually did, just to fill her heart with the beauty before her. Her mind was far away—now back in her childhood and again on the farm with Ren. She stood in the fitting room gazing at her reflection in the three-way mirror. It was even lovelier than she had imagined. "It's like it was made for you," the salesgirl said. "You set it off like no one I ever saw." Nancy herself thought that she had never had a dress that was so thoroughly right. The night of the party Nancy was called to the telephone just as she began to dress. Ren was finished and was waiting downstairs for her before she had a chance to go back into her room and finish getting ready. He was waiting for her in the living room when she came in. He looked up at her expectantly, and his face fell. "Couldn't you find a dress?" he asked. "Yes, I found one," she answered,
THE BLUE DRESS
"but I found I couldn't take it. Ren, that money wasn't mine. I couldn't spend or even borrow it. I put the dress on. I even had them wrap it up, and then I said I'd changed my mind. I guess they thought I was crazy, but I couldn't help it." "Here, put your coat on. Let's get going," Ren said shortly. He was disappointed and angry. Of course, he would be. Now he would be ashamed of her. The other women would all have new dresses. They would be a credit to their husbands. Everyone would see the faded streaks in the rose lace. Everyone would know just where the spots had been mended. Everyone would think Ren couldn't take care of her or didn't want to get nice things for her. All evening Ren said little, and Nancy was miserable. They drove home in almost complete silence and went to bed without the usual talking it over. For a long time Nancy lay awake, her mind in a turmoil. What had she done to her marriage? Was it right to spoil anything as beautiful as she and Ren had because she must pay tithing? Why did she have to be like she was? Or, being that way, why did she have to love Ren so much? Sunday dawned clear and lovely. Nancy got up and hurried with her dinner preparations. Everything was ruined between her and Ren anyway. She would go to town and pay her tithing, get it off her mind,
385
and then never again worry about saving anything. She couldn't live with Ren and be at cross purposes about religion all the time. It would have been better if she had never spent that summer at California, never seen Ren and known that out of all the world he was just the only one for her. She put the roast in the oven and prepared the vegetables, choking back her tears. Then she set the breakfast table with just one place. Ren came in, shaved and wearing his best suit. "Had your breakfast?" he asked Nancy. She shook her head. Evidently he was going some place, and she wouldn't be able to have the car. Now what would she do? She felt like she couldn't stand it with that money in the house another day. "Oh, I forgot," he said. "This is the Sunday that you don't eat breakfast. It's sort of hard for me to get on to all your little ways, but I'm coming along. Sort of thought I'd go in to church with you this morning." "Ren, darling, will you?" Nancy's eyes were starry. She had never imagined such happiness. "If it is so important to you to live up to the teachings of your religion that you can sacrifice a new dress that you really want and, besides that, one that you really need, I guess I'll have to begin to find out what it's all about." Nancy breathed a silent prayer of thanks as she went into Ren's arms. Cycling in Denmark Intriguing Paths and New Horizons Gertrude Ryberg Garff Relief Society General Board Member MY SON, MARK RYBERG GARFF, AND 1 OFF FOR A BICYCLE RIDE  “LOOK out! You're in the L cycle path!" | And as I looked breathlessly around, it seemed as if hundreds of bicycles were headed straight toward me. As I jumped back to the sidewalk, I dazedly watched the cycles roll nonchalantly by. Gradually the words of Agnes Rothery, expressed in her book, Denmark, Kingdom of Reason, came to life before my very eyes: "Like the sands of the desert before the wind, the bicycles of Copenhagen scud down the streets." Then and there was born the decision to use a bicycle as my means of transportation. I'll admit the vision of me on wheels making my way through that maze of bicycles and heavy traffic was a little terrifying, but, even so, I decided it was safer to be a cyclist than a pedestrian. This decision not only kept me in the safest lane of travel, but it gave me Denmark as well! My first courageous venture into Cycling In Denmark Intriguing Paths and New Horizons Gertrude Ryberg Garft Relief Society General Board Member Copenhagen's traffic was attempted with my housekeeper as a guide. Until this time, I had never dared to cycle across the Seas—a series of large lakes running nearly the length of Copenhagen and dividing the city in half. On the other side of the Seas is the old city, where very few streets have special lanes for cycles. My cycling had heretofore been confined to the streets with well defined cycle paths; however, by this time I had acquired considerable self-confidence, and, besides, I wanted "to go real Danish" and buy: flowers at "Gront Torvet" (Open Market). At the Market We were on the scene sufficiently early to watch the farmers arrange their goods and watch the local shopkeepers come to make the necessary purchases for the day. It was such fun walking up and down between the beautifully displayed vegetables that we almost forgot to buy our long thin cucumbers and the ""Tuttibaerer," a fruit similar to cranberries, which we wanted for our Thanksgiving and Christmas dinners. I thought nothing could be nicer than the neatly displayed vegetables, but when I saw the flowers, I gasped with delightful appreciation. Such color, such variety, and so inexpensive! I believe next to their coffee and cakes the Danes like flowers best. Imagine buying an armful of spicy-smelling stocks for a quarter! It is here that the florists buy the flowers for their many little shops, and there is a "Blomster Forretning" for about every block in Copenhagen. With enthusiasm we quickly loaded our cycles with vegetables and flowers and pedaled our way homeward, just as any Danish housewives, elated over our bargaining with the shrewd farmers. Langelinie During the spring and summer of 1938, each morning was spent exploring a new part of Copenhagen. One morning, we decided to go to THE LITTLE MERMAID IN THE HARBOR OF COPENHAGEN THE FOUNTAIN GEFION Langelinie. My young American friend and I felt exhilarated as the fresh, cool, sea breeze blew into our faces. As we progressed on our way, we could see the Langelinie Promenade, which begins at the top of a little hill where the Fountain Gefion sparkles and plays in the sea air. This fountain, one of Copenhagen's creations of art, has its origin in the rich legendary background in which Denmark abounds. This statue depicts Gefion beginning her legendary drive and consists of the woman driving four oxen harnessed to a plow. All the Danes love the story which this statue tells. Gefion, one of the Nordic goddesses, came to earth to live, and after a time she asked King Gylfe of Sweden for a piece of land for her four sons. He told her she could have as much ground as she could plow from sunrise to sunset. She very cleverly met the challenge by turning her four sons into oxen; and harnessing them to a plow, she lashed them with her long whip and was able to plow by evening a large piece of land that was lifted out of Sweden and placed in the Baltic Sea. Every time I saw that fountain, I was impressed with the determination written in that strong beautiful face. 388 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941 WALLS AND SMALL TOWN ON THE ROCKY ISLAND OF CHRISTIANS On the Promenade We left the beautiful fountain with reluctance, slowly to glide along the Promenade. 'To our right, as we cycled through the park, was the beautiful clean harbor of Copenhagen. Lonely on the rock sat. The Little Mermaid looking pensively out to open sea. With the enchantment of the morning still upon us, it wasn't hard to imagine her to be real, as she sat with the harbor waters lapping softly at the boulders just below. She has been immortalized by Hans Christian Anderson, who tells how the Little Mermaid gave up her beautiful voice so that she might have legs instead of a tail, even though each step was like walking on pins and needles. All this was because of her love for a mortal prince, who, nevertheless, chose a mortal princess. The Little Mermaid went back to the sea, and from the look on her face that morning I believe she was thinking of her lost love. Our journey led us past the cemetery in which Hans Christian Anderson is buried. We left our cycles at the gate and walked through the green stillness until we came to a small white arrow that bore the inscription, "Hans Christian Anderson's Grave." We followed the direction it pointed and came to the enclosure. With mixed feelings of tribute, reverence, and tenderness, we read his own poem beautifully engraved on the stone memorial: "God has created this soul in his likeness, Its immortality will never be lost; Our life on earth is an eternal faith, Our bodies will die, but the soul will never die." The Island of Bornholm One of my most enjoyable vacations was on my cycle. My husband and I decided to get out of the regular tourist paths and "go where the Danes go." We chose the island — of Bornholm, located between Sweden This is my own translation of this poem, and it may not be exact. CYCLING INDENMARK and Germany in the Baltic Sea.. One fine day we stood on the docks of Ronne, the capitol of the island, where we watched our cycles being unloaded from the steamer which had brought us from Copenhagen. The small cottage we had rented was a quarter of a mile from another house and faced the beautiful blue Baltic just above the "Sanctuary Cliffs." The island of Bornholm is not level and flat like Sjaeland, but is a series of hills; and I must say my husband often wondered, during some of our cycle tours on the island, if he had "used his head" in deciding on a "cycle" vacation. One day, we cycled up to the top of the island where high above the sea are the ruins of the seven-hundred-year-old Hammershus Castle. The old ruins seemed to whisper to us of exciting events. The view was magnificent, and while there remained nothing but the walls of the majestic old Fortress Castle, it had definitely an air of having been lived in. With the setting sun we started homeward, and I don't even remember one hill on that ride back. All I 389 ern Europe flourishing on that once bare wind-swept rock. Because of the scarcity of food, there is no livestock, and only one-hundred twenty people inhabit this island, all of whom are fishermen. Perhaps the most interesting thing of all was the thick stone walls, ranging from six to eighteen feet in width, built to protect them from an invasion by enemies and the sea. As we waved goodbye to these humble people, they showed their contentment with the bleak island, where their fathers had lived and where their children will live after them. A day or two later we said goodbye to the rocky cliffs and fertile fields of Bornholm, but we carried with us the memory of many pleasant hours cycling on an unusual island in the middle of the Baltic Sea. Elsinore of Yesterday Can you imagine the thrill of seeing Hamlet played right in the courtyard of Kronborg Castle, where the scene was laid? This was one time where the realization far exceeded the anticipation. I had watched carefully the newspapers, can recall is that long northern evening with the waves dashing high against the rocks, sometimes sending a salty spray into our faces. Another day we cycled up the coast where we took the mail boat out to the Christianso. We were told to check our cycles, because we could not use them on the island. When we arrived there the reason for doing this was obvious. Christianso is just a big head of granite sticking up out of the Baltic Sea. Nearly every shovelful of earth was brought by boat from other places, and now they have a garden with many flowers and trees from south-._DRAGSHOLM CASTLE, WHERE THE DUKE OF BOTHWELL WAS IMPRISONED FOR SEVERAL YEARS PREVIOUS TO HIS DEATH 390 telling first of the possibility of John. Gielgud's playing the part of Hamlet, then the picture of his signing the contract, next the news of the play rehearsals at the castle, and finally the dates of presentation. Here was a chance to see Hamlet and North Sjaeland at the same time. I convinced my husband that the hills of Sjaeland were not nearly so hard to cycle up as those on Bornholm; so he finally consented to what he thought was one of my "crazy ideas." One morning, we started out with the bare necessities in our luggage carriers, which are situated on the back of our cycles. We looked just like any other Herr and Fru Hans Hansen of Copenhagen. Away we went up the coast road to Helsingor, or Elsinore as the English people know it. It was very pleasant pedaling past the beautiful homes in the section known as the Danish Riviera. Soon, we were cycling down narrow little streets which haven't changed much since 1426, when Eric of Pomerania founded the present city of Elsinore. The closer we came to the castle the more beautiful it became. The grey stone towers, the green copper roofs, and the spires looked just as I had pictured a castle should look. Some castles are a disappointment to the imagination of our childhood. We left our cycles in the parking lot and made our way across the moat and into the courtyard, where we crossed another moat to get into the castle. As we watched the swans float lazily on the water, we wondered if Ophelia floated on this moat with her garland of nettles and daisies. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941 Legend has it that as a young actor William Shakespeare, with a company of English actors, performed for the Royal Family then living in the castle, and hearing the story of Prince Hamlet as recorded in Saxo's Historia Danica, he received inspiration to write the story of the melancholy prince. Fact or fiction, we did not care, because we were going to see Hamlet played in the courtyard of the actual castle where the scene was laid. When we had found our seats, we sat there with an unusually appreciative audience—waiting quietly, almost reverently, for the play to begin. As the curtains drew apart, only the sound of the actors' voices was heard, accompanied by the gentle flapping of the banners as the breeze blew in from the Sound. Spellbound? There isn't a word to describe how we were carried back centuries by the real tears in the eyes of Hamlet as he mourned his father's death, the perplexity of the gentle Ophelia, "To be or not to be," "Alas, poor you," "Sweets to the sweet." Those familiar phrases spoken in beautiful accents will remain forever in my memory connected with one of the highlights of my life. After the last curtain call when John Gielgud and Fay Compton smiled graciously and disappeared, we took the path back to the city along the battlements upon which "The majesty of buried Denmark Did sometimes march." And it was not difficult to imagine that we might meet the ghost of Hamlet's father if we were there at the right time. CYCLING IN DENMARK. Hillerod Early the next morning we soon found ourselves in the small town of Hillerod from whose main street one of the loveliest sights in the world can be seen. There "'like a water lily floating," to quote Humbert Wolfe, in the middle of a lake is Frederiksborg Castle, its rose-colored brick towers and walls silhouetted against the trees of the formal garden. On the opposite shore is a picture never to be forgotten. It is hard to believe that anyone could live in such a gorgeous setting and be unhappy. But as we walked through the beautiful rooms and corridors furnished during the Renaissance in Gobelin tapestries and carving, we could not help remembering the pathetic story of Caroline Matilde, Queen of Denmark and Norway, Princess of Great Britain and Ireland. The story ot this Queen (sister to King George IV of England) as the young bride of an imbecile King has been used by novelists and motion picture writers, but these portrayals are no more poignant than the real story. Faarevejle T'wo days later we were nearing the little town of Faarevejle. We had seen the white and red country church with the typical Corbie stepped gable from a distance and knew that past history awaited us there. The caretaker led us inside the church which had been standing since the twelfth century and had been built by Valdemar the Great. Just before the altar our guide rolled back the rug and lifted a trap door. We went backwards down the. Ladder-like steps into a small room. At one side stood a coffin. There under 391 a piece of glass lay the Duke of Bothwell, husband and lover of Mary Queen of Scots! A long man he was, and there on his head are the scars of the wounds inflicted by a sword. It was difficult to comprehend that we were actually looking at the remains of one who had played a significant role in the history of England and Scotland. We were glad to find our way out to the sunlight again. 'There the caretaker pointed the way to Dragsholm Castle, where the impetuous Duke spent the last five years of his life in solitary confinement. Homeward Bound After our visit to the castle, we turned our wheels again toward Copenhagen, past waving fields of grain, turning windmills, white thatched cottages with the neatest yards and prettiest flower gardens in the world. As the tower of Copenhagen appeared on the horizon, perhaps we pedaled a bit faster, for as the Danes say, "Ude er godt, men Hjem er bedst," meaning that it is nice to go away, but "there is no place like home." As we placed our cycles in their customary places in the backyard, we felt as if we were © rolling up the magic rug which had carried us over a land of beauty back into a past rich in story. As I write this (April, 1941) from my home safe in the "land of the free and the home of the brave," I am. Wondering if I will ever see the lovely land of Denmark again. One of my fondest wishes is that I may again explore more of the intriguing paths marked "Cycle Sti." Note: Courtesy, The Anchora of Delta Gamma. Let's Make It A Reading Summer Marba C. Josephson Associate Editor, Improvement Era WOMEN should plan to give themselves a mental prod every once in a while. The summer is the ideal time to do this, for it provides the necessary amount of desire with the minimum of effort. Fires don't need to be stoked constantly; the children don't need to be hurried off to school; and cooking with fresh fruits and vegetables becomes a relatively simple matter. The matter of selecting the books, however, becomes quite a large order, for there are in the United States alone over thirty-one books published daily. When one stops to think of the 11,328 titles which are being issued yearly, one begins to realize the difficulty of selecting the best books. It stands to reason that some exceptionally good books will be slighted merely because of the physical inability to become acquainted with all of them. Here are a few that will compensate for the time spent with them —and will be pleasurable reading at the same time. CARAVAN FOR CHINA by Frank S. Stuart is an entirely different kind of book. Within its covers are bound mystery, romance, travel, intrigue, adventure, commerce, and religion. Woven from two truly magnificent civilizations, it includes the Roman Empire of Tiberius Caesar when Jesus was just teaching through the dusty hills of Syria, and it introduces the China of ancient legend and great repute. All these divergent interests and countries are synchronized through Page 392 the love of Simon of Cyrene for Helen, who had been sold into slavery, and eventually carried to China where the empress had purchased her. The long trek of Black Simon across almost uncharted deserts, his final rescue of Helen only to be treacherously betrayed are told fascinatingly by the author, who has rare ability to use the English language effectively and beautifully. THE GOOD SHEPHERD. By Gunnar Gunnarsson tells the simple story of an Icelandic shepherd, Benedict, who with his dog, Leo, and his bell-weather, Gnarly, make the trip each year to gather the sheep that have been missed in the autumn roundup. But it is much more than a trip for sheep he makes, for he stops at the neighbors and shares their joys and sorrows. A refreshing, courageous book, confident and hopeful, this will be particularly ~ enjoyable on a hot summer day. Something of a parable is this story, a parable that the whole world would find helpful to follow, in its homely philosophy of brotherliness and consideration—not only for human beings but also for animals, even among the least of God's creations. FOR OUR VINES HAVE TENDER GRAPES by George V. Martin should be read by every mother. Into the life of his heroine, nine-year-old Selma Jacobson, the author injects all the lovely, sensitive innocence of childhood. The setting is in a little country town of LET'S MAKE IT A READING SUMMER Wisconsin where the inhabitants are mostly of Norwegian stock. The sterling qualities of these folk in their honest belief in the true dignity of work, their neighborliness, and their cooperativeness are worthy of emulation. Worked into the seasons of the year, the plot partakes of the seasonal interests and is as wholesome and fundamentally good as the seasons are. The abiding belief in God will stir all Latter-day Saints. Those who have read The Yearling by Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings will vote this at least an equal rating with that book. Those who have not read it will find joy in reading the two books during the summer. RANDOM HARVEST by James Hilton is a strangely moving book, dealing as it does with a man whose memory failed him during the last days of World War I. His experiences are gradually unfolded from the first feeble remembrance until he has recaptured his full memory of what his life had been both before and after his accidents. To reveal more about the plot would rob it of its peculiar charm. We shall conclude by saying, therefore, that anyone who has read the author's previous books, Goodbye, Mr. Chips and Lost Horizon, will find this a book of equal merit.
FOR lush description and for a rare sense of peace no one should forego reading John Buchan's Mountain Meadow. To most people 393  John Buchan is known as Lord Tweedsmuir, governor-general of Canada until the time of his death February 11, 1940. Although this book is fiction, it undoubtedly is somewhat autobiographical because here in America, where Lord Tweedsmuir came from long service with the British Empire, he found a measure of peace that he had not found in other parts of the world. In the story of Edward Leithen, the reader cannot help feeling that he is following in a way the path that John Buchan himself trod in his search for spiritual satisfaction.
AND, for good measure, there is one little book that no woman should miss reading—and re-reading. It is the slim volume Mrs. Miniver by another delightful English person who has found refuge in America, Jan Struther. Mrs. Miniver is just the type of wife and mother that everyone who reads her book is convinced that she herself is. She finds great delight in the little things: the windshield wiper, rotating doors, chrysanthemums, knitting. Jan Struther has capitalized on the commonplace to give women the world over a new sense of their place in the world. Now these are just a few books. They will perhaps serve as a diving board from which you will spring into the whole sea of literature. And you can be assured that you will arise from your bath refreshed and better able to care for your regular duties.
"HAVE you ever rightly considered what the mere ability to read means? That it is the key which admits us to the whole world of thought and fancy and imagination? To the company of saint and sage, of the wisest and the wittiest at their wisest and wittiest moment? That it enables us to see with the keenest eyes, hear with the finest ears, and listen to the sweetest voices of all time?"—James Russell Lowell.
HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon
Be joyful in the beauty of a rose-scented June day.
THE fourteenth of June is Flag Day, timely indeed to again draw attention to a part of the American Creed which reads: "I therefore believe it is my duty to my country to love it; to support its Constitution; to obey its laws; to respect its flag; and to defend it against all enemies." Also is it timely to once more give the proper use for the display of the flag: The flag should only be displayed between sunrise and sunset. When the flag is displayed from a staff, projecting horizontally or at an angle from a window sill, the flag should be hoisted union first. When flown in any other manner it should be displayed flat with the union uppermost and to the flag's own right; that is, to the observer's left. It should never be used for decorative purposes, such as festoons or drapings. When the flag is displayed over the middle of the street or between buildings it should be suspended vertically with the union to the north in an east and west street or to the east in a north and south street.
MINERVA R. YOUNG, wife and mother of heroes of World War I, was Utah's first purchaser of the new defense bonds.
LADY ASTOR, mayor of bomb-ravaged Plymouth, and Mrs. Modley, her deputy, led the mourners at the mass rites over the almost numberless victims of the air raids over Plymouth,
394
ALICE PAUL, noted feminist, says, "Men only are to blame for war." She has lately returned to America from a long sojourn at Geneva, where, with the League of Nations, she tried to give some aid to save civilization.
KRISTINE KALSTEAD, Metropolitan star, left recently for Oslo, Norway, to visit the "home folks," whom she has not seen since 1939. She does not know that she will be permitted to enter Norway.
DEANNA DURBIN, young motion picture favorite, included among her 500 guests at her wedding this spring, besides companion artists, all those who had worked on her pictures in any capacity.
DR. ANNIE JUMP CANNON of Harvard, most famous woman astronomer in the world, died last April.
ELIZABETH GREEN, Gold Star mother, whose son, Armistead Green, was the first University of Utah man killed in World War I, died last month.
FLORENCE REYNOLDS, of Utah, for the third time has had a play selected for radio presentation by the Boston School of Journalism. The new play is called "American Newspaper."
DAPHNE du MAURIER'S new book, "Come Wind, Come Weather," is a book for British morale.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
Amy Brown Lyman - - - President Marcia K. Howells - - - First Counselor
Donna D. Sorensen - - - Second Counselor Vera W. Pohlman - - - Secretary-Treasurer
Belle S. Spafford Luella N. Adams Nellie O. Parker Gertrude R. Garff Vivian R. McConkie Leona B. Fetzer Anna S. Barlow Marylene C. Hemp Leda T. Jensen Edith S. Elliott Beatrice F. Stevens Anna B. Hart Achsa E. Paxman Pauline T. Pingree Mary G. Judd Ethel B. Andrew Rae B. Barker Alice B. Castleton
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. 28 JUNE, 1941 No. 6
EDITORIAL
Those Who Are Chosen
THOSE who have taken upon themselves the name of Christ have a great responsibility in maintaining His organization and furthering His work upon the earth. The Master has said, "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:39.) The accomplishment of this great purpose requires the devoted service of all who will accept His call. Not only must we strive to live the law ourselves, but we must be active in enlisting others in His service. The Lord has need of every one of us, each according to his own endowments. Too often when a call to serve comes to us we disparage our own abilities, refusing to trust the inspiration and judgment of those appointed over us. Sensitive to our human weaknesses and shortcomings, and conscious of our limitations, we would deprive the great Church organization of our strengths and gifts. An important lesson is to be learned from a study of the calling of Christ's first apostles. They were men with human imperfections and many limitations. The Master recognized these, but He saw beyond them to the great strengths which could be utilized in the building of the Kingdom of God upon the earth. Scripture records: "And Jesus, walking by the sea of Galilee, saw two brethren, Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers. "And he saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. "And they straightway left their nets, and followed him. "And going on from thence he saw other two brethren, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother. And he called them. "And they immediately left the ship and their father and followed him. "And as Jesus passed forth from thence, he saw a man named Matthew, sitting at the receipt of the custom: and he saith unto him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him." Thus, so simply, is recorded the calling and response of these men to the greatest work ever given to men. Books have been written explaining the qualifications of these men for their work; their probable reactions to their call and their preparation for the work have received much
395
396
speculation. Men have pondered over why these certain ones were selected, who ofttimes stumbled on their way to greatness—who learned the hard way. Yet with all the writing, with all the surmise, we come back to this simple account: The Savior bid them, "Follow me," and they arose and "followed him." How well these men succeeded in their callings is borne out by scripture. Peter, despite his impulsive nature, grew to such stature as to become the head of Christ's earth organization. Matthew, a hated publican, has given to the world a record of Christ's ministry that has directed the lives of millions. John, referred to as the Son of Thunder because of the force of his wrath, is today universally accepted as "John, the beloved." Had these apostles stopped to count all the reasons why they were unfitted for their callings, how would the work have gone on? Christ had need of all the strengths they possessed. Despite their weaknesses and limitations, He called them to lend their strengths to His work. But after they "followed Him," it became their responsibility to conquer their weaknesses and develop additional strengths that they might be fitted to labor in His vineyard. Had Peter said, "I am so impulsive—there are many better qualified than I," how great would have been the loss to both the Church and to Peter himself. Had Matthew said, "But Master, think, I am a publican and the Jews hate me," or had he
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
said, "I have a prosperous business, and if I leave it now I will lose all," even we today would have suffered great loss. The Lord's call, "Follow me," comes to us in this day as truly as it came to His early disciples. True, He does not call us directly, as He did in their day, but He calls us through His appointed agents here on earth. His work must go on. Its progress depends upon the strength we lend it. Needing our strengths, He is tolerant of our weaknesses. Each of us is called to a particular work because of some strength we possess that can forward that work. It is our responsibility to accept His calls, to grow in His service to such stature that our weaknesses and our limitations will not impede the progress of His work. We must not be so sensitive to our shortcomings that we fail to recognize and magnify our strengths. As we magnify our strengths our weaknesses will become submerged. In response to their callings, the Apostles manifested a willingness to follow, to learn by being with the Master and by doing His bidding. Thus, they became qualified for their work, and their efforts brought the blessings needed to carry it on to fruition. So we today may measure to the stature expected of us in our callings, remembering always the words of the Master: "Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit."
NOTES TO THE FIELD
Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest
THE Eliza Roxey Snow Relief Society Memorial Prize Poem Contest is conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board. Three prizes are awarded—a first prize of $15, a second prize of $10, and a third prize of $5. The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates. Rules governing the contest are published herewith. Since 1923, when the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest was established, no definite subject has been recommended for the poems submitted. This year, because Latter-day Saint women are directing their interest toward the hundredth year of Relief Society, the Relief Society centennial is to be the theme of all poems submitted in the contest. In the past the contest has opened each year upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Magazine, and has closed on October 15. This year, because of the limitation of subject to the centennial theme, it is recognized that more time is desirable, and therefore the announcement is made in the June number of the Magazine. This year, the contest will close October 1, so that the prize-winning poems may be included in the new Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse which is now in the course of preparation. The object of the contest is to encourage women to do creative writing in the form of poetry, to appreciate more keenly the beauty and value of poetic verse, and, at this time especially, to direct creative expression and appreciation toward the Relief Society century. May this be the outstanding year for excellence in poetry.
RULES OF THE CONTEST
1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women. Members of the General Board and persons connected with the Relief Society office staff are not eligible to enter this contest.
2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant.
3. The theme of the poem shall be the Relief Society centennial.
4. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten if possible; where this cannot be done it should be legibly written.
5. The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature or other identifying marks, and without attached explanatory material, pictures, et cetera.
6. Only one side of the paper should be used.
7. Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used.
8. Statement should accompany the poem submitted certifying that it is the contestant's original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided.
397
398
9. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.
10. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
from among the group of persons who are recognized writers. 11. The poems must be submitted not later than October 1. 12. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Relief Society Centennial Short Story Contest
THE General Board announces a short story contest as a feature of the observance of its centennial. Regulations governing the contest are published herewith. Attention is directed especially to the provisions that the stories submitted in the contest must have a Relief Society centennial theme, and that the contest is open only to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary work accepted for publication by the editor of a recognized publication. The three prize-winning stories will be published in the Relief Society Magazine during the centennial year, 1942. Prize-winning stories will be the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for the published stories at regular Magazine rates.
RULES OF THE CONTEST
1. This contest is open only to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition accepted for publication by the editor of a recognized vehicle of literary expression. Members of the General Board of Relief Society and persons connected with the Relief Society office staff are not eligible to enter this contest.
2. Three prizes are to be awarded—a first prize of $20; a second prize of $15; and a third prize of $10.
3. The theme of the story shall be the Relief Society centennial.
4. The story shall not exceed 3,000 words, and shall be typewritten.
5. All stories must be submitted before October 1, 1941.
6. Only one story may be submitted by any contestant.
7. The author's name shall not appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's real name and address, shall be enclosed with the story.
8. A statement is to accompany each story submitted certifying: (1) that the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication, and identifying such publication by name and date (or, if not yet published, evidence of its acceptance for publication); (2) that the story submitted is the contestant's original work; (3) that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided.
9. There shall be five judges, consisting of two members of the General Board, two persons connected with the English Department of a reputable educational institution, and a writer of recognized merit.
10. All entries are to be addressed to: Relief Society Centennial Story Contest, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
The Merry-Go-Round Alice Morrey Bailey
Chapter 3
SYNOPSIS
ALYN FORDYCE, proud of her background of family and wealth is shocked when her husband, JOHN FORDYCE, whom she has never considered a great success, announces that he has lost his job—which he has never liked, but which paid a salary of $500 a month—and has taken a job with Mr. Milton, of the Intermountain Milton Nurseries, working at horticulture—which he has always liked, but which pays only $150 a month. He is stubborn about using their brilliant social connections to obtain a more lucrative position, and Alyn accuses him of selfishness, reminding him that she needs material things to compensate her for her inability to have children. John discovers a sport, or mutation, on an apricot tree—one limb that blossoms earlier than the rest. Alyn meets Judith Wyatt, an attractive young widow, who is apparently to become a mother. Alyn pretends to her friends that there has been no change in the Fordyce financial status, even though they have actually run short of food, due, of course, to her inability to manage on John's limited salary. She and John quarrel over money.
ALYN took up her book and adjusted the light to read. She caught John looking at her, a look of mingled perplexity and compassion. He looked at her long, too long for comfort, and she thought that he must certainly make some move, or speak, but he did not. He merely resumed his reading. It was irritating, but at least it was a rest from the monologue that had become almost the whole of their conversation together: trees, "budding," "sports," some queer trade talk of the world of horticulture—a world foreign and alien to the last degree, uninteresting in the extreme to Alyn. Tonight Jetta and Lane Haywood were giving a dinner. There would be candles and sparkling conversation. There would be perfect service and delicious food. Afterward they would trail into Jetta's living room and talk seriously about world events—seriously, with the froth of wit making its headiness felt. The men would pose and gesture against the mantel. Jeff Peterson would tell them what the war was doing to high finance, a little smugly—forgivably, of course, in view of his prominence. The women would size each other up critically and compliment each other sweetly. All this, and Alyn's own ivory velvet frock hung swathed in cellophane in the cedar closet! Alyn sat at home with a book. John sat opposite, and they quarreled about, of all things, food. How hateful! The only pleasant thing about the entire day had been her unexpected encounter with Judith Wyatt. If John could only see her! The sound of her voice, her evident good breeding were a proof that all these things were justifiable. Who might the girl be? Who might the girl be?
"JOHN," said Alyn suddenly. "Yes, dear?" "John, I wish you would be a little
399
400
more careful. Bea and Wif McIntyre saw you down at Milton's the other day. I am sure Wif McIntyre recognized you, and in those old clothes. Bea talked him out of it, but you must be careful." "I don't quite understand you, Alyn. Careful of what?" "Well, keep out of sight. I don't think at this stage that you should allow our friends to see you at such common labor. 'A common laborer,' was what Bea said. I was so humiliated." "At what stage, Alyn? What had you in mind?" said John, and there was a queer watchfulness in his voice. "Why, John, you must know. Aren't you afraid of spoiling your chances for a real job?" John carefully put down his paper. "Alyn," he said, "there's something I must make clear to you. I've tried hard enough in the last month, but I can't seem to touch an answering spark in you whatever." "I said I'd help, John, and I am." "No, wait! I am not looking for another job, Alyn. I am satisfied where I am. Whatever this looks like to you, it is a real job to me." "John, you can't mean that! How perfectly silly! How utterly absurd. A hundred and fifty dollars a...." "But I do mean it. This is the thing I have always wanted to do, Alyn. I tell you, dear, this is the first time I have ever really lived. I wouldn't give this up for all the money in Jim's bank. You haven't any idea of the possibilities, the scope of this work. It has everything—adventure, nature, science...." "Well, John, if you feel so about it, why don't you take it up as a
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
hobby?" said Alyn reasonably. She was trying, really trying, to see John's point of view. The Merriweathers could never be accused of lacking open-mindedness. "But for your work, your business...." "I think a hobby is a palliative for failure. It is the sure sign that you are not happy in your work. Oh, Alyn, I wish I could make you see! Ninety out of every hundred people are doing work they don't like. Furthermore, I believe that there is work in the world for every person, each one doing what he likes best to do. If we ever learn that, Alyn, this earth will be heaven." "No doubt," said Alyn, unconvinced, "but in the meantime, what are you going to do about tomorrow's groceries?" "Nothing," said John. "Nothing?" repeated Alyn, stupidly. "Whatever has come over you, John? Of course, you realize that aside from two eggs and a strip of bacon we have absolutely no supplies?" "Yes," said John, serenely. "I did what I could when I gave you the money for the groceries at the first of the month. I get my first pay check in three more days. I will give it to you, and you may do as you see fit—except that we will run no bills. If you wish to run short of food in order to keep this apartment, you may do so. That is your privilege." So! That was it! The apartment again! Rage shook Alyn. Futility swept over her. Just what did one do with a man like John? In all their life together she had never known him to behave so. Would he get over it? How long would it last? No wonder women got divorces. Alyn went over the indignities of
THE MERRY-GO-ROUND
the past month. She hadn't forgotten that John had actually accused her of not wanting a baby when everyone knew it had been the life-long desire of her heart. Hurts and humiliations had piled up, one upon another, ever since that dreadful afternoon when he had come home and announced that he had lost his job. Her only consolation was that their friends didn't know. At least, the Merriweather pride had stood her in good stead. Many women would have gone weeping to their friends, but not Alyn. No one would know from any word or look or deed of hers that things were not well with the Fordyces, nor would they ever know what it cost her to keep it from them. "As for Wif and Bea," John was saying, "I doubt if Bea was fooled. I know Wif wasn't. I sold Wif a Blue Spruce last week myself, to fit into a space in their landscaping. Wif knew it was I all right, and I would be willing to stake a good deal that Bea knew it, too, and was just baiting you at the tea. I told Wif how happy I am. I'm not ashamed of my job. I'm proud of it." Alyn just stood there, helpless. Under just what circumstances did women faint? Of all the crowning indignities, this was the peak. She had a sickening recollection of the watchfulness on the faces of the women at the luncheon, and she knew that John was right. Bea was just baiting her, and every woman there knew it. "I can't stand this," she told herself, numbly. "I'm going to get a divorce!"
THE next morning Alyn awoke late, after a drugged, nightmar-
401
ish sleep. John was gone; she had not heard him leave. She sat up in bed and put both hands to her aching head. On the way to the bathroom she peeped hastily into the kitchen. There were dishes on the table. Evidently John had prepared his own breakfast. It was just as well for her that she couldn't eat a bite, since there was nothing whatever to eat. After last night she couldn't bear to go near the kitchen. "I must talk to someone," she thought, "but who?" Obviously it must not be Tory Meade, the ablest young lawyer in town. He was a member of the crowd. He had handled the Peters' divorce last year, and it was all quietly over and Anne had gone away before the crowd was really aware that there had been trouble between her and Bill. The Merriweather pride, however, forbade Alyn's going to him, because Tory had had some idea of marrying her himself when they were younger. He would be something more than human if he didn't feel a little like gloating over her failure to make a go of it with John. No, she couldn't go to Tory. She thought of Judge Oldham, and reached for the telephone. "Judge Oldham isn't in, but I am sure he has an opening for eleven," the secretary told her. "He will see you then." Now she was committed. Alyn put the receiver in its cradle with shaking fingers, and a sense of walking in a nightmare. This was certainly not she, thinking of divorce—already with an appointment with a lawyer. She walked to the window and looked out. It wasn't too late yet. Below, in a tidy little yard, an apri-
402
cot tree dropped its belated blossoms one by one to the ground. "I'll bet I'm the first woman to have an apricot tree for a rival," thought Alyn, a little whimsically. But it was true. John was in reality choosing trees in preference to his wife. John had slept instantly and deeply when he dropped to the pillow last night, but far into the night Alyn had lain staring into the darkness. No Merriweather had ever had a divorce, but certainly she had acquitted herself well enough as a wife. She it was who had given John his advantage in the very beginning—an advantage that had given him sesame to the very best homes in the city, even in the state. Their home had always been a place of good taste and good breeding. She had never for an instant caused him to be ashamed of her. A wealth of pride and tradition were behind her. And what had John done with his opportunities? Nothing—worse than nothing! He had finally wound up a common laborer in a nursery. Certainly no one could blame her if she divorced him. She knew nothing about divorce laws. She guessed she would have to base her divorce on "incompatibility," whatever that was. "Mental cruelty" she had heard mentioned somewhere, in some newspaper perhaps. Well, no woman could have suffered greater mental cruelty than had she in the last month—the hu-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
miliations. Of course, if there had been children things would be a little different. There was Cecile Borden who had married beneath her and had three children before she discovered her husband was a failure. Where was she now? She had gradually dropped from the crowd—Alyn couldn't just remember how. She was barely thought of by any of them now except in passing. Once in a while, someone mentioned "poor dear Cecile." No doubt she was eking out some miserable existence, scraping along on nothing with a man who was a failure, just for the sake of the children. Alyn wished she had something to compensate her, but John was so callous to her misery. He hadn't used to be, but now he didn't think of or talk about anything but trees. That limb of apricots that had blossomed early had excited him more than anything had in years—more than any dinner they had ever attended, even the one when Jeff and Doris had entertained that great banker from the House of Morgan who had come through last summer. John was so insensitive to her needs. There was just no way out but divorce. Alyn glanced at her clock. She had just one hour and twenty minutes before she must keep her appointment with Judge Oldham. She was satisfied she was doing the right thing.
(To be continued)
LEISURE
Leisure is not idleness; it is rather, as the derivation of the word indicates, freedom to do what we like. But to do what we like is the most difficult of arts—John Erskine.
LESSON PREVIEW 1941-42
Theology and Testimony
Articles of Faith
A LOGICAL sequence of study in the theology department to follow after the consideration of the lives of our leaders is a course on the faith and doctrines of the Latter-day Saints. A study of our Articles of Faith will be undertaken, and this course will extend from October, 1941, through May, 1944. The book, Articles of Faith, by Elder James E. Talmage, will be used as a textbook instead of printed lessons in the Relief Society Magazine. Each chapter in the book will provide the material for one theology lesson. Because of its comprehensiveness and inclusiveness, the book is ideal for class leaders. It is also heavily referenced at the end of each chapter and there are additional notes in the appendix at the end of the book. The visiting teachers of each ward will carry into each Latter-day Saint home on their October visit a printed card copy of our Articles of Faith, and it is suggested that class leaders capitalize on this and offer suggestions for the use of this card by the women of the Church and their families. Thus, a mother may do much to increase her knowledge of the Gospel and encourage her children to interest themselves in the Articles of Faith. In March, 1841, at the request of Mr. John Wentworth, editor and proprietor of the Chicago Democrat, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote a sketch of the rise, progress, persecution, and faith of the Latter-day Saints. This very famous document was concluded with an epitome of the doctrines of the Church, since called the Articles of Faith. These statements of our faith were not "produced by the labored efforts and the harmonized contentions of scholastics, but were struck off by one mind at a single effort to make a declaration of that which is most assuredly believed by the Church.... The combined directness, perspicuity, simplicity and comprehensiveness of this statement of the doctrine of the Church is regarded as strong evidence of a divine inspiration operating upon the Prophet Joseph Smith." It is essential that every true member of the Church familiarize himself with the doctrines of the Church. Without an understanding of what we believe, we have no criterion by which to judge ourselves. The better the understanding we possess, the more anxious we are to live in accordance with Gospel precepts. Thus, it is necessary for us to become more familiar with the doctrines of the Church that our faith might grow and stimulate us to better living. Following are the lesson titles:
Chapter 1. Introductory Chapter 2. God and the Holy Trinity Chapter 3. Transgression and the Fall Chapter 4. The Atonement and Salvation Chapter 5. Faith and Repentance Chapter 6. Baptism
403
404
Chapter 7. Baptism—Continued Chapter 8. The Holy Ghost
Articles of Faith, by Elder James E. Talmage, may be purchased from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, for 75 cents for a single copy or in quantities of six or more at 60 cents per copy.
Visiting Teachers Messages To The Home
Expressions of Faith
IN order to increase faith in God and in the Gospel, and in the hope also of stimulating a fuller expression of faith, the Relief Society has planned to study this year in its theology course the doctrines of the Church as given in the Articles of Faith. It is desired that the spirit and influence of this study shall extend to all those who are unable to attend the theological class, but who may be contacted by the visiting teachers of the Society. With this end in view, the General Board of Relief Society will present to each stake, sometime this summer, enough printed card copies of the Articles of Faith so that one may be placed in each Latter-day Saint home when the teachers make their October visits. It is hoped that this card will not be put away in a drawer, but framed or mounted and placed on the wall, where it may be frequently seen and consulted by members of the family. There is a joy in encouraging righteousness in the world. Relief Society visiting teachers have a great mission to perform. At times, a deep concern is felt because some teachers do not make the most of their opportunities to give information, inspiration and encouragement in the homes. This is their privilege as well as their opportunity. It is a great satisfaction to hear of renewals of faith and expressions of blessings derived in the homes because of the fine work of Relief Society visiting teachers. However, there are many teachers who can improve their work. It is desired that every teacher in our Church strive more diligently to be a missionary in spirit, and that she be thoroughly prepared in order to accomplish a maximum amount of good. She should read the lesson, attend the preparation meeting, and pray for help and guidance. "The prepared teacher is the inspired teacher." Women in the Church can do no greater thing than to cultivate a sincere faith in God, which leads to good deeds and peace of soul. To stimulate and cultivate the inner faith which we possess, we must have spiritual exercise and endeavor, which will strengthen spiritual powers. To be consistent Latter-day Saints we must not only know and have an understanding of the doctrines of the Church, but we must express our faith in action. Working on the theory that we must be "doers of the word and not hearers
LESSON PREVIEW—1941-42
only," the visiting teacher message committee of the General Board has chosen as the general title of the messages for 1941-42, "Expressions of Faith," with the following titles for each month:
405
1. Faith
2. Prayer as an Expression of Faith
3. Fast Day Observance as an Expression of Faith
4. Loyalty to Church Leadership as an Expression of Faith
5. Attendance at Sacrament Meetings as an Expression of Faith
6. Service as an Expression of Faith
7. Sabbath Day Observance as an Expression of Faith
8. Obeying the Commandments of God as an Expression of Faith
Work-and-Business
Better Buymanship
IN the beginning days and years of Relief Society, the activities of the organization were devoted largely to helping people in need. As the program grew and expanded to meet other objectives of the organization, and the educational program became a definite part of Relief Society, activities concerned with helping people to better conditions in their homes were carried forward on the second Tuesday of the month, designated as work-and-business day. Relief Society should reserve in its program a place where up-to-date information and improved methods of homemaking may be discussed and made adaptable in the homes of its members. Anything that mothers can do to become better informed and more efficient in solving the many problems of the modern home on the present income or the reduced incomes that may lie ahead for the American family, will help to raise the standard of living to the highest level possible in each individual case. This objective has a definite place in our Society, as the great majority of its members are not only faithful, devoted Relief Society workers, but also mothers and homemakers upon whom rests the very important responsibility of being the hub around which the many phases of home life revolve. No small part of the manifold duties of a homemaker is to direct the family's consumption problems which are, generally speaking, four in number: those of manager, user, citizen, and buyer. As manager she makes impersonal comparisons between members of the family as to the importance of individual satisfactions, and apportions the family income so that desired values are attained. As user she applies techniques of food preparation, clothing construction, et cetera, to goods and services purchased, and shares in their ultimate consumption. As citizen she takes an active interest in legislation affecting consumption. As buyer she selects goods and services for family use. She should know what qualities she is buying and get what she wants at the lowest cost. To stretch the buying power of the family dollars is a real chal-
406
lenge and responsibility, and a possibility in most homes. The time element makes it impossible to discuss all four phases of the consumption problem. Since more people may be conscious of the buying phase, that approach to the subject has been chosen. The topics outlined for discussion will open the door to the value and extent of the subject. They will serve as a guide for individual study by the homemakers of Relief Society who are desirous of becoming more wise and efficient as a part of the group which is the chief spender of the nation. Activities involved in purchasing goods and services will take on new meaning and be much more interesting under the general
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
title of "Better Buymanship." The following subjects are submitted for discussion during 1941-42:
1. The Consumer Movement
2. Judging Qualities in Materials
3. Comparison of the Fibers Used in Materials
4. Man-made Fibers in the Spotlight
5. Ready-to-wear Dresses and Coats
6. Hosiery
7. Children's Clothing
8. Care of Clothing
To conserve the space in the Relief Society Magazine for the lesson proper, no references will be printed at the end of each lesson. These references will be contained in a blue bulletin sent by the General Board to stake work-and-business leaders.
Literature
Humor in Life and Literature
AFTER three years of studying "The Advance of the Novel" in the literature department, we make a complete departure. The year 1941-42 will launch us into a course entitled, "Humor in Life and Literature." There are many reasons for choosing such a course of study: First, humor has a definite and dignified place in literature. We believe with Carlyle that "Humor has justly been regarded as the finest perfection of poetic genius." Second, we feel that there is a world-wide need for release from tension at present. Henry Ward Beecher, the great preacher, said, "Mirth is God's medicine.... He who has a sense of the humorous has more than wealth." Quoting the writer of our lessons, "Humor is like the seasoning in our food. We wouldn't want it as an entire diet. How much better life is for enough humor to make us relish it." Every age has had humor. Third, humor distinguishes us from the animal kingdom. Man rises to heights through an appreciation of humor. Humor not only reflects, but it helps to mold. God has given us a sense of humor that we should be careful not to lose, but use and refine. Max Eastman says that "being in fun" is a condition most natural to childhood and that "children at play reveal the humorous laugh in its simplest and most omnivorous form." Humor keeps
LESSON PREVIEW—1941-42
alive the luster of life and maintains balance. Fourth, great writers were always aware of it. It is universal. Thackeray said, "The humorous writer professes to awaken and direct your love, your pity, your kindness—your scorn for untruth, pretension, imposture—your tenderness for the weak, the poor, the oppressed, the unhappy." Fifth, the object of the course is not only for literary values, but it will have a wider scope. Through it, we are more aware of the humor of life. We hope that it will lift people's standards and enjoyments; that it will raise the general tenor of our appreciation of humor. There is a place for the practical application of humor in our homes. We have available high-class humor if we look for it. We should make women aware that they need a sense of humor. Many times humor might help us to better understand the point of view of our young people. It is often the sugar-coated method that accomplishes much, painlessly. Many possibilities and an unlimited amount of material for this course await the resourceful teacher and the active Relief Society class member. The following eight lessons will be presented in the Relief Society Magazine under the subject "Humor in Life and Literature:"
1. Introduction
2. Humor—Its Meaning, Principles Governing It, and Mediums of Expression
3. Mediums and Types of Humor
4. Types of Humor—Continued
5. Some Great Humorous Characters
6. Humor In Its Highest Form
7. Humor About and For Children
8. The Importance of a Sense of Humor
407
There will be no one text used for the course this year, but extensive references will follow each of the lessons. If, however, the stakes and wards wish to buy a book which will give an excellent background for the course, Stephen Leacock's Greatest Pages of American Humor, now on sale at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, will be of value. (Price $1.25.) The following supplementary reading list will be found helpful: "Humor—An Analysis," Books and Bookmen "The Place of Humor in Schools," F. Freudley, Educational Review "Sense of Humor in Children," N. Waterman, Home Progress, 3:4, September, 1939 "The University and Humor," Bookman, 32:522-9 "What Is Funny and Why," Literary Digest, 115:24, January 21, 1933 "Wit and Humor," Hygeia, 11:1033, November, 1933. "Are Women Humorous?" Outlook, 159:206-7, November 14, 1931 "Laughter of Little Children," Hygeia, 9:452-5, May, 1931 "Sense of Humor in Children," Century, 64:559 "Laughter Tonic for the Tired—Medicine for the Miserable," Hygeia, 16: 314-16
If class leaders will consider the following authors in their summer reading program, they will find excellent enrichment material for the literature lessons:
Bill Nye Benjamin Franklin James Whitcomb Riley Thomas Bailey Aldrich Eugene Field James T. Fields H. C. Bunner Samuel S. Cox Mark Twain Nathaniel Ward Harriet Beecher Stowe Artemus Ward Oliver Wendell Holmes Robert J. Burdette James Russell Lowell John G. Saxe Washington Irving Bret Harte Frank R. Stockton William D. Howells
408
Irvin S. Cobb A. A. Milne Will Rogers Stephen Leacock O. Henry E. M. Delafield Edna Ferber E. P. Wodehouse Ring Lardner Charles Lamb Booth Tarkington Robert Burns Edmund Vance Cooke Charles Dickens Clarence Day H. Buddington Kelland
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
Social Science
Education For Family Life. Foundations for Successful Marriage
FOR a number of years the lessons scheduled for the fourth Tuesday of the month have been titled, "Social Service." In recent years, as the courses have referred to educational work rather than to principles of social work, it is felt that a broader title should be used, which would cover both phases of the work. We shall, therefore, in the future use the title, "Social Science," for this course. The lessons for 1941-42 will conclude the study of "Education for Family Life." The final course will be "Foundations for Successful Marriage." Following are the titles of each lesson:
1. What it Means to be Successfully Married
2. The Heritage of the Home
3. Stepping Toward Marriage Through Courtship
4. The Start and the Art of Marriage
5. Rights Versus Responsibilities in the Home
6. Economic Aspects of Family Life
7. The Future of Marriage and Family Life
No social science lesson is planned for December. Marriage failure is altogether too common in contemporary society, and human misery is multiplied because of it. Latter-day Saints regard the family as sacred, and as it crumbles around them on nearly every hand, quite naturally they become anxious to do something about it. But too often they do not know just how. This course is designed to help the mothers of Zion better understand some of the major problems of the family so that they will be better able to not only live more happily themselves, but to guide the generations of youth who are following in their footsteps. Our objective is to outline some of the foundations for successful marriage and to stimulate a firm desire to build upon them. Latter-day Saints have well-defined standards of family life, and this series of lessons will especially
LESSON PREVIEW—1941-42
stress the Latter-day Saint point of view. A regular textbook has not been chosen for this course of study, but reference to the books listed in the following general bibliography will be helpful:
GENERAL BIBLIOGRAPHY
Bigelow, W. F. (editor), Good Housekeeping Marriage Book, Prentice-Hall, Inc., New York, 1938. Brooks and Groves, Readings in the Family, J. B. Lippincott Co., Chicago, 1934. Burkhart, Roy A., From Friendship to Marriage, Harpers, New York, 1937. Folsom, J. K., Plan For Marriage, Harpers, New York, 1938. Groves, Ernest R., Marriage, Henry Holt, New York, 1933. Hart, Hornell, Personality and the Family, D. C. Heath and Co., New York, 1935. Levy, John, and Monroe, Ruth, The Happy Family, A. A. Knopf, New York, 1938. Mowrer, E. A., Family Disorganization, The University of Chicago Press, Chicago, 1932. Nimkoff, Meyer F., The Family, Houghton, Mifflin Co., New York, 1934. Phelps, William Lyon, Marriage, E. P. Dutton and Co., New York, 1940.
409
Popenoe, Paul, The Conservation of the Family, Williams, Baltimore, 1926. Rich, Margaret E., Family Life Today, Houghton, Mifflin Co., New York, 1928. Sait, U. B., New Horizons for the Family, The Macmillan Co., New York, 1938. Wieman, Regina (Hanson) Westcott, Modern Family and the Church, Harpers, New York, 1937.
We do not recommend the purchase of these books, but hope that class leaders may find access to some of them through libraries. As these books are not written by Latter-day Saint writers, the General Board of Relief Society does not necessarily endorse all statements or opinions in the books listed. Class leaders are advised to be alert to the many excellent articles appearing in current magazines and periodicals on this subject. Because of its popularity and success, we again recommend that the discussion method of lesson presentation be used in this department.
Mission Lessons
Latter-day Saint Hymns
(For optional use of missions in lieu of Literature)
THE lessons in literature for the missions during 1941-42 will consist of a study of the poetic qualities and great truths of the Gospel as found in eight of our Mormon hymns. Singing has ever been an integral part of the services of our Church. Just three months after the establishment of the Church, in June, 1830, a commandment was given to Emma Smith, wife of the Prophet Joseph, asking her to make a selection of sacred hymns for the Church. In that same section of the Doctrine and Covenants (Section 25), the Lord says, "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." The following eight hymns will be studied:
410
1. "The Morning Breaks, the Shadows Flee," words written by Parley P. Pratt (music by George Careless), is a poetic song telling of the bringing forth of the Gospel. It will always live in the hearts of Latter-day Saints.
2. "Oh, My Father," words written by Eliza R. Snow (music by Evan Stephens), pictures the sublime truth in Mormonism of an eternal home with a Heavenly Father and mother. It is the favorite hymn of many.
3. "The Spirit of God Like A Fire," words by William W. Phelps (writer of music unknown), may be called our "temple" hymn. It was sung at the dedication of the Kirtland Temple, and has been featured at the dedicatory services of every temple built since that time.
4. "While of These Emblems We Partake," words by John Nicholson (music by S. McBurney), is a song we associate closely with the sacred rite of partaking of the sacrament.
5. "We Thank Thee, O God, For a Prophet," words by William Fowler (music by Caroline E. S. Norton), is sung in honor of the Presidents of our Church who are the Lord's prophets on earth.
6. "School Thy Feelings, O My Brother," words by Charles W. Penrose (music by Ebenezer Beesley), is a song which
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
carries a lesson for each of us and may, to our advantage, be read and sung often. 7. "True to the Faith," words and music by Evan Stephens, is a stirring song written for the youth of the Church. 8. "Softly Beams the Sacred Dawning," words by John Jaques (music by George Careless), foretells the dawning of the great Millennial Morn.
In a day of trouble and trial there comes great consolation through singing unto the Lord. In this connection we recall the comfort the Prophet Joseph received when, bowed down with grief in Carthage Jail, he requested John Taylor to sing him a hymn just a short time before the Martyrdom. We earnestly hope that any of our sisters who find themselves in distress will receive renewed faith and a determination to go ahead in the Lord's work through a heartfelt singing of the songs of Zion.
Note: For a further study of Latter-day Saint hymns not included in this course, we recommend Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns, by George D. Pyper.
PRAYER FOR STRENGTH Grace Williams Porter
Lone on the rocky crag, a tree flings high Its gnarled limbs, stark against the livid sky; Stripped of its leaves by gales that wrench and maim, Scourged by hail's swift attack and lightning's flame; Scorched by fierce summer suns, low pressed with snow, It wrests from nature's force the strength to grow. With roots deep-sunk through stone to fertile sod, It lifts triumphant arms in praise to God.
Lord, I am lonely as that mountain tree, Weighted and bound by stern necessity. Life's storms in fury lash about my head— Oh, may my roots, by life's dark stresses fed, Sink deep through stones of doubt to faith's rich sod And make me strong—of Thine own image—God.
Social Welfare Department
Relief Society General Conference, April 2, 1941
(Addresses of Elder Stringham A. Stevens and Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin appear in full, the report of Alice H. Osborn given in this department, and of Alverda Partridge and Eva G. Gillespie, both given at the Presidents' Breakfast of the conference, are presented here as summaries.)
Church Welfare Stringham A. Stevens Member, General Church Welfare Committee
IF there is one fact which the experiences of the past five years have taught the members of the general welfare committee, it is that the women of the Church, and particularly the Relief Society members, not only have proved that they were indispensable in the welfare program, but in many cases they have carried far more than their share of the burden and responsibility. On behalf of the welfare committee of the Church and those who have benefited from this fine activity, I would like to thank the women for their marvelous contribution to this cause. Every Church woman is directly concerned with the entire welfare program, including all Priesthood activities, work projects, etc., because the men who are so vitally affected by this program in any capacity, either as administrative officers, or workers, or even as the ultimate beneficiaries who receive material help from the program, are the husbands, fathers, brothers, or sons of the women of the Church. So, in the larger sense, every project and every activity in some degree touches the lives of all Church members—men, women, and children alike. In this sense, all projects are in reality "joint" projects. But, as we all recognize, there is a special field in which the women of the Church, and particularly the Relief Society, are especially gifted to serve. The Prophet Joseph Smith recognized this outstanding quality when he gave the following instructions to the Relief Society organization in Nauvoo, 99 years ago. He said: "This charitable society is according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious. If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates.... This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls." I would also like to quote a paragraph from the remarkable address which President Clark delivered at Estes Park, Colorado, in June, 1939, particularly dealing with the place of the Relief Society in this program: "In all that relates to the supplying of clothing, the preparation and preservation of foodstuffs, the nursing of the sick, the burial of the dead, in all that relates to the infinities of kindly attention and sympathy, in all that relates even remotely
411
412
to the love and ritual of motherhood, the Women's Relief Society carries the burden. The bishop is the father of his ward; the Relief Society is the mother. The Church welfare plan could not be carried on without them; it serves in greatest measure where they are most active. They establish sewing and cooking centers, they help with making budgets, they encourage the heavily burdened and despondent, they hold up the hands of the faint-hearted, they sweep despair out of the hearts of the distressed, they plant hope and faith and righteousness in every household. Womanhood ripened into righteous motherhood is the nearest approach to the divine which mortals know. Mothers make the great membership of the Relief Society."
TO express it in the very simplest terms, the Church welfare program is merely a plan. Of itself it is not an organization. Someone has said it is a plan to abolish poverty in the Church. Yes, that is true in part, but it is more than that; it is a plan to coordinate the work of all the various agencies and organizations in the Church which logically are responsible for the temporal welfare of the Church membership, especially those in need and distress. These agencies are: first, the bishop; second, the Priesthood quorums; third, the Relief Society. By express revelation and by long practice extending back 100 years, these agencies have always been assigned this important responsibility. Therefore, the welfare program is a new plan, made necessary by the present size of the Church and the conditions which now exist, to coordinate
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
and direct the work of caring for the temporal needs of the people. On every stake welfare committee, the stake Relief Society president and the stake women's work director not only hold membership, but they share equally in the responsibility of planning and directing the program in that stake. The same thing is true in every ward of the Church, where the ward Relief Society president and the ward women's work director play such an important part in their intimate contacts with the needy and distressed families of the ward. No other organization in the world can match the work of the Relief Society in its ministrations to the unfortunate members of the Church. I do not think you could find anywhere such marvelous activities carried on at such a low cost and so efficiently and so lovingly as is the work of this marvelous organization. I would like to heartily endorse the statement which Sister Lyman read this morning in connection with Relief Society projects and the use of the funds of the Relief Society. I hope that every stake officer of Relief Society throughout the Church will acquaint herself with this statement which has the endorsement not only of the general welfare committee, but the Presiding Bishopric and all of the General Authorities.
IN the very few moments which I have left, it would be impossible to even refer to the many activities of this very complex program, but I would like to say a few words about work projects. Perhaps this task of creating something to do for persons who have to be assisted is one phase of the welfare plan which is least
SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT
understood and most difficult to initiate. Of course, in the final analysis, the initiating of these projects is left to each community, because it is impossible for any general board or central committee to know the needs of all of the individual people, or the conditions of each individual ward. In a bulletin issued some months ago by the Northern Utah Region, the following general objectives were stressed in connection with work projects for both men and women: first, to train and rehabilitate unemployable members to qualify them for work in private industry; second, to assist all employable unemployed members to find work in private industry. I would like to say a word about these two objectives. From surveys made in that Region, and I think the same thing is true throughout the Church, we found that from 85 to 90 percent of the people who have to be assisted, and who are unemployed, have no special training to do any one thing well. It is amazing how few people have received training to carry out any definite work in life. Brother Ira J. Markham, of the Northern Utah Region, who is connected with the Weber College, wrote an article which was published in the Church Section of the Deseret News, on March 8, 1941, which deals with this important subject. It is called, "Building Men Into Jobs," and is a splendid article. Brother Markham says, "A man's job is the most important thing in his life." He also explains how the Northern Utah Region is trying to carry out these projects of training people to be qualified for jobs in private industry. I notice in today's paper a headline indicating a shortage of skilled workers in various industries, right at a time when we have great unemployment, and I think that is true all over the country. In a recent visit to the San Francisco Stake, I was informed that one of their greatest problems was that so few people who come to them for assistance are trained to fill the jobs available for skilled workers. I will proceed with the list of objectives: The third is to provide work on Church-directed projects for needy members who cannot be trained or rehabilitated for work in private industry; fourth, to educate members in more efficient household management and in becoming more efficient workers and managers. There are a number of others which time will not permit me to mention.
413
Many of the fine projects which have been listed, as I have stated, apply equally as well to women as to men. Some of these have to do with the construction, alteration and renovation of Church properties and private homes; also the manufacture and repair of furniture and household equipment. Also, many women in the Church have assisted in gardening projects, and in the establishment and development of new industries. In connection with these items, I would like to say that I know of many cases where the women have done work which I think they should not be called upon to do. I personally do not believe it is necessary for our women to paint public buildings, to thin beets, or weed large community gardens, and I am sure nobody would want any woman in this Church to do anything which
414
would physically injure her in any way. I am sure the program does not require any such thing. It is my personal opinion that sometimes men have allowed the women to lift heavy boxes and large containers in the canning centers when they really should not have done it. I would not want my wife to do it, and I would not want any woman in this Church to do it.
THERE are a number of projects which might be called "educational projects." One of these is training in efficient money management, budgeting income and expense, insurance, savings, et cetera. It seems to me that all too little has been said about thrift these days. In fact, it seems to be unpopular to even mention that word, and yet the lack of it is often the cause of great poverty and misfortune. Nearly every great fortune and every great business is built on the humble efforts of a man or a family which practices thrift. This is a subject for many sermons. What is needed is less talk about dividing the wealth, and more about how to create new wealth. I think the welfare program could develop a project along this line which would be beneficial to all of us. Other educational projects are: training in the use and abuse of credit; in getting out of debt; consumer education; adoption of family council plan; how to become more efficient buyers of needed goods and articles; how to find and how to keep a job; how to progress in a job. These are all projects in which mothers and wives can help their sons and fathers as well as their daughters. Another general project is improving morale. Whole communities
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
can benefit from projects of this type: attendance at Church meetings and socials; developing friendships; being helpful to neighbors in times of sickness or distress; taking a friendly interest in neighbors and their children; temple visits in groups; encouragement in the practice of the Word of Wisdom; payment of tithes and offerings; ward teaching, and so on. Then there are a number of projects which are strictly for women. The Mormon Handicraft Shop has developed many of these in the making of gifts, souvenirs, leather goods, copper goods, art work, fancy work, et cetera. There is also the making of articles of clothing for sale at bazaars. Then there is the matter of preparing articles to fill relief needs—articles made of new cloth to meet the relief needs of stake or region, and the alteration and renovation of used clothing. The bulletin to which I have referred also lists a number of projects on employment—part-time employment, such as tending babies, washing, canning, house cleaning, and other household duties; and full-time employment, such as nursing, either as a practical nurse or a professional, trained nurse, clerical work, school teaching, and so on. Sewing, canning, and cooking are projects that have always been carried on by the women; also the matter of household management which the Relief Society has developed very largely, in the last few years going into the homes where training is needed and helping women to be better managers, teaching them how to care for and rear their children, how to meet family problems, manage household finances, and so on.
SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT
ONE of the basic objectives of this program is to produce, as far as possible, all of the things which we consume. For this reason, we are building modern, sanitary canning centers where food products of the very highest quality are processed. We are just now completing a modern milk condensary where we expect to produce all of the canned milk required by the eighty or more bishops' storehouses in the Church. Another fundamental objective is to train a large body of workers in every stake and ward who will be prepared to meet and solve any emergency which we may have to face, such as the aftermath of a world war. Some of the leading brethren feel that there may come a day when our nation may suffer a worse depression than anything we have ever known, when food, clothing and other necessities will be more valuable than gold. If such a time comes, we will have an army of trained workers who will know just what to do because of the schooling they are now receiving in this welfare program. For these reasons, it is felt that the work of this great program should be carried on by all of the Church membership, not only by
415
those who are now temporarily on relief, but by the ablest men and women in the Church, by those who now enjoy economic independence, as well as by the very humblest and the needy. If the high purposes of this divine plan are achieved in any degree, all must participate; the strong must help the weak. In speaking of this phase of the program, one of our leaders recently declared, "Every Church member, if he be living up to his opportunities and to his active and positive duties, is either a benefactor of the Church welfare plan or a beneficiary of it." In conclusion, I would like to read the final paragraph of the message of the First Presidency, which was read in the Tabernacle at the April conference, 1936, when this program was first inaugurated: "No pains must be spared to wipe out all feelings of diffidence, embarrassment, or shame on the part of those receiving relief; the ward must be one great family of equals. The spiritual welfare of those on relief must receive special care and be earnestly and prayerfully fostered. A system which gives relief for work or service will go far to reaching these ends."
Relief Society—An Aid to the Bishops Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin Member of the Presiding Bishopric
"For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: "Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. "Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, and fed thee? Or thirsty, and gave thee drink?
416
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
"When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? Or naked, and clothed thee? "Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? "And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." (Matthew 25:35-40)
THE Spirit expressed in this scripture of the Savior typifies the spirit of the Relief Society organization. Among the many relief societies in the world sponsored by governmental agencies, private agencies, or great fraternal organizations, there is not one that is comparable in spirit or in achievements to the National Woman's Relief Society—the reason for this being that this great organization of women came into existence through the inspiration bestowed upon the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is wonderful to contemplate that after the Church had been restored, the Priesthood returned to men, and the Gospel message sent to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, that the Lord should deem it wise to organize the women, the mothers of this great Church, into an organization which would wield an influence for love, helpfulness, sympathy, and kindness—these being the very essence of motherhood. And from that memorable day in 1842 when this great organization of mothers came into existence, it has cared for those who are in distress, those who are ill, and those who mourn the loss of loved ones.
THE assistance rendered to bishops in caring for the distressed is immeasurable. I do not know of any organization that has lightened the burdens of our bishops more than has the Relief Society. From personal experience, having had the honor of presiding over a ward, I know something of the duties of the bishopric. The bishopric is on the firing line in all Church activities. A bishop is literally and in all reality the father of his flock. He is a judge in Israel. The Lord has said: "And unto the bishop of the church, and unto such as God shall appoint and ordain to watch over the church and to be elders unto the church, are to have it given unto them to discern all those gifts lest there shall be any among you professing and yet be not of God." (Doctrine and Covenants, 46:27) The Lord in this revelation indicates that the bishop in his judgeship is to be endowed with the blessings of perception, wisdom, and good judgment. He is a judge in both spiritual and temporal matters; and his decision, with the concurrence of his counselors, stands as final. The presidents of our Relief Society organizations so revere and uphold the bishops of the Church. The attitude of Relief Society presidents toward the bishops is one wherein the bishops are accepted as the final judges; and the most inspirational experience that comes to those of us who travel over the Church is to note the loyalty and the willingness of the sisters to sustain our bishops. On the other hand, a wise bishop will always utilize the helps that the Lord has given unto him for the furtherance of the work—the great Relief Society organization being one of those helps. And this is particularly true in so many cases nowadays where people find themselves in need of assistance from the Church.
SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT
With all the qualifications that a bishop may possess, I am thoroughly convinced that there are very few of them who are capable of going into a distressed home and determining what the needs of the home are. To my way of thinking, there is only one individual who can go into a home, analyze its needs, and supply them wisely. That individual is one we may choose to call a home manager, a Relief Society president or her social aid. After all, these splendid women have homes of their own, have gone through the experiences related to motherhood and the management of homes. Calling in the Relief Society president or her aid, the bishop readily realizes that the report covering distress in the home will be made accurately, and he will be able to render wise and sane assistance, whether it be in the form of clothing, food fuel, or medical assistance. Relief Society workers should always keep in mind the fact that the bishop is the final judge; if for any reason he does not accept their suggestions, they realize that they have filled the assignment given unto them; their duty is done. I remember distinctly my experiences as a bishop of a ward during the darkest days of depression. Some forty families during a week's time applied for assistance. In these families there were many small children. The bishopric concluded that if a few potatoes, a sack of flour, and some coal were sent to these families, their needs would be met adequately. But we soon discovered that potatoes and flour did not provide a proper diet for growing children, and soon found it necessary
417
to call in our Relief Society sisters to assist us in the solving of our relief problem. I have always thought the Lord inspired us in selecting those three competent women—all of them mothers, women of understanding. And may I assure you that it was not long before these forty needy families were receiving proper attention, and particularly those foods, not luxuries, which afforded a proper diet. A small storehouse was set up in the chapel and was soon stocked with an abundance of plain and wholesome food. More than that, these sisters contributed from Relief Society funds periodically in assisting the bishopric to meet the problem of finances. May I say that our experience is the experience that many bishops of the Church are enjoying in relationship to the Relief Society presidencies and their aids. At this point, may I say that the Relief Society funds belong to the Relief Society, and no bishop should feel that he has the right to levy assessments upon our Relief Society sisters without their consent. However, if the Relief Society presidency feels that the bishop has need of funds, and a surplus is on hand, then it is their prerogative to assist him.
IN doing relief work among members of the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ, there are several points that should always be kept in mind: First, that all information pertaining to these families in need is to be kept strictly confidential. Otherwise, information of this character becomes common gossip, and as a result, a fine member of the Church might be deeply hurt and embarrassed. Furthermore, it is highly
418
essential that these confidences be kept sacred because a Relief Society worker can soon lose her influence with, and the respect of, those whom she is endeavoring to help. A Relief Society president or her social aid should be endowed with a high degree of good judgment. She should not be over-emotional. She should be wise, prudent, and not go to extremes; and in all of her work she should make it just as practical as possible. If we are humble and prayerful in this great relief project, the Lord will endow all of us with good judgment and inspiration. This is a work which requires a kind attitude; for, after all, the attitude and the spirit of the relief work in the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ should be influenced by the Spirit of the Master himself. After all, real sympathy says little, but does much. We should be tolerant and have the faculty of suspending judgment in any or all cases until the facts are known and both sides of the questions involved thoroughly considered. We should never condemn a person unheard, and we should always be able to see the other individual's point of view. The matter of relief has changed during the past eight years. Eight years ago it was a matter of providing for the older people, the widow, and the orphan; but the period of depression has presented new problems. Not only the aged widow and the orphan are in need, but men in the very prime of life are struggling against tremendous odds. It is not an uncommon thing to hear a man of forty years of age say upon applying for employment, "I am told [am too old." The demands made RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941 upon labor and the desires of modern-day industry would exclude from employment men who have attained the age of forty. Consequently, a problem comes before us which is most serious, a problem wherein these men must have assistance to rehabilitate them in their attitude toward work, toward government, and, in many instances, toward the Church. I congratulate the Relief Society upon its splendid achievement in securing positions for so many of our sisters; and I am sure that the organization can be of assistance in helping our unemployed brethren, particularly whenever anything needs to be done about the home or where other opportunities for employment may be known. You would render real assistance to your bishop and the ward welfare committee if you would constantly keep in mind the fact that in all wards of the Church there are many of our brethren who are seeking employment. OUR Relief Society presidents could render a high degree of assistance to the bishops of the wards in familiarizing themselves with certain phases of the Social Security Act, particularly that part of it which is related to assistance for crippled children and dependent children. I am confident all of our bishops are not fully acquainted with the various services that can be secured to assist crippled and dependent children, Relief Society presidents of the *For summary of child-welfare provisions of the Social Security Act, see '"Child Welfare Provisions of the Social Security Act," by Vera W. Pohlman, Relief Society Magazine, March, 1941, pp. 183-195. SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT Church can be of further assistance io our bishops in clearing cases, not only through Church sources, but. By gathering, confidentially and quietly, information from other agencies which would afford the bishops a complete report of the families involved, and with your help, aid them to determine what is to be done. It is rather interesting to note that in the counties of the State of Utah there are different rulings as to what constitutes the family budget. Ina recent conference with certain representatives, it has been found that the budget of Salt Lake County is not adequate, and for that reason the Church is called upon frequently to render supplemental assistance. 'The presidents of our Relief Societies can render a real service in becoming fully acquainted with the family budgets set up in the various counties where they live. If the budget is not adequate, then your suggestions to the bishops to supplement will be most helpful. May I further suggest that where supplemental assistance is anticipated, it is always wise to contact the county agency, notifying it of your intention; and by this procedure you will avoid misunderstandings with county agencies and will not jeopardize assistance being rendered by the county to families in distress. Cases have come to our attention where supplemental assistance has been rendered without the knowledge of the county welfare department; and upon learning of the assistance, the county has immediately deducted the amount of the supplemental assistance from the family budget, working a hardship upon the family. As presidents of Relief Societies, 419 you must always keep in mind that the great objective of the Church is the individual; consequently it is the duty of all of us to see that there is no breaking down in the attitude of the people toward work, toward the Church, and toward government. We should impress upon everyone receiving assistance that he is worth something in the sight of God and is worth saving. We should have a wholesome respect for the individual, for his personality, character; and, finally, in rendering relief be sure, as far as possible, that no individual, unless he is physically incapacitated, is going to become wholly dependent upon the state or the Church. Every individual should be encouraged to work and assist himself and never be allowed to feel he is entirely dependent upon society for his maintenance. If opportunities for employment are not available in private industry, then through the agency of the welfare program those projects should be set in motion which will afford every man or woman who is in need of assistance the opportunity to contribute of his time and talents to the program and, in turn, receive the necessities of life, which will belong to him because they have been earned by the sweat of his own brow. The Relief Societies render assistance in other ways than relief. The opportunities aftorded our sisters in cultural pursuits, in recreation, in learning how to do things with their hands, is really an outstanding achievement. With your assistance we cannot fail. A united Priesthood and a cooperative organization of the mothers of Israel can achieve all that the 420 Lord requires of us. The eyes of the world are upon us, and our destiny is leadership and success. Let the world see our achievements, and they will be happy to follow after us. May the Lord bless you, inspire you, that every aim of your great RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941 organization of women will be achieved and that the spirit of Relief Society work will be radiated the world over and the words of the Redeemer be fulfilled in behalf of the distressed, the sick, and those who mourn. Report of Relief Society &mployment Office, Los Angeles Alice H. Osborn, Director MAKING a report of this kind is like describing a department store, for our work covers many departments. We have a rental bureau, travel bureau, transient, welfare and employment bureaus, and an information bureau in a very literal sense. We have to think fast to make our inquirers feel that we earn these titles. We sometimes think that everything hard to catalogue is referred to our office, but we appreciate the compliment. We hear nice things constantly about the Church for supporting a place where its members may get the service they need. When the General Board of Relief Society started this office, we had two stakes and the California Mission to serve. Now, in addition to the mission, we have eight stakes, with fifty-four wards. The stakes closest to the office get the most use out of it because distance and transportation have to be considered. In the beginning, we were primarily interested in welfare work. At that time, public assistance was practically a new thing to our California members; relief, if any, had been from the Church. When the depression hit us all; it took one person's full time directing people to the proper place for the assistance they were in need of and eligible for, and making contacts and appointments for them. Since the advent of the Church welfare movement, our members are gradually removing themselves from the public relief rolls, many of them finding work in the aircraft factories and through other employment; others are getting into Latter-day Saint industries and ward projects. Projects are springing up in all of the stakes, which are attracting attention outside of Church circles. At our monthly meetings, when the stakes report their plans and active projects, the growth in the welfare program in southern California is very apparent. We are all interested in the work, and since it has become better understood, it has grown more rapidly. When we opened the office in Los Angeles, we could see that our employment possibilities could be developed, and that employment was the answer to most of our welfare problems, Especially was this true SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT where couples were on the verge of a separation. Often their difficulties were patched up on the strength of a job, and other couples were brought together who were already living apart—in some instances the wife living with her folks or working in some home, and beginning to question the ability of her husband, when all he needed was a job and a little build-up. We have had many such cases during the years and have had pleasant experiences with employers who were glad to listen to reports of unusual cases and to give them work. Our office is well known in industrial, mercantile and manufacturing districts. We have a fine relationship with many of them. We are often asked, "How do you get your jobs and how does the employer hear of you?" The most plausible answer is that someone in their employ is a member of the Church and has given such outstanding service that they want other members. Also, one tells another that we operate without a charge to applicants, and they like the idea of unemployed people not having to pay for job-finding service. Then again, members of our Church have a good reputation in California for being sober and industrious, and their recommendations of other members have weight when there are vacancies to be filled. We are often told by business men that their best employees are our Church members. Latter-day Saint transients from the inter-mountain states, and from all over the country, find the office a good place from which to start. They may need a place to live, or work; sometimes they are without funds, and immediate employment is necessary; or we may have to supply them with food, lodging, or carfare to reach relatives. The Church provides us with a fund to be used for that purpose. The welfare workers on the stake Relief Society boards are a great help to us. We call the stake worker when visits have to be made. She then reports her findings in the home she has visited and makes recommendations, and we work together in the interest of our families. We think we are especially fortunate in being able to find work for many of our transients. The young people who come to California looking for work are usually a fine type and a credit to the Church. It has been thought by some that we spend too much time on the stranger within our gates, but we were all strangers at one time or another, so we can't blame others for coming. Too many of our young people, and older ones, too, are in the I-can-do-anything class, and cannot take the better jobs. Calvin Coolidge said, "The world is full of educated derelicts and unsuccessful men with talents. Determination and persistence alone have unlimited powers." The truth in these words of Calvin Coolidge has been impressed upon me many times in my work in the welfare office. We never miss an opportunity to advise our visitors to attend Church, and try to give them a little spiritual uplift. 422 — RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941 A Relief Society Health Project Alverda Partridge First Counselor, Big Horn Stake Relief Society THE wheat interest money received by the wards and branches was pooled in a stake fund. There was such a small amount going to each ward that we felt we could do much more by pooling it. We had a little over $100 altogether. The ward presidents were consulted in deciding just what health project would be most beneficial, and after very careful consideration, a tonsil project was decided on. A survey of the needy families in each ward was made by the various ward presidents. Each ward president consulted her bishop, as he was very familiar with some of the cases in mind. After completing the list of those needing aid, the ward president then very tactfully made a personal visit to each one of these families, explaining her plan and offering aid to the families who desired it. After the survey was made, a committee, composed of ward presidents and some of the stake board members, met by appointment with the physicians in Lovell and explained their plan. The doctors were very cooperative, and said if the plan was to help those who were in need and would likely not be able to have care without assistance, they would give it at a reduced price. The physicians also promised to hold a clinic for a definite period of time, during which they would give physical examinations and smallpox vaccinations at reduced rates to all members of Big Horn stake—adults and children. After we had gone this far, nothing further was done until our plans were submitted to the General Board for approval. Approval was given, and it lent encouragement to us, and we began to work out our plans then, confident of success. A list of those needing tonsillectomies was submitted and approved for examination by the physicians. Each one was assigned a definite day on which to bring a certain number of patients to the hospital for operations. We had thirty-seven operations performed in the Lovell Hospital. In one of our branches, fifty miles distant, there were three other people who needed care very badly, and the physician in that vicinity, although not a member of our Church, was very cooperative. He performed these operations at a reduced price after hearing of our stake project. This made a total of forty tonsillectomies. As a result of the clinic, which was also held as planned, there were over one hundred inoculations for diphtheria and over one hundred vaccinations for smallpox. This service was paid for by the individuals, but it was given at a reduced rate. The stake Relief Society president and the physicians were the only ones who had any idea of the amounts charged for the operations. We felt it best to keep it just as quiet as possible. The board members did not even know—just the president. The doctors appreciated the confidence in which this infor-
SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT
mation was held. In all of our work we have found it best that very few know just who receives aid. In regard to these tonsillectomies, nobody knew just who was being helped, and we feel that has been a good condition, and it encourages others who really need aid. In one of our large wards there were so many needing care that we decided to ask the bishop for assist-
423
ance. He suggested that we go to the stake president and ask him for support in such an extensive project. This was done, and as a result, $100 was added to the Relief Society funds. We surely appreciated this as it made it possible for all who had been solicited to be cared for. We feel that a very worthy project was completed, and many are now enjoying better health as a result.
Cooperation with Community Agencies in Health Work Eva G. Gillespie President, Sharon Stake Relief Society
THEY say necessity is the mother of invention. We had very few funds with which to carry on, and we saw so much need among the children of our stake that we naturally turned to the first lesson in social welfare—contact community agencies. Through the cooperation of our public-health nurse, we started well-baby conferences nearly three years ago. We planned to hold them monthly, but the response was so great that we have held them twice monthly, and sometimes three times. These well-baby conferences are for children under six years of age. In our stake we have 789 children under six years of age, of whom 437 are registered at the conference, 391 have been protected against smallpox, and 431 against diphtheria. Protecting the infant against these diseases before he reaches one year of age assures a higher degree of immunity for the child, and less severe reaction from the immunization. Although the maternal and child-health program conducted by the State Board of Health is primarily for rural communities only, a government survey indicates that the entire State of Utah is considered rural with the exception of Salt Lake City, Ogden, and Provo. Federal funds are available to the state on a matching basis to carry out this work. A reliable doctor is employed and paid for by the state, and the nurse gives her time from her regular work. The other women, those who act as hostesses, those who take temperatures, weigh and measure the children and otherwise assist at these conferences, are volunteer Relief Society women. A thorough examination is given each child by the doctor, and advice given to the mother on the child's care. We find that these conferences are helping the mothers just as much as the children.
424
Corrective work is not done at these conferences, and so where the doctor finds corrective work necessary, with the assistance of the public-health nurse we follow up cases and use our funds for this purpose. Our public-health nurse spends over one-fourth of her time in visiting families, so who is in a better position to know the conditions in the home? We receive fine cooperation from our county commissioners. They matched the amount we paid out for nearly all tonsil and eye cases. Once each year, and sometimes twice, my counselor and I meet with our county commissioners, and they are certainly a fine group of men. We explain to them some of our problems in connection with corrective work, and point out that through rheumatism the children's hearts and other organs are being affected, and they have always responded very well. We never draw the line on whether the children are from Latter-day Saint families or not, as we are working for the good of the community. When the doctor sends the bill, I approve it and attach a little written history of the case, then send it to our commissioner, and he has always paid half of the charge of the corrective work. In some communities typhoid vaccine is also furnished by the state for everyone free of charge, and where necessity arises it can be secured by any section. This also applies to pneumonia serum and drugs for venereal disease. If we cannot get a physician to administer these things free of charge to indigent or borderline cases, we can contact the county physician and have it done. The Red Cross has been another
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
source of help to us, and at present we have a class of forty-eight women in our stake taking the home nursing course, with our public-health nurse as instructor. She takes the time from her regular work to give these instructions. Our public-health nurse helps in teaching a class for expectant mothers at our Utah Valley Hospital, and we are urging every young mother to take advantage of this fine course. Then we have our Lions Club, the American Legion, and different business-men's clubs. If we acquaint them with some of our health problems they are very willing to assist. We also have a Chamber of Commerce in our little town of Orem, which assists us in our health work. In the past year we have had thirty tonsil cases taken care of, eight severe dental cases, two maternity cases, and five eye corrections, and as we have only a small wheat interest fund to draw from, you can see it would not go very far in paying these bills. Although our schools have a preventive health program and in our district two grades in each school receive complete dental care each year, and all children receive a medical examination, they have no funds for other corrective work. Last year they did a little experimental work in our case, and advanced a small amount which the community matched through sponsoring a picture show, and through dime donations from the children in our four schools. We are not anticipating this help for the coming year, as they can continue only the preventive program from their budget. Our records do not show very many cases taken care of, but we are instrumental in having numerous
SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT
cases taken care of through other agencies. The Crippled Children's Service—another government agency—the Tuberculosis Association, and the outpatient department of our Utah Valley Hospital have taken care of many cases without any cost to us, when referred to them after our investigation has found it is necessary. We also work in close cooperation with our county welfare workers, and have succeeded in having several operations and maternity cases hospitalized by them, with the Church, through the bishoprics, paying but
425
a small part. When we take care of maternity cases, our funds have stretched further by having the women cared for in the homes of the several fine women in our stake with sufficient training to care for these patients. The patients have appreciated it so much that we recommend this in our stake. It also helps the women who care for them, because in most cases they are widows and need the extra income. Our aim is to promote health and prevent disease, and if we work through our children, we are making a better generation to carry on.
MID-SUMMER PEACE By Celia Van Cott
Such beauty, Lord, holds fast my heart this hour When long grey shadows cling to earth's green breast, When summer's sun through heaven's unseen power Sinks slowly down behind the mountain crest; When leaf plumes brush the sky and evening's breeze Stirs mint-twined grass along the cooling stream; When twilight sifts a purple haze through trees To shuttle out the last of day's bright beam.
There's fragile loveliness upon earth's face When day is stilled and night creeps down the sky— Soon quietude shall settle on this place And all things rest or sleep in peace, while I With heart attuned shall wait through moon-mist night To see dawn break in crystal splints of light.
Annual Report—1940
Presented at Relief Society General Conference, Officers' Meeting, April 2, 1941
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
FIRST, I shall make reference to those figures showing changes from 1939 which reflect to some extent the effect of procedural changes recommended by the General Board last year. The number of meetings held in the wards decreased slightly (220) to 71,117, as a result of the change in the educational year from nine to eight months, announced in April, 1940. The full effect of the change will not be apparent until the 1941 report is compiled, for the reason that it was previously optional with stakes as to whether their educational work began in September and ended in May, or began in October and ended in June. Only those which formerly began in September account for the decrease in this year's report. The number of stake board meetings also declined in 1940, being reduced by 151 or 6 percent, to 2,315, probably as a result of the recommendation made last October that stake board meetings be limited to two meetings a month. The effect of this recommendation will also be more evident in the 1941 report, since it could be applied last year only to the fourth quarter of the year. These steps toward simplification, in accordance with the advice of the General Authorities, while resulting in only a few hundred less meetings during the fourth quarter of the year 1940, nevertheless relieved thousands of women for several afternoons, and will have an
426
even greater aggregate effect during the remaining five months of the 1940-41 season which were not included in the 1940 report. Another decrease from the year 1939 is noted in expenditures for health and welfare work (other than direct home assistance), which dropped 16 percent to $31,920.93 because of the reduction of 24 percent to $11,925.84 in interest on the wheat trust fund—heretofore the principal source of revenue for this work.
IN response to our request, most stakes and missions submitted along with their annual financial and statistical reports, narrative statements of their activities during 1940. We are very grateful to you for the excellent summaries which you and your wards prepared for us. They lend greater significance to the financial and statistical data submitted in the regular report forms, and give us greater appreciation of your varied activities, of your ingenuity and resourcefulness, your service to your bishops and your communities. Your activities are so varied and so extensive that it is difficult to compress even a brief summary of them into the space of this report. In reviewing these reports, I was impressed by the evidence which they present that the local Relief Societies are, first of all, carrying forward the objectives of the Society stated at the time of its organization
ANNUAL REPORT—1940
99 years ago. I was also impressed by the fact that there is still need in all our communities, irrespective of their extensive and varied geographical distribution, for the same helpful, friendly, sympathetic services as those performed by the women of Nauvoo at the inception of the Society. Although begun so long ago, at a time when there were no patterns and precedents in organizations for women, no experiences upon which to draw in establishing and conducting a workable society for women, it is indicative of its inspired inception that the purposes of the original organization are still the principal concern of all Relief Societies today, wherever located. In adhering to its initial assignment, the Society has not clung to customs and functions for which there is no need today, but it has adapted its human services to a changing era, risen to meet new needs, expanded its program, and endeavored always to improve the methods by which it carries forward its timeless objectives.
A FEW excerpts from stake, ward, and mission reports, compared with others from the Nauvoo records, will serve to bear out these statements and also to give a panorama of Relief Society at work. Weekly meetings were inaugurated in the first days of the Society at Nauvoo; last year more than 71,000 weekly meetings were held in the various wards, except during the summer months. A charity fund, derived from contributions of members and others, was started at the organization meeting in 1842; contributions and other receipts for charity in 1940 amounted to $76,844.91.
427
In 1843, a necessity committee of 16 was appointed "to search out the poor and suffering, to call upon the rich for aid, and thus, as far as possible, relieve the wants of all." Last year, the visiting teachers made 1,188,462 visits to the homes of Latter-day Saint families, nearly 60,000 more calls than were recorded in 1939. During the first year of operation, the Relief Society expended for the relief of the poor, $306.48; in 1940, a total of $95,187.12 was disbursed for charitable purposes. In the fall of 1843, the Relief Society women of Nauvoo initiated sewing service for those in need, assembling materials and making bedding and clothing to be "given to such as are suffering cold and nakedness." Last year, the regular monthly sewing meetings held throughout the organization carried forward a larger sewing program than usual in order to make bedding and clothing for distribution through the Church welfare program, as well as for issuance by the Society. Compare the similarity of the proposal in 1843 that the Society "get together materials for the Saints for bedding that they might not suffer" with the 1940 project for better beds and bedding conducted on a "help one another" plan in an Arizona stake, with the hundreds of quilts made by ward Relief Societies throughout the Church, and with the recent request of the Relief Societies in the Brazilian Mission for information on mattress-making so that the bedding facilities of their members might be improved. Sewing for the needy is indeed a major activity of the Relief Society of today, as it was in Nauvoo. The early minutes tell us that in
428
addition to caring for the needy and destitute, the women of the first Relief Society turned their efforts toward the raising of funds for the temple which was then being built in Nauvoo. In the reports submitted for 1940 are numerous examples of funds raised by Relief Societies in various ingenious ways in the interest of the erection of ward chapels and stake houses, and even in the purchase of lots on which ward buildings are to be placed. They have raised funds to help buy chairs and benches for their chapels, and, as an example of the geographical spread of similar activities, I mention that a ward Relief Society in Salt Lake City, and one in the far-away Argentine Mission each assisted its ward to buy an organ. The Nauvoo Relief Society as an organization offered to weave and sew clothing for the temple workmen, most of whom were giving volunteer service, and they also donated groceries for their families. The 1940 reports include many instances of the Relief Society preparing and serving food to men donating labor in the erection of chapels, in the beautification of Church grounds, and in some types of welfare projects.
IN fulfilling its chief purpose—"to seek out and relieve the distressed," the women of Nauvoo encountered problems which are familiar to every Relief Society president today. Some of the narrative reports sent in by wards for 1940 tell of services similar to those recorded in the Nauvoo minutes of the Society. The following excerpts from the 1940 report of one small-town ward Relief Society in Utah indicate the services of a typical ward
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
Relief Society—a transient family in desperate need and with many problems settled in the community, care was provided for a maternity case, hospital care for a case of appendicitis, an aged, sick man was visited, the bishop requested a visit to learn what assistance might be given the family of a man who had been shot, care was given by the members of the Society during the illness of a woman, a tonsillectomy for a little boy was arranged, comfort and assistance was given in connection with at least ten funerals in the community, and the Society assisted the bishop in providing and distributing cheer baskets at Christmas time. In addition to these welfare activities, the conduct of the regular weekly meetings, the study of the outlined educational courses, and the work of the visiting teachers, this Society also held a meeting at the home of each of its aged, homebound members in recognition of their birthdays, bought material and made draperies for the ward Relief Society room, prepared and sold refreshments at a ward party to raise money for the stake tabernacle, made a survey in the interest of the Church campaign against the use of alcohol and tobacco, assisted in the Church beautification program, held a ward Relief Society conference, attended special meetings called by the bishop to discuss ward problems, attended the annual stake Relief Society conference, gave a party for retiring officers when the ward Relief Society was reorganized, sent representatives to a stake music course, bought eighteen of the new Relief Society Song Books, held monthly officers' meetings, provided a trio to sing in the temple on stake Relief Society
ANNUAL REPORT—1940
temple day, made nearly 100 special visits to the sick and homebound, annual visits to all members in the ward were made by the presidency, and the women contributed, during the year, nearly 600 hours in making 15 quilts. This statement of activities in one ward, multiplied by the 2,132 local Relief Societies, would give a fair indication of the extent of services rendered by the Society during 1940. Several instances were reported where ward Relief Societies held special sewing days for motherless families and for families who had lost all their belongings by fire.
IN addition to activities such as these, many special programs and projects are being conducted for the furtherance of individual and community welfare. In many instances, these special services are carried forward on a stake basis, with pooled funds from the various wards of the stake. Nineteen years ago, the General Board recommended, at its April general conference in 1922, that the interest on the recently centralized wheat trust fund be used for health work, with emphasis on maternity care and child welfare. Your narrative reports for 1940 give indication of the extensiveness of the maternal and child-health work which you are doing. A few examples will serve to illustrate this activity. One stake Relief Society has conducted a clinic for pre-school children regularly twice a month since 1922, and has successfully conducted a first-class maternity hospital since 1924; several stakes give hospital sewing service in exchange for free hospital beds for the needy; one stake used its wheat interest last year to refill its medical kits and to continue the
429
hospital and medical contracts in a group insurance plan under which it may have needy cases cared for each year; another stake without a wheat fund participated in a May health-fund drive for a dental project, and paid one-third of the cost of dental work for nearly 700 children and adults. Numerous stakes report cooperation with public health and nursing services in the examination of children at clinics, and the expenditure of wheat interest for doing follow-up corrective health work for children whose families cannot pay for the necessary care. Many wards and stakes are spending their wheat interest to provide care for maternity cases, for needed operations for mothers and children, for dental work, tonsillectomies, eye glasses, false teeth, surgical appliances, layettes, eye operations, for the employment of housekeepers and nurses in cases of illness, for medicine and cod-liver oil, for maternity bundles, containing supplies and equipment for home delivery, and for cooperation with other community agencies in providing such services as hot school lunches and immunization against disease. The Relief Societies have also done considerable health education work, not only through the medium of the nutrition lessons studied monthly by most organizations during the past three years, but also by inviting in for lectures and demonstrations public-health nurses, dentists, opticians, and physicians.
BESIDES their activities in their local Relief Societies, members of the Society throughout the Church have responded whole-
430
heartedly to calls for service in the interest of the Church welfare program, assisting in both stake and regional welfare centers, and in their own wards, in the collection and conditioning of great quantities of used clothing, in the making of hundreds of quilts and other articles of bedding, the weaving of rugs, the production of thousands of pieces of new clothing for men, women, and children, the canning and drying of a tremendous amount of fruits and vegetables. Other stakes have helped to raise funds to meet Church welfare assignments in the form of cash. These activities in the interest of the Church welfare program are not reflected in the financial records of the Relief Society, which show a total disbursement from general, stake, ward, and mission Relief Society funds for the year 1940 of $405,319.06, an increase of 8 percent or $30,785.74 over 1939. In addition to these extensive and major services, many members of the Society throughout the Church found time to appear in choruses of Singing Mothers. Many Societies held special demonstrations and exhibits of their handwork, conducted flower shows, arranged for special lectures, sponsored temple excursions, provided temple suits for the use of young couples, baptismal suits and towels, linen for the sacrament service, presented radio programs, cooperated extensively in the Church beautification project in activities ranging from the planting of shrubs and flowers for the chapel grounds to the complete renovation of Relief Society halls and of homes of widows and other dependent families. They also cooperated with the Church Campaign Committee on
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941
the non-use of alcohol and tobacco, distributing thousands of pamphlets, contacting school officials, and placing law observance placards in business houses. During the year, Relief Society workers increased the membership of the organization by 4,922 members, devising various plans for stimulating interest in the values of the organization and enlisting new members, and also increased attendance opportunities for the members by providing nurseries at the meeting places where young mothers might leave their small children while in meeting, and transportation for older women otherwise unable to attend. They also increased the subscription list of the Relief Society Magazine by more than 5,000 subscriptions, bringing the total circulation to more than 50,000. Some Societies have entered subscriptions for their local public libraries, others have provided subscriptions for all missionaries from their wards, have maintained penny boxes and collected funds in other ways which are used for Magazine subscriptions for those unable to pay, and at least one ward accepted produce from its members in payment for Magazine subscriptions. Many Relief Societies have completed files of all bound volumes of the Magazine, and some Societies have had their book collections placed in Relief Society sections of the local public libraries. Perhaps the approach of the centennial, with the interest which it has centered in Relief Society beginnings and other historical material, has stimulated the renewed interest of local organizations in their Relief Society histories. Many
ANNUAL REPORT—1940
have written summaries covering the period since the organization of Societies in their local communities, including the town where President Lyman was born, where Relief Society history dates back to 1856. Some of these histories are supplemented by scrapbooks containing life histories of the elderly members of the Society, newspaper and magazine clippings, et cetera. There seems to be no limit to the ingenuity of Relief Society women, who capitalize on every opportunity for raising funds for the conduct of their own local Societies, for the Church welfare program, for assisting their bishops with ward buildings, and for charitable purposes. They have composed and produced pageants and plays, conducted food sales, sewed carpet rags, made and sold rugs and other articles; they have collected and sold soap labels and old newspapers in order to buy the new Relief Society Song Book; they have given dinners, bazaars and carnivals, and one progressive ward compiled a cook book, and has sold nearly the entire edition of 1,000 copies at $1.00 per book, in order to procure funds for their new ward chapel.
MANY Relief Societies accomplish their work in the face of obstacles such as distance, poor roads, lack of transportation, and adverse weather conditions. The example of one little ward in Idaho is typical of
431
many others—"many of the women do not drive cars, and they walk miles through many kinds of weather to attend to their Relief Society duties. For many years past they have recorded 100 percent visiting teaching. They have 28 families in their ward, and 28 members enrolled in the Relief Society. This year they have 34 subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine." As an example of what the association in Relief Society meetings means to the members, I have selected the report of a small branch in the East. At the beginning of last year, the officers were discouraged because of the small attendance at the meetings and the apparent lack of interest, and decided it was not worth the effort to continue the meetings. However, they found that they missed the meetings so much that they decided to resume them last October, even though only one or two members attended. By the end of December they had pieced two baby quilts to be given wherever most needed, and report that they are happy in their work and are holding meetings regularly. Their report ends with these significant words: "As the year closes we look back with thankful hearts for the little good we have accomplished and the much good we have received."
(For report of membership, see Relief Society Magazine, May, 1941, pp. 314-324.)
RELIEF SOCIETY of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
SELECTED DATA from the ANNUAL FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL REPORT
Calendar year, 1940
Compiled in the office of the General Board from reports submitted by local wards and branches, by stakes and missions, and from the accounts of the General Board
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
DISBURSEMENTS
                                Wards and      Stakes and      General      Disbursements
                                Branches       Missions        Board        Total
Cash Disbursements Charitable Purposes $ 77,046.23 $ 8,988.25 $ 9,152.64 $ 95,187.12 All Other Purposes 145,340.05 43,213.23 121,578.66 310,131.94
Total Cash $222,386.28 $52,201.48 $130,731.30 $405,319.06
Merchandise Value of Merchandise Distributed for Charitable purposes $ 17,728.66 $ 17,728.66
Total Disbursements $240,114.94 $52,201.48 $130,731.30 $423,047.72
MEMBERSHIP
Membership January 1, 1940...................................................................86,142 Increase—Admitted to Membership During Year..................................................13,464 Decrease: Moved.......................................................................................8,542 Removed or Resigned.........................................................................7,535 Died.......................................................................................1,007 Net Increase During Year........................................................................4,922 Membership December 31, 1940...................................................................91,064
Distribution of Membership According to Assignment January December 1, 1940 31, 1940 General Officers and Board Members................................. 22 22 Stake Officers and Board Members.................................. 1,603 1,680 Mission Presidents and Officers.................................. 110 116 Ward and Branch Executive and Special Officers.................... 19,780 20,660 Visiting Teachers............................................... 27,082 28,141 All Other Members.............................................. 37,545 40,445
Membership..................................................... 86,142 91,064
ANNUAL REPORT—1940
433
Geographical Distribution of Relief Society Members, December 31, 1940
Location Stakes Missions Total
United States
was assigned a definite day on which to bring a certain number of patients to the hospital for operations. We had thirty-seven operations performed in the Lovell Hos. Pital. In one of our branches, fifty miles distant, there were three other people who needed care very badly, and the physician in that vicinity, although not a member of our Church, was very cooperative. He performed these operations at a reduced price after hearing of our stake project. This made a total of forty tonsillectomies. As a result of the clinic, which was also held as planned, there were over one hundred inoculations for diphtheria and over one hundred vaccinations for smallpox. This service was paid for by the individuals, but it was given at a © reduced rate. The stake Relief Society president and the physicians were the only ones who had any idea of the amounts charged for the operations. We felt it best to keep it just as quiet as possible. The board members did not even know—just the president. 'The doctors appreciated the confidence in which this infor- SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT mation was held. In all of our work we have found it best that very few know just who receives aid. In regard to these tonsillectomies, nobody knew just who was being helped, and we feel that has been a good condition, and it encourages others who really need aid. In one of our large wards there were so many needing care that we decided to ask the bishop for assist- 423 ance. Ec suggested that we go to the stake president and ask him for support in such an extensive project. This was done, and as a result, $100 was added to the Relief Society funds. We surely appreciated this as it made it possible for all who had been solicited to be cared for. We feel that a very worthy project was completed, and many are now enjoying better health as a result. > )—> Cooperation with Community Agencies in Flealth Work Eva G. Gillespie President, Sharon Stake Relicf Society HEY say necessity is the mother of invention. We had very few funds with which to carry on, and we saw so much need among the children of our stake that we naturally turned to the first lesson in social welfare—contact community agencies. Through the cooperation of our public-health nurse, we started wellbaby conferences nearly three years ago. We planned to hold them monthly, but the response was so great that we have held them twice monthly, and sometimes three times. 'These well-baby conferences are for children under six years of age. In our stake we have 789 children under six years of age, of whom 437 are registered at the conference, 391 have been protected against smallpox, and 431 against diphtheria. Protecting the infant against these diseases before he reaches one year of age assures a higher degree of immunity for the child, and less severe reaction from the immunization. Although the maternal and child-health program conducted by the State Board of Health is' primarily for rural communities only, a government survey indicates that the entire State of Utah is considered rural with the exception of Salt Lake City, Ogden, and Provo. Federal funds are available to the state on a matching basis to carry out this work. A reliable doctor is employed and paid for by the state, and the nurse gives her time from her regular work. The other women, those who act as hostesses, those who take temperatures, weigh and measure the children and otherwise assist at these conferences, are volunteer Relief Society women. <A thorough examination is given each child by the doctor, and advice given to the mother on the child's care. We find that these conferences are helping the mothers just as much as the children. 424 Corrective work is not done at these conferences, and so where the doctor finds corrective work necessary, with the assistance of the public-health nurse we follow up cases and use our funds for this purpose. Our public-health nurse spends over one-fourth of her time in visiting families, so who is in a better position to know the conditions in the home? We receive fine cooperation from our county commissioners. They matched the amount we paid out for nearly all tonsil and eye cases. Once each year, and sometimes twice, my counselor and I meet with our county commissioners, and they are certainly a fine group of men. We explain to them some of our problems in connection with corrective work, and point out that through theumatism the children's hearts and other organs are being affected, and they have always tresponded very well. We never draw the line on whether the children are from Latter-day Saint families or not, as we are working for the good of the community. When the doctor sends the bill, I approve it and attach a little written history of the case, then send it to our commissioner, and he has always paid half of the charge of the corrective work. In some communities typhoid vaccine is also furnished by the state for everyone free of charge, and where necessity arises it can be secured by any section. "This also applies to pneumonia serum and drugs for venereal disease. If we cannot get a physician to administer these things free of charge to indigent or borderline cases, we can contact the county physician and have it done. The Red Cross has been another RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941 source of help to us, and at present we have a class of forty-eight women in our stake taking the home nursing course, with our public-health nurse as instructor. She takes the time from her regular work to give these instructions. Our __ public-health nurse helps in teaching a class for expectant mothers at our Utah Valley Hospital, and we are urging every young mother to take advantage of this fine course. Then we have our Lions Club, the American Legion, and different' business-men's clubs. If we acquaint them with some of our health problems they are very willing to assist. We also have a Chamber of Commerce in our little town of Orem, which assists us in our health work. In the past year we have had thirty tonsil cases taken care of, eight severe dental cases, two maternity cases, and five eye corrections, and as we have only a small wheat interest fund to draw from, you can see it would not go very far in paying these bills. Although our schools have a preventive health program and in our district two grades in each school receive complete dental care each year, and all children receive a medical examination, they have no funds for other corrective work. Last year they did a little experimental work in our case, and advanced a small amount which the community matched through sponsoring a picture show, and through dime donations from the children in our four schools. We are not anticipating this help for the coming year, as they can continue only the preventive program from their budget. Our records do not show very many cases taken care of, but we are instrumental in having numerous SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT cases taken care of through. Other agencies. 'lhe Crippled Children's Service—another government agency —the Tuberculosis Association, and the outpatient department of our Utah Valley Hospital have taken care of many cases without any cost to us, when referred to them after our investigation has found it is necessary. We also work in close cooperation with our county welfare workers, and have succeeded in having several operations and maternity cases hospitalized by them, with the Church, through the bishoprics, paying but 425 a small part. When we take care of maternity cases, our funds have stretched further by having the women cared for in the homes of the several fine women in our stake with sufficient training to care for these patients. 'The patients have appreciated it so much that we recommend this in our stake. It also helps the women who care for them, because in most cases they are widows and need the extra income. Our aim is to promote health and prevent disease, and if we work through our children, we are making a better generation to carry on. La he he A MID-SUMMER PEACE By Celia Van Cott Such beauty, Lord, holds fast my heart this hour When long grey shadows cling to earth's green breast,. When summer's sun through heaven's unseen power Sinks slowly down behind the mountain crest; When leaf plumes brush the sky and evening's breeze Stirs mint-twined grass along the cooling stream; When twilight sifts a purple haze through trees To shuttle out the last of day's bright beam. There's fragile loveliness upon earth's face When day is stilled and night creeps down the sky— Soon quietude shall settle on this place And all things rest or sleep in peace, while I With heart attuned shall wait through moon-mist night To see dawn break in crystal splints of light. Annual Report—1940 Presented at Relief Society General Conference, Officers' Meeting, April 2, 1941 Vera White PohIman, General Secretary-Treasurer IRST, I shall make reference to those figures showing changes from 1939 which reflect to some extent the effect of procedural changes recommended by the General Board last year. 'The number of meetings held in the wards decreased slightly (220) to 71,117, as a result of the change in the educational year from nine to eight months, announced in April, 1940. The full effect of the change will not be apparent until the 1941 report is compiled, for the reason that it was previously optional with stakes as to whether their educational work began in September and ended in May, or began in October and ended in June. Only those which formerly began in September account for the decrease in this year's report. The number of stake board meetings also declined in 1940, being reduced by 151 or 6 percent, to 2,315,. Probably as a result of the recommendation made last October that stake board meetings be limited to two meetings a month. The effect of this recommendation will also be more evident in the 1941 report, since it could be applied last year only to the fourth quarter of the year. 'hese steps toward simplification, in accordance with the advice of the General Authorities, while resulting in only a few hundred less meetings during the fourth quarter of the year 1940, nevertheless relieved thousands of women for several afternoons, and will have an Page 426 even greater aggregate effect during the remaining five months of the 1940-41 season which were not included in the 1940 report. Another decrease from the year 1939 is noted in expenditures for health and welfare work (other than direct home assistance), which dropped 16 percent to $31,920.93 because of the reduction of 24 percent to $11,925.84 in interest on the wheat trust fund—heretofore the principal source of revenue for this work. N response to our request, most stakes and missions submitted along with their annual financial and statistical reports, narrative statements of their activities during 1940. We are very grateful to you for the excellent summaries which you and your wards prepared for us. 'They lend greater significance to the financial and statistical data submitted in the regular report forms, and give us greater appreciation of your varied activities, of your ingenuity and resourcefulness, your service to your bishops and your communities. Your activities are so varied and so extensive that it is difficult to compress even a brief summary of them into the space of this report. In reviewing these reports, I was impressed by the evidence which they present that the local Relief Societies are, first of all, carrying forward the objectives of the Society stated at the time of its organization ANNUAL REPORT—1940 g9 years ago. I was also impressed by the fact that there is still need in all our communities, irrespective of their extensive and varied geographical distribution, for the same helpful, friendly, sympathetic services as those performed by the women of Nauvoo at the inception of the Society. Although begun so long ago, at a time when there were no patterns and precedents in organizations for women, no experiences upon which to draw in establishing and conducting a workable society for women, it is indicative of its inspired inception that the purposes of the original. Organization are still the principal concern of all Relief Societies today, wherever located. In adhering to its initial assignment, the Society has not clung to customs and functions for which there is no need today, but it has adapted its human services to a changing era, risen to meet new needs, expanded its program, and endeavored always to improve the methods by which it carries forward its timeless objectives. FEW excerpts from stake, ward, and mission reports, compared with others from the Nauvoo records, will serve to bear out these statements and also to give a panorama of Relief Society at work. Weekly meetings were inaugurated in the first days of the Society at Nauvoo; last year more than 71,000 weekly meetings were held in the various wards, except during the summer months. A charity fund, derived from contributions of members and others, was started at the organization meeting in 1842; contributions and other receipts for charity in 1940 amounted to $76,844.91. 427 In 1843, a necessity committee of 16 was appointed "to search out the poor and suffering, to call upon the rich for aid, and thus, as far as possible, relieve the wants of all." Last year, the visiting teachers made 1,188,462 visits to the homes of Latter-day Saint families, nearly 60,000 more calls than were recorded in 19g) During the first year of operation, the Relief Society expended for the relief of the poor, $306.48; in 1940, a total of $95,187.12 was disbursed for charitable purposes. In the fall of 1843, the Relief Society women of Nauvoo initiated - sewing service for those in need, assembling materials and making bedding and clothing to be "given to such as are suffering cold and nakedness." Last year, the regular monthly sewing meetings held throughout the organization carried forward a larger sewing program than usual in order to make bedding and clothing for distribution through the Church welfare program, as well as for issuance by the Society. Compare the similarity of the proposal in 1843 that the Society "get together materials for the Saints for bedding that they might not suffer" with the 1940 project for better beds and bedding conducted on a "help one another' plan in an Arizona stake, with the hundreds of quilts made by ward Relief Societies throughout the Church, and with the recent request of the Relief Societies in the Brazilian Mission for information on mattress-making so that the bedding facilities of their members might be improved. Sewing for the needy is indeed a major activity of the Relief Society of today, as it was in Nauvoo. The early minutes tell us that in 428 addition to caring for the needy and destitute, the women of the first Relief Society turned their efforts toward the raising of funds for the temple which was then being built in Nauvoo. In the reports submitted for 1940 are numerous examples of funds raised by Relief Societies in various ingenius ways in the interest of the erection of ward chapels and stake houses, and even in the putchase of lots on which ward buildings are to be placed. 'They have raised funds to help buy chairs and benches for their chapels, and, as an example of the geographical spread of similar activities, I mention that a ward Relief Society in Salt Lake City, and one in the far-away Argentine Mission each assisted its ward to buy an organ. 'The Nauvoo Relief Society as an organization offered to weave and sew clothing for the temple workmen, most of whom were giving volunteer service, and they also donated groceries for their families. The 1940 reports include many instances of the Relief Society preparing and serving food to men donating labor in the erection of chapels, in the beautification of Church grounds, and in some types of welfare projects. N fulfilling its chief purpose—"to seek out and relieve the distressed," the women of Nauvoo encountered problems which are familiar to every Relief Society president today. Some of the narrative reports sent in by wards for 1940 tell of services similar to those recorded in the Nauvoo minutes of the Society. The following excerpts from the 1940 report of one smalltown ward Relief Society in Utah indicate the services of a typical ward RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941 Relief Society—a transient family in desperate need and with many problems settled in the community, care was provided for a maternity case, hospital care for a case of appendicitis, an aged, sick man was visited, the bishop requested a visit to learn what assistance might be given the family of a man who had been shot, care was given by the members of the Society during the illness of a woman, a tonsillectomy for a little boy was arranged, comfort and assistance was given in connection with at least ten funerals in the community, and the Society assisted the bishop in providing and distributing cheer baskets at Christmas time. In addition to these welfare activities, the conduct of the regular weekly meetings, the study of the outlined educational courses, and the work of the visiting teachers, this Society also held a meeting at the home of each of its aged, homebound members in recognition of their birthdays, bought material and made draperies for the ward Relief Society room, prepared and sold refreshments at a ward party to raise money for the stake tabernacle, made a survey in the interest of the Church campaign against the use of alcohol and tobacco, assisted in the Church beautification program, held a ward Relief Society conference, attended special meetings called by the bishop to discuss ward problems, attended the annual stake Relief Society conference, gave a party for retiring officers when the ward Relief Society was reorganized, sent representatives to a stake music course, bought eighteen of the new Relief Society Song Books, held monthly officers' meetings, provided a trio to sing in the temple on stake Relief Society ANNUAL REPORT—1940 temple day, made nearly 100 special visits to the sick and homebound, annual visits to all members in the ward were made by the presidency, and the women contributed, during the year, nearly 600 hours in making 15 quilts. 'This statement of activities in one ward, multiplied by the 2,132 local Relief Societies, would give a fair indication of the extent of services rendered by the Society during 1940. Several instances were reported where ward Relief Societies held special sewing days for motherless families and for families who had lost all their belongings by fire. N addition to activities such as these, many special programs and projects are being conducted for the furtherance of individual and community welfare. In many instances, these special services are carried forward on a Stake basis, with pooled funds from the various wards of the stake. Nineteen years ago, the General Board recommended, at its April general conference in 1922, that the interest on the recently centralized wheat trust fund be used for health work, with emphasis on maternity care and child welfare. Your narrative reports for 1940 give indication of the extensiveness of the maternal and child-health work which you are doing. A few examples will serve to illustrate this activity. One stake Relief Society has conducted a clinic for pre-school children regularly twice a month since 1922, and has successfully conducted a_ first-class maternity hospital since 1924; several stakes give hospital sewing service in exchange for free hospital beds for the needy; one stake used its wheat interest last year to refill its medical kits and to continue the 429 hospital and medical contracts in a group insurance plan under which it may have needy cases cared for each year; another stake without a wheat fund participated in a May health-fund drive for a dental project, and paid one-third of the cost of dental work for neatly 700 children and adults. Numerous stakes report cooperation with public health and nursing services in the examination of children at clinics, and the expenditure of wheat interest for doing follow-up corrective health work for children whose families cannot pay for the necessary care. Many wards and stakes are spending their wheat interest to provide care for maternity cases, for needed operations for mothers and children, for dental work, tonsillectomies, eye glasses, false teeth, surgical appliances, layettes, eye operations, for the employment of housekeepers and nurses in cases of illness, for medicine and cod-liver oil, for maternity bundles, containing supplies and equipment for home delivery, and for cooperation with other community agencies in providing such services as hot school lunches and immunization against disease. The Relief Societies have also done considerable health education work, not only through the medium of the nutrition lessons studied monthly by most organizations during the past three years, but also by inviting in for lectures anddemonstrations public-health nurses, dentists, opticians, and physicians. BESIDES their activities in their local Relief Societies, members of the Society throughout the Church have responded whole- 430 heartedly to calls for service in the interest of the Church welfare program, assisting in both stake and regional welfare centers, and in their own wards, in the collection and conditioning of great quantities of used clothing, in the making of hundreds of quilts and other articles of bedding, the weaving of rugs, the production of thousands of pieces of new clothing for men, women, and children, the canning and drying of a tremendous amount of fruits and vegetables. Other stakes have helped to raise funds to meet Church welfare assignments in the form of cash. These activities in the interest of the Church welfare program are not reflected in the financial records of the Relief Society, which show a total disbursement from general, stake, ward, and mission Relief Society funds for the year 1940 of $405,319.06, an increase of 8 percent or $30,785.74 over 1939. In addition to these extensive and major services, many members of the Society throughout the Church found time to appear in choruses of Singing Mothers. Many Societies held special demonstrations and ex- - hibits of their handwork, conducted flower shows, arranged for special lectures, sponsored temple excursions, provided temple suits for the use of young couples, baptismal suits and towels, linen for the sacrament service, presented radio programs, cooperated extensively in the Church beautification project in activities ranging from the planting of shrubs and flowers for the chapel grounds to the complete renovation of Relief Society halls and of homes of widows and other dependent families. They also cooperated with the Church Campaign Committee on RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1941 the non-use of alcohol and-tobacco, distributing thousands of pamphlets, contacting school officials, and placing law observance placards in business houses. During the year, Relief Society workers increased the membership of the organization by 4,922 members, devising various plans for stimulating interest in the values of the organization and enlisting new members, and also increased attendance opportunities for the members by providing nurseries at the meeting places where young mothers might leave their small children while in meeting, and transportation for older women otherwise unable to attend. They also increased the subscription list of the Relief Society Magazine by more than 5,000 subscriptions, bringing the total circulation to more than 50,000. Some Societies have entered subscriptions for their local public libraries, others have. Provided subscriptions for all missionaries from their wards, have maintained penny boxes and collected funds in other ways which are used for Magazine subscriptions for those unable to pay, and at least one ward accepted produce from its members in payment for Magazine subscriptions. Many Relief Societies have completed files of all bound volumes of the Magazine, and some Societies have had-their book collections placed in Relief Society sections of the local public libraries. Perhaps the approach of the cen-- tennial, with the interest which it has centered in Relief Society beginnings and other historical material, has stimulated the renewed 'interest of local organizations in their Relief Society histories. Many ANNUAL REPORT—1940 have written summaries covering the period since the organization of Societies in their local communities, including the town where President Lyman was born, where Relief Society history dates back to 1856. Some of these histories are supplemented by scrapbooks containing life histories of the elderly members of the Society, newspaper and magazine clippings, et cetera. There seems to be no limit to the ingenuity of Relief Society women, who capitalize on every opportunity for raising funds for the conduct of their own local Societies, for the Church welfare program, for assisting their bishops with ward buildings, and for charitable purposes. They have composed and produced pageants and plays, conducted food sales, sewed carpet rags, made and sold rugs and other articles; they have collected and sold soap labels and old newspapers in order to buy the new Relief Society Song Book; they have given dinners, bazaars and carnivals, and one progressive ward compiled a cook book, and has sold nearly the entire edition of 1,000 copies at $1.00 per book, in order to procure funds for their new ward chapel. MANY Relief Societies accomplish their work in the face of obstacles such as distance, poor roads, lack of transportation, and adverse weather conditions. 'The example of one little ward in Idaho is typical of 431 many others—"many of the women do not drive cars, and they walk miles through many kinds of weather to attend to their Relief Society. Duties. For many years past they have recorded 100 percent visiting teaching. They have 28 families in their ward, and 28 members enrolled in the Relief Society. This year they have 34 subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine." As an example of what the association in Relief Society meetings means to the members, I have selected the report of a small branch in the East. At the beginning of last year, the officers were discouraged because of the small attendance at the meetings and the apparent lack of interest, and decided it was not worth the effort to continue the meetings. However, they found that they missed the meetings so much that they decided to resume them last October, even though only one or two members attended. By the end of December they had pieced two baby quilts to be given wherever most needed, and report that they are happy in their work and are holding meetings regularly. Their report ends with these significant words: "As the year closes we look back with thankful hearts for the little good we have accomplished and the much good we have received." (For report of membership, see Relict Society Magazine, May, 1941, pp. 314 324.) RELIEF SOCIETY of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints SELECTED DATA from the ANNUAL FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL REPORT Calendar year, 1940 Compiled in the office of the General Board from reports submitted by local wards and branches, by stakes and missions, and from the accounts of the General Board Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer DISBURSEMENTS Wards and Stakes and General Disbursements Branches Missions Board Total Cash Disbursements Charitable Purposes $ 77,046.23 $ 8,988.25 $ 9,152.64 $ 95,187.12 All Other Purposes 145,340.05 43,213.23 121,578.66 310,131.94 Total Cash $222,386.28 $52,201.48 $130,731.30 $405.319.06 Merchandise Value of Merchandise Distributed for Chari-; table purposes $ 17,728.66 $ 17,728.66 Total Disbursements $240,114.94 $52,201.48 $130,731.30 $423,047.72 MEMBERSHIP Membership January 1, 1940..86,142 Increase—Admitted to Membership During Year............8,542 Removed or Resigned..........7,535 Died Net Increase During Year..... 4,922 Membership December 31, 1940 91,064 Distribution of Membership According to Assignment January December: 1, 1940 31, 1940 General Officers and Board Members  Stake Officers and Board Members 1,603 Mission Presidents and Officers......Ward and Branch Executive and Special! Officers....19,780 20,660 Visiting Teachers 2.....27,082 28,141 40,528 All Other Members….37,568 Membership......86,142 91,064 ANNUAL REPORT—1940 433 Geographical Distribution of Relief Society Members, December 31, 1940 Location Stakes Missions Total United States 74,148 8,053 82,201 Alabama 84 84 Alaska 12 12 Arizona 3,294 513 3,807 Arkansas 37 37 California 4,693 998 5,691 Colorado 153 241 994 Connecticut 18 18 District of Columbia 68 68 Florida 353 353 Georgia 172 172 Hawaii 458 475 933 Idaho 14,450 122 14,672 Illinois 177 106 283 Indiana 190 190 Iowa 63 63 Kansas 90 90 Kentucky 57 57 Louisiana 126 126 Maine 26 26 Maryland 126 11 137 Massachusetts 48 48 Michigan 125 125 Minnesota 177 177 Mississippi 127 127 Missouri 237 237 Montana 11 795 806 Nebraska 123 123 Nevada 1,163 179 1,342 New Jersey 26 7 33 New Mexico 228 131 359 New York 196 132 328 North Carolina 181 181 North Dakota 8 8 Ohio 122 122 Oklahoma 87 87 Oregon 805 227 1,032 Pennsylvania 24 143 167 Rhode Island 6 6 South Carolina 280 280 South Dakota 40 40 Tennessee 35 35 Texas 73 487 560 Utah 44,889 44,889 Virginia 61 103 164 Washington 370 298 668 West Virginia 65 65 Wisconsin 84 44 128 Wyoming 2,199 152 2,351 Other Countries 1,781 7,082 8,863 Argentina 170 170 Australia 213 213 Austria 47 47 Brazil 13 73 Canada 1,617 223 1,840 Czechoslovakia ® 61 61 Denmark 241 241 France 120 120 Germany 2,230 2,230 Great Britain 594 594 Mexico 164 321 485 Netherlands 267 267 New Zealand 592 592 Norway 360 360 Palestine 27 27 Samoa 425 425 South Africa 110 110 Sweden 275 275 Switzerland 271 271 Tahiti 254 254 Tonga 218 218 Total Membership 91,064 75,929 15,135 434 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE-JUNE, 1941 COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL DATA 1940 1939 Change 1939 to 1940! Number or] Number or | Number or Per Amount Amount Amount Cent Organizations Districts 167 163  Stakes 132 128 Missions 35 35 Local Organizations 2,132 2,077  Wards in Stakes 1,224 1,182  Branches in Missions 908 895 Members 91,064 86,142  General Officers and Board Members 22 22, Stake Officers and Board Members 1,603 1,578  Mission Presidents and Other Officers 110 112 —2 —1.79 Ward and Branch Executive and Special Officers 20,660 19,780  Ton Visiting Teachers 28,141 27,082  All Other Members 40,528 37,568 Families;; Number L. D. S. Families Reported 177,364 160,798 Percent Represented by Membership in Relief Society; 51.34 53.57 Number L. D. S. Families in Stakes 151,662 140,491 Percent Represented by Membership in Relief Society 50.1 50.69 Number L. D. S. Families in Missions 25,702 20,307 Percent Represented by Membership in Relief Society 58.88 73.50 Activities Number 'Relief Society Magazine" Subscriptions 53,5002 48,3372 Number Ward and Stake Executive Officers and Board Members Subscribing for ''Relief Society Magazine" 8,208 8,590 —382 —4.45 Number Meetings Held in Wards T1117 71,337 —220 —.31 Average Attendance at Ward Meetings 36,462 39,653 —3,191 —8.05 Percent of Members Represented by Average Attendance 40 46 Number Ward Conferences Held 1,778 1,677 +101 +6:02 Number Stake Meetings Held 2,315 2,466 —151 —6.12 Number Stake and Ward Officers' (Union) Meetings Held 1,368 1,357 Number Visits to Wards by Stake ' Officers 7,496 8,120 —624 —7.68 Number Visits-by Visiting Teachers 1,188,462 1,128,724  Number Families Helped 17,333 17,160 Number Days Spent With Sick 34,410  34,123 Number Special Visits to Sick and Homebound 218,314 213,744 Number Bodies Prepared for Burial 1,274,361 —87 —6.39 Cash Disbursements s $405,319.06 | 3374,533.32 Charitable Purposes 95,187.12 97,244.44 —2,057.32 —2.12 310,131.94 | 277,288.88 All Other Purposes 1 Increases designated by +; decreases by—. 2 As shown by subscription records in Magazine office. We are Authorized by the General Board of Relief Society to state that in connection with their COURSE IN HUMOR to be taken up during the coming season, perhaps one of the best books to be used is entitled "THE GREATEST PAGES OF AMERICAN HUMOR" By Leacock This book has been out of print. The Deseret Book Company has made arrangements to have a special edition printed. The new book will be ready in about 60 days. The Price will be $1.25 postpaid We also have a good supply of Literary Course Books of former years, which we are offering at the following greatly reduced prices: "The Advance of the English Novel," $1.00; "City of Bells," $1.50: "The Talisman," 50c; "Lorna Doone," 50c; "The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse," 75c; "Robinson Crusoe," 50c. DESERET BOOK COMPANY BOOK AND GIFT HEADQUARTERS Popular and How! More than 73,000 of four customers use. See your Electric Appliance dealer. "L. D. S. Training Pays!" Yas! America is a land of opportunity... But only for those who do something about it!. Thorough business training will ELECTRIC help you to succeed—and this is REFRIGERATION the right school for that training. L. D. S. BUSINESS ELECTRIC SEE YOUR ELECTRI COLLEGE APPLIANCE DEALER SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH (Just mail us a card for information) When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 Ma TOAST made from WY:: BETTER BREAD IS MORE DELICIOUS  OVEN-FRESH DAILY at YOUR GROCER'S  cannot be recalled; Tomorrow cannot be assured; This day only is yours. + LARKIN MORTUARIES Salt Lake City, Utah 260 East South Temple Dial 4-9126 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Ogden, Utah 466 24th St. Telephone 82] Los Angeles, California 6003 Compton Avenue Jefferson 1244 VOL. 28, NO.7  4: LESSONS FOR JULY, 1941 & OCTOBER THE COVER By Avard Fairbanks THE Pioneers faced a frontier which demanded struggle, | sacrifice and sorrow, but still they pressed on. Out in the West a culture charged with spirituality of mind, with idealism in the building of healthy and strong bodies, and with plans for a splendid system of social organization was fostered by the pioneer forefathers. Have the sons and daughters of these hardy people lost sight of the vision and foresight of their ancestors? We cannot falter, for today we have new frontiers to conquer. The group of sculpture representing 'New Frontiers,'' composed and placed in the Century of Progress Exposition in Chicago, was so created to show that in our progress and development there are new frontiers for the descendants of the Pioneers. In the arrangement of this particular group of sculpture, the mother is placed in an elevated position—symbolic of our American concept of the mother. She is the center about which the family life is grouped. She is honored, and it is her husband's desire to keep her thus. She seeks the refinements of life. She looks forward. She senses and feels the living development and the great future beyond. It is her duty to guide and direct the children toward futures of high purpose. The courageous and strong husband provides for the physical necessities of life. It may be noticed that in his right hand he grasps the vegetables and fruits of the fields. He cultivates or provides that which gives sustenance to his family. In his left hand he supports the child. It is the great responsibility of true manhood to sponsor, uphold and protect life. The young boy at the opposite side of the group is shown with his books in his hand. He, as a symbol of youth, sees new fields of activity as a result of his learning. He is to carry on the culture of his progenitors. As our religious teachings point out that progress is eternal and that "the glory of God is intelligence," we must realize that we cannot come to the end of the horizon. It is constantly expanding and enlarging with our increased vision and activities. This group of sculpture through its tranquility and its dignity manifests that the youth of today seeks to further advance the culture established by the great Pioneers. The youth of today also will take on responsibilities of life. With force and energy it too will struggle and sacrifice and meet courageously its "New Frontiers."
Editor's Note: "New Frontiers," composed by Avard Fairbanks, is now in the Church museum, Temple Square, Salt Lake City. Art work on this month's cover is by Evan Jensen.
OTARION
THE RESULT OF ONE MAN'S EFFORTS
hearing aid. Available. Obligation or in your home if you prefer.
OTARION—511 McIntyre Bldg. DONALD G. LYMAN Salt Lake City 10
HEAR AGAIN.
OTARION is not just another hearing aid. It is the result of one man's determined effort to produce a hearing aid that would enable him to regain contact with the lost world of conversation and music. He demanded something better in every respect. The result is OTARION. The modern conception of the vacuum tube
Compare OTARION with any other hearing aid regardless of price. Budget plan
Discuss your hearing problem privately with a trained expert in our office, without
CALL or SEND IN this AD for the interesting story of OTARION. Dial 5-4036
Good Bread is the Staff of Life!
FISHER'S BETTER BREAD
Baked by The Fisher Master Bakers and Delivered Oven-fresh Daily at Your Grocer's
Is ONE OF Your Best FOOD VALUES
Add to meal-time variety by serving several kinds of Bread with each meal
Index to Advertisers
Fisher Baking Company Fly-leaf Larkin Mortuaries Inside Back Cover L. D. S. Business College Inside Back Cover Mountain Fuel Supply Company Inside Back Cover Otarion Fly-leaf The Deseret News Press Outside Back Cover
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
The Relief Society Magazine Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. 28 JULY, 1941 No. 7
Special Features
The Cover—"New Frontiers"—Avard Fairbanks Inside front cover Back of frontispiece—Frontiers Zina Woolf Hickman 435 Frontispiece—Salt Lake City Main Street, 1861-1941 436 The Settlement of Salt Lake Valley Feramorz Y. Fox 437 The Daily Mail Mabel Harmer 443 Beatrice Farley Stevens Rae B. Barker 450 A Prayer in the Forest Genet Bingham Dee 453 In Mother's Hands John Henry Evans 456 "A Woman's Best Years" Achsa E. Paxman 467 Planned Living (April Conference Address) Vivian R. McConkie 480 Summary of Reports by Returned Relief Society Mission Presidents (Relief Society Conference, April, 1941): Mima M. Broadbent 484 Mary T. Clayson 485 Priscilla L. Evans 487 Directions for Popcorn Cake and Rainbow Paper Logs Emma G. Phillips 508
Fiction
Not What You Get Mary E. Knowles 461 The Merry-Go-Round—Chapter Four Alice Morrey Bailey 475
General Features
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 470 Editorial: M. I. A. And Primary General Conferences 471 Rulons S. Wells 473 Marriage of General Board Member 473 New General Board Member 473 Notes to the Field: Interest on Relief Society Wheat Trust Fund 474 Binding Material for Relief Society Magazine 474 New Book—"Temples of the Most High" 483
Lessons
Theology and Testimony—Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage 490 Visiting Teacher—Expressions of Faith 492 Work-and-Business—The Consumer Movement 493 Literature—Humor in Life and Literature 495 Social Science—What It Means to be Successfully Married 500 Mission—"The Morning Breaks, the Shadows Flee" 505
Poetry
Frontiers—Back of frontispiece Zina Woolf Hickman 435 Newsboy Gertrude Perry Stanton 449 Gift Courtney Elizabeth Cottam 452 Pioneers Vilate Raile 455 Pioneer Mother Beatrice Rordame Parsons 460 Willow Shade Vesta P. Crawford 469 Perfect Trust Elsie E. Barrett 479
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
Frontiers Zina Woolf Hickman
Our fathers trekked the melancholy plains, Trailed buffalo, fought Indians, tamed frontiers; No mountain loomed too high to thwart their aims No desert cowed them with its lack of rains, Imperiled valor or gave birth to fears; Theirs was a heritage of dauntless years, Invincible their antecedent strains; Yet was their potent strength dissolved to tears In the stained mortar of another's grief, When Death's relentless pestle ground the sheaf.
Sing Ageless Spirit, Mentor of Time's heart, The deathless lay of the pioneer Will tax your minstrel art.
Like willow rooted near adventurous stream, Holding its turbulence from overflow, Our gentle mothers bent their hearts' trireme To Life's full flood; to them it did not seem A woman had another way to go. Yet if for all their pains there were to show A healthy brood that won mankind's esteem, A home well ordered and a hearth aglow, Why then the flood might bear their barque away, So at the end they still had strength to pray.
Sing Ageless Spirit, Weaver of Earth's runes, String through your tapestry of song The pearls of Mother tunes.
Our parents were the very salt of earth, From their deep furrows our frontiers arise; Let not our flaming banners fan a dearth Of human values they were wont to prize; Let not our love of intellectual gains, Our science and our art, defer the goal Their sovereignty and their untiring pains Set for the evolution of the soul. From dead men's hopes each generation seems To build the ladder that supports its dreams.
Sing Ageless Spirit, Welder of men's dreams, From the prototype our fathers forged, Cement the newer themes.
SALT LAKE CITY, MAIN STREET 1861 MAIN STREET 1941
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. 28 JULY, 1941 No. 7
The Settlement Of Salt Lake Valley Feramorz Y. Fox President, L. D. S. College
ONE of the first concerns of the company of Mormon pioneers that reached Salt Lake Valley in July 1847 was to put in crops. Though it was already nearer harvest than planting time, they went to work hopefully and with great industry. On July 23, after a prayer of gratitude and dedication, an organization was effected to begin plowing. During the day three plows were broken in the hard-baked soil. After a dam was built and the waters of City Creek were turned upon the land, the work proceeded with greater success. Eight days later Colonel Markham who had been placed in charge of the plowing reported a total of fifty-three acres plowed in three lots of land. Thirteen plows and three harrows or drags had been used during the week. Thirty-six acres had been planted to buckwheat, corn, oats, potatoes, beans, and garden seeds. Three acres of corn was already above the ground and some beans and potatoes were beginning to show. By August tenth, eighty-three acres had been plowed and planted, and the men and teams released to other labors. Little was obtained from these plantings. Cattle consumed all, including potato vines. Nevertheless, a supply of small potatoes from the size of a pea to that of a marble was harvested and successfully used for seed the next season. Meanwhile plans for a city were laid after the pattern of the Prophet Joseph's plat of Zion City, with streets eight rods wide and blocks of ten acres. Under direction of members of the Twelve, who had been sustained by a vote of the camp to act as a supervising committee, Orson Pratt and Henry G. Sherwood, using instruments that had been brought from abroad by John Taylor, completed in eighteen days the survey known today as Plat A. With the planting of vegetables well advanced, and while the survey continued, attention was turned to the provision of shelter. The presence of Indians in the Valley prompted the construction of a fort. One of the ten-acre squares, now the Pioneer Park, was selected for this purpose. Obtaining building materials presented a new problem. East of the Missouri River timber had been so plentiful that land had frequently to be cleared for farming. The construction of a house was relatively a simple matter. But there was no timber in the Salt Lake Valley.
437
438
There were supplies in the canyons, at distances of five to twenty-five miles, but to get at these in quantity would require a good deal of road building. In Winter Quarters some houses had been built of sod. Even this was not available. The grasses of arid lands are too thin to hold the soil together. A little west of the site selected for the fort extensive clay-beds were found. It was therefore decided to construct the fort of logs and adobes, the making of which had probably been learned from the Mexicans by the Battalion boys. At this time the Mormon colony numbered about 400, comprising, in addition to the pioneer company of 148, a company of Mississippi Saints that had wintered at Pueblo and many members of the Mormon Battalion who had been detached on account of illness and sent back to Pueblo. Scouts from these groups had intercepted the Pioneers, whereupon arrangements were immediately made to have them follow to the valley of the Salt Lake. This increase in numbers greatly facilitated the labors of laying the foundations of the new settlement. While some busied themselves getting out logs from the canyons, others were molding "dobies" of substantial proportions, eighteen inches long, nine inches wide, and four and one-half inches thick. On the tenth of August the actual laying of the walls of the fort began. The walls of the fort "were twenty-seven inches thick and nine feet high on the outer side. It was built as a construction of huts joined together in rectangular form around the outside of the ten acres on which it stood. The east side was built of logs, and the three other sides of adobe walls. "The roofs slanted but slightly inward,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941
and were made of brush covered with earth. Each house had a loophole facing the outside and a door and windows facing the interior. The main entrances, which were on the east and west sides of the stockade, were carefully guarded by heavy gates, which were locked at night." In the construction of these houses the Church leaders labored with the rest when conditions permitted. Brigham Young started four houses (rooms); Heber C. Kimball, five; Willard Richards, two; and so forth, around the square. After the departure of the Pioneers at the end of August to return to Winter Quarters, the work on the dwellings was continued by those left behind and the large companies that arrived during the late fall. Six months later it was officially reported that 423 houses had been constructed. The original fort was extended north and south by the addition of other squares. Houses were fourteen feet wide and up to eighteen feet in length. The provision of a supply of breadstuffs to become available when the temporary stocks brought across the plains should become exhausted next occupied the attention of the leaders. It was planned to break up hundreds of acres to be planted to grain within a common enclosure. The fencing of individual holdings would have been impossible. The plowing, it was decided, would be deferred until the arrival of the hundreds of Saints expected within a few weeks, when more teams, equipment, and labor would become available and when the ground would be moist with fall rains. "I would rather," said President Young, "fence a block of thousand acres and have a crop, than plant a hundred acres for the cattle to destroy."
THE SETTLEMENT OF SALT LAKE VALLEY
WITH customary foresight the Church leaders before returning to Winter Quarters to arrange for the bringing of their families and others of the Saints to the Valley, anticipated the need for local government. The pattern already existed, one to which the Church members were accustomed. At a conference on August 22, it was proposed and generally agreed to that there be appointed a local presidency of three, and a high council of twelve. The appointive power rested with the Twelve, but as they were not sure of the personnel of the companies then on the plains, they chose to defer the appointments until that information could be had. On the twenty-sixth of August, a little more than a month after their arrival in Salt Lake Valley, the Church leaders departed for Winter Quarters with a party comprising 108 men. On their way eastward they met over 1500 Saints moving toward the Valley under the leadership of John Smith, Parley P. Pratt, and John Taylor, by whom they sent an epistle setting forth in detail the wishes of the Church authorities in regard to the government and activities of the colony until they should themselves return the following season. In this interesting document, John Smith was nominated to be president, and though he was given the right to choose his counselors, Charles C. Rich and John Young were suggested. Members of the High Council were nominated. The High Council was charged with the duty of passing and enforcing laws and ordinances essential to the peace, prosperity, and protection of the colony. It was urged that the fort be completed, and the suggestion
439
was offered that the land within the fort be allotted to the respective families for the planting of gardens. The entire document is characteristic of the care with which Mormon leaders directed the temporal affairs of their people. The companies to whom these instructions were given reached the Valley late in September and increased the population to 1671 souls. The organization suggested was effected at a conference held on the first Sunday in October. As though nature were conspiring to assist the colonists to become firmly rooted in the new environment, the first winter proved most favorable. Mild temperatures prevailed and there were no accumulations of deep snows. Livestock flourished on the open range. Food for the winter had been brought across the plains, the cereals in the wagons and the meat on the hoof. Though the crops planted in July and August had failed, the most careful rationing of supplies enabled the colonies to subsist through the winter. Meanwhile they worked diligently at putting in grain. A field was marked off for plow land and while some plowed others fenced. Members of the Council and others whose time was absorbed in public service were each allotted fifteen acres of plowed land. The enclosure of 5133 acres included about three-fifths of the city plat (Plat A) and the lands south and east of the city for several miles. In this field 872 acres were sown to winter wheat, the balance being reserved for spring and summer crops. In due season extensive plantings of corn, buckwheat, potatoes, and a variety of vegetables were grown.
440
An interesting and effective organization for carrying on the agricultural work was developed. The control units during the journey on the plains had been arranged in military order. The large companies were divided into hundreds, each hundred into fifties, and each fifty into tens. Over each unit was a captain. Parley P. Pratt, at a conference, October 24, suggested the maintenance of the units and the division of the lands to them for cultivation. There must have been forty or fifty tens in the colony. To each ten and to each member of the ten was appointed as much land as could be successfully cared for with available man power and equipment. The average was not less than ten acres to the man. While the farmers were busy plowing, mechanics were occupied with other important activities. Charles Crismon has the honor of erecting the first grist mill, a hastily constructed affair put together to grind the grain set aside for use the first winter. One sawmill in operation and two or three others under construction were reported by the Presidency of the High Council in March, 1848. The manufacture of kitchen chairs, tables, beds, tubs, churns, and a few bureaus was noted. The various building operations requiring wood, fences, cabins, bridges, and furniture, together with the cuttings for fuel, made a serious draft on the nearest supplies of timber. Trails were soon made to limited supplies in Red Butte Canyon, six miles east, and at the mouth of Little Cottonwood, about twenty miles southeast of the Pioneer camp. Cutting was carefully regulated by order of the High Council. A Tim-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941
ber, Fuel, and Pole Committee was appointed. This committee took an inventory of wood and timber supplies on February 10, 1848, and reported as on hand, 202 loads of wood, 2696 fence poles, 196 covering poles, 306 house logs, and 118 saw logs. A propitious winter was followed by an ominous spring. Trouble began with the cold and storms in March, which were hard to endure after the mild weather of mid-winter. At the end of the month a foot of snow fell, and when it thawed the water ran through the flat-roofed houses and drenched clothes and bedding. The cold retarded the growth of grains and some began to fear crop failure. "We trust," writes Isaac Haight in his diary, "that the Lord who brought us here, will sustain us and not permit us to perish." Conditions were brighter a month later, but not for long. Killing frosts occurred twice in May, destroying the buckwheat and most of the garden crops, beans, melons, cucumbers, pumpkins, squash. June brought drought and crickets—crickets in such numbers that the crops disappeared before their devouring hunger at an alarming rate until the gulls came to augment the efforts of the desperate Saints in saving the grain. Before the harvest, however, real privation occurred. Food supplies were rigidly rationed and augmented by thistle and sego roots and rawhide soup. Special provision was made for the destitute through the appointment, on the authority of the High Council, of two bishops, Edward Hunter and Tarleton Lewis, to receive donations, buy, sell, exchange, and distribute, so that none would starve. Many who had run
THE SETTLEMENT OF SALT LAKE VALLEY
short of food supplies had brought a variety of articles—utensils, harnesses, extra clothing, books—which were exchanged through the bishops for food. Harvesting of grain began the middle of July. Though the yield was far below original expectations, the Saints acknowledged their gratitude in a day of feasting and thanksgiving. The celebration is thus described by a participant: "On the tenth of August we held a public feast under a bowery in the center of our fort. This was called a harvest feast; we partook freely of a rich variety of bread, butter, cheese, cakes, pastry, green corn, melons, and almost every variety of vegetable. Large sheaves of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and other productions were hoisted on poles for public exhibition, and there was prayer and thanksgiving, congratulations, songs, speeches, music, dancing, smiling faces, and merry hearts. In short, it was a great day with the people of these valleys, and long to be remembered by those who had suffered and waited anxiously for the results of a first effort to redeem the interior deserts of America, and to make her hitherto unknown solitudes 'blossom as the rose.'"
THE most significant event of the second year was the arrival of the leader Brigham Young and his company of immigrants on September 20, 1848, followed shortly by other companies under Heber C. Kimball, Amasa M. Lyman, and Willard Richards. A period of vigorous activity at once ensued. City lots and farm lands were distributed by lot and many of the Saints moved out of the fort to build on their individual holdings. By October settlements had extended several miles out from Salt Lake City. The second winter was a trying one. Killing frosts, drought, and destruction by cattle, resulted in
441
serious crop shortage. The brethren had been insufficient in numbers to fight crickets, irrigate crops, and fence the farm lands that had been planted. Low temperatures and severe storms found the people inadequately prepared, especially for the care of the cattle. Misled by the open winter of the preceding year, and under pressure of heavy labors to provide houses and prepare lands for farming, little feed had been stored. The cattle had a hard time of it, but came through surprisingly well. There was also a spring scarcity of breadstuffs. An inventory taken by the bishops in early February, 1849, revealed about three-fourths of a pound per day for each person until July 5. Resort to sego and thistle tops again became general. In June, no corn or wheat was available at any price, and potatoes had gone off the market at twenty dollars a bushel. Public works were pushed vigorously in 1849. Work had begun on the Council House. Roads were built and bridges constructed over the streams. The city had been divided into nineteen wards, and under the direction of the bishops each ward was enclosed "on the plan of a big field." Irrigation ditches were run to the respective wards to provide for gardens and orchards on the spacious city lots. The following picture of how things appeared to a visitor in mid-summer 1849, is worth quoting: "The company of gold-diggers which I have the honor to command arrived here on the third instance.... We descended the last mountain by a passage excessively steep and abrupt, and continued our gradual descent through a narrow canyon for five or six miles, when suddenly emerging from the pass, an extensive and cultivated
442
valley opened before us, at the same instant that we caught a glimpse of the distant bosom of the Great Salt Lake, which lay expanded before us to the westward, at the distance of some twenty miles.... Extensive herds of cattle, horses, and sheep, were grazing in every direction.... Passing over some miles of pasture land, we at length found ourselves in a broad and fenced street, extending westward in a straight line for several miles. Houses of sun-dried brick were thickly clustered in the vale before us, some thousands in number and occupying a spot about as large as the city of New York. They were mostly small, one story high, and perhaps not more than one occupying an acre of land. "The whole space for miles, excepting the streets and houses, was in a high state of cultivation. Fields of yellow wheat stood waiting for the harvest, and Indian corn, potatoes, oats, flax, and all kinds of garden vegetables, were growing in profusion, and seemed about in the same state of forwardness as in the same latitude in the States... We passed on amid scenes like these, expecting every moment to come to some commercial center, some business point in this great metropolis of the mountains, but we were disappointed. No hotel, sign-post, cake and beer-shop, barber pole, market-house, grocery, provision, dry goods, or hardware store distinguished one part of the town from another, not even a bakery or mechanic's sign was anywhere discernible. "Here, then, was something new: an entire people reduced to a level, and all living by their labor—all cultivating the earth, or following some branch of physical industry. At first I thought it was an experiment, an order of things established purposely to carry out the principles of 'Socialism' or 'Mormonism.' In short, I thought it very much like Owenism personified. However, on inquiry, I found that a combination of seemingly unavoidable circumstances had produced this singular state of affairs. There were no hotels, because there had been no travel; no barbers' shops, because everyone chose to shave himself, and no one had time to shave his neighbour; no stores, because they had no goods to sell or time to traffic; no center of business, because all were too busy to make a center.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941
There was an abundance of mechanic shops, of dressmakers, milliners, and tailors, etc; but they needed no sign, nor had they time to paint or erect one, for they were crowded with business. Besides their several trades, all must cultivate the land, or die; for the country was new, and no cultivation but their own within a thousand miles. Everyone had his own lot, and built on it; everyone cultivated it, and perhaps a small farm in the distance. "And the strangest of all was, that this great city, extending over several square miles, had been erected, and every house and fence made, within nine or ten months of the time of our arrival; while at the same time, good bridges were erected over the principal streams, and the country settlements extended nearly one hundred miles up and down the valley. "This territory, state, or, as some term it, 'Mormon Empire,' may justly be considered as one of the greatest prodigies of the age, and, in comparison with its age, the most gigantic of all republics in existence, being only its second year since the first seed of cultivation was planted, or the first civilized habitation commenced." As immigration continued, settlement spread out over the Valley. Colonies were led to the Cottonwood area by John Holladay and Amasa Lyman in 1848. In the same year Joseph Harker led the way "over Jordan"; Welsh converts settled at Granger in 1849. Draper and Riverton were colonized in the early "fifties." By 1852, though the population could not have exceeded 8000, Orson Hyde was saying in the October general conference: "This valley is pretty much all taken up in farms, and the wood is all used up, which requires a man to be two days in getting a cord of wood; and during that time a man often loses his cattle, which may destroy his neighbor's gardens and incur damages. Therefore, it is best to go where the neighbors are fewer, and get the best places for farms." By this time colonies had already (Continued on page 489)
The Daily Mail Mabel Harmer
IN one respect, at least, Saturday is a very dull day. There is only one delivery of mail, whereas on every other weekday the gray-coated letter carrier brings his bag, with its intriguing contents, to your front porch morning and afternoon. If you are fortunate enough to have a very modern home with all the latest gadgets, you don't even have to bother to go outside—thereby exposing yourself to the rigors of cold weather and your curlers to the stares of the neighbors—in order to gather up your letters. They are projected right into the privacy of the front hall by way of the clever new mail chute. If your letter is one of the thousands that are carried daily by airplane, it may have been postmarked from a distant city only a few hours before. Even if it has come by train, it has only been a matter of days since it left for its destination; whereas, once upon a time.... Those words are the time-honored beginning for a fairy story, and while we take our rapid delivery of mail very much for granted in this day, such a feat as the sending of a letter from Utah to California in approximately four hours would have come much nearer resembling a fairy story than a fact to the early-day pioneers of the West. For the first few years after the Pioneers arrived in the Great Salt Lake Valley, letters were brought by the incoming immigrant trains to those settlers who had come earlier. For instance, when Mrs. Jones, who was still back in the States, learned that the Johnson family was planning to go West, she wrote a long letter to her sister, who had left with a company the previous year, and entrusted it to the Johnsons. To be sure, she hadn't heard from her sister since the latter's departure, and had no very good idea of where she might be; but the Johnsons promised to make inquiries after they arrived in the Valley, and if they could find out where Mrs. Jones' sister had located, they would pass the letter on to someone going in that direction. The Johnsons were faithful to their trust and, in time, gave the letter to another family who were traveling to Cache Valley, where it was thought the woman now lived. By inquiring of families along the way, the sister was finally located and the letter delivered many months after it had started toward its destination. This is the true story, not of Mrs. Jones' letter, but of hundreds of others that were passed along in this fashion until some sort of regular mail service was established. Naturally much could happen in-between the times these letters were written and delivered, and there are cases on record of people writing to tell relatives of their impending arrival in the Territory and then coming in advance of the letter itself. Even such uncertain service sometimes cost a great deal; one woman wrote of having to pay $1.10 delivery charges on two letters during the winter of '48. She added, however, that she didn't mind this exorbitant rate because she was so glad to get the letters. Sending mail out of the Valley was
443
FIRST POSTOFFICE IN SALT LAKE CITY —Photograph, Courtesy Salt Lake Tribune
still a more difficult matter, as practically all of the travel was in this direction. The first letter sent out was one written by Brigham Young during August, 1847, and carried back to the Saints in Winter Quarters by Ezra Benson. It told of the safe arrival in the Valley of the original company, the conditions of the new settlement, and assured help to those who were still to come, should they be in need of it. It encouraged them to praise God for His goodness and to be of good cheer. Letters from the Valley left, necessarily, without benefit of stamps or envelopes and were usually wrapped in buckskin covers for protection and tied round and round with thongs of the same material. Dozens of letters, done up in this unique fashion, were carried East by Colonel Babbitt when he left for Washington as a delegate to Congress from the Territory of Deseret. Naturally the mail which arrived from Winter Quarters was always a source of great joy to those who had come on ahead, for many families were divided between the two places during the first few years. Late in '48 Clara Decker Young, who had been one of the three women to come with the original company, wrote Page 444° that great excitement prevailed when four men arrived in the city with 227 letters and many papers and gazettes. After the mail had once arrived in the city, the problem of distributing it still remained. In Salt Lake there was no Federal post-office until "49, but during the course of a council meeting held in the old fort in October, '47, Albert Carrington was appointed postmaster and held this position for two years. The mails were received and distributed at Church headquarters. Sometimes a list of those who might claim uncalled-for mail at the "office" would be read from the stand of the Bowery after the close of the service. In other settlements of the state, delivery might be from the general store, the Sunday meeting, or by hand of any kind neighbor who happened to be going in the right direction. The most unusual story of carrying the mail is that told by Frank E. Slaughter of Washington 'County in southern Utah, who helped to install a cable line from the top to the bottom of a 1000-foot precipice over which the mail sacks were drawn by the means of a pulley and windlass. An amusing story of early-day mail service is that of the tub in the store where everyone went through the contents until he came across his own. IN March, 1849, the first United States postoffice was established in Salt Lake City, with Joseph L. Heywood as postmaster. He served only a short time and was succeeded by Dr. Willard Richards. 'The immigrant trains were still the only means available for conveying the mails, consequently the postmaster took up his duties with the arrival THE DAILY MAIL of a company from the East and, after distributing the letters and papers, dropped them again until another company should arrive. There were a considerable number of the Saints on the Pacific Coast at this time, consisting of members of the Mormon Battalion who had remained in California and families who had taken the water route, instead of crossing the plains, and had not yet come on to Utah. To these people, Amasa M. Lyman and O. Porter Rockwell were dispatched with mail in the spring of '49. The two brethren were also instructed to preach the Gospel and look after the interests of the Church and the Saints. In 1850 a contract to carry mail from Independence, Missouri, to Salt Lake City was awarded to Samuel H. Woodsen, who in turn sublet it to Little, Hanks and Decker. They were supposed to get the mail through once a month, and they must be given credit for making heroic attempts to do so, for they drove unbroken Mexican mules over exceedingly rough roads and made _the run from Salt Lake City to Laramie in nine days without a change of animals. The following year the first Government contract to carry mail was given to John. M. Hockaday and William Liggett. They carried express as well as mail, and advanced from Mexican mules to stage coaches. They still managed to get through only once a month, at first, although after a time the run was made semi-monthly. By 1852 the population of the Territory had grown to many thousands and the Saints felt that they were justly entitled to a weekly mail 445 service. Accordingly, they sent a petition to Congress stating that while they were supposed to be getting mail once a month, more often than not a period of two months elapsed between deliveries, especially during the winter time. It was another two years before Congress finally passed an act that gave an appropriation for transcontinental mail service, and while at first the service was still only one delivery a month, the gaps were gradually closed, until by the time the contract was taken over by Ben Holladay it became, for the first time, the "daily mail." The fact that it arrived daily did not, of course, preclude the contents from having been several weeks on the way. The mail was carried in Concord stages which were built to accommodate nine passengers on the inside, and one or two on the outside with the driver, except when it was necessary to carry an armed guard. The coaches were drawn by six or eight horses and, by running both day and night, often made as much as one hundred miles in twenty-four hours. This was excellent time, but travel must have been very wearisome over the rough roads of the day in a vehicle without any springs. Mail stations were built every ten or twelve miles, consisting of substantial stone buildings with loopholes for the rifles of the Indian fighters. The horses were changed at each station, and meals were served to the passengers. In 1860 the passenger fare from Atchison, Kansas, to Salt Lake City was $250 per person. A United States senator of the day scoffed at the need for protection from Indians, ROUTE OF PONY EXPRESS declaring that "the only hostile Indians on the plains were a few kept by Ben Holladay and brought out whenever he needed a new mail appropriation or an excuse for the non-performance of duty," but it is safe to surmise that the senator never placed him— self in a position where he could test the situation firsthand. Holladay once decided to make a speed run from the Pacific Coast to Atchison, Kansas, a distance of approximately 2000 miles. He made the trip in twelve days and two hours and established a record for fast travel by stagecoach that was never excelled. The trip cost Holladay over $20,000, but it is presumed that he received that much satisfaction out of his experience. There is no record that he did it for the advertising benefits, although possibly that was not an unheard-of thing, even in his day. One not only paid high for the dubious pleasure of riding in the stagecoach, but he also risked his very life from the ever-present danger of Indian raids. At one time an east-bound stage carried a woman as | a lone passenger. During part of the journey, the horses raced madly for a spell and then stopped entirely. She looked out to discover the cause of this strange behavior and found that the driver was gone. 'There seemed to be nothing to do but Page 446 —Drawing, Courtesy Salt Lake Tribune drive the stage on to the next station, which she did. For a time, the station attendants suspected that she might have had something to do with the disappearance of the driver and held her until his body was found. It was soon learned, however, that he had been struck by an Indian's arrow, perhaps in revenge, since he was known to have mistreated the Indians. Another incident of the adventures of stagecoach travel was related by Albert D. Richardson who came West during the 50's with the Schuyler Colfax party. He wrote, "From the coach an antelope was shot, strapped on the coach and given to the keeper at the next station to add to his larder. Gray wolves gazed at us until fired at. We were a sort of traveling arsenal with two or three weapons to a man. Attacked, we should have been dangerous indeed—if not to the Indians, at least to each other. One night a huge grizzly bear was seated right in our road. His education had been sadly neglected, for, with the greatest disrespect to nation and state dignitaries, he refused to budge one inch. So we turned around and gave him a wide berth. Like the man in the story, he was bigger than us, and we forgave him." Passengers and mail never seemed to mix very well on the Concord stages. The travelers complained THE DAILY MAIL that the mail took up too much room, and the people who received the mail complained that it had been hung underneath or anywhere in order to get it out of the way and, hence, was subjected entirely too much to the mercy of the elements. At one time the state of affairs was too much to be endured in silence, and the News gave vent to the following lament: "With its usual punctuality the eastern mail arrived on Monday last about 10 a. M., but if all the mail matter was as wet and as much damaged as was the. Small portion we received, it was certainly in a deplorable condition. The bags were brought in lashed under the body of the mail wagon so as not to discommode the passengers, and in that condition they had been evidently dragged through the streams that are well known to be high at this season of the year, and consequently their content was as wet as water 447 could make it, and some of the papers were so badly worn that they were not readable. We are aware, however, that it is useless to complain." During 62 the Indians went on such a rampage of destruction that it was necessary to send guards out to insure the safe conduct of mail and passengers across the plains. Station houses were destroyed, coaches robbed, and __ passengers killed in alarming numbers along the part of the route that ran through eastern Wyoming. Frank Fuller was acting governor of the Utah Territory at the time, and he requested Lieutenant General Daniel H. Wells of the Nauvoo Legion to send out a force for the purpose of protecting the mail and passengers until the task could be taken over by United States troops. Accordingly, Col. Robert T. Burton was dispatched with thirty men, well armed and equipped, to clear 448 the plains of marauding Indians. OLD SALT LAKE HOUSE—HEADQUARTERS FOR PONY EXPRESS (Site occupied by old Salt Lake Tribune-Telegram Building, 149 South Main Street ) —Photograph, Courtesy Salt Lake Tribune They found all the stations from Green River to Deer Creek deserted, with the stock having been removed or stolen. At one station they found twenty-six mail sacks torn open and the contents scattered about. The letters had been opened and pillaged in such a ways to prove that renegade whites had been connected with the robberies. URING the year of 1860, that heroic experiment, the Pony Express, made history and created a brief period of rapid mail delivery in the lives of the Pioneers. WellsFargo had opened up a stage line to the coast on the southern route which passed through FE] Paso, Tucson, and Yuma, but left Salt Lake City very much out in the cold. Since there was a $600,000 mail subsidy involved, the settlers in the Territory of Deseret voiced their dissatisfaction loudly and promptly. The complaints reached the ears of Russell, Majors and Waddell, a company of Kansas freighters, who decided to send young lads on ponies over the central route in order to prove the greater feasibility of ponies carrying mail over that of stagecoaches. Every effort was made to insure the success of the venture. The horses used were of the highest quality, bringing a price three or four times that of the ordinary horse. Stations were built every fifteen to twenty-five miles along the route, and fresh mounts and riders were always in readiness. Altogether, there were about eighty riders and four hundred horses in the service with eight boys being kept constantly in the saddle. The riders were paid from $40 to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 $100 a month and were fed and housed at the company's expense. Each was presented with a Bible by Alexander Majors and made to sign a unique pledge that he exacted from his employees for years, and which read as follows: "I do hereby swear before the great and living God that during my engagement and while I am an employee of Russell, Majors and Waddell, I will under no circumstances use profane language; that I will drink no intoxicating liquors; that I will not quarrel or fight with other employees of the firm, and that in every respect I will conduct myself honestly, be faithful to my duties, and so direct my acts as to win the confidence of my employers. So help me God." Just how faithfully this pledge was kept, there was no way of knowing, for a lone pony rider out on the plains could have given vent to considerable profanity which could have been heard by no other ears than those of the animal he rode, but it is to be supposed that the boys avoided liquor to a very large extent, for their very lives, at times, depended upon their being in the best and most alert condition. This same Majors had a contract with the Government for freighting supplies to the United States Army at Camp Floyd during the Echo Canyon war, and his memoirs written of that period make an interesting volume. The time for carrying letters to St. Joseph, Missouri, from Sacramento only once required more than ten days, which meant that the age of speed had indeed arrived. Utah was only six days: away from the eastern frontier, as far as communication was concerned, and, by means of. Pony Express and train, dispatches could be sent to the THE DAILY MAIL nation's capitol in a brief seven days. Such speed was truly breathtaking when one considered that only a decade before, the news that Deseret had been made a_ Territory reached the Pioneers some three months after Congress had passed the act. The Pony riders made an average of 250 miles in twenty-four hours, which was almost twice as fast as the stagecoach could travel. The Pony Express was rich in color and adventure, but it was a great loss to its promoters financially. Besides the enormous operating costs, the Indians frequently burned the stations and haystacks and killed the drivers and ponies. Altogether, it is estimated that the venture cost Majors and his associates somewhere 449 in the neighborhood of $100,000 during the one year of its operation; in April of '61 they sold out to Wells-Fargo. A short time afterward the telegraph lines were completed, and it was no longer necessary to go to such tremendous efforts in order to speed news across the country. Even with the telegraph in operation, however, there was still the matter of letters and newspapers to be taken care of, and the stagecoach lines continued to carry the daily mail until that momentous day in 1869 when the "Tron Horse" steamed proudly into the city of Ogden, bringing an end to that picturesque period of the covered wagon, the stagecoach and the Pony Express. NEWSBOY Gertrude Perry Stanton. _ Standing on a hot street corner Summer days, just right for swimming— Shivering on an icy pavement In the frost or fog of winter; Other boys with skates on shoulders On their way to pond or river, While he watches every passer Keenly, asking, "Paper, Mister?" Urging him "Read all about it!" Clarion call of "Last edition!" In a voice that, pure and vibrant, Well might lead a vested choir. Optimist when days are gloomy, Last to whine or be discouraged; Playing fair, and not encroaching On the boundaries of his fellows; Born of enterprise and progress, Here's a business man in making— Free America in action. "Paper? Here's your paper, Mister!" Beatrice Farley Stevens Rae B. Barker Relief Society General Board Member "We sing of happiness, of comfort and cheer, Hoping our message may resound far and near, Praying that we may live in harmony With the spirit of true charity. Kind father make our light so shine That we may teach Thy ways divine, Our loving deeds will truth proclaim And glorify Thy name." (Chorus from "The Work We're Called To Do," by Beatrice F. Stevens.) THESE lines are more than the refrain of a song; they are the refrain of Sister Beatrice F. Stevens' own beautiful life. In them we clearly see her pattern for living. Her father and mother, Asa C. Farley and Rachel Poulter, built their family life on a foundation of faith and strength. Love of the Gospel was their pioneer heritage. From their hearth fire came more than ordinary warmth; there was a steady glow of learning, culture, and particularly music that radiated far beyond their modest family circle. It was in this environment that Brother Stringam A. Stevens, then living in the Ogden Fifth Ward, found the talented and lovely young Beatrice, who in 1907 became his wife. She was richly endowed with characteristics and skills which made her a home builder of the first order. Her loveliness was a composite of depth of understanding, tolerance, gentle patience, kindness and courage. Even as a young woman she displayed a fine sense of knowing just the right thing to be done for the particular situation. With a keen intellect, ability to select essentials and dismiss the unimporPage 450 tant, and with natural creative genius, she was inevitably marked for a leader, and her leadership was strong through the quality of gentle persuasion. Complemented by Brother Stevens' dynamic yet quietly aggressive personality, it is easy to understand how each sustained the other in any calling or opportunity. Willingness to serve the Church has been fundamental to both of them. Her many qualifications, permeated by great faith and love for the Gospel, prepared her well for the many positions of responsibility she filled. Three of our Church auxiliary organizations have claimed her as theirs: Primary, Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and Relief Society. We see her versatility in the varied services she gave as teacher, musical director, ward and stake executive in the Mutual Improvement Association, and since 1937, the signal position of member of the General Board of Relief Society. Added to these, she has served faithfully for the past number of years the General Church Music Committee. Her interests were well rounded. For study she affiliated with the Del- BEATRICE FARLEY STEVENS phian group and Contemporary Readers. With her husband she enjoyed the sweet association of longtime friends in the Neighborly Circle. Her interest in music, however, 451 years she has given Relief Society 'four songs, and has worked with painstaking care on the compilation of the new Relief Society Song Book. Her activities in connection with BEATRICE FARLEY STEVENS merits special mention. It has been a shining silver cord running through her life. Her talent as composer has been recognized numerous times. In February of this year, 1941, she won the distinction of writing words and music for the University of Utah Alma Mater song, "Hail Utah." In the past four Relief Society Singing Mothers' choruses have endeared her to women throughout the Church. Characteristic of a delicately sensitive soul, Sister Stevens rose to her creative best under stress of worry or suffering. Unlike many in similar circumstances, she expressed herself, not in complaint or hopeless- 452 ness, but poured out her feelings in song. "all things gather where life is a song, all things come at the call of rejoicing." When Relief Society sent out the call to the women of the Church to rally to its cause in the interest of increased membership, it was Sister Stevens' stirring song of "A Hundred Thousand Strong," with its martial beat and confident note, that roused the enthusiasm of our sisters far and near. Our hearts will be filled with thanksgiving, both for her noble life and for the wonderful Gospel wherein she found opportunity for expression, when we sing the last song she wrote—the Relief Society centennial song, "A Song of Triumph." This With the poet she knew that. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 song was born of inspiration and out of her great love for Relief Society work. Rising above her physical suffering, she completed this happy though arduous task only a few days before her passing, June 19, 1941. Though her body has been overcome by the destructive forces of earth life, she knows at this moment the joy of the soul that has triumphed. "Death to her was as natural as birth and as welcome." Her life closed with the same abiding faith in life eternal that has always characterized her living. "Oh, how I wish," she said, "I had the power and could make others understand the beauties of the most beautiful thing in the world—our Gospel." She went with the song in her heart, "God is good." FAITH Courtney Elizabeth Cottam With wounds too deep for years to wash away, Kneeling, I seek the solace of a prayer, Knowing the healing power of God's love Will ease my heart, efface the sorrow there. And as I pray this cup may pass from me, I seem to hear a whispered word to cheer: "Rejoice, rejoice, for this is of the flesh, The spirit lives, and faith will conquer fear." Then side by side we raise the heavy cross; Together, climb the rugged path of life. Through faith the soul can find enduring peace, Transcending sorrows born of human strife. A Prayer In The Forest (Adapted from the "Book of Enos" ) Genet Bingham Dee I have something very imsomething very " said Jacob to his 6 C OME with me, my son, for portant, serious to tell you,' son Enos. "Yes, Father," Enos answered, and followed his father into the large white house, to an upper room where it was quiet. "My boy," the father began, after a long moment of thoughtful silence, "you have been carefully taught in all the forms of our language. You read and write like a scholar. Better still, you have been blessed with faith in God. You have been taught the words of the prophets, the holy ones of Israel." "True, Father." The young man's eyes were serious yet gleaming with interest. "And I thank you, and say with all my heart, 'Blessed be the name of my God for it.'" "I am an old, old man," the father continued. "Soon I must go down to my grave. To you, my son, I give the sacred trust of recording the religious history of our people. And I say unto you, as my brother Nephi said unto me: "Write the things upon the metal plates which you consider to be most precious. If there is preaching which is sacred, or revelation which is great, or prophesying, engraven the heads of them upon these plates and touch upon them as much as possible, for Christ's sake and for the sake of our people.' "? "Do you think I have the ability, Father, or—or do you consider me worthy?" The young man searched his father's face anxiously while awaiting his reply. After a quiet moment the father answered: "God will make you worthy if you do your part.... "And Enos, in addition to being Recorder, you are to be guardian of the most precious things in all the kingdom—The Plates of Brass. What a marvelous record that is! Your grandfather, my father Lehi, prophesied that these plates of brass should never perish, neither should they be dimmed any more by time. Upon them are recorded the story of the creation of the world, the prophecies of the holy prophets since the beginning even down to the time my father left Jerusalem, and other valuable information. Yes, this record is most important. The great Law of Moses is engraved thereon. How necessary it has been and will be to our people forever!" Jacob paused as if to let his son consider the worth of his words, then continued, "In the great chest where the plates of record are kept there are also other rare and precious things. There is the Liahona, that curious ball which God provided to guide us through the dreary wilderness and across the great waters. I was young then, for, as you know, I was born in the wilderness near the Red Sea. In my tender years, I knew hunger and was often weary, for our little group journeyed in desolate places." Jacob paused again, and the sorrow of sad memories seemed to Page 453 454 darken his countenance. 'Then he continued, "In the chest you will also find the sword of Laban, which my brother Nephi took from Laban the night in Jerusalem when he obtained the Brass Plates. You have seen it. It's a wonderful sword. The hilt of it is pure gold, embossed and inlaid—of fine workmanship. 'The blade is of the most precious steel. Oh, my son, I would that there were no use in this. Promised Land for such weapons." After he finished speaking, he sat for some time with his head bowed as if in deep or reverent thought, while Enos patiently waited, looking far out over the quiet valley and the flat-roofed houses nestling in the trees. When he spoke again, it was with a new eagerness: "Will you promise me, Enos, solemnly promise me, as I promised my brother Nephi when he made me Recorder of the sacred history and guardian of the treasures of the past, that you will faithfully keep this trust? Protect these things with your very life if necessary?" "I promise, Father." "And will you make a careful, a true record of the history of this people during your lifetime, remembering always to record faithfully the prophecies and the events which are of a sacred nature?" "I shall do my best, Father, God helping me. But I still doubt my worthiness for such a sacred task, for "I realize that this record is to be engraved upon metal plates, and that it will endure through all generations." "Be humble, my son. Trust in God. Glory in His power and majesty. Ask in faith, and power shall be given unto thee. And bear it well in mind, my son, that it was Jesus RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 Christ himself who commanded m brother Nephi to make these golden plates and record upon them the history of this people, this branch of the House of Israel. Wanderers are we, cast out from Jerusalem." NOS was perplexed and troubled in his soul because of the magnitude of the task which his father had assigned him. And one day he went deep into the great forest to hunt beasts. And when he was all alone in the shade of the cool trees, those mighty giants of green which God had made, the great task which his father had assigned him weighed heavily upon his mind. And he said to himself: "T am not worthy before God. I have sinned in many small ways. Would that I were as pure and good as my dear old father or the holy prophets about whom he so often speaks. My soul hungers to be better, to be more worthy to draw nearer to my Maker, the Holy One of Israel.' Then he knelt down to pray. He cried unto God in mighty prayer. All the day long did he cry unto Him. Yea, and when the dark, still night descended upon the silence of the forest, he did still raise his voice on high with such fervor that his prayer reached the heavens. And there came a voice unto him saying, "Enos, thy sins are forgiven thee, and thou shalt be blessed." What joy and gladness filled his soul, for he knew that the voice came from heaven. He knew also that God could not lie nor deceive. He was all but overcome with the joy of the blessed knowledge that all his guilt was swept away. In ecstasy he cried, "Lord, how is it done?" A PRAYER IN THE FOREST And the Lord answered him. Yea, even the voice of God spoke from heaven and said unto him: "Because of thy faith in Christ whom thou hast never before heard nor seen. And many years pass away before He shall manifest Himself in the flesh; wherefore, go to, thy faith hath made thee whole." When Enos heard these words, the spirit of Christ entered his heart. He forgot all about himself and began to think of others. His love went out in longing for all the people of the Nephite colony. He prayed most sincerely, pouring out his soul to God for his people. While he was praying, "struggling in the spirit," the voice of the Lord came into his mind again, saying, "I will visit thy brethren according to their diligence in keeping my commandments. I have given them this land and it is a holy land and I curse it not save it be for the cause of iniquity." After Enos heard these glorious words, his faith grew stronger and the light of the spirit of Christ, which is the light of love for all men, caused his heart to glow with love even for his enemies. And he prayed most fervently to his Father in Heaven for a blessing for the Laman- 455 ites. After he had thus prayed, "'laboring with all diligence," the Lord heard his prayer, and answered, saying: "I will grant unto thee according to thy desires, because of thy faith."' Now when Enos heard these divine words, his whole being was transported with joy, for there was a blessing which he desired above all else—that the Lord would preserve the Sacred Record, the record of his people of which he had so recently been made historian and guardian. So he prayed in faith, for he knew that God was able to preserve the records, even if the Lamanites had sworn to destroy them and all the records and traditions so sacred to the Nephites. And he cricd unto God continually in faith, believing. And the Lord heard his prayer and covenanted with Enos that the record should be preserved and even that it should be brought forth unto the Lamanites in God's own due time. And Enos knew that all would be according to the covenant which the Lord had made. And his soul did rest. Te PIONEERS Vilate Raile They cut desire into short lengths And fed it to the hungry fires of courage. Long after, when the flames died, Molten gold gleamed in the ashes; They gathered it into bruised palms. And handed it to their children And their children's children. In Mother's Hands John Henry Evans S a tree is to be known by its A fruit, just so is a mother to be known by her child, especially when that child becomes a man or a woman.. She is known, of course, not in the comparatively small sense of good or bad table manners, excellent or atrocious taste in dress, or the ability or the lack of ability to use proper language, all of which are desirable in cultivated persons, but rather in the vastly more substantial qualities of character, way of life, and the outcome of thinking and feeling and behavior. A great deal of sentiment, good enough in its place, is expressed publicly on Mothers' Day in our country, but the best tribute, and at the same time the most illuminating and understandable, would be a concrete illustration of a case where a mother exhibited her vast power in molding and shaping her child. As it happens, there is just such an instance tucked away in the Old Testament, which is a rich depository of elemental experiences of the race. Incidentally, in religious literature, especially that of the Jewish people everywhere, the women, even the mothers, are nearly always kept in the background. An illustrious exception to this is the story of Ruth, the story of Esther, and the story of Judith; but the purpose of these narratives is, apparently, not to depict character, although that is done, but instead to enforce a religious or moral truth. Perhaps the reason why women are not put into the foreground of Hebraic pictures lies in the recognition by Jewish writers of the fact set forth in our opening Page 456 sentence. For back of every man is a woman—mostly his mother—and biblical literary men must have felt that in setting forth the exploits and character of a man, they were also giving the character of his mother. This article, then, aims to tell of a notable mother as seen in the product of her painstaking care, a notable son. ABOUT thirty-six hundred years ago there lived in Egypt a woman whose name was Jochebed. She was married, her husband's name was Amram, and both were Israelites, of the tribe of Levi. At the time of our story this couple had two children, a boy named Aaron and a girl called Miriam, or Mary. Then a third child was born, another boy. Everyone knows how it happened that the Israelites were in Egypt at this time, when their home was the Land of Canaan, or Palestine as we know it today, but it is necessary here to recall the main features of their settlement in the Nile Valley. That story covers the kidnapping of Joseph, favorite son of Jacob, by his ten brothers; the sale of the boy to some Ishmaelite emigrants, and their disposition of him to Potiphar, an Official of the reigning Pharaoh; the attempt of Potiphar's wife to beguile the charming slave, and her later betrayal of him in a face-saving complaint; Joseph's imprisonment, the interpretation of two dreams of his fellow-prisoners, and his subsequent release; his spectacular rise to power and authority in the king's service; the widespread famine in Egypt and Canaan; the arrival in IN MOTHER'S HANDS Egypt of Jacob's sons, their plea for food, the final recognition of their brother by them, and the migration of the entire tribe of Israel to the land of Goshen. All this goes into the making of what is generally regarded by literary critics as the greatest short story in history. This Land of Goshen, as we learn from the sacred writer, lay on the border of Egypt, rather than in Egypt itself. An extensive pasture land where the royal cattle were driven to graze, it was assigned by Joseph, at Pharaoh's urgent solicitation, to his "brethren," since they were a pastoral folk with flocks and herds. And here the Israelites stayed, rapidly growing in prosperity and numbers, till a king arose "who knew not Joseph." I the time of our narrative, the Israelites were "in bondage" to the Egyptians, and this in spite of the fact that they were on the edge of the fertile Valley of the Nile, next to the wilderness toward the Red Sea. "And Joseph died," says the sacred writer simply, "and all his brethren, and all that generation." After that, we are picturesquely informed by the same authority, "the Children of Israel were fruitful, and increased abundantly, and multiplied, and waxed exceedingly mighty." —_Just how long this interim was and how numerous the people had become, is conjectural. At any rate, a new dynasty, it is believed, arose toward the end of the period—a dynasty "which knew not Joseph." Then the head of this new regime said, doubtless to a receptive group of yes-men: "Behold, the Children of Israel are more [numerous] and mightier than we. Come, let us deal wisely with them." 457 The "wise" measure proposed included three points, two adopted immediately and one later, when the first suggestions proved ineffective. They were: first, that the men in the Hebrew nation be conscripted into the Egyptian army, if and when the rulers of Egypt had a war with some other people; second, that all the Israelites be enslaved, "taskmasters" being appointed over them, "to afflict them with burdens"; and third, that all the male children of Israelitish wives be put to death at the time of their birth. The last measure, the execution of which was entrusted to the midwives, was adopted only after the failure of the first two, when it appeared that "the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew." Thus the Egyptians "were grieved because of the Children of Israel"—a grief that found vent in the terrible slaughter of the innocents. It was at this moment in Hebrew history that Jochebed gave birth to her third child and second son. WHEN Jochebed saw this baby, that he "was a goodly child," she determined to save him. If we read the text carefully, especially between the lines, we are forced to conclude that this woman did not engage the services of a midwife, but managed the delivery herself, with the help, perhaps, of Miriam or a domestic, employed temporarily. We are led to this conclusion partly by the fact that the Hebrew women, according to the report of the midwives to the king on being asked by him how it was that so many male children had escaped being thrown into the river, "are not as the Egyptian women, for 458 they are lively, and are delivered ere the midwives come in unto them." Accordingly, Jochebed "hid" her new baby "three months." Where and how she managed this we are not informed. It would not be difficult for a mother to picture the situation in which Jochebed found herself at this time. Her constant fear, apprehension, dread, and anguish can better be imagined than described. Her soul could not have been tortured any more if she had known that her child had been marked by destiny as one of the great figures in human history. Those must have been three months of extreme mental distress. Jochebed, however, was a tremendously resourceful woman. That is something to remember about the mother of Moses. It was not enough that her situation was desperate. Many a woman is desperate who can think of nothing effective to do in her desperation.. Although necessity is said to be the mother of invention, yet necessity is not-always fruitful. Similarly, we might conclude that Jochebed was intelligent. One does not have to be a resident of the twentieth century, nor even of the nineteenth century, to be intelligent—as some people appear to think. To be intelligent is to be able to extricate oneself from a difficult situation, to adjust oneself to environment. It means to do something instead of sitting down and crying about it. Jochebed did something. After three months, when it became impossible for her to conceal the baby any longer from the king's gestapo, she made a wicker cradle, covered it with "slime" inside and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 outside so that it would be waterproof, put into it her precious baby, took it to the river at a spot where the king's daughter, with her maids, went each day for a swim, and set the ark afloat in some neighboring bulrushes, trusting in the God of Israel for the culmination. Jochebed took care, though, to learn the outcome, for we read: "And his sister stood afar off, to wit what would be done to him." This is what happened: "The daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself at the river; and her maidens walked along by the river's side; and when she saw the ark among the flags, she sent her maid to fetch it. And when she opened it, she saw the child: and, behold, the babe wept. And she had compassion on him, and said, "This is one of the Hebrews' children.” "Then said his sister to Pharaoh's daughter, 'Shall I go and call to thee a nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nurse the child for thee?' And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, 'Go.' And the maid went and called the child's mother. And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, "Take this child away, and nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages.' And the woman took the child, and nursed it." After a while, according to an understanding between the two women, the child was turned over to the princess. How old was the baby then? We do not know. "And the child grew... And she called his name Moses... Because I drew him out of the water." Did Moses visit his mother occasionally, or even regularly? We do not know that either. But this we do know, that Jochebed had him long enough to IN MOTHER''S HANDS do a firstclass job of his education in the religion of her people. 'The princess did the rest. For Moses, reared for the most part in the palace of the king, was taught all the learning of the Egyptians, then the most learned of the nations. THE value of any statement as to Jochebed's influence over her son during his formative years depends on whether we can establish the necessary contacts between the two in this period. Let us get one point clearly in mind. It was not his education in Egyptian culture that prepared Moses for his later work. Rather it was the religion of his people, the Hebrews, that shaped his character and prepared him for the destiny that awaited him. There can be no doubt on this point. His courtly training, of course, helped to cultivate his mind, to 'discipline his intellect, to enable him to thread his way to the truth. But it was faith in the God of Israel that paved the way to the "burning bush." And this faith he somehow imbibed from his mother. "When Moses was grown," says the historian, "he went out unto his brethren, and looked on their burdens; and he spied an Egyptian smiting an Hebrew, one of his brethren. And he looked this way and that way, and when he saw that there was no man, he slew the Egyptian, and hid him in the sand." This is illuminating. How and where, if not from his mother, did Moses acquire such an interest in the Hebrews? This was obviously not sympathy for slaves performing their allotted tasks under the lash of a slave driver. It was sympathy for a fellow-religionist under 459 mistreatment by an enemy. Moses was, therefore, thinking not of the race to which he owed his education, but of the race to which he owed his origin and his religion. 'This accounts for his rage to a point where he could kill that enemy without compunction. Now, this fellow feeling for the Hebrews could not have sprung up overnight nor in a year. It could be the result only of what Solomon calls "training," extending over a period of years. There is reason to believe that Moses knew the history of his people, that he was acquainted with their particular brand of religion, and that he sympathized with both before his call by the Lord. While he appears to have been astonished when he received his call to deliver his people, the cause of that astonishment seems not to have been the call itself, but instead the manner in which it came; namely, the bush that burned but was not consumed. There must have been a close kinship between the anger that led to the killing of the Egyptian and the feeling that led to the acceptance of the call. Both reveal a profound understanding of and a deep faith in the mission of the Chosen People. IN addition, then, to high intelligence and resourcefulness in the mother of Moses, we now have a third quality—her deep-rooted faith in the God of her fathers, in His concern for His children, and in His power to protect and help those who put their trust in Him. This is the tap-root of the Hebrew religion— and of the Christian religion, too, for that matter. Had not Ged set apart Abraham to establish a new line through which the idea of the 460 true God might be transmitted to the world? And would He not see to it that this line was kept un-: clogged? Well, then.... There is a bare possibility that Amram and Jochebed had an inkling of their son's future work. Indeed, a tradition has come down to us to this effect. If they had such a hint, it was all the more necessary, they would think, that they should be solicitous in the matter of his religious education. And the manner RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 in which Jochebed's plans for his preservation in the cradle had turned out, would serve to confirm whatever feelings she had respecting his importance. God was with her. Jochebed, therefore, shines through her famous son. In her care of him she exhibited, as we have seen, keen intelligence, great resourcefulness, and extraordinary religious convictions. Does the Lord choose mothers as well as sons? PIONEER MOTHER By Beatrice Rordame Parsons Your lips were unafraid. You did not ask: "Why must I leave my home And go across the wind-swept prairie To a land unknown?" Unquestioning, your baby at your breast, Another, scarce a babe, with tiny feet to plod, Your young, bright head flung high with courage, You followed, then, your. Husband and your God! A rattling handcart held a hand-pieced quilt, Some rose-sprigged china plates, a yard of cherished lace, A vase, a rocker, and a spinning wheel; You'd need them all in that far place. Beside the campfire's acrid smell of burning sage You gathered close your own, And in your fearless eyes began a dream, A dream of home! A one-room cottage built of logs and mud? A shining palace for a queen to own! You found it not too small, too ugly for your love. You made it home! A heritage you left for us—a shining trail Of faith and strength, of courage, dreams come true. God give us faith, and strength and courage now Not What You Get Mary Ek Knowles pe ANDREWS' small veined hand, with the wide gold wedding ring on the third finger, held tight to the carved bedpost, and a feeling of anger, indignation and helplessness welled up inside of her. "Charles, you can not back out at the last minute. You just can't!" Charles Andrews did not look at his wife, but stood by the bedroom window, a picture of obstinacy, his strong-featured profile clear cut against the background of white lace curtain, his feet wide apart, his tall form stooped. He thrust his lower lip out, and an exasperated, "Oh, dear!" escaped Rachel's lips. "T'm dressing up in no wedding suit," he told her, "and waiting at the foot of no stairs for you to come parading down in your wedding dress while the Harbishaw trio plays 'Here Comes The Bride, and a couple of hundred people stand and gawk." "Oh, Charles, they're not just a 'couple of hundred people' They're our children—ten of them —and our grandchildren and our great-grandchildren and our relatives and our friends, friends who love us. They're coming to help us celebrate our—" there was a tightening in her throat, "our fiftieth wedding anniversary." Charles put his straw hat on his unruly mop of white hair. He wore no coat, for the summer day was warm, and the thin lines of his tall body shown through the white shirt. "It's a pack of foolishness," he said, "and I'll have no part in it!" He picked up his cane and strode majestically out of the room, the dignity of his departure somewhat marred by the fact that his suspenders were twisted and a piece of shirttail flapped above his trousers. From force of habit, Rachel said, "Charles, your shirt, let me straighten your suspenders." But the door shut with a sharp little bang, and Rachel was alone in the high-ceilinged bedroom. She sank down weakly on the edge of the bed and gazed at her reflection in the mirror of the marble-topped dressing table. "Well," the woman in the mirror said, "'what did you expect! It's just like Charles to balk at the last minute and throw everything into confusion. He's always been like that." She was a slender small-boned woman with delicate, finely-chiseled features and white wavy hair. The flowered lavender voile dress she was wearing made her eyes look very brown, her cheeks pink. "You shouldn't," she told Rachel, "have let Millie go ahead with such elaborate plans, working herself to death." Rachel looked away, and_ her finger thoughtfully traced the popcorn pattern in the crocheted bedspread. It was really Charles who had started the whole thing, she defended. One evening in the early spring he had remarked to Millie, "Life's a funny thing, Millie. Who'd ever have thought fifty years ago that your mother and I would be livin' in her old home now! Yes, sir, fifty years ago this June your mother and I were married. I remember Page 461 462 how we came walkin' down those. Very stairs, and how we stood right in front of that fireplace over there." That had been enough to set Millie's romantic mind at work. It had all seemed such a lovely idea. Rachel's original bridal party was coming, even Annie Hawkins from Callifornia. Perry, Opal's husband, was going to take movies, and their pictures would be in the Sunday papers. Charles had seemed so agreeable, too, even to giving Millie a list of people he wanted invited. The door opened and Millie came in. Her face was flushed, and there was a dab of flour on her cheek. ""Two hours before the guests are to arrive,' she told her mother, "and Father announces that he might not even be here, and that he certainly won't dress up." She was a tall solidly-built woman with Charles' strong features and Rachel's brown eyes that right now were snapping with indignation. "You and Father in your wedding clothes were to be the highlight of the whole affair. Of all the stubborn, inconsiderate.. Frankly, Mother, I can't understand how you've lived with him for fifty years!" It was on the tip of Rachel's tongue to say, "The same way you've lived with Henry and his fussy, persnickety ways for twenty years!" but she checked the words. Henry Macabee was good as he could be, even consenting to live in the big house on Plum Street so that Millie could take care of her and Charles. Millie looked hot and tired and upset. 'The last few days had been especially trying ones for her—guests arriving from all over the country, extra beds to be made, extra meals to be fixed, and the big house in a general state RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 of confusion. Charles might have given some thought to all of that! Suddenly all the sunshine and gladness of the day went out of Rachel's heart. She wanted to bury her face in the pillow and burst into tears; she wanted to run after Charles and shake him good. Instead she got to her feet and smoothed the bedspread. "Now, Millie," she said in a calm voice, "you know how your father is. He'll probably come back from his walk gentle as a lamb." He might not, too! There was that time when he left her and the children stranded at the Sunday School picnic at Smither's Lake and didn't show up until everyone else had gone and the children had fallen asleep on the hard benches. "You go ahead with the plans, and I'll go up to the attic and get our clothes out of the trunk. You just see, everything's going to be all right!" THE long hall was quite deserted when Rachel came out of her room, and she was glad. Right now she did not care to meet or talk to anyone. She was more hurt by Charles' actions than she cared to admit. Somehow she had thought that this day would mean so much to him that he would be agreeable. Yesterday, even this morning when she awakened, she had thought, "It will be fun talking over old times with Annie Hawkins and Beth Allenbright." Now she felt if anyone said, "Congratulations!" to her, she would burst into tears. The large window at the end of the hall was open. There was the sound of voices, young laughing voices, and the fragrance of roses and honeysuckle and green things growing. NOT WHAT YOU GET Rachel looked down into the garden below. Her granddaughter, Rachel Ann, and her sweetheart, Johnny, were sitting side by side in the wooden swing beneath the big maple tree. Dreamily they swung back and forth, Rachel Ann's dark head on Johnny's broad shoulder, their fingers entwined. Then Rachel Ann lifted her head, and her radiant face was like a flower turned toward the sun as Johnny bent his blond head and kissed her. Suddenly the familiar noises of the household, the slam of the front screen, voices in the room below, the sound of running water and the clatter of dishes and pans in the kitchen faded, and Rachel found herself going back half a century to another boy and girl who had laughed and loved in that same garden. She knew a sudden mad desire to check time in its flight, to hold that precious moment forever in_ her heart. Rachel's children often teased her, saying that Rachel Ann was her favorite grandchild. 'That was not so! Each of her grandchildren held the same warm spot in her heart. It was just that Rachel Ann was almost a reproduction of herself, and through Rachel Ann she lived her life again. "Stay like that, Rachel Ann," she whispered, "just like that!" As if in answer to her plea, Rachel Ann and Johnny stepped out of the swing and walked arm in arm across the velvety lawn and up the rough graveled path out of sight. Rachel came back to the present with a start. She must go to the attic, she told herself practically, and get the clothes. With a sudden burst of energy, she turned from the window and opened the door to the attic. 463 But the moment had left her shaken, and her steps were weary as she climbed the stairs. HE close hot air of the atticstruck Rachel like the blast from a furnace, and she knew a faintness as she hurried to the window and opened it wide. A moment she stood there until the dizziness left, until her vision cleared and familiar objects took on form—a rocking chair with a broken rocker, the thick legged wooden kitchen table, banned to the attic since the arrival of Millie and her family, "Polly's" empty cage, large family portraits in heavy gold frames, a broken guitar, a stack of newspapers, a wooden trunk beneath the eaves. It was to the trunk Rachel went. With a scraping sound she pulled it out into the middle of the floor. She spread newspapers all around and then sank to her knees. The lid opened with a squeak, and there was the clean spicy fragrance of lavender.' With swift movements of her small hands she took out a pair of hand-embroidered pillowcases, a thick linen tablecloth—both yellowed with age—a picture album, and numerous bundles of letters tied with a pink ribbon. She placed them all neatly on a piece of newspaper. Then came Charles' black wedding suit. This she examined carefully and a bit fearfully for signs of moth holes. Then there was a silky rustle, and her wedding dress billowed over her lap to the floor. Rachel leaned back against the trunk and held up the dress. In that moment, she looked young and excited, her eyes bright, her cheeks pink. It was still the most beautiful wedding dress Rachel had ever seen. The white taffeta skirt was very full; 464 the tight-fitting basque waist boasted huge pleated sleeves, tight cuffs trimmed with cobwebby lace, and wide lapels exquisitely embroidered with tiny seed pearls. Rachel and her mother had made the dress, every stitch of it by hand.. There were her own stitches, uneven, a bit unsure, and her mother's tiny steady stitches. Inside the bodice near the armhole there was a tiny brownish stain. Rachel ran her finger over it, puzzling, and then remembered a June afternoon fifty years ago. She and her mother were putting the finishing touches on the wedding dress. Her mother was bent quietly over her work, and she was humming a gay song as she thought of Charles and the wedding and the presents and the trousseau and the honeymoon. Suddenly a fearful thought came to her, and the song died on her lips. What if their marriage shouldn't be a success. What if this beautiful, exquisite happiness didn't last! She moved closer to her mother and put a hand on her arm. "Mother," she said, "this love Charles and I have for each other.... It will last, won't it? Our marriage will be a success, won't it, Mother?" Her mother pricked her finger with the sharp needle, and a spot of blood stained the glistening white. She opened her mouth as if to speak, then shut it tight and bowed her head over her work. "Remember, Rachel," she told her, "it's not what you get out of marriage that makes it a success; it's what you put into it." Now, in the quiet of the attic, Rachel remembered that she had been disappointed by the answer. Somehow, she thought, as she put RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 the waist down, she had expected an altogether different one. She picked up a bundle of letters, and as she placed it in the corner of the trunk a black and red object caught her eye. Joey's "Sambo" as she lived and breathed! She took the black-stocking doll out of the trunk and straightened the red gingham overalls. How Joey had loved his "Sambo!" What an adorable baby Joey had been with his brown curls and his dimples! And how very near she had come to losing him! Vividly she remembered the poverty and cold of a winter long ago, and the agony of one endless day when she watched the road for Charles and Dr. Dutton. For three years there had been hard times for the wheat farmers of Deep Valley, and the past summer had been the most disastrous of all. Every cent they had saved, every cent they could borrow, had been put into their wheat fields only to have the merciless sun burn them to the ground. After that, Charles had been like a man in a daze. His trips to town had become more and more frequent, and too often it was old Ned who brought wagon and driver safely home and waited patiently until Charles climbed down and walked unsteadily into the house. This particular day, Rachel had begged Charles as he was leaving: "Go and get Dr. Dutton, Charles. I've done everything I can for Joey, and he's not getting any better. I'm frightened, Charles!" Charles' only answer had been to shrug her hand off his arm as he went out of the door. All that long day she had waited while Joey tossed in delirium, and his pulse grew weak. Just as she had given up hope, when NOT WHAT YOU GET she was certain her baby was dying, Charles had arrived with Dr. Dutton. After a hard battle with death, Dr. Dutton had saved Joey, but his constant, "Man, why wasn't I called sooner while there was an even chance?" still haunted Rachel. Remembering now, Rachel's mouth closed in a tight line, and bitterness, like acid, ate into her heart. Another féw minutes and Joey would have been dead. 'True the scare had snapped Charles out of his daze, but he should have come sooner! Her marriage with Charles had been an endless series of upsets caused by Charles' childish habit of keeping everyone in hot water. And even now, on their fiftieth wedding anniversary, he had taken all the joy out of the day by being obstinate! Angrily Rachel threw the things back into the trunk—the pillowcases, the tablecloth, and the picture album. Why, she thought tearfully, her mother had known those things about marriage—that once Charles won her he would forget the little niceties of courtship, even to such things as giving a word of praise. "Mrs. Whitlock hangs out a pretty wash, and a big one," Charles used to say, with no word for her own lines of white clothes glistening in the sun. Her mother had known that Charles would sulk in a corner "when things went against him; that she would be tied to the children day in and day out while he was free to come and go as he pleased! There was a sound of a door opening, of excited feet running upstairs. Rachel hurriedly brushed the tears away and straightened up as Rachel Ann burst into the room. "Grandmother! Grandmother!" 465 she cried excitedly. "Look!" She held a slim trembling hand out to Rachel, a hand on which a diamond tring sparkled. "Johnny... Just now in the garden!" She threw her arms around her grandmother and hugged her. "We're going to be married in August, and Mother says I'm to have a big wedding with all the trimmings and.... Johnny's father is giving us a lot, and we'll build next spring. Oh, I love him... Johnny, I mean, and... Oh, Grandmother!" she clasped her hands together and looked searchingly into the older woman's eyes. "Oh, we will love each other forever and ever, won't we? Our marriage will be a success, won't it, Grandmother? So many aren't, you know. I just couldn't bear it if it were not!" Rachel looked into the radiant face of her beloved granddaughter. For a moment she was tempted: "Tell her the whole truth about marriage. Tell her the hard, trying side that no one ever mentions. 'Tell her!" But she could not do it. She could not watch the light in Rachel Ann's eyes die. She took the girl into her arms so that she could not see her face. "Remember only this, Rachel Ann. It's not what you get out of marriage that makes it a success; it's what you put into it." She bent quickly and picked up the wedding clothes, fully aware of the fact that Rachel Ann was disappointed by her answer. "Take these down to your mother, dear. They'll need a bit of pressing. 'Then put them on my bed." HEN Rachel came down to her bedroom a short time later she 466 found her wedding dress spread on the bed, but Charles' suit was not there. Millie poked her head in the door. Gone was the tired look, and she was smiling. "Father's all ready and pleased as punch," she whispered, "although he wouldn't admit it for the world. Get your dress on, and in about fifteen minutes, when you hear the music, come down the stairs. Hurry, darling!" And she was gone. Rachel's first feeling was one of re-- lief—relief for Millie and all her plans. But it was quickly followed by one of anger—anger against Charles. Now why couldn't he have been pleasant about it in the first place instead of upsetting them all and spoiling the day? She dressed hurriedly, then stood before the mirror. The years had been kind to Rachel. Her figure was still straight and slender, her skin was unwrinkled, and her brown eyes were bright. She looked at her veined hands and the wide gold wedding ring. "Fifty years, Rachel," she whispered. "Fifty years!" There was unrest in her heart. The strains of Lohengrin's "Wedding March" came to her ears, and Rachel gave a final pat to her clothes, then walked down the carpeted hall to the head of the wide curved stairway. As she put her hand on the banister and looked down, a sudden hush fell on the people assembled below, and every face. Was lifted to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 greet her. A thrill shot through Rachel, a thrill as sweet and comforting as an evening prayer. 'I'hese were her children and her grandchildren and her great-grandchildren. How very, very much she had got out of her marriage — far more than she had ever put into it! She saw Rachel Ann and Johnny standing side by side smiling up at her. She was glad she had not told Rachel Ann what was in her heart. Each woman must learn for herself that marriage is not just orange blossoms and white taffeta wedding dresses and new cottages with green shutters and the thrill of being called "Mrs."; but it's sometimes grumpy | husbands and whiny children and fault finding and pride and envy— yes, and love all mixed together. It was the big thing, the feeling of a job well done that marked a marriage a success. Slowly she walked down the stairs. Her eyes met Charles' eyes. There was a sheepish look in his, a humble, adoring look. He can't help being Charles," Rachel thought, "anymore than I can help being Rachel.... He certainly has his good qualities... He's always been a good provider.... He doesn't drink.... He's honest as the day is long.... He's never looked at another woman.... I know the best of Charles and the worst of him and [I still love him!" Her steps became quick and sure as she walked down the stairs into Charles' arms. '"A Woman's Best Years"' Achsa E. Paxman Relief Society General Board Member IN W. Beren Wolfe's book, A Woman's Best Years, he advises, "Make it your business to read at leat one good magazine and one good book every month. You can do this by devoting the last fifteen minutes of every day, just before you go to bed, to reading." The women of Relief Society have exhibited an eagerness for knowledge by their interest in the educational program given each week at Relief Society meetings. Many of the women read the lessons, the Magazine, the books of the literature course, and other outlined material. However, much improvement can still be made in planning to read something fine each day. A recent comment was made that it is surprising that adults read as little as they do. A survey reported at the Brigham Young University Leadership Week, 1941, showed that only one out of four people read a book during their lifetime, college students drop a great many studies which they were once interested in, and most people do not try to acquire knowledge by reading current events about our world. "The Glory of God is intelligence" has been quoted many times. The people of our Church and state have been impressed with the importance of acquiring knowledge, and as a result our state has a high educational rating. Statistics show that Utah has more college students per capita than any state in the nation. Utah lacks a fraction of one percent in having the highest percentage of high school students per capita, two states exceed her. E. L. Thorndike recently analyzed the number of eminent scientists listed in Who's Who. He found that Utah ranked first, for Utah had the largest percentage of native sons named of any state in the Union. Mr. Wolfe emphasizes the importance of reading and advises women to develop the quality of imagination. "The most important thing that you must do in order to acquire imagination is to expose yourself to other people's ideas, and try to apply them to your own life. One of the best ways of doing this is to read the books of the great thinkers and writers who see life more clearly than we ordinary people. If you want to be well beloved, if you want people to consider you the life of the party, then you must give up old bromides that you have learned as a child and put yourself in touch with the thoughts and ideas of the great spirits of all times." Managing a home requires skill and responsibility. Every woman needs outside information and inspiration to assist her in performing her homemaking profession. "A woman who knows what is happening in Central Europe as well as what is happening in her pantry; a woman who has read Research Bulletin of National Education Association. Page 467 468 Thomas Mann as well as her morning newspaper; a woman who interests herself in the tremendous problems of work, education, distribution, and consumption in this most interesting of all ages, that woman is not going to get herself into a panic because she has discovered another gray hair at her temples." We are frequently reminded of the great amount of time that is wasted by both young and old, that time is more valuable than money, but that lack of planning and poor judgment in choosing makes it impossible to accomplish the things that bring the greatest recompense. Mr. Wolfe warns us against to much detail. "Do not waste your time trying to have your home perfectly clean, or your children perfectly educated, or your dress perfectly sewn. 'Too much attention to detail blinds you to the great moments of life. Do not be the kind of woman who is so busy counting trees that she doesn't know she is in the forest." OCCASIONALLY Relief Society officers have expressed concern because of the sensitiveness of some of their members who take offense easily or are fearful lest they make mistakes or cannot perform an assignment as perfectly as someone else. In A Woman's Best Years, we read: "Much of the unhappiness in the world is due to the fact that people do not understand each other. Every human being, without exception, suffers from a sense of inferiority. It makes no difference whether that human being is man or woman, rich or poor, educated or ignorant. Every human being RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 believes that his sense of inferiority is the only one that exists in the world, and he, therefore, attempts to prevent other people from finding out how insignificant he really feels he is. Knowing that everybody in the world feels inferior and that every one is in the same boat with yourself, you can make yourself loved by everybody by behaving in such a manner that all the people with whom you come in contact will feel a sense of poise and security in your presence. You can begin by praising them for little things which you notice they do. This implies that you will have to sharpen your vision for details and look for opportunities to be helpful." Go out of your way every day to make one person, preferably a person not in your own family, feel that the world is a better place to live in. Look for things to appreciate. "If you make your happiness depend on your background, your money, your opportunities, or your education, you are likely to be unhappy for the rest of your life; but if your happiness depends on what you are doing to make the world a more civilized place to live in, then you have happiness always within your grasp." Mr. Wolfe gives many suggestions for the art of staying young which each reader must apply according to her own individual situation. Every woman wants to remain young, young in body and young in spirit. Childhood, adolescence, womanhood, are three decades of preparation. Life comes to its flower in the fourth decade, or after forty, and in the decades beyond unfolds its meaning and value. Youth is not a matter of years, but "A WOMAN'S BEST YEARS" a matter of mental attitudes. The goal of eternal youth is now within the reach of every woman who learns to be the master of her hours and not the victim of her years. "To attempt to maintain the pitch of youth is folly and ignorance. Go to your doctor and make it a rule to be examined once a year after you are thirty-five. Follow his suggestions and don't let any physical weakness cripple your activity or cloud your mind. "The best investment for middle age is a wide horizon of interest, emotional vitality and_ elasticity, broad social activities, and a career of service to your fellowmen." Our Church provides all of these if we will let it. We have many opportunities for mental improvement, service to our fellowmen, social activities, and for making right decisions by keeping faith in God and in the ultimate triumph of right. All of these advantages help us to gain confidence and self-respect. "In order to build up your 469 self-respect, you must do one thing every day that makes you mote responsible, that makes you a better participant in, and a greater contributor to, the life around you. "Give service, make your contribution to mankind and you will never suffer from insults or discriminations or petty disappointments. Always have so much work planned ahead that any interruption or disappointment will simply leave you free to accomplish something that you have been wanting to do for a long time. "You must accept the challenge of the years. Face them with open eyes and courage. Know yourself, your assets, your limitations, your special powers, and your hidden weaknesses. 'Then you can meet these problems with poise and serenity and say with Robert Browning: "Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be, The last of life, for which the first was made.' " —— WILLOW SHADE Vesta P. Crawford Now the heat of searing noon Is shimmered on the valley wide, And waves of warmth are drifted On summer's flowing tide; And one who seeks the quiet road For shadows dark and cool Shall find the boughs of willows Leaning on a pool; For oh, among the lovely things God's sun and rain have made, Loveliest are bended boughs And gracious willow shade. FAPPEN INGS Annie Wells Cannon Now golden summer brings her rarest offerings, For all along the fragrant way are flowers gay, While across the sapphire sky, sweetest song birds fly. THE "call of the wild" has sounded, and vacation time is here. This year all things are different. The accustomed lure to canyon haunts or forests green or sandy shores will be mostly a memory, for the need of the hour beckons to training camps, munition factories, cities of industry and commerce, where women substitute as workers, bus drivers and messengers, and in some countries it beckons even to the battlefield. DOWAGER QUEEN MARY, of England, residing now somewhere in the "West Country" still visits military hospitals, giving aid and sympathy.  JACQUELINE COCHRAN is agitating a Government school for training women pilots as teachers in the different aviation schools. She would have them classed as an auxiliary air corps for all types of training except those relating to actual combat. Many women have already received flight scholarships, among them Eleanor Fordham, a Salt Lake girl. HELEN KELLER was given a rising ovation at the golden jubilee of the General Federation of Women's Clubs this spring when fifty-six outstanding members were paid special tribute for distinguished service. Among those classified as "firsts" were Frances Perkins, first woman in a President's cabinet, Daisie Harriman, first woman minister Page 470 to Norway, and Jeanette Rankin, first congresswoman. Dorothy SHEPHERD, Utah girl connected with American Legation in Lima, Peru, is a great admirer of the beauty and graciousness of the South American women and wonders if some of their content would not add charm to our busy life in the States. SERAPIA LANERIA, 118 years old, of Phoenix, Arizona, Elizabeth Snow Call Burt, 94, of Brigham City, Utah, and Mary W. Richards, of Arizona, are three notable pioneer mothers who died this spring—women with marvelous records of service, faith, and courage. LAURA E. FINLAYSON, go, of West Jordan, and Mary Jane Meeks Pearce, go, of Taylor, Arizona, were feted and honored in their respective communities for their wonderful accomplishments. CATHERIN E VAN DYKE witnessed last month the colorful presentation of her play "Audubon." She is the first person to write a play with the great naturalist, John James Audubon, as central figure. VERA BRITTAIN'S "England's Hour," is the experience of a distinguished Englishwoman during the present time; while Phyllis Moir gives an intimate picture of England's Prime Minister in her book, "I was Winston Churchill's Private Secretary." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth Amy Brown Lyman - Marcia K. Howells - - - Donna D. Sorensen - - Vera W. Pohlman S 5 Belle S. Spafford Anna S. Barlow Vivian R. McConkie Achsa E. Paxman Leda T. Jensen Mary G. Judd Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Luella N. Adams THE GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Marianne C. Sharp Leona F. Wintch Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Ethel B. Andrew Pauline T. Pingree Alice B. Castleton Gertrude R. Garff Priscilla L. Evans Editor - - - - - Belle S. Spatford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Vol. 28 JULY, 1941 No. 7 O—> EDIT ORIAL m9 71. J A. And Primary General Conferences MONG the many interesting and important activities of the Church are the general Church and auxiliary conferences. Twice each year the Church membership is privileged to meet in general conference to receive instruction and inspiration from the General Authorities. Twice each year, in connection with these conferences, the Sunday School work is given consideration. Twice each year the Relief Society conducts a general conference in the interest of its program, while each June the Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Asosciations and the Primary Association assemble their workers that their special Church assignments may be more effectively fulfilled. These conferences play a significant part in the successful conduct of the work of the Church and are far-reaching in their influence. Each of the Church auxiliary organizations has an important individual responsibility in promoting the work of the Church. 'Through their general conferences they are enabled to instruct local officers in the various phases of their programs. The needs of their various groups are pointed out, and programs are interpreted in the light of these needs. General conferences enlarge the vision of local workers and inspire them to renewed effort. While each of the auxiliary organizations has its own division of responsibility within the Church, the goal of all is the same—the building of firm, unwavering testimonies in the hearts of the people, and the advancement of the work of the Lord. All are united in the accomplishment of these great: purposes. The recent conferences conducted by the Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations and by the Primary Association merit special commendation. The vision of the general boards, their insight into the needs of their groups, their understanding of their problems, their willingness to assume their responsibilities as leaders, and their efficiency in planning their work were very evident. The devotion of the local workers was apparent in the excellent attendance and Page 472 the enthusiastic response to all programs. While all meetings held in connection with these conferences were very fine, the singing of 1600 Primary boys and girls dressed in white blouses was particularly impressive. Drawn from sixteen stakes, 800 children sang at the Saturday morning session of the Primary conference, and 800 additional children sang at the Sunday morning session. 'The stirring rendition on Saturday of "Our Great Primary" and the "Mormon Boy" delighted the large congregation, while the beautiful rendition of the hymns, "Sweet Is the Work," and "I'll Go Where You Want Me To Go" at the Sunday session was an inspiration. The Saturday evening program, presented by the M Men and Gleaners, entitled, "New Pioneers—On the March!" is also deserving of special mention. 'The production written and directed by Alvin G. Pack was designed to impress the youth of the Church with the importance of a clean life and to show them that, "contrary to the claims of liquor and tobacco companies, one need not smoke and drink to be fashionable"; that there is proof on every hand that many of the nation's most intelligent and popular people do not smoke and drink. 'The first part of the program, "Old Pioneers On the Trail,' was a radio dramatization of the coming to the Valley in 1847 of Jedediah M. Grant, father of President Heber J. Grant, and featured a cast of professional radio artists, all young Utah people who do not smoke or drink. The second part of the program, "RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 Pioneers," presented the views of the nation's great abstainers — pioneers in many fields—on the importance of abstaining from the use of alcohol and tobacco. The third part, "New Pioneers — On the March!" presented the challenge to our youth, the "New Pioneers" of the Church. The program concluded with an impressive salute to President Heber J. Grant, who was proclaimed, "the beloved standard bearer of the 'New Pioneers.'" The obstacles, temptations, and trials in the paths of our young people today are many and grave. Sterling characters are required to conquer them. 'Those very obstacles, however, constitute a great and a glorious challenge—a challenge that is the heritage and obligation of the youth of the Church to accept. Our pioneer forefathers remained steadfast in the face of ominous difficulties. 'They achieved an almost impossible task. They did not surrender, but fought for their ideals. So the youth of the Church today, sustained by the same_ testimonies which sustained their forebears, must fight for their ideals; they must not surrender, but must meet the challenge of their day with courage and fortitude.. The mothers of the Church are grateful for the efforts of the Church auxilianes in behalf of their children _ —the youth of the Church. The Relief Society General Board appreciates the constantly increasing spirit of cooperation that exists among the Church auxiliaries and which is bound to result in a stronger and more unified Church organization. EDITORIAL 473 Rulon S. Wells THE death of Rulon S. Wells, Wednesday, May 7, removed from the leadership of the Church a valiant worker. For forty-eight years a member of the First Council of Seventy, and at the time of his death its senior president, Brother Wells' life has been chatracterized by devoted missionary service. From 1875 to 1877 he fulfilled his first mission for the Church in the Swiss and German Mission. Since that time he has presided over the European Mission, has assisted in opening up South America as a field for missionary labor, and has given years of service as a home missionary. In addition to his labors as a missionary, he has served the Church in ward capacities and as a member of the General Board of Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. For many years he was associated with Dr. John A. Widtsoe on the foreign-language committee of the Church, assisting with the supervision and publication of the foreign-language newspapers of the Church. Brother Wells was born July 7, 1854, in Salt Lake City, Utah, the son of President Daniel H. Wells of the First Presidency, and Louisa Free. Shortly after returning from the Swiss and German Mission, he married Josephine E. Beattie, daughter of Hampton S. And Marion T. Beattie, January 18, 1883. Sister Wells preceded Brother Wells in death eighteen years. Her death occurred in 1923. Seven children were born to Brother and Sister Wells. Four daughters and two sons survive them. The keen intellect and spiritual vigor of Rulon S. Wells have enabled him to live a life conspicuous for its service to both his Church and state. He will be remembered and loved by the membership of the Church for the clarity and conviction with which he has taught the principles of the Gospel. We mourn the passing of such a leader, but praise our Heavenly Father for his life. Marriage of General Board Member AMONG the many delightful June weddings of interest to Relief Society women was that of Miss Leona B. Fetzer, Relief Society General Board member, and J. Wallace Wintch, which occurred in the Salt Lake Temple, June 18, 1941. Sister Fetzer has been a member of the Relief Society General Board since January 1, 1940, and is especially well known for her social welfare activities. The General Board extends its best wishes for a happy and successful married life. New General Board Member AS we go to press, the Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the appointment, June 18, 1941, by the First Presidency, of Priscilla L. Evans as a member of the Relief Society General Board. A biographical sketch of Sister Evans will appear in the August issue of the Magazine. WYotes. T0. THE FIELD Interest On Reliof Society Wheat Srust Fund HE Presiding Bishop's Office, which holds in trust the wheat fund owned by the Relief Society in hundreds of wards and by some of the stakes, is making the annual interest payment on this fund on July 1, 1941. This interest is paid by means of check for all amounts of one dollar or more; amounts of less than one dollar will be mailed direct to Relief Society presidents in the form of postage stamps. 'The checks are drawn in favor of the Relief Societies who have ownership in the fund, but are mailed to the bishops of the wards for ward Relief Societies, and to the stake president for stake Relief Societies. All Relief Society presidents whose organizations have ownership in this fund are requested to obtain the checks from their respective bishops at once. It is requested that these checks be cashed immediately, and that the endorsement on the reverse of the checks be in the name of the Society followed by the name of the Relief Society president. All interest payments, whether received in the form of check or postage stamps, are to be entered in the Relief Society record books as interest received on wheat trust fund. Relief Society officers will note that the amount of interest received this year (1941) is slightly lower than the amount received in 1940. The lower amount is due to the conversion of additional amounts of the trust fund into wheat for storage. It is probable that further amounts will also be reinvested in wheat in the future. Therefore, inasmuch as interest is not paid on the amount which is in the form of wheat, the Societies having ownership in the fund may expect an even lower amount of interest next year for maternity and health work. The Relief Society is appreciative of the wise handling of the wheat trust fund by the Presiding Bishopric which has made it possible for the various local Societies who own an interest in the fund to receive returns in interest at the comparatively high rate which has been allowed during the past years, especially when it is realized that interest rates paid by banks have dwindled materially during this period. Binding Material For Relicf Society Magazine e The Relief Society Magazine for January, 1941, page 43, announcement was made regarding the availability of material for binding The Relief Society Magazine. Each package contains enough material to bind twelve volumes, and will not be broken in order to sell smaller amounts. The price of each package of binding material was formerly stated at $3.15; because Page 474 of advancing prices it has been necessary for us to increase the price to $3.50 per package for binding material ordered after July 1, 1941. Indexes are furnished free of charge upon request. Orders for binding material should be addressed to: The General Board of Relief Society,' 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. The Merry-Go-Round Alice Mortey Bailey CHAPTER 4 SYNOPSIS ALYN FORDYCE, proud of her background of family and wealth is shocked when her husband, JOHN FORDYCE, whom she has never considered a great success, announces that he has lost his job—which he has never liked, but which paid a salary of $500 a month—and has taken a job with Mr. Milton, of the Intermountain Milton Nurseries, working at horticulture—which he has always liked, but which pays only $150 a month. He is stubborn about using their brillant social connections to obtain a more lucrative position, and Alyn accuses him of selfishness, reminding him that she needs material things to compensate her for her inability to have children. John discovers a sport, or mutation, on an apricot tree—one limb that blossoms earlier than the rest. Alyn meets Judith Wyatt, an attractive young widow, who is apparently to become a mother. Alyn pretends to her friends that there has been no change in the Fordyce's financial status, even though they have actually run short of food, due, of course, to her inability to manage on John's limited salary. She and John quarrel over money. Alyn is discouraged. She reviews her life with John and sees no place in which she has failed. Indeed, she feels that she has contributed a great deal toward their marriage, which John, for some reason, fails to appreciate. She feels he is insensitive to her needs and callous to her misery. She has no children—nothing to compensate her for all she has endured. “There is just no way out but divorce," she concludes, and promptly makes an appointment with JUDGE OLDHAM, an experienced and able lawyer. T was not until Alyn entered the office of Judge Oldham that she began to have some trepidation. Judge Oldham was a plain-spoken old gentleman, but he would be kind to her because he had been a friend of her father's. His office was still housed by the old Gladstone Building, whose ornate hallway -with its wrought iron and varnished wood beckoned her from an "eighteen ninety" past. Of course, it was well kept, down to the last polished brass doorknob, but it was in striking contrast to the streamlined offices of Tory Meade and his contemporaries. Alyn didn't mind. 'The atmosphere seemed to lend dignity to her errand. The secretary had her hat on when Alyn walked in. "IT waited to go out until you came, Mrs. Fordyce. 'The Judge wants me to do some errands. I hope you won't mind. Make yourself comfortable. Here are magazines. He is with a client now, but she will leave soon." "Quite all nght," murmured Alyn. She could hear the Judge talking and a woman's voice from the other room. But Alyn couldn't settle herself to a magazine. She arose to circle the room; she gazed absently at the restful old oil paintings that decorated the walls. Gradually the words of the two in the next room bore in on her consciousness. "You say that he doesn't drink to excess?" Judge Oldham was saying. "Other women' is not your problem, Mrs. Payne? So far as I can see, he is an honest and honorable man Page 475 476 who pays his bills and, up to now, has provided amply for his wife, judging by the lovely clothes you are wearing. He is good to you; his only sin against you is the loss of his money." "You don't understand, Judge. You don't see.... Think what I've been through. The mental cruel- "Yes, but I do see. And I'm going to tell you exactly what I see. I see that in the first place you ate a small child who has not been spanked since you were as young physically as you are mentally. Does it occur to you that you might have been inflicting mental cruelty upon him? Don't you see that the very first time in his life when he needs his wife to stand by him and face the music you are failing him—adding your reproaches to those of the rest of the world? Does it occur to you to wonder what he has been through? I think not. I believe your mind is much more on yourself and clothes and the opinion of your neighbors, than upon what goes on in your husband's heart and mind, upon whether he will crack under the strain. I have nothing further to say, and I will not handle your divorce.". Alyn waited for no more. Gathering her purse and her gloves, she fled before the door would open, for every word that the Judge had said felt like a whip to her own sensitivity —so much so that she entirely forgot the presence of the other woman. THERE was nothing to do but go home—home to a house empty of food. Her future seemed equally empty as she made her way back to the place she loved so much. How RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 could John have eaten breakfast and left her nothing? But upon entering the kitchen, she noticed John had not eaten all the food. The bacon was stretched neatly in the pan, and the eggs were on the buffet shelf of the gas range. Against her plate a note had been propped. "Alyn, darling," it read, "I hate so badly to put you through all this. I dearly love you and would not have you hurt for the world. John." Alyn crumpled the note against her face and wept. Now, everything would be all right. Why, she really loved John; he had become so much a habit, he was just like a part of herself. How fortunate that she had not talked to Judge Oldham this morning. She felt sure that John would relent in his ridiculous stand to stay with his position with Intermountain Milton Nurseries, and they would go on as before. When John came home, she went graciously into his arms, as befitted a lady who had won her way. He searched her with his eyes. "I know you are starving, honey. No luncheon invitation today?" he asked. "Nonsense," she assured him, "T've eaten less when I've been dieting. I didn't want breakfast, so I ate the things you left for lunch." She remembered the circumstance with guilt, and added hastily, "And what did you eat for breakfast?" "I got by," said John easily, "I sold something I didn't need. Some groceries are coming up." "Oh, John," said Alyn, "not a pawn shop?" "What else?" shrugged John calmly. "I don't like it either. It will not happen again," he said smiling, but Alyn knew it was a command. He had used the same tone before, THE MERRY-GO-ROUND the summer Josephine and Bea had gone to Europe and wanted her to accompany them. John had refused her quietly and kindly, but he had not budged an inch. Alyn had begged and pleaded, used all her artifices, but she had not gone to Europe. There was simply that one little quality in John that would not be broken. He could tell her not to run over her allotment, and she knew she must not run over it. It wasn't fair, but she kept. Resentment out of her voice as she said easily, "All of that will take care of itself when you are in a better-paying position; it isn't that I spend too much, John, it's that you don't make enough." In answer, he did an odd thing. He drew her to the divan, sat on a chair in front of her, and looked at her long and earnestly. "Alyn, I won't repeat what I have already said about my present work, though it is no less true now than it was twenty-four hours ago. Please believe me when I say that my decision with regard to my work is final. It is more vital to me than life itself. It is just as vital to you, and I must make you see it." Her momentary annoyance was interrupted by something urgent and compelling in his gaze. The light from the west window frosted his hair, a little grey at the temples, and the rim of his glasses. There was no denying, John was a distinguished looking man, neither excessively tall nor fat for middle life; he was a substantial-looking person, a typical business man, well cared for, with the controlled features of an executive. His eyes, a living brown, spoke to her, reaching for her thoughts, searching her reactions, reassuring her fears. There was depth in them, 477 a sureness she had not noticed before. 'There was something quietly indomitable, something — thnilling about John. His voice went on: "There must be a dominating interest in every life, Alyn. Moreover, that interest, whatever it is, must be something important. There must be some reason for its being. There must be some justification for living. Alyn, absorbed in a new appreciation of her husband, noted the rise and fall of his voice, the deep timbre of it; she heard the words only superficially. "I am no exception," he continued, "and you are no exception. There comes a time, my dear, when we are no longer children, but adults. We must have at least one thing that sustains us, or we crack up. That time has come for me, and I think it is not far off for you." "But, John!" Alyn protested, "I am interested; I have been interested. Getting ahead seems...." "Yes," said John thoughtfully, "getting ahead—progressing. Progression is right, darling, but we, you and I, have made the wrong application of it. You wanted to excel socially and financially, and that is wrong. It is wrong because there is no lasting value in it, and someday, after you had wasted your brilliant self and your undoubted ability on it, you would have found that out—too late." This was really intriguing, she thought. "I had no idea you had such serious thoughts," she said. "What was your wrongly-applied part of it then, John? I am sure you did not share that one with me, considering the difficulty I have always had dragging you to social affairs." "Mine was in trying to make you 478 happy," said John, to Alyn's dismay. "Well, certainly, there shouldn't be anything wrong in that—making one's wife happy," she said, a little tartly. "You are right—if it could be done; but because we built upon the wrong foundation, we were both destined to fail. You could never have attained your desire because you had to depend on me to make it come true. I could never attain mine because I had to depend upon work I didn't like in order to bring it about." All John had said, the manner of his speaking, had the conviction of truth, new as it was to Alyn, hard as it was for her to understand. How thankful she was that she had not been launched, even now, upon a 'course from which it would be difficult, if not impossible, to turn— divorce. Alyn felt really happy, exalted with her pride in John—until morning; until the call from Josephine. "DARLING, we missed you so at Bea's luncheon Why didn't you come?" "Bea's luncheon?" said Alyn blankly. "I didn't know she was having one." "Oh, my dear, then I have done something I shouldn't have. I thought, of course, she had invited you; so unlike Bea." It was unlike Bea—not the giving of a luncheon without Alyn, of course, but being so. Quiet about it. Alyn could almost hear her say, "I'm having those women from the committee, Alyn, and I can't have anyone I want, but the ghastly thing must be gotten over with." That was Bea's way, rather than to have the crowd and merely leave Alyn yesterday. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 out. Moreover, there had been much more in Josephine's voice than in her words, and Alyn recognized instantly that Josephine knew she hadn't been invited, and why. She had a sense of earthquake with the fissure widening at her feet. "Nonsense," she lied valiantly. "I had an important engagement to fill—one I couldn't break. No doubt Bea knew it." "Of course," agreed Josephine sweetly, and added magnanimously, "I want you for Friday, dear. 1 simply can't think of not having you." "Friday?" said Alyn, pretending perplexity. "I couldn't possibly come Friday. I've had something planned for weeks. Thank you so much, but don't count on me." That ought to even the score a little, she thought grimly as she finished the conversation. 'This was a battle, with social engagements as missiles. But what had she done that the missiles should be aimed at her? Nothing, certainly! It all traced back to John. Where was he with his high sounding phrases? She knew with awful clarity just what had happened at the luncheon: "Did you see Alyn's face when I told her about seeing John at Milton's?" and "Did you notice her when Mary mentioned his job?" "It's too bad that Alyn has to lower her standards when she has always been used to so much," someone would say with satisfaction. "I could never afford such clothes as she has," Mary would say self-righteously, "with all Will makes." It would all be there, her family, her marriage, and her pride, stripped to shreds with silken claws. How THE MERRY-GO-ROUND many times she had partaken of these little polite travesties; they seemed harmless chatter then, but how different it was now that she was their target! It was cruel of John to place her in such a position with not one weapon for her defense. If she could only be somewhere else until she might plan a course that would save her self-esteem—a trip, anywhere to be away. Why not write to Connie Cummings? Connie had urged her many times to come and spend a few weeks. But, no, Connie knew Bea's sister who lived in the same town. 'The news of John's 479 failure would no doubt have traveled that far already. She could imagine Connie's probable reply: "So sorry, but we have planned an eastern trip or one to Alaska; in any case, we won't be home for some weeks to come."' No, she couldn't risk it with any of her friends who might have connections with her set. Suddenly, Alyn knew what she would do; she had the answer to her problem, and the next time things became unbearable she would not be helpless. Alyn was going to get herself a job. (To be continued) PERFECT TRUST Elsie E. Barrett So long as there are homes Where women beckon tired men, Where children play, and then Where thanks are given, duties done— So long as there are homes Where prayers are said to daily guide, Where love and faith abide, Where each dawn sees new tasks begun— So long as there are homes Remembering the Christmas star— Though many nations war, In darkness grope, The loyal souls within those homes Will still have hope. A = Planned Living Vivian R. McConkie (Relief Society General Conference, General Session, April 3, 1941) HE way a man lives and thinks is his philosophy. Philosophy is the way you look at life. A philosopher makes it a business to look at life. He draws up a plan of what he sees, and we call it a philosophic system. Latter-day Saints have a revealed philosophic system—a plan of life given to them by our Heavenly Father. If we accept the Gospel as such, at the very outset we have a point of advantage in this floundering world. We have a plan to live by. The heights we climb will depend upon our understanding of and our appreciation for this restored and revealed doctrine of Christ. Where people have an abundance of understanding and appreciation for the Gospel, they are very anxious that their families and the people over whom they preside by virtue of their callings in the Church, acquire a rich understanding and an appreciation for its principles. The world is groping blindly for an acceptable philosophy. The philosophies of men are continually changing. What is acceptable one day is rejected the next, either totally or in part. Today philosophy serves as a hypothesis to build upon. Men are ever striving to arrive at truth. The difference between our plan of life and the man-made theories is that ours has been tevealed from heaven, and revealed truth is always the same. "Truth abideth forever and ever." (Doctrine and Covenants 1:39) I want to discuss planned living from the Gospel angle. Before an Page 480 effective plan of any sort is made, we must feel the need for it, and it must be worthy of consideration. This is our stimulus. It would be better to make plans to bring about desired ends before we become overwhelmed in difficulties, but a great many of us never look at life nor think about it until we are startled into it. Frequently deep and unhappy experiences set us to thinking. Before we take opportunity to stop and to think through to an answer, our daily round of duties prevents our doing so. Life goes headlong, and the next step finds us still baffled and unprepared. Nevertheless, it is never too late to put determined efforts to better use. What is the goal that we as Latter-day Saint mothers desire to achieve and to have our families achieve? The ultimate aim is to perfect ourselves and our families, that we might have eternal life; that is, become so perfect that we can live in the presence of The Eternal One. Our immediate aims are to know how to do this, and what the requirements are. How are we going to plan to accomplish it? Good planning has two important characteristics: (1) It ought to be realistic; that is, there should be agreement on exactly what results we want to get and the techniques to acquire them by a direct method. Planning that seeks important results by indirection is doomed to disappointment. (2) The planning ought to be pragmatic; that is, attention should be given to the causes and to the PLANNED LIVING effects. If such and such exists, why? It ought to involve our constant scrutiny of results, to see whether the results we are 'actually getting are the results we want to get. We shall not make much progress by merely introducing our plans, however promising the innovation. We must face continually and honestly the question of whether our plans actually work. If we measure results and check our progress, better planning will eventually result. UR children are not set in a mold of completed personality. As mothers we have definite things to do for them during their formative years. How are we to aid them in learning to live in accordance with the Gospel plan? By way of preliminaries in getting ready to plan for and to direct others, let us be sure that we are in order ourselves, and see to it that we have clear-cut, well-defined and correct ideas of just what we believe as Latter-day Saints, coupled with the courage and faith to go forward and to live according to our beliefs. If we haven't faith to live in accordance with the Gospel standards, we can never understand the principles of the Gospel. That may startle some, but it is true because the Lord has said it. The Gospel is a spiritual plan. It came to us revealed from our Heavenly Father, and it is understood by the spirit of God, which spirit does not enlighten men's minds with clarity unless their lives are in harmony. This is the plan of righteousness. If we conform to it, we are then entitled to inspiration to help us effect plans for our families. Clear vision brings forth good fruitful planning, but where we are confused in our thinking, our actions 48] will be in confusion, full of disregard and disrespect for that which the Lord requires of us. In establishing this first premise— that of having a correct and well-defined understanding of what the Church wishes us to do—let us use the scriptures as our source. 'The Lord's mind and will has been made known through the prophets, living and dead, and we will not be left to flounder if we are in a position to understand by virtue of our living in harmony. We must be definitely sure what our ideals are. Merely rejecting certain things does not solve problems. We have to affirm something. We never can arrive without being affirmative. We can break through the barriers that are obstructing the desirable goals in our homes, but we must learn how to do it. This brings us quickly to the point in question— planned living. The best plans grow out of conferring with our family groups—pooling our thoughts. Collective thinking, cooperatively administered, is very desirable. Whether we recognize the need of planned living or not, we are living, and time takes us somewhere. Where direction, guidance, and leadership are faulty, our families become accustomed to following their own inclinations, which are the natural or human desires, undisciplined. That is the plan evolving whether we like it or not, whether it be praiseworthy or otherwise. One condition or the other exists. Either there is direction or the plan is one of indirection and an undesirable way of living results. LET us analyze conditions in our homes, and see our problems 482 clearly. We can improve conditions. When we recognize a problem, it's a big step forward. We become enslaved by conditions or, I could say, somewhat unaware of the path we are traveling. Conditions never surpass the people's ideals or their understanding of how things should be. Let's scrutinize ourselves and see if our ideals, conceptions, and understanding of Gospel principles measure up. I believe there is a very close relationship between these three "harmonies" — faith, understanding, and doing. We must recognize the interdependence that exists there. "If ye keep my commandments ye shall know of the doctrine." "I understand more than the ancients because I keep thy commandments." But, "(Remember that without faith you can do nothing." (Doctrine and Covenants 8:10.) It requires faith to keep the commandments. We do not live better than our faith permits us to live. Unity of opinion plays a potent part in a general way in planning to live, but it in no wise excuses us as individuals from knowing and doing the right things, both as individuals and as family groups. We could all be rapidly moving toward the goals that the Lord has set for us if we were all united in our opinions and if those opinions were right. I recognize the richness of strength: that comes from diversity. I'm not unmindful of that when I say that it is weakness and it is an evil when everyone has a different opinion as to what the Lord says we should do relative to such and such. If we had faith enough to accept in plainness and "oneness" what the Lord requires of us, we would be a unit of great strength. To some this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 might mean regimentation, but to me it means added power and strength. We all have our free agency and can do as we like, and we can use all of our individuality in effecting ways and means to put into practice what the Lord has said we should do. That is a big enough job for anyone. Leave the Lord's plan as it is, and use your individuality to bring it about. When the Lord says we should keep the Sabbath Day holy, or that a tithe is required of His people, and explains what He means by these principles as recorded in the scriptures and explained by our living prophets, our strength and power comes from conformance, and not from individual interpretation. An eminent sociologist said that if all mankind could agree upon a body of doctrine the world could be transformed in a generation. But the fact is that we do not agree. Because we do not agree, we cannot get beyond generalizations. We arc agreed that we want to encourage others to become good citizens; we want them to be honest, truthful and efficient, but when we come to the definitions of those qualities, we are widely divergent. We have this body of doctrine that was given to us by the Savior, but we ofttimes lack the unity of opinion and have variance of understanding, which results in confusion, disregard, and disrespect for the commandments of the Lord. OW referring to the realistic character of the plan, mentioned in the beginning of my remarks, let us check ourselves and see how qualified we are to make a plan. Let us act in conformance with what PLANNED LIVING the Lord desires us to do. If we do sO, we are spiritually armed to begin with, and we know what we wish to accomplish. Now, just a word as to the technique or methods to put this into action. You can make a workable philosophy by thinking of your own life and experiences, by recognizing conditions as they are in your homes, and by discovering yourself through the teachings of the Savior. We must have great thoughts before we can live them. The best way that we can learn to know ourselves is by doing, by actually making ourselves over every day according to a chosen plan of living—by creative self-sculpture. Splendid as ideas are, the fine art of living is to be learned only by living. Specificity plays a major part. In this realism be specific. General platitudes do not get you anything. Think in terms of your needs. One of the qualifications of effective leadership is the ability to set up stations along the way. It is the 483 ability to arrive at goals. These might be. Called the things that come out of you, and they result in the training of the family. Check on the plan of living that you are following in your homes now. Plan specific things to further your objectives. Look to the example of parents, remembering not to step out of your role of a follower of the Master. Do not begin to tamper with His teachings. Don't adjust the law to fit your way of living, but rather adjust yourselves to the requirements of the law. Analyze and adjust your way of. Living to the principles of the Gospel. It is not our prerogative to add to or to take from any of the commandments of the Lord. To serve the Lord requires faith and full acceptance of the Gospel. How well we live the Gospel reveals how deeply we have drunk of it. Thus, the philosophy by which we live shapes itself chiefly by the way in which we look at it and live it. Let us cling close to what the Lord desires us to do. NEW BOOK ON TEMPLES Temples of the Most High is the title of a new book of interest to Latter-day Saints. It is a compilation of the dedicatory prayers of temples erected in the present dispensation, the historical and physical description of these temples, information pertaining to records and historical places that are held sacred by Latter-day Saints. Discourses on the efficacy and sacredness of temple ordinances, and other important and interesting information on Latter-day Saint temples. The book contains a con. Cordance and reference table on temples, temple work and kindred subjects. The compilation was made by N. B. Lundwall, and is profusely illustrated. The book is not only valuable as a reference book but has general reading interest. Summary Of Reports By Returned Relief Society Mission Presidents (Relief Society General Conference, Officers' Meeting, April 2, 1941 Our Lives—The Greatest Sermon Mima M. Broadbent, Former President, North Central States Mission Relief Society OUR beloved apostle, Melvin J. Ballard, said, ""The greatest sermon any of us will ever preach will be the sermon of our lives." This is true, and there is no time or place in the lives of Latter-day Saint women when this cannot be done — not what we say, not what we profess, but what we do is the thing that counts in actual life. I am grateful to my Heavenly Father for having had the privilege of serving in the North Central States Mission among a choice people and among splendid missionaries. For nearly three and one-half years it was my privilege and joy to welcome into this mission the missionaries— your sons and daughters. They came, as you well know, from every walk of life, and no doubt the majority of them had been reared from infancy with the thought that some day they would fulfill a mission. The rapid development which came to them when they put themselves in tune with their Heavenly Father and became fully sensitive of His spirit, was nothing short of miraculous. If I were to be asked the question, "What would you desire most that your child possess in life?" I would unhesitatingly answer, "A living, active testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ as restored by the Prophet Page 484 Joseph Smith and as taught by our inspired leaders today." Why would I desire that? Because I know that my child would have high ideals and a high standard of life, as well as a means and method by which those ideals and standards might be reached. A testimony expressed in words is not enough—it must be lived. I am of the opinion that we have no stronger testimony than our actions show. My daily life is my testimony; having a knowledge points the way, but putting that knowledge into practice is what counts. In these days of war, famine, and chaotic conditions, with unrest everywhere, all people are striving for some means by which to bring peace. Our leaders have warned us and re-warned us that there is but one path of safety for the Latter-day Saints and mankind throughout the world, and that is the path that is marked out by the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It is not a testimony, it is not a marvelous manifestation, it is not knowing that Jesus is the Christ or that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God that will save you and me, but it is keeping the commandments of God, living each day the life of a Latter-day Saint, that will bring us individually through in safety. The Lord has said, "I, the Lord, am bound when RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." (Doc. And Cov. 82:10) The missionaries and Saints in our mission have had many faithpromoting experiences. At one time, we were entering the Canadian part of our mission, and the agent in charge, upon being told that we were Latter-day Saints, made this comment, "The cleanest, dearest buddy that I had in the World War was a Mormon boy. I love him and respect him with all my heart. Any courtesy I may extend to a member of his Church will be a real pleasure." The example which this Mormon boy had set had lived and become effective. One of our sisters had made arrangements to be taken care of in a maternity hospital. She made the request that she be not placed in a ward with patients who smoked, and the request was granted. In due time the baby arrived, and the sister 485 was placed in a private room. The day before she was released from the hospital, the nurse in charge paid her a visit. She said, "The reason you are here in this room is that out of the forty-two mothers who are in this hospital, you are the only one who does not smoke. Why they do it is more than I can explain. How is it that you do not smoke?" Then our member had the opportunity of explaining, in part at least, the Word of Wisdom. Later our missionaries followed up this conversation and the nurse became a baptized members of the Church— all because one little woman preached a sermon in action. It matters not where we are, among strange or familiar people, at home or abroad, I know beyond the shadow of a doubt that the most effective method, the most divine method of preaching this Gospel is by example. Spirituality In The Missions Mary T. Clayson Former President, Southern States Mission Relief Society SPIRITUALITY in the mission field is like a candle on a stormy night. A sudden draft may make it flicker and grow dim, but with practice and care one learns to protect its feeble flame until it shines continually, growing brighter, enlightening one's entire personality. I have seen your sons and daughters come into the mission field, and I have admired them; I have thought what a splendid job their mothers have done. They realize that they are in the mission field to acquire a firm testimony of the Gospel, and to lift up their voices to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ. A testimony is something that you cannot buy, you cannot inherit; you work for it with the greatest sincerity you have ever worked for anything in your whole life—not only to gain it, but to retain it. Missionaries who come _ from homes where the standards and ideals of Mormonism are upheld, 486 and who understand the rewards and the benefits of right living, usucally slip into missionary life with ease. On the other hand, I recall a young girl in our mission field who was very self-conscious. She stayed with us for eight weeks. Her grammar was poor, and sometimes she said things which were coarse and vulgar. Of course, she did not mean to. One morning she came to me and said, ""What is wrong with me?" I said, "There is nothing wrong with you, dear, only now a part of you that should have been born twenty years ago is just coming into the world, and so you must perhaps work a little harder." She said, 'What can I do?" I told her to work and pray. "Pray!" she said. "Do not ever call on me to pray." I said, "You cannot do the work of the Lord unless you call on the Lord; He is your first companion." Later one morinng, there were about ten of us around the table. I said, “There comes a time in the lives of most of us when we need the help of our Father and our Companion." 'Turning to this girl, I asked her to lead us in family prayer. She responded but faltered like a little kindergarten child, and I had to help her with the prayer. I am proud to say that eighteen months later she spoke in Church, and in all my life I have never heard a truer ring to a testimony nor have I felt greater spirituality. Another missionary came into the office one day who had been in the field four months. He said, "I am leaving. I am sick of it all, and I am going home." Brother Clayson was out of town. One of the other missionaries tried to reason with him, but it was of no avail. Finally, we RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 telephoned Brother Clayson, and the boy promised to stay for three days until Brother Clayson could return. We prayed together, we visited with him, we did everything to make that elder see the mistake he was making, and at length we persuaded him to stay and fulfill his mission. When I saw him just before I left the mission field, he said, "Mother, I am the happiest man alive today." We had an elder come into the office one day and say, "We have received a telephone message requesting us to call on a very sick baby. Do you mind if we take the car?" When he got to the door, I said, "I am going with you," and I instinctively took some things I had used for my baby. When we arrived at the home, the sick child did not look as if it could live. The elders administered to the baby, and I did the little simple things I knew how to do, and the baby got well. I could tell many such things that are faith promoting. We may say that faith is man's family relationship to God. Not long ago we went down to the station to see a young man leave for a mission. 'There were two special cars—one car was filled with missionaries and the other car with soldiers. This thought came to me, one car is going out in the cause of peace and the other one is going out in the cause of war. May your sons, who are also my sons by right of being their mission mother, carry the testimonies they have gained in the mission field wherever they may go. May the testimony that has grown in their hearts in time fill the hearts of everyone. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 487 The Heritage Of The Mormon Home Priscilla L. Evans Former President, Eastern States Mission Relief Society HERE is one thing absolutely essential to the continued strength of the Church. The auxiliary organizations help, the Priesthood quorums also, the schools and colleges —all are valuable aids to the one fundamental thing that is so essential to the development of the Church, and that is the home. It is difficult now, much more difficult than it was in pioneer times, to maintain the good, old-fashioned Mormon home. Civilization is eating at the roots of the home and seeking to destroy it. In some nations of the world today, the home has already been destroyed. It is much more difficult for our young women of today to maintain the home that is necessary to germinate the roots essential for a good missionary than it was in the time of our grandmothers and mothers, and they must have encouragement, for only from the good old-type Mormon home can we hope to maintain the missionary system as we have it today, and send forth into the world the kind of missionaries I have had the privilege to receive. It was my pleasure and privilege to spend a good deal of time over a period of several years with my husband's mother, Anna Bruun Evans, in her old farm home on the Weber River, forty miles from here. During her young womanhood, before the time of automobiles, this farm home was very isolated. I am going to speak to you of her for a few minutes, because she is symbolic of the choice spirits who presided over the early. Homes in the Church. As I speak of her, it will bring to your minds those you love and those who are enshrined in your hearts, for they are very much like her. In her advanced years, she asked to be taken to the old home. To make her comfortable and happy, some remodeling for modern conveniences was necessary. In renovating the attic, the closets and the basement, there were unfolded to our view many of the evidences of that simple, beautiful life of our Mormon pioneers. There I found the cards with which she carded the wool for material for bedding and for clothes. I found a little old picture of my husband and his brother at the ages of eight and ten; they were dressed in suits that she had made from cloth, the wool for which she had carded, and she had woven it and made the clothes. We found the quilting frames and the candle molds in which she had molded twelve candles. We found the old caster—not a bottle broken, even the glass stoppers were all there, and it was just as perfect as it was when she used it. We found the old reed organ just as perfect as it was when she had _ gathered around her her little boys and girls and had played and sung for them. We found the old cradle as perfect as it was when it rocked the first of the eleven children. I am the proud possessor of this lovely cradle. Sister Evans said to me, "You take that, because if I give it to the younger girls they will take the rock- 488 ers off, paint it white, and put a bow on it." When we went into the attic we found several boxes tied with ribbon. Carefully I carried them down, one by one, and opened them in her presence. In one of them we found an old doll made of sawdust, with china head, feet and hands (not bisque)—some of you may remember the old china dolls. There was a little pair of shoes with high tops and scalloped button-holes; they had been worn by a little girl of three who had died sixty years before. There were little wooden boats and other carved things the boys had made. All had been put away carefully. Everything in this home evi- © denced care and thrift and no waste —she was too grateful to be wasteful. You know waste is an expression of ingratitude. Brother Evans and I took over the place, and we went to examine the title. Brother Evans and I have examined many titles, but we had never seen one like this. No tax had ever been delinquent, no lien ever recorded against the growing crops, no mortgage ever on the little farm. You will appreciate that in order to rear a family, take care of them in sickness, and bury some, many sactifices were made and many dreams were unfulfilled. But, as you go into that house even now the very walls speak of peace. We would be humiliated and ashamed now to allow dishonor, carping criticism or unfriendliness to enter those rooms. Those sweet rooms speak of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. They had a small farm in a rigorous climate, where they could not even raise fruit, but there was no debt, no dishonor, no unkindness, and Sister RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 Evans reigned as priestess in the home beside her husband, who was a patriarch in the Church. I see her hands now, blue-veined and trembling, but still useful. Water, wind and sun had hardened: them; hard work had enlarged the knuckles and broadened them; but how sure the were, how capable, and how tender. Her whole life was written in her hands, as yours and mine is being written in our hands. HEN, from this atmosphere I went into the mission field. I stepped from a train in New York City, in crowded Grand Central Station, where thousands were pushing and crowding, each intent on his own errand and not at all interested in anything else. We were driven to the mission home through the crowded New York streets and established in a lovely apartment nine stories above the street. It looked out over the Hudson River. From the windows you could observe every kind of craft, from the smallest tug to the largest warships, plying up and down the river. The traffic was tremendous—thousands of cars constantly moving in both directions. It was at once apparent that here was a home established for convenience, for comfort and for the carrying on of efficient missionary work. But there was no air of permanence about it; there was no background of an old Mormon home there. Could we establish this? Yes, if we had within us the right traits of character. But we must remember that tomorrow the walls will speak of what goes on in that home today. The influence will be there of everything we say or do today. There came into that home those RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE lovely young missionaries of yours. I see the girls now, slim, capable, well groomed, well dressed, well schooled. They looked me over and appraised me quite carefully. It was not a critical looking over, for they wanted to like me. They had been brought up in a Mormon home and taught to respect authority and to like authority. They wanted to like Brother Evans, and they hoped they would not be disappointed. It was our responsibility to see that they were not disappointed. This home and these young women seemed a far cry from the old Mormon home and "Grandma" Evans. 'This was not the case, however. As I became better acquainted with them, and watched them in their branches, comforting when death came, min- 489 istering to the sick, engaging in conversations with hostile groups, conducting themselves under all circumstances with womanliness and with dignity, I sensed they were the Same young women as our pioneer ancestors, seeking satisfactions in a new way and, I think, in a more difficult way. I am convinced that the pioneer life was not so difficult as the life these girls were living, and I have thought many times what magnificent pioneers they would have made. So your responsibility in the homes, mothers of the missionaries, is the most sacred responsibility in the whole Church, and may you be happy in the joy that yours is the greatest work that can be done. —Settlement of Salt Lake Valley: (Continued from page 442) been established from Ogden to Cedar City, where the experiences of the settlers in the Salt Lake Valley were being repeated. Salt Lake served as a point of assembly and redistribution of immigrants as they arrived every summer and fall over the covered-wagon route. A goodly number remained in the Salt Lake Valley where trades and industry were developing to provide employment for artisans of all kinds. The digging of cooperative ditches and canals steadily expanded the area of good farming land and ordinarily food supplies were assured. There were lean years, of course, like those of 1855 and 1856, when most rigorous measures were taken to avoid starvation and when the Mormons learned the importance of storing grain as did Joseph in Egypt. But the details of these experiences are another story. Theology and Testimony LESSON 1 Articles of Faith, By James E. Talmage CHAPTER 1, INTRODUCTORY (Tuesday, October 7, 1941) 
THE following material is suggestive to class leaders and is submitted in the hope that it will assist in better class presentation of these most vital truths of the Gospel. Class leaders are urged to refer to the appendix which is found in the last section of the book. The class leaders should make. Every attempt to accomplish the following aims in their treatment of this beginning chapter. 'The second aim is an aim of the entire course. Class leaders will want always to increase interest in the doctrines of the Church as well as to stimulate a desire to live the teachings. Aims: 1. Review the knowledge of such fundamentals as: what constitutes the field of theology; the chief incidents in the life of Joseph Smith; and the facts contributing to a belief in the authenticity of the mission of Joseph Smith. 2. Increase the interest in the doctrines of our Church. In order to achieve the first aim, a direct approach may be made by selecting four members of the class to "lecture" the materials to the class, each taking about one-fourth of the class time. The chapter may Page 490 be divided into the following parts: the meaning of theology; the standard works of the Church, pp. 1-7; Joseph Smith, the Prophet, pp. 7-16; Joseph Smith's mission a fulfillment of prophecy, pp. 16-22; Joseph Smith's authority, and the doctrines he preached, pp. 22-28. The members chosen to "lecture" these topics should be especially strong in ability to speak before a group, as well as being very spiritual. They should be notified of their duties many days in advance in order that they may be adequately prepared. The second aim probably. Will be accomplished more indirectly and as a result of the excellent preparation and treatment of the materials by the lecturers. The lecture method is particularly applicable to this chapter since it takes into consideration that the class is usually unprepared in the first lesson; also the material itself is a little "disjointed" and lends itself well to treatment by several lecturers. The techniques of the lecture method have been given rather than an organization of the four speeches into outlines to be lectured LESSON DEPARTMENT from, inasmuch as the leaders should master such techniques; and also they should apply these in organizing their own personal outlines from which to speak. THE LECTURE METHOD I. The requisites to teaching by the lecture method are: A. Thorough preparation by the lecturer which consists of: 1. Selection of the aims which he wishes to accomplish by means of his lecture, 2. Gathering the most pertinent factual material that will accomplish those aims in an interesting and forceful manner. 3. Choosing of the most appropriate illustrations, anecdotes, examples, humor, phrases and so forth, to give concreteness and color to the factual materials and thereby engage the attention and excite the interest of the listeners. 4. Organization of all materials into a well-ordered, logical but brief outline from which to speak. The lecturer should be so familiar with the subject matter pertaining to his topic that he will neither need nor want more than such an outline. Too many points should not be attempted in one lecture.. Attractive presentation of the lecture by: 1. Speaking (not reading or repeating from memory) in a natural, easy, interested, personal, conversational style, to the listeners.. Assuming a comfortable and pleasing body posture. 3. Getting immediately into the lecture (or planned introduction of it) without monotonous and wasteful explanations and random remarks. 4. Adhering to the outline to the extent that the listeners will have ww 491 a clear-cut idea of the points presented. 5. Staying within the time limits set for the lecture. 6. Concluding the lecture with some sort of very brief summary of the main points, and a plea for action on the part of the audience when the lecture has for one of the aims a change in the interests, appreciations, desires or habits of the group. II. Some common abuses of the lecture method are: A. Lack of preparation on any or all points listed as necessary to thorough readiness. One has no right to seek inspiration without preceding it with the utmost efforts toward preparation. Especially is lack of adequate preparation odious when it is accompanied by acknowledgements of and explanations about it. The lecturer need not call attention to such an inadequacy—it will be obvious all too soon to his listeners. B. Reading the speech or reciting it from memory. C. Speaking in an affected or monotonous style. D. Rehashing materials that the audience knows and understands perfectly. New facts, illustrations and so forth must be brought in to support familiar materials. E. Employing the lecture method too frequently or at times when another method would be better. F. Speaking beyond the time limit — especially if the audience is asleep already. _ If class leaders use this suggestive material in the preparation of the lesson it is urged that after the lesson has been given they check that which happened with that which was planned. In this way class leaders may become more fully aware of wherein they succeeded and where in they failed. Visiting Seachers Messages To The Home Lesson 1 Expressions of Faith (Tuesday, October 7, 1941) WITHOUT faith," says the author of the Epistle to the Hebrews (11:6), "it is impossible to please Him; for he that cometh to God must believe that He is, and that He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him." President Joseph F. Smith, commenting on this principle, says: "First, then, it is necessary to have faith in God. Faith is the first principle of revealed religion, the foundation of all nghteousness." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 20) This principle is one of the greatest needs of humanity. It is particularly needful today when the world is full of hate, fear, and insecurity. A deep confidence in a Heavenly Father, who loves His children and watches over them and will hear their prayers, gives a sense of spiritual security that banishes fear and forms the basis of courage and hope to meet life in all its prosperity and adversity with poise and inner peace. Faith is essential to the strongest personality. Faith is the foundation of all action. It must be expressed in deeds. The Bible says: "Even so, faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone." (James 2:17) A sincere faith in God and in the teachings of Page 492 Christ leads to obedience to these teachings. Jesus admonished us to love the Lord with all our hearts and our neighbor as ourselves. If all men had sufficient faith even to attempt sincerely to put this commandment into action, what a different world we would have today! Faith is not passive, but dynamic. It becomes stronger through expression. At the close of the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said: "Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not; for it was founded upon a rock." (Matthew 7:24-25) Questions For Discussion 1. In what specific ways can faith be expressed? 2. Can a person have faith and never express it in words or deeds? 3. Give suggestions on how to introduce this message in the home. 4. What definite points of the subject would you wish to emphasize so as to leave an impression of them in the home visited? 5. Judged by "faith if it hath not works is dead," how can I justify my faith if I give no service? Work-and-Business Better Buymanship Lesson 1 The Consumer Movement (Tuesday, October 14, 1941) SHOPPING" has, to a large extent, replaced many older household activities. Each purchaser is confronted with the problem of locating at a fair price the article which possesses the combination of qualities that will best fit the consumer's needs. Many poor purchases are made because the consumer does not know definitely what he wishes before he goes shopping. Other problems face the consumer, such as high-pressure salesmanship, exaggerated advertising, and a lack of standardization and adequate labeling. With so many needs, how can consumers make their inadequate salaries meet all of the requirements of the modern world? With so many articles to choose from, how can they possibly choose the ones which will best fit their needs at a price they can afford to pay? Consumers are recognizing existing problems, and so we find toda numerous Organizations and millions of people engaged in fostering what is known as the "Consumers' Movement." Schools are including consumer education classes in their curriculums. | Manufacturers and _retailers have set up testing laboratories and educational divisions. Groups have been organized to exert pressure for consumer legislation. The Government has formed new agencies and included in the duties of already established departments the responsibility of aiding the consuming public. In 1937, the National Consumers and Retailers' Council was organized in an attempt to bring together consumers and retailers to work out some of the problems presenting themselves. What has caused the Consumers' Movement? Where is it headed, and what are the responsibilities of consumers? In the beginning, each home was its own manufacturing plant. Family members knew where their clothes and food came from and how they were produced. The few articles which they could not make at home were secured by a process of exchange with their neighbors. Changes came slowly, so that buying experience and knowledge of qualities and values were accumulated and passed on from one generation to the next. Later, the space widened between the maker and the user. Producers no longer had direct contact with the consumer. Salesmen and merchants asked for goods with appearance rather than performance value. The Machine Age was here with its expansion of industrial centers and a very changed pattern of life. Competition on the part of manufacturers and retailers resulted in advertising which, if not untrue, was often misleading and exaggerated. People bought unthinkingly, recklessly. It took the depression of 1929 to Page 493 494 make consumers conscious of the fact that they must buy wisely or waste money. Made more curious by the proximity of industry but lacking in knowledge of what goes into merchandise, lacking yardsticks with which to judge serviceability, consumers found themselves in the unenviable position of being unable to judge values. It was almost impossible to obtain simple, honest, and practical buying information. EVERY article includes raw materials, labor, and design, which are combined in various proportions. One material may have beauty, but little durability. One may have durability, but little beauty. Another may have both, yet all may cost the same or be of various prices depending on who is selling them, how expensive they look, and where they are being sold. But since a thing becomes the best for one person only when it fits his or her particular needs, no one except the ultimate consumer can check all points. To select the best with the money available requires the cooperation of the consumer, producer, and merchant. The consumer has acquired many poor shopping habits. She follows the prevailing mode and makes purchases without first carefully considering her needs. It is often easier and a timesaver to patronize the store that offers the most conveniences and services, without realizing that these very services increase the price of the article bein purchased. It is easy to depend on another's advice or opinion instead of using one's own judgment when making a purchase. Advertising and price rather than value exert their influence on choice. The consumer RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 needs to recognize and correct these poor habits. The secret of successful buying is to judge values and to remember that an unnecessary or unsuitable garment is never inexpensive regardless of how small the amount you pay for it. However, help is needed to judge values. Touch, sight, and price are losing their usefulness. In fact, many times they may lead a person astray; and so we hear of demands made for labeling of merchandise. Honest producers ate trying to meet consumer demands, but many unscrupulous producers of poor, defective merchandise see their downfall in the labeling program ahead. Much of the labeling at the present time is too technical, some of it only half truth, and much of it is of no use. "The woman wants simple, understandable information. 'She wants to know what is in the article, how it will perform in use, and how it must be cared for." The consumer is asking for labels. Labels are being placed on merchandise, and the consumer must learn to understand and evaluate them. This promises to be the consumers' next big job. Everyone needs to recognize consumer-buying as one of his personal problems. From ten to twenty-five percent of one's earnings are spent on clothing and on textile furnishings for the house. Any saving means that this saving may be spent for other purposes. In order to be economical in this respect, the consumer needs to know how to select and buy different qualities of textiles, how to recognize the ones best adapted to his use, and how to obtain the greatest service from the LESSON DEPARTMENT fabrics and wearing apparel purchased. With these ideas in mind, the remaining lessons of this course will be so presented as to give some basic facts necessary for the undertanding, wise selection, and care of clothing, which may help to stretch 495 Suggested Activities 1. Collect advertisements from the newspapers and magazines. Analyze them as to content that would really help to determine the value of an article. 2. Each member bring to meeting an article of clothing that was a good or poor —— __ Literature Humor In Life And Literature Lesson 1 Introduction (Tuesday, October 21, 1941) "Humor in a world of waning beliefs reminds one of Pandora's box which, after all the evils of the gods had flown out from it upon the world, still had hope safely inside. Just as hope makes it possible for men to endure the evils of life, so humor sustains the individual in a world of disillusion." Objective: To see that humor is an integral part of literature and of life and to recognize the value of placing it in our literature study this year. Lesson Topics: 1. The relation between literature and life 2. Brief reference to the literature of the preceding courses 3. Reasons for the choice of humor for this course 4. Values of humor to Relief Society women The Relation Between Literature and Life Literature not only reflects life, but it helps to mold it. We have seen in previous lessons that literature is a record of people—their appearance, their characters, their modes of life. Through books we learn how people through the ages have lived, what they have thought and dreamed; we see wherein they have failed and triumphed in their struggles with the forces around them. But literature does more than paint a picture of life as it is. At its best, it shows us also life as it should be, as we would like to have it. In other words, there is something of the idealism toward which humanity is ever slowly striving woven into this record of life. One writer says: "Literature is a record of the best that has been thought and said in the world." Shelley once wrote: "It exceeds all imagination to conceive what would have been the moral condition of the world if the poets had never been born." Brief Reference to the Literature of Preceding Courses It has been the purpose of preceding courses in this department the clothing budget. Buy, and be prepared to tell why: 496 to help the members of the Relief Society broaden their understanding of life by sharing the experiences of great writers. Reasons For the Choice of Humor For This Course The intellectual, ethical and spiritual values found in serious literature stand out even more sharply through the contrast of elevated humorous writing. Neither life nor literature is all serious. How fortunate we are to have sunshine as well as shadow, day as well as night, joy as well as sorrow, laughter as well as tears. How fortunate we are to have humor. It is like the seasoning in our food: we wouldn't want it as an entire diet, but how much better life is for enough humor to make us relish it. Just as a meal would be flat and tasteless without salt and sugar and flavoring in the various dishes, so life would be flat and uninteresting without mirth and laughter. Since our literature lessons aim to give us broad and varied experiences, they would not be complete without the subject of humor being considered. Stephen Leacock in writing of humor says that few people know anything about it. He laments that it is left completely out of the program of self-improvement, and points out that a man will work hard on such things as a game of golf, trying to improve his stroke, but he never tries to improve his sense of humor, or practices telling a funny story or even reads a book on how to tell one—which is much more important. He says that colleges teach courses in everything else, but they have never even thought of this subRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 ject. He thinks the reason for this is that it has been taken for granted that humor either is or is not; that the art of amusing speech cannot be imparted; that the humorous outlook cannot be acquired. He says that otherwise parents would try to give their children at least a "high school standard of fun." He goes on to suggest outlines for courses in humor, stating that humor would not mean teaching people to make fun of things, but teaching them to better understand life, since humor at its highest is'a part of the interpretation of life. There are several reasons why this seems to be the logical time to introduce this phase of literature into the literature department. Three years have been devoted to a study of the novel, and some of our books have been heavy reading. Doubtless later a number of years will be devoted to some other type of serious literature. 'This alone would justify this digression to a lighter form.: There is, however, even a greater justification for the change. The tension and stress of the times through which we are passing is so great that we need to do all we can to keep ourselves from breaking under the strain of worry and dread. Humor should help to give the relief we so much need. Great tragedians realize the necessity for comic relief in their drama. After a scene of deep tragedy, the tone is shifted to humor or to a lighter mood for a short time. The mind and the heart cannot endure too much of horror and grief. Certainly there have been few acts in the drama of human existence which have had greater tension of LESSON DEPARTMENT heart and soul than the one in _progtess. There was never a more urgent need for relief from the weight of world calamity. Furthermore, humor in literature and life has at any time many values. It is a definite and dignified part of literature—as important as any other phase. It reflects a part of life; hence, a study of it helps us to have a more complete view of the world in which we live. It also serves as a weapon to help us combat difficulties. How often humor has averted tragedy, transformed a mood, or changed the tone of an entire day. In literature, considered as a whole, as in life, it serves, like the highlights in a painting, to bring out the values of the whole composition, to intensify the values of other types of literature and of other types of experience in life. Humor is often used as a very effective means of reform. Chaucer used it in his day to improve conditions. Dickens and many others have done the same. When mankind is led to laugh at its follies, it no longer persists in them. Illustrations from Dickens will make the point more clear. In practically every novel he wrote, he aimed at some social reform. In Bleak House he denounces indiscriminate foreign charities carried on by people who neglect their duties at home. He depicts Mrs. Jellaby sitting in her slovenly home, her neglected children falling downstairs and getting into all sorts of predicaments, while she spends her time writing reams of letters about poor natives thousands of miles away. He exposes the evils of private schools through such half-comic characters as Mr. Squeers, cracking 497 his cane at the wretched little boys as he sends them to "clean the w-i-nd-e-r-s." The humor, in this instance very grim, lies in the hideous incongruity of the treatment of the students by Mr. And Mrs. Squeers as compared to the parental treatment they pretend to give. Humor also serves as an effective vehicle for philosophy. Philosophic observations of the heroine of Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch, of David Harum in the novel, David Harum, and of other well-known literary characters impress us and re-. Main with us because of the humor with which they are expressed. It 'is the wit in many of the epigramatic couplets of Pope which fasten them indelibly in the memory and cause him to be so frequently quoted. Some of his couplets follow; they are witty if not wholly humorous: "We think our fathers fools, so wise we grow; No doubt our wiser sons will think us so." "°Tis with our judgment as with our watches; No two go just alike; yet each believes his own." "Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, As to be hated needs but to be seen; Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace." Speaking to Silence, Pope says: "But could thou seize some tongues that now are free, How Church and State should be obliged to thee!" (The last quoted couplet has been frequently used by President Heber J. Grant. ) Values of Humor to Relief Society Women In life, humor is even more es- 498 sential to give balance and completeness than in literature. One writer declares that a nation that loses its sense of humor may continue to advance toward the over-ripeness of decadent art, but loses the virility of literary invention. Stephen Leacock says that appreciation of humor is the barbarian's first step toward civilization. It has been called the essence of the mind that distinguishes civilized man from the savage. Humor has been an essentiai element in the lives of great men. Lincoln, as will be pointed out in a later lesson, used it to relieve the tension of his strenuous administration. Before making important decisions on matters of state, he was in the habit of spending a few moments with one of his favorite humorists. To know what you are laughing at and why you laugh has been called wisdom. 'The following illustrates this statement: "Who are they bearing the bright lights?" asked the philosopher of the vision that appeared to him ina dream. "Humor and wisdom," the vision answered. "And where did they light their lamps?" "At the flame of eternal truth." People with a sense of humor are usually the cheerful, happy individuals who get more out of life than those who lack it. Their contribution to the world cannot be overestimated. Stevenson declares, 'There is no duty we so much underrate as the duty of being happy. By being happy we sow anonymous benefits upon the world which remain unknown even to ourselves, or, when they are disclosed, surprise nobody so much as the benefactor.... I do not wish to pay for tears RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 anywhere but on the stage; but I am prepared to deal largely in the opposite commodity. A happy man or woman is a better thing to find than a five-pound note. He is a radiating focus of good will; and his entrance into a room is as though another candle had been lighted." So, humorous writers light candles for us as they bring happiness and laughter into days which would otherwise be grim. One such writer was Robert Burns. Burns was adored by his own countrymen not onl because he gave them, through his poetry, an outlet to their emotions, but also because he made them laugh, just as he still amuses us today. His poem, "To A Louse," has become a literary classic. TO A LOUSE (On seeing one on a lady's bonnet in church) "Ha Whaur ye gaun, ye Crowlin' ferlie? Your impudence protects you sairly, I canna say but ye strunt rarely, Tho! Faith! I fear ye dine but sparely On sic a place. "Ye ugly creepin', blastit wonner Detested, shunn'd by Saint and Sinner, How daur ye set your fit upon her— Sae fine a lady? Gae somewhere else and seek your dinner On some poor body." The poet goes on to advise the louse to go to some beggar where it may creep and crawl with "ither kindred jumping cattle in shoals and nations." 'Then he watches it as, hidden by the trimming of a lady's hat, it climbs upward. "Na, faith ye yet! Ye'll no be right till ye've got on it— The verra tapmost, tow'rin' height O' Miss's bonnet. "© Jeany, dina toss your head, LESSON DEPARTMENT An' set your beauties a' abread! Ye little kin what cursed speed The blastie's makin'! Thae winks an' finger-ends, I dread Are notice takin'. "O wad some power the giftie gie us To see ourself as ithers see us; It wad frae many a blunder free us An' foolish notion! What airs in dress an' gait Wad leave us, and ev'n devotion!" (Suggestion: If possible, have this read by someone who ls familiar with Scotch dialect. ) The humor of one of our own Church members, J. Golden Kimball, has given pleasure to thousands. He will long be remembered and loved because of the wholesome laughter his stories and his manner of telling them brought to his hearers. Huis biography, which records many of his witty sayings, is probably available to Relief Society members. Opie Reid says: "Humor is a gentle warning that keeps dignity from becoming ridiculous." Certainly everyone has seen instances that illustrate that point, situations which have been or might have been saved by a sense of humor. A biographer of Thomas Hood wrote that Hood ° was blessed with a rare gift, a sense of humor, and he continued, "A sense of humor is the best balance of all the faculties of man, the best security against the pride of knowledge and the conceits of the imagination, the strongest inducement to submit with a wise and pious patience to the vicissitudes of human existence. Humor is as immortal as truth." "Mirth is God's medicine," says 499 Henry Ward Beecher. "He who has a sense of the humorous has more than wealth." The great objective of. The course is to help the members to realize that humor is an essential part of literature and a vital element in successful and happy living; that a sense of humor is a precious and saving characteristic which can be, at least to some extent, cultivated. Problems and Projects 1. Discuss means by which the course may be made of practical value. 2. Some in the group may be interested in making a scrapbook of humor. It could include not only anecdotes and bits of humorous verse and philosophy, but references to humorous essays, fables, stories, etc. Also there might be an effort to collect humor from the community — quaint sayings of children, traditional humorous steries of the older members of the community. If members do not care to do this as an individual activity, perhaps enough would be interested to form a committee to make such a book for the class from contributions of the interested members. Opportunity may be found for presentation of some of the choicest bits of humor collected. 3. Perhaps some members would care to write humor—verse, story, etc.—and share it with the others. 4. Discuss ways by which humor can be employed to make a happier home life for Relief Society members and their families. Have members give illustrations from personal experiences. Supplementary Reading List Carolyn Wells, An Outline of Humor. Stephen Leacock, Humor and Humanity. Stephen Leacock, Humor, Its Theory and Technique. "Laughter, Tonic for the 'Tired—Medicine for the Miserable," Hygeia 16:314-16. Fosdick, "Living For the Fun of It," American Magazine, April, 1930. \ Social Science Foundations Of Successful Marriage Lesson 1 What It Means To Be Successfully Married (Tuesday, October 28, 1941) Objective: To develop the thought that happiness is the measure of successful marriage, and by a review of past lessons and a preview of those to come to suggest MARRIAGE is the common experience of mankind. Each of us either has been, or will likely be, a member of two different families in his lifetime—the first as a child, the second as a parent. Marriage is an essential part of our total life, and we are bound by its influence at all times, from birth until death, and even after. If we look backward we see the marriages of our forefathers which made us possible, and if we look ahead we see our own marriage relationships which hold the keys to progression and joy throughout eternity. This is likely so because God intended it that way. After the creation of man, He said, " It is not good that man should be alone," and so He created woman to be man's "helpmeet" and companion.. Associations between men and women on this earth have always been sought after, and they have often resulted in some of the most lofty and sublime joys that it is possible for humans to obtain. It is natural for men and women to be attracted to each other and to seek the normal relationships of marriage and family life. It is natural also for marriage and family life, when properly conducted, to bring genuine §satisfaction, happiness, and joy to those who participate. Page 500 Successful Marriage What does it mean to be successfully married? We have already hinted at the answer: a successful marriage is one that is truly happy. "Man is that he might have joy." The very purpose of life is the attainment of happiness, or joy. All of man's struggles are built around his hope for happiness, and the degree of happiness he obtains is the best measure we have of the success or failure of his efforts. To be successfully married, then, means to be happily married. But happiness is'a relative thing; therefore, he who is most happy may be said to be most successful. Pleasure of a personal or selfish sort often deprives one of a higher happiness or joy and thus leads to failure. Liquor, for example, though it may give passing pleasure to the one who drinks, usually makes for unhappiness in the home. Happiness begins with self-control. Furthermore, the pursuit of happiness is a cooperative adventure. No one can be happy alone. A successful family is one in which all members are privileged to share in the common bond of happiness, and each is able to reinforce the individual happiness of each of the others. But happiness comes from growth and the opportunity for growth. No some of the things necessary to the attainment of this goal., LESSON DEPARTMENT one enjoys himself so thoroughly as he who is struggling and achieving. Eternal joy is the reward for eternal - progression. Answering our question in a little different way, then, we may say that a successful marriage is a marriage that results in a family of vibrant personalities, free to develop according to their needs under the help and encouragement of others, and thoroughly happy in the process. There have been a number of recent studies on the extent of happiness in marriage. From a sample of 7412 marriages, Richard O. Lang found that 72 percent were rated as happy by persons who knew the couples well and only 9 percent were rated as definitely unhappy.' Katharine B. Davis made a study of 1000 married women and found that 87 percent of them reported their marriages as happy and only 12 percent as unhappy." Burgess and Cottrell found that 63 percent of the 526 couples they studied were happy in marriage and only about 21 percent were unhappy.' These and similar studies show that according to the opinions of married couples and their friends the majority of marriages are happy. 'This is indeed an encouraging sign; but we must be careful, just the same, not to let the appearance of happiness among the majority blind us to the facts of marriage failure among the few. It is good that marriages are generally successful, but, even so, the fact that from g to 21 percent of them are Hornell Hart and Ella B. Hart, Personality and the Family, p. 211. *Ibid, p. 212. °E. W. Burgess and L. S. Cottrell, Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, p. 34. 501 unhappy presents a problem that cannot be overlooked. Unfortunately, the associations between men and women are not always pleasant. Marriage does not always result in happiness. Sometimes marriage fails, and when it does the result can only be unhappiness and misery for those involved. Some of the deepest and most lasting satisfactions of life come from the institution of marriage, but so also do some of the most disturbing and saddening experiences. Figuratively speaking, marriage can either lift a person to heaven or drag him to hell. Potentially marriage means happiness, and often, too, that happiness is achieved, but the sad thing is that in many cases it is not achieved, and misery takes its place. One has only to iook around him to see abundant evidence of the breakdown of marriage and of the untold human suffering following in its path. Misunderstanding, bewilderment, heartaches, tears, bitterness, jealousy, hatred—all of these and more are common in human experience, too common in fact. In 1930 there was approximately one divorce for every six matriages in this country, with the divorce rate continuing to increase. In addition to divorce, many families are broken up through separation or desertion; many more are living in a state of unhappiness, although holding together out of consideration for the children or because of the stigma or expense of divorce. Many of us know families like these personally, and those of us who do not are nevertheless made fully aware of the problem through books, magazines, newspapers, gossip, and the like. Broken homes, together with quarreling and 502 other conflict situations in homes that do not actually break up, give striking proof of the reality of marriage failure. We do not want to exaggerate the problem. But, on the other hand, neither do we want to minimize it, for to do so would be to shirk a responsibility and to lose an opportunity for service. The happiness that comes from successful marriage is within the reach of everyone. The fact that some have failed to attain this happiness should only serve to stimulate us to greater effort. What can we do? Preparation for Marriage There are many things that might be done to help stabilize the family and to make marriage successful in the full sense of the word. Some of these things have already been suggested in earlier lessons and others are to follow throughout the year. But first and foremost of them all is the idea of preparation for marriage. Too many people enter mattimony without sufficient foresight or training for the problems and responsibilities that lie ahead. Love is not blind, as some foolishly believe it to be, but rather it is the reward of understanding and effort. When people believe love to be something instinctive or blind, they are often blinded by this very belief. Love is something that grows and deepens with the adjustment that two people are able to make to each other, and intelligent preparation for marriage is the first step in this adjustment. Preparation for marriage starts before birth and continues on throughout life. It involves first of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 all good heredity, then good home and community training, then successful courtship, and finally adjustment and growth throughout the duration of the marriage contract. The early habit training of the growing infant or the courting behavior of the adolescent youth are equally as important to successful marriage as are the conscious efforts during marriage to play the game. Marriage fails sometimes because of inferior hereditary background, sometimes because of family personality traits that can be laid to early training, sometimes because of unwise courtship behavior or an unfortunate choice of a mate, sometimes because of an unwillingness to cooperate or to do one's part in marriage, and sometimes to other factors, or a combination of several. But always, where marriage fails, there has been inadequate preparation on the part of someone. Successful marriage requires more study and effort today than at any other period in the history of mankind. This is because of both the complexity of modern society, which has weakened the family in many ways, and the somewhat artificial environment within which many children are now reared. In regard to the first, it can be observed that the family is not now as simple and all-inclusive as it used to be. It now has to compete with a number of other agencies—such as the school, the place of employment, and recreational centers—for the time and attention of its members. This means, of course, that there isn't as much in the home to hold it together as formerly, and, consequently, there is an even greater need for special effort or preparation, In LESSON DEPARTMENT regard to the second point, it can be observed that in the days when families were large and were mostly on the farm, training was somewhat spontaneous and natural. Being close to nature, children picked up a sufficient knowledge of sex without much formal instruction, and living in a large family group they learned to sacrifice, to cooperate, and to perform the necessary household tasks. But not so today. With a decrease in the average size of the family and with an increase of the urban environment, it becomes increasingly necessary to put forth conscious effort in preparation for marriage. The Relief Society is attempting to do its part in meeting this great need, as is shown by the present series of lessons on foundations for successful marriage. It is realized, of course, that most of the Relief Society sisters are already married, and that in many cases their children have all married and moved away. But it is still felt that they have need for education in family life. Everyone has. The younger sisters will have children and adolescent youths of their own with whom to deal, and an understanding of the problems of childhood and youth will help them prepare these children for successful marriage in years to come. In addition to this, they should themselves benefit directly through studying and planning and thus laying the foundations for success in their own marriages from day to day. The older sisters should also receive direct benefit in most cases, but aside from this they are in an excellent position to help others—children, grandchildren, or friends. Marriage, as Latter-day Saints know it, is eter- 503 nal; but, even so, making it succeed is no simple task. There is need for the interest and efforts of everyone, regardless of age or the stage of the family cycle he or she happens to be in. Points From Previous Lessons You who have followed the "Education for Family Life" series in the Relief Society Magazine for the last three years have come in contact with over twenty different lessons dealing with the modern family. These have been written for the purpose of helping you to better understand the family, so that you can live more successfully yourselves and can help your children and others to obtain greater happiness in family life. You have learned that the modern family is not always as successful as it should be, and you have been given a number of thoughts or suggestions for understanding and improving life in the home. Among those thoughts were the following: 1. Approach family problems patiently, tolerantly, and intelligently. 2. Recognize and understand the fundamental differences between the natures of men and women, and try to build up a complementary cooperation with each other based upon these differences. 3. Put forth a conscious effort to make family life successful; cooperate, avoid the little things that may hurt or irritate, forgive and forget, be cheerful and helpful, et cetera. 4. Grow up emotionally. In other words, cultivate unselfishness, broadmindedness, and tolerance for the other person. Feel a responsibility toward your mate. 5. Make the home a place in which all of its members can feel secure and can have ample opportunity for personal growth. 6. Try to understand the problems of your children at all ages, adapt yourself to their changing needs, help them over difficulties, and train them for faith, in- 504 telligence, health, self-control, responsibility, et cetera. 7. Base family government upon democracy, obedience, and respect. The "Family Council Plan" was suggested in this connection. 8. Cultivate and maintain a religious atmosphere in the home. G. Handle the family pocketbook in line with a budget plan, and in such a way that both the responsibilities and the rights of all are recognized. These are only a few of the many suggestions for making family life - successful that you have read or discussed during the past three years. But this brief review may help to tie them all together into a broad overall picture. Then, perhaps, this general picture can well serve as the background for the new series of lessons just beginning. Conclusions This is the first of a series of lessons entitled, "'Foundation for Successful Marriage." The series will be based upon the belief that the primary measure of successful marriage is happiness, the happiness of all based upon the cooperative development of all. Many marriages fail to reach this ideal, which calls forth a need for such study courses as this to help prepare or lay foundations for successful marriage. But the foundations do not start with the marriage ceremony itself; they reach deeper into the courtship, into the childhood, and into the hereditary backgrounds of those involved. The problem of successful marriage is essentially the same as the problem of successful life. Next month we will discuss "The Heritage of the Home" as a foundation for successful marriage; from there RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 we will go on to the foundations that are laid in courtship, and finally we will discuss the problems of marriage itself. Problems and Projects 1. About one out of every ten adults in this country goes through life without ever marrying. Do you think his chances for happiness in life are better or worse than those who marry? Give your reasons. 2. What, in your opinion, are the major reasons for failure in marriage? 3. Of all the married couples you know, about what proportion would you say are successfully married? What do these famihes have that those you consider unsuccessful do not have; do they have more money, more prestige, more love and happiness, or what; in other words, what is a successful marriage? 4. What are the main points that you remember from earlier lessons on "Education for Family Life" discussed during the last three years? Can you add to the list given in this lesson? 5. Why is preparation necessary for successful marriage? Is it any more necessary today than in earlier times? - Why? When should preparation start? When should it stop? What practical value do you see in a study course such as this one? References Baber, Ray E., Marriage and the Family, McGraw-Hill, N. Y., 1939, Ppp. 195-199. Burgess, Ernest W., and Cottrell, Leonard S., Jr., Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, Prentice-Hall, Inc., N. Y., 1939, passim. Elliott, Mable A., and Merrill, Francis E., Social Disorganization, Harpers, N. Y.., 1934, 11-566. O34, P Pirdmel and Ella B., Personality and the Family, D. C. Heath and Co., N. Y., 1935, pp. 24-28; 210-228; 307-322. Ung, Moses, Modern Marriage, F, 8 Crofts and Co., N. Y., 1940, pp. 1-36. Ogburn, William F., "The Family and its Functions," Recent Social Trends, McGraw-Hill, N. Y., pp. 661-708. Popenoe, Paul, "Making or Marring Your Marriage," Hygeia, October, 1937, pp. 874-876. Ilisston Lessons Latter-day Saint Hymns (For optional use of missions in lieu of Literature) Lesson 1 (Tuesday, October 21, 1941) THE MORNING BREAKS, THE SHADOWS FLEE The morning breaks, the shadows flee; Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled. The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world. The clouds of error disappear Before the rays of truth divine; The glory bursting from afar, Wide o'er the nations soon will shine. The Gentile fulness now comes in, And Israel's blessings are at hand; Lo! Judah's remnant, cleansed from sin, Shall in their promised Canaan stand. Jehovah speaks! Let earth give ear, And Gentile nations turn and live; His mighty arm is making bare, His cov'nant people to receive. Angels from heav'n and truth from earth Have met, and both have record borne; Thus Zion's light is bursting forth, To bring her ransomed children home. PARLEY PARKER PRATT was born in New York State on April 12, 1807. He came from a line of ancestry that had been in America for nearly two hundred years. In early manhood he went to Ohio with a few books, took up some land in the wilderness, built him a house of logs, returned to his home town to marty, then took his wife back to Ohio with him, and there read and studied and worked, preaching to his neighbors meanwhile from the Bible, which he believed he understood better than they did. All this, of course, was before the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in April, 1830. —Parley P. Pratt. In Ohio, Parley P. Pratt joined the Church of the Disciples, or Campbellite Church, brought into existence by Alexander Campbell. The preacher who converted the young man was Sidney Rigdon, a noted evangelist. Feeling that he knew much about the Bible and that he could express himself well, Mr. Pratt decided to give up farming and study for the ministry. So he sold out his holdings in Ohio and went, with his wife, back to New York, where he intended to enter a seminary. When, however, he reached the vicinity of Rochester, New York, he was strongly impressed to stay there for a time. He sent his wife on to the old home, with the intention of Page 505 506 following her later. Thinking that his impression concerned his preaching of the gospel, he made some appointments for meetings. One day, he ran upon a copy of a new book. It was called the Book of Mormon. Someone told him the story of its origin and something about its contents. He was greatly interested. That night he read as much of it as he could, and was even more interested. The next morning he set out for the place where the new prophet, Joseph Smith, was staying. After a conversation with some of the Church leaders in Fayette, he was baptized and forthwith ordained an elder, an office in the Priesthood which authorized him to preach and to administer the ordinances of the Faith. This was in the fall of 1830, a few months after the organization of the Church. From this time on till his tragic death twenty-seven years later, he devoted himself heart and. Soul to the task of spreading the Gospel by tongue and pen. His little book, The Voice of Warning, and his Key to Theology have been read by millions. In 1835 he was chosen one of the Twelve Apostles. Elder Pratt had two very unusual gifts. He was an eloquent public speaker, and he was a talented writer of both prose and poetry. In the song book, Latter-day Saint Hymns, there are thirty-eight of his hymns and songs. He was the most prolific song writer in the Church. It was fortunate, if not even providential, that Parley P. Pratt came upon the scene at so early a date. WE the do not know exactly when poem "The Morning RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY, 1941 Breaks, the Shadows Flee" was written. It appears for the first time in The Millennial Star, in 1840. The Star was a Church periodical published in England, of which Elder Pratt was the founder and first editor. The poem was written, as the author himself tells us of his poems generally, out of "the melting strains of joy and admiration [wonder] in contemplating the approaching dawn of that glorious day which shall crown the earth and its inhabitants with universal peace and rest." That sentence gives the motive of the poem. There had been a long night of spiritual darkness, during which men could only grope for the light, and now the sun of truth was just rising upon the world. God had again spoken to man through a prophet. Great events were about to take place preparatory to the second coming of Chnist and the reign of our Lord on the earth. It is difficult for us who have become used to the ideas and the ideals of the Church to realize the enthusiasm with which the first members of the organization hailed this dawn of spiritual truth. The best poetry is full of images. It suggests pictures to the mind. We see. Accordingly this poem makes a series of clear sketches on the wall of the mind. In the first stanza, for instance, there comes before the mind the picture of a man at daybreak pulling a flag up to the top of a flagpole, with the approaching light in the background. In the second stanza, we see the clouds gradually disappearing before the rays of this new sun, which "bursts" over the world. The third stanza presents a huge gathering of people LESSON DEPARTMENT standing on an elevated piece of ground, cleansed from sin and, therefore, joyful. Then, in the fourth stanza, we hear a voice, to which nations listen, and Jehovah's arm is extended to receive His people. In the final stanza, angels descend from above, and truth, in the form of a book, comes out of the earth. This finishes a series of pictures, each part of which is representative. The light comes, the clouds move away, the people are happy, the voice utters truth, and angels visit the earth again. MANY great and important events are referred to in the hymn which mean much to Latter-day Saints: First, there is the restoration of the Gospel through the Prophet Joseph. That came through the visitation to him of heavenly messengers. This new revelation made many things clear that were obscure before. Second, there is the gathering of Israel, especially the tribe of Ephraim, into the Church of the Firstborn, and of the Jews to Palestine. Third, there is the idea that the Gospel must be preached to the Gentiles first and then to the Jews —a reversal of the process in the Christian dispensation. _ Finally, there is the idea, in the fourth stanza, that this spiritual light will have a curative value on the nations of the earth; they shall "turn and live." Such, then, is the poem, "The Morning Breaks, the Shadows Flee." At the same time that it presents to ' us some images, pictures, scenes that are in themselves beautiful, it gives us a sweeping view of the great latter-day work—the revelation of it and its principal events. 507 [N the main, Mormonism, as it is called, is a restoration. In this movement the Priesthood has been restored through the ancient Apostles, Peter, James and John; the Church of Christ has been established again with all its principles and ordinances; the Jews are to be gathered to Palestine; Zion, or the New Jerusalem, is to be built, so that the word of the Lord shall go forth from Jerusalem and the law from Zion; and a flood of light has been thrown on the "plan of life and salvation," the "everlasting covenant," by which both men and nations will be saved if they will but accept it. It is this vast, wonderful plan that Parley P. Pratt had in mind when he composed this beautiful hymn. Some poetry is merely beautiful, but this poem, while full of beauty, has meaning as well. A great novelist says that a story to be in the highest class must throw light on something. This song by Elder Pratt does this; it lights up the purposes of God in the "last days." Questions 1. Select from this poem the stanza you consider the most beautiful and then memorize it. It is a wholesome thing to be able to recite poetry. Maybe you can memorize the entire hymn. 2. How many distinct pictures do you have from this poem? Can you see the images clearly? You may add some details of your own in order to complete the picture. 3. Now change the pictures to thoughts. What does dawn here spoken of mean? The clouds? The arm and voice are whose? 4. Tell the details of Elder Pratt's life. 5. What distinct movements, or events, are mentioned here? Tell about each. Directions For Popcorn Cake And Rainbow Paper Logs (Mentioned at Relief Society General Conference, Work Department, April 2, 1941) Emma G. Phillips, President, Liberty Stake Relief Society POPCORN CAKE 24 cup white Karo corn syrup 2 tb. Vinegar 2 cups sugar 2 tb. Melted butter 24 cup boiling water 2 teas. Vanilla 2 teas. Cream of tartar Y% teas. Baking soda Bring to a boil syrup, water, vinegar, sugar and cream of tartar. Boil until it spins a good thread. Remove from fire and add baking soda, butter and vanilla. Pour this syrup over 7 quarts of popped, unsalted popcorn. Stir and pack solidly into a sponge-cake mold, preferably one with a removable bottom. Work rapidly and fill in remaining holes with popcorn until the top looks like a sponge cake. Cool, unmold and put candle in the center. The outside may be trimmed with candy hearts or gumdrops by using additional syrup. Cut like a cake and serve. Especially good for children's parties. RAINBOW PAPER LOGS 2 lbs. Rock salt 2 lbs. Copper sulphate 25 cents worth strontium nitrate (This produces a blue flame, but if a red and blue flame is desired then 25 cents worth of barium is added to the above.) Pour 2 1/2 gallons of hot water over the above ingredients. 'This solution is best prepared in a five-gallon crock jar. Prepare the newspaper by rolling each sheet of paper very tightly and tying the same. The length of the completed log would be the width of the newspaper. The secret of a good log lies in the rolling of each sheet of paper very tightly and tying. Individual rolls of paper would be finally tied all together to form the size of the log desired. The end of the finished newspaper log would then be immersed in the solution and soaked thoroughly and then reversed. The log must then be thoroughly dried before it will be ready to burn in the fireplace. Page 508 YEAR ONCONDITIONAL GUARANTEE... ON COMPLETE REFRIGERATING SYSTEM Only the GAS REFRIGERATOR Offers you this protection STAYS SILENT LASTS LONGER See the beautiful new models MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY Your GAS Company "L. D. S. Training Pays!" Yes! America is a land of opportunity... But only for those who do something about it! — Thorough business training will help you to succeed—and this is the right school for that training. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH (Just mail us a card for information) Ogden, Utah 466 24th St. Dial 7523~ LARKIN MORTUARIES To believe in immortality is one thing, but it is first needful to believe in life. Robert Louis Stevenson. Los Angeles, California 6003 Compton Avenue Jefferson 1244 Salt Lake City, Utah 260 East South Temple Dial 4-9126 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 ONE of the most significant circumstances in connection with the settling and development of the InterMountain West was the closeness with which the printing press followed on the heels of the first bands of pioneers. It is too much to say that human progress runs parallel to the growth and spread of printing, which someone has aptly called “The art preservative of all arts.” Those hardy settlers evaluated properly the power of the printed word. To us of the present who aspire to a place in this noble heritage which those early-day printers left a heritage which it is our hope is reflected in the kind of service we render our clients Whether it is a periodical or a letterhead, an elaborate book, or us a ticket, that you want printed, your requirements will receive prompt, careful attention. THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah PIONEER PRINTERS AND BINDERS OF THE WEST When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine . THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.  VOL. 28, NO. 8 LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER AUGUST, 1941THE COVER Great Salt Lake T.J. Howells, M.D. Great Salt Lake- the Salt Sea of America! I cannot remember how long, how wide or how deep it is. These facts are crowded out of my memory by scenes and events of my childhood. I love the Lake. It was the scene of my mother's romance. It was the resort of the Pioneers. The Pioneers loved it as they looked down for the first time on its blue waters and wasted shores. It has tied itself into our history and our lives. Black Rock, Garfield, and Saltair — these are names to conjure with. The Garfield resort was the playground for the children of our Pioneers. A narrow-gauge railroad connected it with Salt Lake City. What an adventure, what days of preparation and what planning to get there! Baskets bursting with good food, a family party, a family shrine, a place to meet your neighbors and friends, days of unforgettable pleasure and nights of romance! A specimen of crystallized salt was to be found in most of the parlors in the early homes of this city, and a horseshoe was the favorite pattern. Memories are definitely tied up to the great holidays of sum-mer, and they center around 'The Lake" — popcorn, soda water, and fireworks. More interesting and beautiful than all else are the wonderful sunsets seen over its lighted waters. People all over America speak in reverence today of a Salt Lake sunset. Yes, I love the lake, and its briny waters still fascinate me. I hope it can always be a pleasure ground for the descendants of our Pioneers. Editor's Note: The cover picture, "Launching a Boat On Great Sah Lake," is from a photograph by Doctor T. J. Howells. This photograph is of interest because of the subject and also because of the excellence of its com-position. The action in the picture is very good, and the expanse of lake is shown to advantage. The art work on the cover is by Evan Jensen. Costs so LITTLE DOES SO MUCH! UTAH POWER & LIGHT oo BRIGHAM YOUNG knew the Value and Importance of GOOD BREAD That's why he asked the Relief Society to store grain Yas! "L. D. S. Training Pays!" America is a land of opportunity... But only for those who do something about it! — Thorough business training will help you to succeed—and this is the right school for that training. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH (Just mail us a card for information) The BIG WHITE LOAF of — Fishers BETTER BREAD is Fully ENRICHED With Vitamins and Iron Index to Advertisers Deseret Book Company Fisher Baking Company c L. D. S. Business College Larkin Mortuaries Utah Power & Light Co. >» GG 1 Inside Back Cover Fly-leaf Fly-leaf Inside Back Cover Fly-leaf Outside Back Cover When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine The Relief Society Magazine Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. 28 AUGUST, 1941 No. 8 Contents Special Features The Cover—Great Salt Lake—T. J. Howells, M. D.......Inside Front Cover Back of Frontispiece—Relief Society Pioneer Day Float  509 Frontispiece—Relief Society Pioneer Day Float........... 510 Aunt Em and the Gathering of the Wheat.......... Rosannah C, Irvine 511 A Chinese Mother _........ Elsie Young 515 Priscilla Livingston Evans...........John Henry Evans 518 "Song Passes Not Away" —.....Carlton Culmsee 521 Home Accident Prevention........531 The Show Is Only—Anna Prince Redd........ 532 Fiction A Pinch of Dust is a Dollar...Martha Robeson Wright 525 The Merry-Go-Round—Chapter Five............Alice Morrey Bailey 544 General Features Happenings...Annie Wells Cannon 538 Editorial: Friendliness in Church Gatherings..............539 Death of Sarah M. McLelland...541 Notes to the Field: Cooperation Urged in Campaign for Non-use of Liquor and Tobacco.............. 542 Some Literary Friends—No. IX ("Character Education'')........ Florence Ivins Hyde 550 Notes from the Field.................. Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 554 Lessons Theology and 'T'estimony—Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage, Chap.  564 Visiting Teacher—Prayer as an Expression of Faith ..............565 Work-and-Business—Judging Qualities In Materials ....... 567 Literature—Humor—Its Meaning, Principles Governing, and Mediums of Expression Social Science—The Heritage of the Home..............Mission—"O My Father, Thou That Dwellest?. 579 Poetry So Near the Heart Eva Willes Wangsgaard 520 TINEETCESSIONCelia Van Cott 524 From These....Hortense Spencer Andersen 530 A Time For Magic............... Nellie O. Parker 549 Anna H. Michie 563 Gospel Heritage. P. Parry 578 Life Has Loveliness................Lucy Goodrich Lind 26 PUBLISHED MONTRLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 2438. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. Relief Society Pioneer Day Sloat THE Pioneer Day celebration held in Salt Lake City this year was made impressive by a parade in which were entered many beautiful floats interpreting the life, the culture and the accomplishments of the Pioneers. The eleven Salt Lake City stakes joined with the General Board in entering a gorgeous float to represent Relief Society. This float was entitled "Eternal Progress" and depicted the steady climb of the women of the Church toward "'light" and "truth." The body of the float was made of white snow-cloth heavily fringed with blue and white Cellophane. Broad terraces made of white Chryscelo floral sheeting with the graduating sidés in gold Fabricoid lead up to a queenly golden-haired figure representing the "Spirit of Relief Society." This lovely woman was crowned with a goldenglitter crown on which was inscribed in silver-glitter letters the word "light." Held aloft in her hand was a golden torch with a white-glitter flame. The crown and torch symbolized "truth" and "light." On the various terrace levels were stately golden-haired women gowned in flowing white Grecian robes and wearing golden-glitter olive leaf wreaths for headdresses. These women represented various Relief Society activities which advance women on their upward climb. Music was represented by Ruth Jensen Clawson, of Ensign Stake, carrying a lyre; education by Gertrude R. Garff, of Highland Stake, holding a golden book; sewing by Vera J. Giles, of Ensign Stake, carrying a dainty sewing basket; and social welfare by Norma. P. Anderson, of Bonneville Stake, carrying a golden basket of fruit with an abundance of welfare supplies in attractively-wrapped boxes at her feet. Nina O. Edward, of Salt Lake Stake, represented the 'Spirit of Relief Society." The words 'Relief Society'' in raised blue letters were prominently mounted on a background of gold Fabricoid on the nose of the float Other touches of blue here and there on the float were effective and carried out the Relief Society colors—gold and blue. Pauline T. Pingree was chairman of a joint committee of the General Board and Salt Lake City stakes which planned this beautiful float. The Relief Society Magazine Vol. 28 AUGUST, 1941 No. 8 Aunt Em And The Gathering Of The Wheat Rosannah C. Irvine N: the year 1870 woman's suffrage came into effect in Utah. Soon after that the idea began to take form that as long as women had the vote they should also have a "voice" by which they might express their opinions. Therefore, in 1872 the Woman's Exponent came into being. Sister Emmeline B. Wells early became associated editorially with this publication, becoming associate editor in 1875 and editor in 1876. Although there are many Relief Society women today who did not know Sister Wells personally, "Aunt Em," as she was affectionately called, is well known to all for the splendid work she did for the Society and for the Church in her long years of activity. The old saying that precious things are wrapped in small packages applies to this dear little soul. She was tiny and fragile as a rare bit of china, but with a mentality and an indomitable will that beggars description. One day while Sister Wells was working at her desk in the office of the Woman's Exponent, which was located in a little building on the corner of South Temple and State streets on the site now occupied by the Alta Club, Brother George Reynolds came to her with a message from President Young. He said, "Sister Wells, Brother Brigham ~ wants to see you at his office alone." You may be able to imagine Sister Wells' feelings. At that time, Eliza R. Snow presided over all the women's organizations of the Church. Aunt Em assisted with the secretarial work. Brother Reynolds was emphatic that the President wanted to see Sister Wells alone. Sister Wells at that time, September, 1876, probably lacked some of the assurance that she later gained through her many years of experience. But if she had fears, she also had courage. She went to see the President. Her wonder and perturbation were not lessened when President Young, without preliminaries, said, "Sister Emmeline, I want to give you a mission; and it is to save grain.... I want you to begin by writing the strongest editorial that you can possibly write upon the subject." The President said that the brethren had not been doing their duty as they had been advised to do; that he had been riding around through the valleys and had seen their neglect. The men of the Church had been constantly warned to have on hand enough Page 512 wheat and flour to sustain not only their own families but also one extra family for at least two years. He said that the day was coming when the people of the earth by the thousands would come to Zion to be fed; that there would be famine in the world and preparation must be made for that emergency. Aunt Em, as all other faithful Saints, yielded unquestioning obedience to the word of the Prophet of the Lord. She believed implicitly in his right and power to speak with inspiration. She was overwhelmed with the magnitude of the mission, but she didn't doubt for an instant the divinity of the call. She went at once to consult Sister Snow in her apartment in the Lion House. The President's office was at that time, as for many years after, in the building located between the Beehive House and the Lion House. Aunt Em told Sister Snow of the interview with President Young, and added, "Sister Eliza, you have a great work to do." Sister Snow exclaimed in her short, brusque way, "Indeed, it's not my work. It's your work. If Brother Brigham had wanted me to do it, he would have sent for me." While Aunt Em didn't doubt for an instant the inspiration of the President, the call was so sudden and so unusual that she felt as if she could not attempt it without counsel and encouragement. So she went next to her husband, Daniel H. Wells, « and told him about the call and asked him to write the editorial for her. He refused, saying, as Sister Snow had said, that it was her work, not his. He did agree, however, to go with her to the President when she was prepared to submit the editorial to Brother Brigham for his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 approval. The editorial when written was submitted to President Young who added one paragraph for emphasis, in which he said, "The brethren are to assist them [the sisters] in carrying out this enterprise, both for the building of the storehouses and also in obtaining grain to fill them to preserve for future need." The editorial was published in the Woman's Exponent, October 15, | 1876. It was the fulfillment of responsibilities such as this that developed the ability and character of this successful woman. A meeting held November 11, 1876, the Central Grain Committee was formed. By motion of Sister Eliza R. Snow and the unanimous vote of those assembled, Sister Wells was appointed chairman. She selected Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Bathsheba W. Smith as her assistants. 'Throughout the Church subcommittees were formed. Immediate action was taken toward getting grain and learning the best methods of caring for it. In the year 1877, the year of the death of President Young, the sisters not only bought wheat and exchanged the labor of their hands for grain, but after the harvesting went into the fields in large parties and gleaned. In those days, the method of harvesting wheat was very different from the methods used in this mechanical age. There were only a few mowing machines; there were many more scythes. Gleaning was more productive, no doubt, than it would be today. Though primitive, it must have been a beautiful picture, the women and children following after the sturdy reapers as they mowed down row after row of the golden, waving AUNT EM AND THE GATHERING OF THE WHEAT grain. One recalls the story of the ancient days when Ruth gleaned in the fields of Boaz. And he, seeing her so young and beautiful following the reapers, told his young men to be kind to her, and to "let fall some of the handfuls of purpose for her and leave them that she may glean them, and rebuke her not." And also following the advice of Boaz to his helpers, our own men were kind to our women. Often they shook their bundles to add to the scanty store, and in other ways showed their interest in fulfilling the purpose of the Prophet. Following the counsel of the President, granaries were built throughout the Church for the storing of the wheat, and it was not long before there was a great supply of grain to be stored. In the beginning grain-saving was designated as a work for all the women of the Church. It, however, gradually became definitely and entirely a Relief Society project. The women, thoroughly in earnest in their desire to succeed in this worthy endeavor, thought of many novel ways, aside from gleaning, of increasing their store. One of the most successful methods was giving "wheat parties.". Tooele was among the first stakes to institute this rare and successful idea. A peck of wheat paid one's admission to the party. In this way many bushels were added to their supply. There were naturally many discouragements in the work in spite of the constant and diligent labor of the girls and women and _ the cooperation of the men. Russia, Canada, and other countries were raising such quantities of wheat that the efforts of the sisters seemed puny. 513 There seemed to be slight necessity for conserving the small gleanings. But the prophecy of the President still persisted in the minds of the women. Brother Brigham had said that the time would come when there would be a call for the wheat. The sisters accepted his word as a mandate, and the work went on. The granaries and elevators were filled. And then came the fulfillment of the prophecy. At the time of World War I, there was a proclamation from the Federal Government that there should be no hoarding of foodstuffs. And we, the Latter-day Saints, were hoarding wheat—hundreds of bushels of that most precious commodity. And there was want in other lands! The Government heard of our stores of grain. Men were sent here to investigate the condition and to demand a compliance with the law. When the matter was explained to. These agents their annoyance changed to wonder and admiration. They were instructed by the Administration to buy all our wheat, paying the regular price for it. This they did; the wheat was not accepted as a gift. By common consent of the ward Relief Societies, and through the courtesy of the Presiding Bishop's Office, it was decided to deposit the money received from the sale of the wheat in the Presiding Bishop's Office where it would be safe and where it would draw uniform interest. Each year the interest has been sent back to the wards according to their ownership in the fund, and has been used for maternity and child-welfare purposes. In some stakes the wheat interest has been pooled and administered 514 by the stake boards, while in others it has been held and administered by the ward officers. In no case has this money been put to any wrong use. Now after all these years, wheat is once again being stored while there is plenty, against a time of need. Once more the life-saving grain is being gathered and preserved for future emergencies. A portion of the wheat fund is now being used to buy wheat for conservation. THERE is an interesting item which should be added to this story of wheat. When President Woodrow Wilson and his party went through the United States speaking in the interest of the League of Nations, he came to Salt Lake City. Due to the severe strain under which he had been laboring for so long, his health was impaired.. Naturally elaborate entertainment had been planned for him in order that the people might meet him as well as see and hear him in the Tabernacle where he was scheduled to speak. He was met at the station and shown the city. Our own President Grant rode in the carriage with Mr. McAdoo, who said, "Mr. Grant, the President is not well. He doesn't want a lot of attention. He must rest. There is only one thing that he has expressed a desire to do, and that is to see Mrs. Wells." —President Grant assured him that it could be arranged. President Wilson, who had declined to occupy the President's suite in the Hotel Utah, was domiciled with his entire party on the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 eighth floor, which happened to be the one where ninety-two-year-old Emmeline B. Wells lived. Aunt Em was herself in ill health, but being told of the wish of the President of the United States for an interview with her, she was delighted, and a meeting was arranged to take place between his dinner hour and the time of the assembly in the Tabernacle. Our little lady was arrayed in her most attractive clothes with their dainty accessories of pastel scarves, laces, and tulle bows. She was ready to receive the President of the greatest country in the world. The President and Mrs. Wilson came into the room dressed in their evening finery. Mrs. Wilson had on a gorgeous black gown, with a large plumed picture hat. President Wilson sat down by Aunt Em and held her hand while they talked. "Mrs. Wells," he said, "will you tell me about the wheat?" In her inimitable way she told him the story. When he rose to bid her adieu, he said, "Mrs. Wells, I thank you for permitting me to have this interview. I consider it one of the greatest privileges and honors of my life." Aunt Em didn't consider it as a tribute to herself. She naturally appreciated the personal honor, but the tribute was to her Church. Many Relief Society members have heard Aunt Em say in public meetings, in her quaint way, "I believe that I am the only person in the world who has ever been told by a prophet of the Lord to gather and store wheat for famine—except Joseph in Egypt." A Chinese Mother Elsie Young Editor's Note: Miss Elsie Young (Kim Yeung), is a Chinese girl, and a very active member of the Church living in Honolulu, T. H. Her early experiences in the Church were very trying because of the conflict between her loyalty to her parents, their pagan practices and beliefs, and her devotion to the strong testimony of the truth which had come to her. Her earnest desire since receiving the truth has been to carry the message to her own people. This desire has been graciously realized in that she is now teaching the Gospel to a Chinese class organized in Honolulu. Her desire now is to introduce and properly interpret her people, their traditions, culture and customs to us in the light of the revealed Gospel of Jesus Christ. ELSIE YOUNG IN a modest little home in the city of Honolulu lived Mother Leong, a kind, matronly Chinese woman, with her husband and children. The alarm clock rang at 6:00 a.., mwaking the whole family. One after another they went into the bathroom to clean their teeth and wash their faces. In a short while everyone was through except Wingtong, the little grandson who was visiting with his grandmother for a few days and who just hated to brush his teeth. After much coaxing on the part of his grandmother, Wingtong finally brushed his teeth and washed his face very clean. After their morning grooming, the family sat down and ate their breakfast. Laid out on the table were scrambled eggs, canned sausage, boiled string beans and rice. In this home, rice is the staple food instead of potatoes, although bread can be had at any time. For little Wing. Tong there was a bowl of mush, a medium-boiled egg, canned sliced peaches and hot chocolate. After breakfast Kim Chin (Golden Coin), the elder daughter, started for work. Mother Leong asked her to buy some Chinese cabbage, a good-sized mullet fish, some sweet Chinese pickles and two pounds of roast pork. It was 7:30 a. M. Now. Mother Leong's other daughter, Yook Lan (Jade Magnolia), was on her way to high school. Father Leong had already gone to work. Kim Chin arrived at the Oriental Curio Shop at 8:00 a.m. sharp. All day long she waited on customers, kept the account books of the store and answered 'phone calls. She enjoyed waiting on tourists who seemed so pleased with what they Page 515 516 bought. Some of them would linger and tell her how much they enjoyed the sunny Hawaiian climate and the green trees. At 12:00 noon Kim Chin lunched at a restaurant. Then she went to do the marketing for her mother. She walked along the meat stalls at the market and saw displayed on the counters large halves of pigs roasted to a rich golden brown. She looked them over. They seemed to contain too much fat. She managed to get the butcher to slice her a piece not too fat nor too lean. After that she bought the other items of food. At 1:00 p.m. She was back at the Curio Shop. There were more people to wait on and articles to be packed and mailed. The Shop closed at 5:00 p. M., after a very busy day. KIM CHIN walked home and laid all her purchases on the kitchen table. Mother Leong had already cooked the rice. Now she looked at all the packages on the table. "Where is the cabbage?" she asked. "Oh, I forgot to buy it," said her daughter. "The meal will be very dry without any cabbage. Go out and get some right away," said the mother. In a few minutes Kim Chin returned with some cabbage. She washed the stalks of green cabbage and cut them up to cook. In this home all the food is cut up in convenient pieces so that it can be easily picked up with chopsticks. Within an hour the food was cooked. A pair of chopsticks and a rice bowl were set at each place on the table. Where Wingtong sat was placed a little rice bowl and a spoon. The food was then placed on the table and dinner was ready. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 Mother Leong ordered her little grandson to call everyone to dinner. "Yak fan loh! Yak fan loh!'" yelled little Wingtong, running from room to room. Soon the whole family gathered around the table and partook of the hot home-cooked meal. Suddenly Wingtong looked at his grandma and said, "Ah Poh (Grandma), I. Want a pair of chopsticks, please. I don't want to use my spoon." Soa small pair of red chopsticks was given to Wingtong, and between little chubby fingers he managed to use them quite well. The meal was delicious. 'They had Chinese cabbage, roast pork with soyo sauce, and fried mullet garnished with shredded Chinese sweet pickles and served with soursweet sauce. At the table Father Leong seldom spoke, for it is polite according to Chinese etiquette to remain silent while eating. Mother Leong and the children have adopted the English custom. It is so nice to have the family all together at meal time, and it is such a favorable time for them to chat! English is the language spoken at school and at work, but in order to converse with their parents the two girls have to speak the Chinese language. Yook Lan told her mother what she had done in school, using very poor Chinese in her conversation. Mother Leong, with a frown on her face, looked at her husband and said, "What has come over our children? They cannot even speak in their mother tongue." Father Leong shook his head sadly and said, "It is too much education. They are following the way of the white people. Soon they will forget the language and customs of their own race." A CHINESE MOTHER Kim Chin joined in the argument and said, "Ah Mah (Mother), this is an American country. We use the English language at school and at work. All day long we come in contact with English-speaking people, so we have to speak good English." "I do not object to your using English at school or at work. You must speak English to earn a living, but when you are at home please try to speak good Chinese. You embarrass me before my guests. I hope when you grow up you will marry men of your own race. I forbid you to intermarry. If you do so, your Chinese identity will be lost. Your descendants will not know their ancestral home." Thus spoke Mother Leong to her two daughters. AFTER dinner Mother and Father Leong drank their fragrant Chinese tea, an old custom of ancient China. Yook Lan cleared the table and washed the dishes while the rest of the family gathered in the parlor. Mother Leong kept herself busy sewing a Chinese gown. Kim Chin was busy knitting a sweater, while Father Leong read the Chinese classics. Once in a while he would stop and comment on the wonderful teachings of the great Chinese sage, Koong Fu Tse (Confucius). "Koong Fu Tse was a great teacher!" he would say. "Yes, even the Westerners enjoy reading his proverbs. They regard him as one of the world's great philosophers," Yook Lan would add. At length, Kim Chin turned to her mother. "Ah Mah, are you going to a party with that new dress?" she asked. 517 "No," answered her mother, "I am going to the temple with Wingtong's mother to offer a 'thank' offering. Little Wingtong is now an elder brother. The stork called at his home and left a baby girl. Tomorrow will be exactly one month since that blessed event." One month after the birth of each child in the family, Mother Leong gave a "thank" offering at the temple. For centuries past her people had kept up this religious practice. So early the next morning a male fowl was killed, cleaned and cooked whole for the sacrifice. Mother Leong put the cooked chicken on a plate and carefully placed it in a basket with a jug of rice, wine, canned ginger, two eggs and two rice cakes. Into a box she put a package of firecrackers, some incense sticks, candles and other articles to be burned at the altar of sacrifice. Wingtong begged to go along, and was so happy when his grandmother permitted him to do so. They boarded a taxi and were driven to the Chinese temple. There in the temple in front of Kwan Yen, the Goddess of Mercy, Mother Leong and her daughter offered the sactifice. While the two women lighted candles and burned incense sticks, Wingtong did his share by setting off a loud volley of firecrackers. After that, he kept very quiet and watched, wide-eyed, the bright glow of the lighted candles, the yellow flames of the burnt offering and the chanting of the temple priests. After the temple sacrifice, Mother Leong, with her daughter and Wingtong, returned home. She felt happy and satisfied to once more be a grandmother. Priscilla Livingston Evans John Henry Evans WHILE the Evanses were living in Washington, D. C., Mrs. Evans, on the invitation of the Associated Women of the American Farm Bureau, delivered an address in Chicago as guest speaker. One of her interested listeners was a man high in the councils in Washington, who spoke on the same program. On his return to the Capitol, he said impressively to a colleague: "If I had a group of women who could talk like that, I could organize the women of this country around any great issue!" And he meant just that. When we go behind this remark to find its cause, as we shall do presently, we shall come upon a very interesting tap-root quality in Mrs. Evans. But first, something about the facts of her life. Priscilla Livingston Evans was born and reared in Salt Lake City, and there she received most of her schooling. Her birthplace was a lot in the Eleventh Ward, for which her maternal grandmother, Ann Horrocks, had traded a yoke of oxen and a wagon that had brought her and her three small daughters to "The Valley" after she had buried her husband and their only son in shallow Kansas graves. From a Scotch father, Charles Livingston, Priscilla inherited a strong physique, rare courage, and a sense of justice and fair play; from an English mother, Ellen Horrocks, energy, thrift, an orderly mind, imagination, and executive ability. Graduating from high school at Page 518 sixteen, she took stenography at a business college, and at once got a job in a law office. Here she met, and later married, Frank Evans—a man who was to become legal advisor to the American Farm Bureau, a member of Hoover's Farm Board, president of the Eastern States Mission, and the author of a book— The Law of Cooperative Marketing. Mrs. Evans aided in the preparation of this volume. During those intense days of World War I, Mrs. Evans managed the women's group of the Convalescent House at the Walter Reed Hospital. She had charge of sixty volunteer women. In this service, the "Grey Ladies" of the Red Cross had its beginning, and Mrs. Evans was the first woman to don the grey uniform of that unit of the Red Cross. After being married twenty years, she began the study of law at the University of Utah, from which institution she took her degree, Bachelor of Laws. Part of the work for this degree, however, had been done at Northwestern University. She is a member of the Utah State Bar, and could practice law if she chose. Among the honors she has received may be named the following: director, and later treasurer, of the Neighborhood House in Salt Lake City; director of the Community Chest Board; chairman, for several terms, of the Salt Lake County Chapter of the Red Cross; chairman of the National Convention of the American Red Cross in Washington PRISCILLA LIVINGSTON EVANS (the only time this honor had ever been given to a woman ); corresponding secretary of the National Council of Women, an office which she still retains at the request of the other officers; president of the Relief Society of the Eastern States Mis- 519 honor she has received, the home is her chief interest. Mrs. Evans has always been active in Church organizations. While her chief religious interest has been the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, where she PRISCILLA LIVINGSTON EVANS sion; and guest speaker at various conventions held by the Farm Bureau, notably in Faneuil Hall in Boston, in Pasadena, and in Chicago. Few women among us have had such wide and varied intellectual contacts. Yet in spite of all the public served at different times as ward president and stake worker, she has also been an officer in the Primary Association. In addition to serving as Relief Society president of the Eastern States Mission, she has also served Relief Society as theology 520 class leader in the Washington Branch in Washington, D. C. Mrs. Evans was appointed a member of the Relief Society General Board, June 18, 1941. VERY person has a_tap-root quality, to which whatever he does may be referred to as a source. Mrs. Evans' tap-root quality is her intense love of folks. All her life she has been fond of music. She has sung in choirs and played the organ in ward religious services. Choral singing gives her great satisfaction. The divine art is essentially an art to give pleasure to others. This is particularly true of group singing. Law has also held her interest—and law has to do mostly with human beings, especially human beings in trouble. And surely the organizations to which Mrs. Evans has belonged concern themselves primarily with men and women in distress. It is this deep feeling for others that attracts people to her, as a magnet draws filings. All her life long young people have come to her for advice. They tell her things they RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 would not confide even to their mothers. With her they find sympathy, understanding, fellow feeling no matter what their age, as well as guidance and direction. Mrs. Evans never reads an address. That is one reason why an audience listens entranced to what she has to say. But she prepares it as thoroughly as a lawyer does a case involving his future reputation. When, therefore, she gets up to talk, she knows where she is to begin, how she is to go on, and at what point she will conclude, even to the phrasing. She believes with all her mind and heart in whatever cause she takes up. There is no half-hearted espousal in her efforts. This gives convincingness to what she says. Her style is fluid, earnest. She means you. That is one of the reasons why so many who listen to her go away saying, "I have never heard anything so stirring!" Priscilla Livingston Evans is what the late Professor William James used to call "one of the competent ones" of a generation. SO NEAR THE HEART Eva Willes Wangsgaard They lie so near the heart, these hours before The leaves are gone, when something seems to say, "The rose with its perfume will slip away. Then gather petals. Make a fragrant core For winter thoughts." I look beyond the door On children spending happiness in play Where crimson roses let no hint betray. That earth is calling back the wealth she bore. So every busy day is like a flower With petal moments rich in rare perfume That we may save against the lonely years. A heart can never know the zero hour If happy children once have filled each room, For echoes rise from laughter not from tears. "Song Passes Not Away" Carlton Culmsee "FOR SALE — Collection of choice paintings by the hundred best artists of the Church. Must be sold as a unit, but is priced so that the first bidder can buy it." This advertisement is an obvious fable. Yet it is pleasant to imagine the cultural delight which would come to the beneficiary of this miracle of marketing. Imagine her to be some housewife in a remote village or on a lonely farm. Spared the necessity of traveling to some distant gallery for a rare but fatiguing aesthetic orgy before the collection, she could bring out her treasures a few at a time and watch them disclose new facets of beauty as she learned to love them. One cannot help wishing that families in every city and hamlet of the Church could enjoy the leavening influences of such a collection. This figment of fancy has been created to increase appreciation for the fact that the idea, impossible as it is in connection with original paintings, can be realized in another art with comparative ease. Through the democratic inexpensiveness of printing, the productions of the leading poets of the Church or of the state can be brought together in a "pocket art gallery" cheap enough for anyone to possess. Such a collection of emotional and spiritual experiences shaped into forms of melodious beauty may justify its existence in many ways. Its values begin to be realized long before its pages begin falling from the press. As an outlet for versifiers in an age offering them relatively few dignified channels of expression, it helps stimulate them to creative activity. Merely to announce the decision to publish a representative collection of verse is enough to cause some poetic seeds to germinate. Not only that. Under the new stimulus some writers try to conceive and express broader conceptions, greater ideals. Writing to please the editor of Light-housekeeping Journal or Kitchen and Garden Magazine, 'the poet tends to fashion bits of tender sensuousness on such themes as "pansy faces nodding good morning to me" and "sun-gold filtering through the window curtains above my sink." But a church or state or national anthology may lead her to think in terms of the surges of a great people, vague but powerful yearnings and upward reachings. Improvement of technique also may result. There is a permanence and a finality about an anthology that leads some to do extra polishing. Also, afraid of being omitted, the humbler or less practiced writers seek criticism and technical assistance. Many of them study books of prosody and some even enroll in verse-writing courses. The editors of the anthology usually find time to offer suggestions for the improvement of poems. Scanning the verse as it comes out of the mail, the editors become sharply conscious of characteristic errors or deficiencies, and they eagerly seize opportunities to uproot poetic weeds. WITH little desire to be personal but with the aim of illustrating Page 522 this point, I wish to tell one result of my recent efforts to gather and polish verse for the second volume of Utah Sings. Certain defects appeared so frequently that, half in irritation and half in fun, I satirized them in doggerel verses which have proved useful to reinforce criticisms. If you do not mind I shall repeat them here, justifying myself by recalling that the Relief Society is preparing an anthology of poetry and that all readers of this article likely desire to improve their ability either to write or to appreciate verse. 'This first one is entitled: THE AGONY OF DISLOCATION Put not your thoughts upon the rack And turn them outside in And stretch their sinews till they crack And make them burst their skin. Thou shalt not write of truth sublime And dislocate the noun Merely to make an easy rhyme— Stamp the temptation down When you would sing of love divine And mountains grand and laughter gay And sugar sweet and satin fine And. Sweethearts true and fog so gray. I urge you, poets—draw the line At these devices of another day. THE APOSTROPHE CATASTROPHE The poets of a bygone time, Achieved effects in patterned rhyme By shooting holes in sundry words As hunters cripple winging birds. They disembowelled words like never, Over, beneath, amid, and ever. Instead of words that lilt and sing They gave us many a broken thing, Like e'er, whene'er, and ne'er and o'er, And 'tis and 'mid and dozens more. Let's use contractions of our own Unless they lower the poem's tone. In certain verse, to be colloquial Is absolutely right and okeal. Won't, don't, can't, shan't are all permissible, But 'twas and 'twere are only hissable. Don't cut your words to bits like these With scalpels of apostrophes. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 THE WEARINESS OF WORDS The man with the hoe Had a very long row; The serf and the coolie Would have risen unruly If fatigue hadn't harried them And bowed them and buried them. But we moderns have words that are weary as they From carrying burdens an age and a day. For example (unless there's been perfidy lately), The pines in the amateur poem are stately; If the breezes are blowing, those pine trees are sighing, And embers, sad embers, forever are dying. The dawns are all rosy, the brooks have to babble, And affection is tender to poets who dabble. The maiden's face shines, yet her nose is not greasy. 'Round the silvery moon the clouds are all fleecy. These words were all splendid when vivid and new, But they're tired—let them rest for an aeon or two! LUSTRELESS GENERALITIES The poet's task is double-fold; It's only half enough to hold Fierce passion and enthusiasm; They're vital—but everybody has 'em. The bard must lift his reader up— Give him deep draughts from the same cu The poet drank from when desire Or anger coursed his veins like fire. You can't use trite banalities And tasteless generalities. Avoid such blank-check words as wonderful, Magnificent and beautiful, Entrancing, fair and awe-inspiring— Such ashes are not meant for firing The tinder of your reader's mind. They leave him cold and deaf and blind. Don't rest with saying a thing is so; Use every strength of art to show What made the terror or the awe, The beauty or the power you saw. This is the poet's agony: The strife to make the readers see And feel as keenly, vividly As he did, in the burning rise Of grief, affection, or surprise. SONG PASSESS NOT AWAY Forgive me for devoting much space to these deficiencies. After all, although subtle artistry is important, sincerity of emotion and large, high conceptions often lift a piece of writing above mere technical trifles. It is such honesty and largeness of vision that we poets should seek. The reason we should seek them is that we owe a heavy obligation to our readers. Poets may no longer be what Shelley called them, "The unacknowledged legislators of the. World," and the word "poet" is no longer synonymous with "prophet." Yet we employ devices and powers intended to invest words with the greatest possible beauty and _persuasiveness, and so we must fuse powerful expression with high thought. Not that every poem must be either an epic or a sermon; but even a few lines can voice something of an inarticulate longing of a people or can help give form to vague aspirations or half-seen achievements. And an anthology that is serious in purpose tends, I believe, to make poets a little more conscious of their debt for special gifts they have received. There are, of course, anthologies and anthologies. There is the "pay as you enter" bus which may carry real poems but which almost certainly groans under a load of mediocre verse—or worse. For, being published for a profit only, it throws open its covers to anyone who has been placed on a "sucker list" for thymesters and has some naive dollars to spend. Such anthologies received an impetus from the depression. Some printing houses were willing to gamble on the idea because it promised to help them keep their organizations together and 523 their presses turning. Therefore, the commercial anthology racket has borne some rather wormy fruit, and most of it is, to say the least, exceedingly uneven in quality. But there is a place for the nonprofit anthology which is edited with discrimination and courage born of a desire to further some worthy end. An anthology such as the Relief Society proposes can satisfy a number of needs. It can be, for example, a monument celebrating the splendid ideals and attainments of the Society far more effectively than a marble shaft can do. "Song passes not away," Sir William Watson declared long ago. In a real sense, also, this anthology can be a history of the development of the organization; not a factual chronicle, true, but a record of the more important strivings of the spirit. Moreover, it can be a means of fostering and nourishing the aims and ideals of the Society. During the year of the Relief Society centennial and in years to come it can furnish readings appropriate for the family half-circle at the fireplace, for religious services, and for historical and other programs. It cannot help but reflect movements of emotion and thought, hopes and goals, defeats and victories. The first state anthology, Utah Sings, Volume I, mirrored currents that give Utah writings its bright glints of idealism and high desire. Also it revealed new currents of science, experimentation in art and in life; new beauties and uglinesses, doubt and faith. It is good to see trends as reflected by groups of sensitive artists and to meditate on what they may mean for the future. It is good to have the beauty into 524 which the poets mold crude experience. If the poets and the editors of anthologies deal frankly with themselves and honestly with their readers, if they try incessantly to develop their art into a flexible but strong instrument, if they drink at the flow of vital ideas from past and present, and finally if they try to create beauty out of the best emotion and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE--AUGUST, 1941 thought that is in them, they must contribute worthily to our culture. Wrought earnestly and yet imaginatively, an anthology can bring to any home—city apartment or village cottage or wind-shaken ranchhouse —a gallery of rich emotional and spiritual experiences, forms of rhythmical beauty that grownups will enjoy and youngsters carry away in minds formed to hold them. | & INTERCESSION Celia Van Cott The earth lies stunned by summer's heavy yield, Janus faced, exhausted in the sun. No wind waves stir spiced fragrance in the field; Bronze stubbles stand where dry baked furrows run. Fresh wounds mar the beauty of her side Where plow and spade wrest foodstuffs for the mill; The alder stands with naked boughs flung wide Above the creek where leaf-choked waters spill. When storm's dark wrath sweeps cloud banks down the sky The solar summer ends; the earth subdued Beneath a white jeweled coverlet shall lie In healing rest and through rest be renewed. & A Pinch Of Dust Is A Dollar Martha Robeson Wright ATHER relaxed in the hide-bottomed chair and sighed with content. "Well, them 'cukes' are all salted. Apples are packed good so they won't bruise. Looks like good weather for tomorTow." "T do hope they don't spoil afore you get 'em there," Mother said, her fingers flying as she knit. "Sure Tom'll be enough help to take along? Indians 've been bad up there on the way to the mines so Elly was tellin' me when she passed by here t'other day." Father was easing off his shoes and wiggling his bare toes. He didn't wear socks until it got cold, and this was only late September. "Don't you worry none, Addie." "But oxen are so slow. You'd never get away from 'em." "Tl figger that out when the time comes. Indians want horses most— fast ones. They only bother wagon trains that look like they had plunder. My wagon won't look any too prosperous." Father took out a black book he always carried with him—a little black notebook that he always kept notes and accounts in for each day. He wet the stub of a pencil with his tongue and then carefully wrote. I knew he was writing down about the apples and cucumbers. I thought about our wagon and the oxen. They looked wonderful to me. The plodding oxen never seemed to mind the heavy yokes. Everything was riches compared to what we had had before. Since we had come to be tenants on Uncle Jeff's farm, life was wonderful. As far back as I could remember there had never been enough to eat, but here on the farm we had everything —even so much we could sell some. There were two cows and plenty of milk and butter for all. Father had turned out to be a good farmer even if he had not farmed before. There were beans, corn, and apple cider made from windfalls; there was vinegar made from beets. 'There were so many apples and cucumbers this year that even when Mother made big crocks of pickles and apple butter and had the roofs all covered with quarters of apples drying, there was still so much left that Father was taking it to the mines to trade. My three sisters were asleep and there was just Mother, Father and me in the room. Mother would have plenty of company with the girls if I went with Father. But he had not asked me to go with him. He was going to take Cousin Tom. I wanted to go. "T could help as much as Tom and lot's more," I said grumpily. "I’m almost as big as he is, even if I ain't but twelve. Leastwise, I'm as tall." Father put away the little black book, turned and looked at me. "Jt ain't what you could do, Elizabeth. It just ain't no part of the country for a gitl—specially a purty one." He winked at Mother. "I'm not purty!" I got a bit cross for I liked being strong and husky like a boy and having Father call me his boy. "Red hair an freckles ain't purty," I added sulkily. Page 525 526 "They's some might think so," said Mother, as she turned the toe of the sock she was knitting. "Your hair ain't red exactly," she stopped and knit for a few seconds. "It's more like the color of a new gold piece I saw once." Then she knit faster and added, "You give up that notion of goin' with your father, Betsy. I need you here." "The girls can do all right," I protested, but I knew it would not do any good to talk any more about it. When Father said, "Elizabeth!" the thing was past arguing. He was going to leave before sunup. I made up my mind that I was going and that I would not be found till it was too late to make me go back. Cousin Tom came in. He was twenty. He was not much taller than I, but he was thick and strong. His hair was as black and straight as an Indian's. "Everything's all fixed, Uncle Ned," he said. "Both barrels so they won't roll?" "Yes, sir. Got the tarpaulin over em."? "Good. Well, guess we'd better get to bed." Father stretched his arms wide. "Ho-hum." Mother put her knitting in the bag that hung on the back of her chair. "Dear me, Ned," she said. "I don't like... I declare, I don't like your goin' up there to trade. Couldn't you sell around here?" "Everybody's got 'cukes' an' apples 'round here." — Father patted her shoulder, "Don't fret, Addie, nothin's goin' to happen—time's is gettin' easier." GOT up before the others the next morning and put on a pair of Tom's work overalls, an old shirt and a cap that Father had brought RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 from England. Even with my braids pinned up under the cap, I didn't look like a boy. Before I thought of the cap, I had thought of cutting off my hair, but decided that the trip wouldn't be worth that. I didn't like the color of my hair, with my schoolmates calling me "Red" and "Ginger," but I was proud of having the longest hair in the country 'round. I could sit on the ends of the braids. The cap saved me from cutting it. I wrote a note to Mother, gobbled a piece of bread, drank some milk and scooted out to the wagon and hid under the tarpaulin that was stretched over the barrels and fastened on to the sides of the wagon. Tom came out, and I heard him getting the oxen to yoke. Mother called me, and I knew she and Father were standing in the doorway of the house. "I can't think where Betsy's gone," Mother said, and Father chuckled. "She's hiding around somewhere, sulking," he said. "She's had her own way around here so much she's put out 'cause she can't go with us." "I'm glad you didn't let her. I can imagine how those mining towns are," said Mother—"gambling houses, saloons and...." Father laughed. "I know what you mean, Addie. Don't worry, Tom and I'll keep an eye on each other, won't we, Tom?" Tom answered, "Yes, sir' in a serious voice, and Father laughed again. I heard him go to the wagon and felt him climb on the seat while Tom was hitching the oxen. "Got the rifles and ammunition?" "Yes, sir, ''ve even got some extra back in the wagon with the box of A PINCH OF DUST IS A DOLLAR food Aunt Addie fixed up an' the bedrolls." Father took out the bull whip. "Whee-e-e! Git-up!" he holloed, and the wagon moved. " 'Bye, Addie. 'Bye, girls!" =£When Mother and the girls called, "Good-by," Father yelled in a louder voice, " 'Bye, Betsy." I giggled to myself. I don't know how far we went, but I was very uncomfortable as the day grew warmer. Then I heard Father say, "Well, guess we'd better eat and rest while the sun's high. Glad Addie got all that stuff ready. There's no good attractin' Indians with a fire. There should bea spring hereabouts I was told." The wagon stopped and Father was at the tarpaulin. He lifted it and sawme. "Well... I'll be...." He was so angry and so surprised, he stood there with his mouth wide open. I crawled out, rubbing myself tenderly. "Can I ride up on the seat? I'm sore." Father caught his breath. Looked as if he'd like to whip me. "I had to come." My throat was dry, and my heart was pounding. "Where'd you get that rig?" "It's Tom's. The cap's yours. I don't look like a girl, do I?" "Elizabeth, I don't like being disobeyed. I ought to make you stay under that tarpaulin all the way, but I guess that'd be too much punishment. You can't go back now. How could you be so thoughtless of your mother?" "T left a note," I said meekly, but my heart was beating excitedly. "We'll probably meet someone going back who'll take word for us. Come on, we'll eat and rest." Tom was working for Father so He 527 he could have something to get married on in the spring. He wanted to marry Selma Peterson, but she said she'd only marry him if he had something of his own. She kept Tom in anxiety all the time by being nice to other boys. Father liked to tease ' Tom a little bit, too. "Times are gettin' soft, Tom, when a couple's got to have a big nest egz to get married. You and Selma were born and raised here. You're used to it. Suppose," he added more seriously, "you lived in England in a nice little thatched cottage and had your own loom, then gave it all up to come out here and starve for the first years? Your Aunt Addie wasn't used to it, but that didn't faze her. I guess Selma's soft, Tom." "She's just practical, Uncle Ned," Tom answered very seriously. WHEN we finally got to the mining town, I got scared. I would have to keep my hair up under the cap all the time. There was so much bustle and noise; men were hurrying around, and the only women we saw were dressed up something beautiful. I told Father I'd sure like to be like them, but Father got cross and said, "I hope not." So I kept still, because I know Father always says, "Purty is as purty does." As Father turned into the deeprutted street, men raised an arm in greeting and looked peaceful, but Father said they'd fight and cut each other's throats for dust, especially after they had had a drink of whisky. There were signs in front of the general store: "EGGS—so cents each. "POTATOES—75 cents each. "SHOVELS—$15.00. "PICKS—$10.00," 528 Father pulled up by the general store, and I could see the dickering light in his eyes. Tom took off the tarpaulin and rolled the barrels to the side of the wagon next to the plank sidewalks. Father set some rosy apples on the side of the wagon and began to polish one on his shirt sleeve. He told me to start eating a "cuke." Men began to come around. "What you take fer them apples, miste®" one called. Father just turned the apples around so some of the yellow'd show. The owner of the General Store came out. "Hey! Vats diss? I puy all you stuff." "Get away, Jenson," another man yelled, "this ain't goin' to be your profit this time." Everyone laughed, and Mr. Jenson grinned. Then Father said, "How much am I offered?" Mr. Jenson had brought some gold dust scales out with him, and held them up. "Oh, we don't need no scales," yelled a miner, "a pinch of dust is a dollar. I'll give a pinch of dust for each apple and a pinch for each 'cuke.'" "Suits me," they all yelled, and started stamnpeding around like cattle. Father sold each man one apple and one "cuke" first, and after that they could buy as much as they could pay for. I noticed that some men's thumbs and forefingers were bigger and took bigger pinches of dust than others, but everybody seemed satisfied. Tom bought some grain for the oxen. The men stood around —a the juicy apples. "Ain't you going to buy something to take back to Mother and the girls," I whispered. "You go get something." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 "I can't, In supposed to be a boy." "Well, we'll all go in." We bought earrings for Mother and bright new calico for dresses and four hair combs for Selma and the three girls—three of the combs just alike so the girls wouldn't quarrel over whose was the prettiest. I tried not to look too interested. Father bought five straw shaker bonnets all the same size. We girls could grow into them. We carried the stuff out to the wagon and laid it on the tarpaulin, then rolled up the tarpaulin so it looked just like a roll of canvas in the wagon beside our bedrolls and the empty barrels. Father bought supplies and two money belts for him and Tom to put around their waists to carry the dust in. "You petter stay de night," Mr. Jenson.. "Thanks kindly," said Father, "but we gotta get back. We will some other time." "Injuns been bad lately. They'd steal de skin off you. Some white men don't like to work for gol' dust eeder. Pe careful," admonished Mr. Jenson., said F, were feeling good and got more than half way home when we met the Indians.- It was just after we had broken camp when a bunch of them came riding over the hill. "Get that hair out of sight," commanded Father, and I was so scared I just pushed it up under the cap and didn't take time to pin it firmly. The Indians came nearer and looked us over. 'The leader got off his horse and approached Father. They talked in the Indian language for some time, and Father showed him the empty barrels—even had A PINCH OF DUST IS A DOLLAR him smell them. Finally, the chief nodded and got back on his horse. Father started the oxen, and we went slowly away from the band of Redmen who watched us go. "That was "close," Father muttered under his breath. I was hot and sweating from fright. 'he heavy cap itched my head; and now that the danger was over, I pushed it back of my forehead, and one of my long braids fell out. "Get that hair back," Father said sharply, but it was too late. The Indians came riding toward us gesticulating and excited. "Damage is done," said Father. "The likes of your hair ain't been seen in these parts. “Take your hat off." My braids hanging long and shining in the sun, the breeze stirring my hair, made Tom say, "Your hair looks like fire." Fathér had stopped the oxen and sat looking at the Indian who did the talking. At length Father turned to me, "He wants to take you with him. He says the medicine man told them a sign of happiness and good hunting would come from the sun-god. He thinks you're it." "We gotta think quick," said Tom. "Maybe they'd just take the hair," I said. "Cut it off?" Youd think I'd struck Father. I nodded. "All we can do is see." The chief seemed to like the idea and held out his big knife to Father. Father said, "Steady, Elizabeth," as he cut one braid off, then the other. When both braids were in his hands, he gave them solemnly to the chief. Then he returned the knife. The 529 Indians looked like they were going to kiss the braids. My head felt queer. Everything seemed to be going around. After the Indians had gone, Father gave me a drink of water. I cried for a long time. "Guess you got your fill of this trip, didn't you?" said Father. EVERYBODY was. Surprised to see us at home. They'd given us up for having been massacred by the Indians. 'Tom was surprised to see Selma there with Mother. Selma gave a shriek and ran to 'Tom and hung on to him so tight that he lifted her off the ground. "We thought you were scalped by the Indians," said Mother weeping with joy. "I could just see Betsy's beautiful long hair a hanging on to some Indian's belt." I gulped, but I couldn't say anything. I just jerked off my cap and stood there. Mother let out a shriek and clutched Father. "My poor little girl! They scalped her!' We all began to cry, and it set up an awful din. Father began to get mad. "She ain't scalped. It'll grow out. It's her own fault for comin' along." When Father told Mother. All about it, she dried her eyes at once. "Serves you right, Betsy," she said in a firm voice. "It's a just punishment. You'll look like a boy now all right." "All come into the house," said Father, and he and Tom took in all the things we had brought home. Father handed one of the bonnets to Selma. "For the bride," he said, with a little bow. Selma blushed and said, been asked outright yet." Then Tom got red, and said, 530 “I was waiting to see if you liked that Taggart better'n me." "I knew I didn't the minute I heard you was dead by the Indians," said Selma, and she blushed fit to kill when we all screamed with laughing. Father said, "No, he's alive. You won't change your mind though, I hope." I began to feel proud that I had been through that trip, for the girls were looking at me like I was something wonderful. I knew I could get them to do anything I wanted all winter, just by offering to tell them all that had happened. Father was sitting in his chair writing in his little black book. Mother, who had been shaking her head to make the new earrings dangle, stopped to say, "The presents are... Purty, but it's you:. It's you bein' back safe that counts." Father cleared his throat and looked out the window a minute. "Tradin's getting soft," he said. ""I didn't have to dicker about them apples and 'cukes' at all.. They set their own price—high, too. I'm takin' this dust and buyin' me some merchandise, and I'm goin' to start a store. When you don't have to dicker with folks, then its time to start a store. Tom, you can be my clerk." "Yes, sir," said Tom. That is how my Father started the first general store in our part of the country. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 FROM THESE Hortense Spencer Andersen These children that, though varied, still reflect Their current day almost without defect, And like a handglass held close by, reveal The fertile, careful genius which yet guides Their eager, lusty growth toward some ideal, Will surely change as life with time collides. The years that have it in their constant power To alter and modify from hour to hour, Let them not steal the precious youthful zest, Nor dull the gallantry, nor sweep away The carefree, buoyant laughter; no, nor wrest From these the trust that lights their way today. Home Accident Prevention THE seriousness of the accident problem reported by the American Red Cross in its publication "Home and Farm Accident Prevention' awakens us to the fact that no one can afford to be indifferent to accidents and their tragic consequences. This publication. States that 10 million persons are injured annually; that 32,000 are killed annually in home accidents. It suggests a number of simple activities that can be carried on in the home in the interest of decreasing the high accident rate. These will be published serially in the Magazine during the next few months. In view of the fact that half of the home accident fatalities are due to falls, the first suggestions are made with regard to preventing falls: A. B. I. To Prevent Falls at Home Stairs Stairs should have strong rails securely fastened, sufficient headroom, and should be lighted. Rugs, especially small ones, should not be put at head or foot of stairs, or on landings. If any rugs are used they - should have non-skid material or mats under them to hold them to the floor and prevent their slipping. Carpets used on stairs should be held in place by strips securely nailed down to prevent slipping or rolling. A tear' or rip in the carpet material should be mended at once. Worn or broken steps should be replaced or repaired at once. Stairs should be clear of articles such as toys, brooms, flower stands, etc. Carrying too heavy a load while climbing or descending stairs often causes a fall or a serious strain on the muscles. Floors To prevent waxed floors from causing falls, use less wax and more rubbing. Rugs on floors should have non-skid material or pads to hold them in place and prevent slipping. Mop up grease or water at once. Repair holes in the floor. Teach children early in life to pick up toys, books, etc., after using them.. Bathroom Provide strong hand holds within reach for person to use when getting in and out of tub and shower. Place rubber mat in the bottom of tub or shower to prevent slipping while in standing position. E. Have stationary soap dish to prevent soap falling into tub.. Ladders, Chairs, Etc. Ladders should be strong, safe and properly locked and placed in position before using. Discard them the minute they are not sound. Don't set a ladder up straight for climbing. Give it some slope so it won't tip backward; set the base of the ladder carefully before starting up. Chairs, boxes, small tables, etc., are never safe when used as substitutes for ladders. When going up or down a ladder, hold to the sides of the ladder, not to the rungs. Porches Keep in constant repair. A porch with a too slanting floor, rotten foundation and leaky eave trough will cause a fall on a wet cold day. Provide strong railings. Build gates for protection of small children at head of steps. F. Icy Surfaces Use salt on steps and porches to melt ice. Scatter ashes or sand on walks to prevent slipping.. Falling Objects Leaning and crumbling chimneys will surely fall some day. Dead limbs from trees in the yard should be cut out | before they fall. Don't leave things to fall out of any window or off railings. Warped boards should be removed from walks. Ends of boards should be fastened down. Nails should be promptly removed from loose boards. Page 53The Show Is On! Anna Prince Redd INDIAN MOTHER CRES and acres of gleaming A sand, cactus, yucca and lizards; mile upon mile of bleached alkali, tufted with coarse grass and scrawny brush; land of wonder and enchantment, cut through with flaming canyons worn by the water of centuries; towering green mountains, high, unexplored mesas, ship-like masses of rock standing majestically in the desert, ageless and solitary against unclouded skies; peaks looming a hundred miles away in the blue distances; land of silences and sounds—western New Mexico! Just outside her modern cities a vast area stretches into unexplored Page 532 canyons that guard the history and culture of an ancient people. Here, where but a handful of white people have ever been, Coronado, the Spanish explorer, in 1540 began his conquest. Long before Jamestown or the Mayflower, this was the land of a people whose homes still cling to the cliffs or top the mesas—skyline villages gleaming in the sun or standing castle-like in the desert. Here lived the first Americans, proudly proclaiming a civilization in many ways the equal of our own. Here their descendants live and die in a primitive state, making jewelry of silver and the sacred turquoise; making pottery, baskets, blankets, and intricate ceremonial pictures in the sand. Transcontinental highways. Crisscross the area, but travelers get only the merest glimpses of the alluring vistas and secluded spots that lose themselves in its vastness. Only on the horseback trips and side tours by bus or automobile does one really look behind the scenes. Since comparatively few tourists can or do take these trips, the town of Gallup, New Mexico, brings the charm, the culture and the traditions of this people to thousands of spectators every year. Nowhere in the world is there another such spectacle—the only allIndian celebration in the world. The white people take not the slightest part in the three-day fiesta except to play host. They feed the dancers, care for their ponies, provide hospital care, feed all Indian visitors at least one meal each dav, THE SHOW IS ON exploit their wares and direct the traffic. The rest is a gorgeous panorama so authentic in setting, so primitive and intense that it leaves one bewildered with its unreal reality. Ten street of the little city becomes a gateway; every house a tourist home if need be. From the spacious El Rancho and the famed Harvey House of the Santa Fe Railroad to the Catholic hospital high above the houses of the town, tourists find quarters and a gay, festive welcome. From pueblo and hogan, from brush shed and teepee, the Indians come. The first to come and the last to go are the tall, straight Navajos who arrogantly call themselves, "Dineh," _meaning, "The People." 'They come in light spring wagons drawn by cay- » use ponies or mules, deluxe automobiles, on foot or on horseback; some even "thumb" their way. Their bright blankets add splotches of color to the otherwise drab soil of their 15,000,000-acre reservation. As they come they chant and sing in shrill, clear tones that echo across the desert and strike against the crimson cliffs, to be re-echoed and lost in the stretching distances. TUG OF WAR 533 Bound for the big ceremonial, this thrifty tribe not only takes itself but its flocks and herds to graze nearby so that no one need miss the show and, incidentally, its profits. Ponies are loaded with Navajo blankets of the finest weave and patterns, squaws and men too old to walk, jewelry and furs for traders, and buckskin for Mexican boleros. Dogs and rattling pans are brought for noise, while sheep and goats for milk and for barter bring up the rear. Flutes of reed and tom-toms of hide make the music. The desert does the rest with thoroughness, coating everything with velvet dust and shimmering heat. From many directions come the strong-winded, stocky little Hopis, peace-loving and solitary. Beside them come the Pueblos from 'Taos to Zuni, the Tewas, small and funloving, and the wary, full-fleshed Utes from Utah and Colorado. From every part of the colorful Southwest they come. Dogs bark and babies wail. Over all is the acrid smell of burning brush and evergreens. In the town, every man, woman and child becomes ceremonialminded. Men go about in flashy silk "TAOS HOOP DANCES THE SHOW IS ON shirts and Spanish sombreros or in the beautiful velveteen smocks and white, slashed trousers of the Navajo. Women don long, full calico fe —cometimes two or three of them—banded around the bottom with orange, purple, yellow, red (any color goes), and velvet, conchobelted tunics. Boys go cowboy and Indian chief. No matter what the time of day, there is no mistaking the festive air of the least inhabitant. From toddlers up, the children are dressed for all the world like their Indian friends, with knotted, stringwrapped hair, moccasined feet, and trailing skirts. Painted, feathered, sashed and be-silvered, they take over the show. This is all good pow-wow to the Indians. They snicker and point as a party of bedecked Palefaces strut by. The Palefaces shout when a gaping Indian gets tangled up in the traffic and stands like a statue, mute and thoroughly bewildered, vainly seeking an avenue of escape. The laugh is only part of the fun, however. The children in Gallup never for a moment forget that they are hosts. If the copper boy doesn't right himself instantly, out darts a white boy to the rescue, and hand in hand the two squirm through the traffic back to the safety of the packed sidewalks. AT ten o'clock on each of the three mornings of the celebration, a three-mile parade moves through the streets of the town. The afternoon is given over to a fast-moving, thrillpacked rodeo. All this is but marking time until the unbelievable splendor of the night performance. At night Gallup comes into its own! Thousands of Redmen and Palefaces 535 face each other across huge ceremonial bonfires that light the arena. A hush falls over the crowds that pack the grandstand when the firelighting ceremony is finished. It breaks a little as the mounting flames push back the dark shadows of the scented night and then rises to feverish excitement. As the low boomboom of the tom-toms floats inward, followed by the pad of moccasined feet as the ceremonial dance begins. Into the circle of light rides a dignified Indian chief in trailing feathered headdress and buckskin regalia. Beside him is a beautiful Acoma girl, dressed in soft white doeskin, a single feather in the band around her dark, braided hair. The mincing steps of her pony are contrasted against the larger strides of the Chief's horse. "Behind them the Inter-Tribal All-Indian Band marches. After them come the fierce, war-like Apaches, doing their famous Devil Dance and wearing hoods, black buckskin molded like clay to their faces. The masks whirl fiercely without any apparent motion of the sinister heads. Arms and legs take on unhuman curvatures. Never still, they seem possessed of the evil spirits they seek to frighten away. No less elaborate and varied are the masks of the other tribal dancers. They are seen in every size from fitted hoods to nine-foot Shalako masks worn by the famous Zuni dancers when Shalako, messenger of the gods, visits the pueblo. Taos hoop dancers, oil-well Indians from Oklahoma, Cheyenne Arapohoes, Apaches, Hopis, Navajo Yeibichai dancers in the weirdest of all tribal masks, buffalo dancers, quail dancers, harvest dancers and 536 hunting dancers form a swift-moving, colorful spectacle that quickens the blood and sends an answering chill down the spine as the thousands of spectators send up one long cheer and lapse into awed silence at the unfamiliar sound of their own voices. The rhythmic beat, beat, of the tom-toms, the tinkle of tiny bells, the rattle of gourds and seed pods, the unearthly chant that rises to a shrill crescendo as the march progresses around the fire-lit arena, pulse into the far corners of the country, rising in intensity, dying to hushed monotony. The opening strains of "The Star Spangled Banner" float over the vibrant air. Rising to their feet, one grand mass of color and harmony, Whites and Indians alike stand at attention while the national anthem is played by the Indian band. There is a stricture in the throat as the last note dies away. The silence that follows is a prayer. Then in a burst of gaiety the show is on! Far into the night the dancing pulsates till the earth vibrates with rhythm. Each tribe outdoes the other in weird gyrations. With bonfire spotlights, towering mountains for backdrops, chants ten thousand years old the only stimulant to a delirious momentum, the Indians of twenty-one Southwestern tribes revert to the primitive. Time recedes, aeons turn backward as the hour hand moves forward. Daylight finds the ticket stub in your hand a soggy ball and every muscle of your body tense with excitement, but not with weariness. Too keyed up for sleep when you finally seek your quarters, you lie and listen to the hour-after-hour chanting that according to authorities. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 subsides only with the coming of the sun There is the barking of dogs and the smell of smoke and frying foods. The atmosphere is too hot and dry to breathe well. There are pangs of hunger. It is noon. Six hours more and the weirdest of all spectacles begins again, to end with the dawn and start all over again at dusk. Tomahawks couldn't keep you from the scene. HILE the Indians lie in lethargic sleep, you begin the tour of the exhibit buildings. 'Throughout the ceremonial, Indian craftsmen of all tribes demonstrate their handicrafts—both the finished highly-artistic products and those in the process of making. Navajo and Hopi tribesmen and squaws make and sell pottery, leather goods, blankets. Silversmiths make intricate designs on belts, necklaces, purses and beads— all before your eyes. A Navajo medicine man directs the making of the daily sand painting, the most famous and skillful of all the Indian arts. Under his direction, apprentices sift the colored sands through their deft fingers onto the smooth-as-glass sand base in the ceremonial lodge. At night the "painting" is destroyed with proper ceremony. The exhibit offers a sales outlet for fine Indian arts and crafts, but its greatest asset is its educational value. Through these exhibits, conceptions of craftsmanship are elevated among the Indians and Whites, and national and international markets are opened up. This is especially true of the Navajo blanket industry. | Navajo rug-making is the oldest living craft in America It had THE SHOW IS ON reached its lowest level of production ten years ago. Since the inception of the Gallup August Ceremonial, the industry has increased over one hundred percent in both quality and quantity, and the weaver is now getting a fair return for his labor, as well as a market for his wool. Exhibits of farm and garden products, grain, sheep, goats, horses and cattle are shown, which would rival those of most state fairs.. Prizes awarded in all fields stimulate the craftsmen to improve their work. They get new ideas from the displays to take home and adapt to their own individual art. The result is better products and more business. Demonstrations of weaving, pottery-making, Kachin carving and decorating are hourly in progress. Indian arts and crafts now attract 537 world-wide attention. Blankets, beads, jugs, decorative pottery, tomtom end tables, are gay additions to living rooms. The vogue for Indian design in clothes among the Whites is seen as a direct result of the exhibits. The whole ceremonial is an educational exploitation that defies description. Editor's Note: The Indians set the dates for the Inter-Tribal Indian Ceremonial held at Gallup, New Mexico. The exact dates vary from year to year. This year (1941) the ceremonial will be a four-day fiesta and will be held August 13, 14, 15, and 16. Pictures used in this article are by Doctor Carl E. Young, a devotee of Indian lore. He is particularly interested in Indian dances and ceremonies and is frequently in attendance at the Gallup ceremonial where these pictures were secured. TAKE time to work—it is the price of success. Take time to think—it is the source of power. Take time to play—it is the secret of perpetual youth. Take time to read—it is the foundation of wisdom"—Rueminations. LIFE is no brief candle to me. It is a sort of splendid torch which I have got hold of for the moment, and I want to make it burn as brightly as possible before handing it on to future generations,"—George Bernard Shaw, Irish Dramatist. HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon O'er-arched by August's deep blue skies The hope of spring resplendent lies. THE race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong." To this faith hold fast. It is things spiritual that conquer and survive the horrors of brutal force and preserve the beautiful way of life. Creative souls who gave the world its cultural glory are immortal, and out of the ashes of destruction they will build again. Such is the story of the past; such must be the story of the present! RUTH STEWART, aged seven, niece of a ship steward, said to her music teacher one day, "Paderewski came to see me yesterday. He played for me." It was true. The Polish patriot and the world's greatest pianist played for this little girl on her battered piano. These human gestures were as much a part of his life as his art; both were expressions of a great soul. BARBARA BRANDLEY, daughter of one of Utah's outstanding poets — the late Elsie Talmage Brandley — staged a unique wedding party this summer as she stood with her young husband, Norman Howells, son of counselor Marcia K. Howells, attended by six lovely sisters as bridesmaids. ROTHELLA WADE, of Salt Lake, won a prize and special honors for her designs at the annual exhibit of the Trephagen School of Fashion in New York City. Page 538 on COCHRAN was the first woman pilot to take a Hudson bomber across the Atlantic to London, where she landed successfully. MARY SPENCER CORNWALL, 80, and Tranquilla Brady Jordan, 95, are numbered among the notable mothers who passed away this summer. GEORGIA YOUNG, for many years an active officer in the Altrusa Club, an ethical social-relations organization, was a popular candidate for International President at the convention held in Roanoke, Virginia, this summer. FLORA CLOMAN, Washington socialite, one-time resident of Utah and: Idaho, later connected with United States Embassy in London, at 70 has written her autobiography, titled, I'd Live It Over. Walking the Whirlwind, by Bngid Knight, No One Now Will Know, by E. M. Delafield, and Of Men and Women, by Pearl Buck, are a few of the many worthwhile books by women recently published. IRENE PICK, student at a Polish university, was arrested with forty other fellow students, imprisoned in Russia and sentenced to be executed. Through the American minister she was released and is now back in the United States. She has many interesting stories to tell. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth Amy Brown Lyman - Marcia K. Howells - - Donna D. Sorensen - - Vera W. Pohlman - - Belle S. Spafford Anna S. Barlow Vivian R. McConkie Achsa E. Paxman Leda T, Jensen Manns. Juue Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Luella N. Adams Vera W. Pohlman THE GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE = President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Marianne C. Sharp Leona F. Wintch Anna B. Hart mets Ghee Ethel B. Andrew a Alice B. Castleton Gertrude R. Garff Priscilla L. Evans Secretary-Treasurer Second Counselor Donna D. Sorensen - - Vol. 28 OQ EDIT O RIAL —T, Friendliness in Church Gatherings POPULAR magazine recently published an account of a little orphan girl, eight years of age, who journeyed nearly 8000 miles alone from Norway, her name and destination stitched on the inside of her coat. Her knowledge of the American language was limited to two words, "Mickey Mouse." After landing in New York, the little traveler rested a few days and then was placed on a train by an attache of the Traveler's Aid Society and sent an additional 3155 miles to San Francisco, where a gentleman who had adopted her received her at the final terminus of a long trek. Greeting her in her native tongue, the gentleman asked, "How do you like America?" Enthusiastically the little girl answered, "I am glad I came to America. Everybody adopted me." The memories of her long trip were of kindnesses received along the way. She was alone and yet not alone. Everyone she had met had extended the hand of friendliness, and the long road had been made bright by human kindness. The magazine concludes the story by saying: "It is comforting in times of universal turmoil to read of something wondrously beautiful, something not yet perished from the souls of men." Friendliness and human kindness are universal needs of mankind. Without them one is lonely and embittered; with them one's spirit is light and he rises above the things that would defeat him. However, in every community, in schools, churches, clubs or social organizations, there are those who are denied these things. For one reason or another they stand on the edge of things. Sometimes it is because they are critical and bitter, condemning other people as snobs, blaming circumstances, feeling that they are unappreciated and misunderstood, that people are unfair to them. Sometimes they remain on the outside because they feel inadequate in some respect—financially, socially, or otherwise. Sometimes something has occurred in their lives that makes them withdraw from the group. Sometimes they are not a part of things merely because they are by nature Page 539 AUGUST, 1941 o. 8 540 diffident and retiring. Wistful people, they innately yearn to be a vital part of the group, to be friendly and to win friends, but they remain lonely because they do not know how to freely mingle with others. No matter what the cause, he who feels outside the group and who remains on the edge of things is to be sympathized with, and understanding effort should be made to bring him in and to make him feel an integral part of the whole. All too frequently, however, those who should be alert to his situation, and who are in a position to draw him in, either fail to recognize his need or are so absorbed in other (and often less important) things that they do not take time to give him the consideration he deserves. In some instances they, thoughtlessly no doubt, actually contribute to his feeling of loneliness. This is frequently the case in our Church gatherings, even in Relief Society. A letter received at the general office a short time ago is indicative of this. It read: "There are a few things that have been fretting me which I mention for your consideration. A lady who has been active and lived in the ward most of her life said she had bet her family that she could go to Sunday School and Sacrament meeting and not have one person speak to her, except perhaps the bishop at the evening meeting. She claimed this happened. It has also happened on other occasions." Church gatherings should be the most friendly gatherings in the world, because the Church is built upon the divine principle of brotherhood. The terms "brother" and "sister," so universally used in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 Church, are symbols of the fellow feeling that should characterize us 'upon all occasions and under all circumstances as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 'There is no organization more concerned with the well-being and happiness of mankind. Therefore, nothing should be lost sight of that in any way promotes happiness and good will. While a spirit of friendliness should pervade our meetings, it should always be properly expressed —never in whispering or other discordant ways. Elder Melvin J. Ballard said upon one occasion, "The future growth and strength of the Church depends upon our ability to win and hold and save our fellowmen." Friendliness wins and holds as do few other things. The Prophet Joseph Smith, in addressing the Relief Society sisters, said: "When persons manifest the least kindness and love to. Me, oh what power it has over my mind." Officers should never become so involved in the work itself that they lose sight of the people. Time spent in cordial greeting and in making a sister feel she is one of us is equally as important in holding her as is the perfectly conducted meeting. Members, too, must remember that while officers may at times be at fault, there are laws in friendship, and those arrive who observe these laws. And what are the laws of friendship? A wise writer puts them thus: "A man that hath friends must show himself to be friendly. That is to say, people who wish to have friends must do their share in the transaction. They must go half way at least. 'They must not stand around EDITORIAL waiting for people to speak to them, or hurry away without giving anyone a chance to speak. 'They must find pleasant things to say and kind things to do. They must make a business of friendship—study its laws, watch for opportunities, invest, dare and expect success. Those who practice the laws of friendship are 541 rewarded with an envious concourse of friends." Through cooperative effort, the spirit of "gladly meeting, kindly greeting" should distinguish all Church gatherings. Everyone attending any of our meetings should feel as did that little Norwegian girl, that "everybody has adopted" him. Ee Death of Sarah Mm MeLelland THE death of Sarah M. McLelland, for twenty-four years a member of the Relief Society General Board, occurred in Salt Lake City, June 28, 1941. Sister McLelland was the daughter of 'Thomas and Elizabeth M. McLelland, faithful Latter-day Saints who received the Gospel-in Scotland in 1841. Following the splendid example of her parents, Sarah McLelland was devoted to the Gospel and spent her life in active service to the Church. Endowed with many talents and great energy, she spent both in furthering the great latter-day work. She began her Church service as a Sunday School worker in the first Farmer's Ward Sunday School in 1876, and from that time on she held positions of responsibility and leadership in the Church. In 1909-10 she fulfilled a mission in the Central States and in 1911 did missionary work on Temple Square. She was called to the Relief Society General Board May 12, 1911. At the time of her call, she was president of the Granite Stake Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. As a member of the Re. Lief Society General Board, Sister McLelland met with willingness and efficiency the many responsibilities incumbent upon her as a Board member. She served on committees, visited the stakes, and accepted many special assignments. In 1913, in company with President Emmeline B. Wells, she attended the National Council of Women held in New York, and again in 1918 she attended the meetings held in St. Louis, in company with Julina Smith and Amy Brown Lyman. Feeling that her health would no longer permit her to fulfill the arduous duties of a member of the Relief Society General Board, Sister McLelland in 1935 requested to be relieved of this responsibility. | Her request was granted in April of that year. Her interest in the work of the Board, however, was pronounced until the time of her death. Sister McLelland has set a worthy example in her life of love and service. She has written an enviable record in the history of Relief Society. 'The General Board acknowledges her service and is grateful for her life. Vlo TO THE FIELD Cooperation Urged in Campaign for Non-use of Liquor and Tobacco OR some years past there has been functioning in the Church a General Campaign Committee, with Elder Joseph F. Merrill of the Council of the Twelve as chairman, and with each of the following groups represented: the Presiding Bishopric, the Church Department of Education, and each of the auxillary general boards. In each of the stakes of the Church is a similar committee, appointed by the stake presidency. These committees are organized to put forth concerted efforts to help curtail the increasing consumption of liquor and tobacco. The Relief Society regards it a privilege to be represented on these committees, to be called by the Priesthood into counsel, to give aid, and to lend influence to a cause so vital and far-reaching. The General Board appreciates all that Relief Society officers, committee members, and visiting teachers have done in the interest of this cause. It is especially grateful to the visiting teachers for their willingness to assist in the distribution of the many thousands of pamphlets sent to the stakes. All members of the Relief Society are urged to take a personal interest in these splendid publications and to encourage all members of their families to read and discuss them as family groups. It would be well to keep them on file for future reference for the younger members of the family. Mothers in the Church are urged Page 542 to become acquainted with the various activities of the Priesthood, auxiliary organizations, and the Church Department of Education with regard to the non-use of alcohol and tobacco. They should be interested and cooperative, that the children of the Church may gain the benefits and blessings intended for them. Space will not permit us to present a detailed account of these activities, but mothers may become acquainted with them through the local organizations and committees. 'They are broad in scope and are so planned as to interest our children and at the same time teach them the benefits that come. From clean living; for example, in the Primary program is included something specific for the Blazer Boy, the Trekker, and the Guide, whereby they may learn the importance of clean living. A nine-year-old boy, during the year he is a Blazer, starts the "health trail" and in a very unique way meets the "Vitamins." The ten-year-old Trekker continues on. He finds added experiences along this trail of health, and finally learns what the "Word of Wisdom" says about foods. The eleven-year-old follows along the "Guide" trails and learns to desire a strong, healthy body. To obtain it he is willing to follow the health rules given by our Father in Heaven. Therefore, a Guide will not use tobacco; he will not take a drink that contains alcohol. To further clinch childish impressions, the NOTES TO THE FIELD Primary is initiating poster projects on the "Word of Wisdom," emphasizing clean living. One attractive poster reads: ""Wormy apples fall before the harvest." 'This example of what the Primary is doing indicates the fine program that is planned by that organization to assist in the campaign. Mutual Improvement Association programs are laden with excellent materials and inspirational intrigues, to charm, win, and keep our sons and daughters "clean and unspotted." Special attention is called to a folder prepared and sent out by the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. 'The material is of special interest to our girls. Girls are asked to meet together in informal groups during the summer months to discuss this material. Mothers should encourage their daughters to keep this assignment. Special lessons are also planned for Gleaners; for example, the lesson for November, 1941, "I the Lord Give Unto Them a Promise," and the lesson for December, "Rally Round the Standard Bearer." In May, 1942, stake rallies of M Men and Gleaners, duplicates of this year's June Conference rally, are to be held. The rules for basketball players found in the M Men's Hand Book are excellent and should be read by mothers. If there is an Explorer in the family, mothers will be interested in reading about "Healthmen" from the Supplement to Log of the Explorer Trail, No. 10, to learn the requirements for a health merit badge. Explorers are to commit to memory the "Word of Wisdom." The Aaronic Priesthood project 543 for 1941 and 1942 deserves special attention. Every member of that order of the Priesthood is to prepare and give a five-minute talk in some Church gathering on the "Word of Wisdom." The Church Department of Education has carefully worked out units of study on the non-use of alcohol and also on the non-use of tobacco as regular parts of its course of study. These have been revised and enlarged this summer. It is also preparing a transcript, one side of which presents scientific facts relative to alcohol and the other side tells how the non-use of alcohol contributes to happy, joyous living. This is to be used on sound machines with pictures. The Sunday School has prepared an interesting and instructive film entitled, "Out of the Game," with a transcript which supports it. One side of the transcript is the story of a boy who was "out of the game" because of the use of tobacco. The other side is a sequel to this and is the testimonial of great athletes and coaches on the benefits of abstinence from alcohol and tobacco. The General Campaign Committee is anxious to extend its efforts to the boys in the army camps. When writing to their sons, mothers might ask them to be alert for anything that the Church might be doing to help protect them from temptation. All projects in the interest of non- 'use of alcohol and tobacco have teceived careful and thoughtful consideration and merit the heartiest cooperation of the mothers of the Church. The Merry-Go-Round Alice Morrey Bailey CHAPTER FIVE SYNOPSIS ALYN FORDYCE struggles against her husband, JOHN FORDYCE, who insists upon continuing his work at the Milton Nurseries, which he likes, but which pays only $150 a month instead of $500 which Alyn is used to. She thinks he is selfish not to humor her in compensation for her inability to have children, and is annoyed with his enthusiasm over a sport, or mutation, on an apricot tree —one that blossoms earlier than the rest. She wishes John could meet JUDITH WYATT, whom she has met by chance, a young woman of good breeding and grace, who is to become a mother. Humiliated by her friends, who know John's change of status and her refusal to admit it, Alyn decides the only solution is divorce. However, when she goes to fill the appointment with JUDGE OLDHAM, whom she has chosen to represent her, she overhears him denouncing a woman who apparently is surrounded by her same set of circumstances, and she hurries out of his office without waiting to see him. In desperation, with a desire to be independent of John, Alyn decides to get a job. ALYN sat aloof from the people about her, but felt rather foolish in the waiting room of The Home Acres Real Estate Company. She was very conscious of the presence of an elderly man, a slender girl, and a young man whose linen was not too clean. 'They were there for the same purpose as she—employment. The younger man and the girl were engaged in conversation. "T always figure this way," the young man was saying, "when you go Page 544 to look for work, remember this— you may be scared, but the man who is hiring you, he's scared, too. He's wondering about you just as much as you are about him. You are trying to impress him all right, but don't forget he's trying to impress you just as much, as a boss I mean." Nevertheless, the young man straightened his tie nervously when the secretary motioned for him to go into one of the offices. Alyn stirred to leave; this was no place for her, waiting with shabby people to be interviewed. But she was too late—the secretary's eyes were upon her, and her expression was one of respect, almost awe. Real estate sounded more. Dignified the Alyn than some other lines of business. She had thought of interior decorating or some vague executive position. She might casually talk to Vivian Preece who owned the Axdale Furniture Company — they had gone to school together— or to Farley Haight who had the art store. They would do anything for her. There were dozens of people she could appeal to, and, if the worst came to the worst, there were always her close personal friends. "Mr. Hendley will see you now,' the secretary announced. The young man who had preceded her into the office came out in a_ surprisingly short time and_ passed hastily through the room, head down, unwilling to face the girl, unable to hide his failure, brave opinions notwithstanding. Alyn went in. The THE MERRY-GO-ROUND man across the desk looked up with an expression of pleasant surprise, welcoming a deviation from routine. "Yes?" he said. "T saw your advertisement in this morning's paper," Alyn began. "Oh, that. Well, it's a beautiful house, but you are in the wrong department. Step through the door and ask for Mr. Thomas; he knows all about the property.". "I mean your advertisement about employment," explained Alyn. "You mean you want work?" Mr. Hendley asked incredulously. "Yes," said Alyn, "I do." The man's face underwent a change. The suavity of the salesman, the deference due a customer were gone. Instead, there was the searching glance of one who dealt shrewdly with those who might gain employment from him. He appraised Alyn as if she had said something preposterous. "Are you a typist?" "No," said Alyn, "I don't type." "Can you kéep records, or care for a file?" he asked. "No," said Alyn again. Mr. Hendley sat back in his chair and looked at her with something less than pity. "Perhaps you had in mind the selling end of the business?" he offered with an air of great patience. "Selling?" The very word stiffened a resentment in Alyn. Mr. Hendley saw it at once. "Yes, selling. Selling, my dear young lady, is the ground upon which all business is built—not buying, selling. Whether you like it or not, if you don't recognize that fact you have no place in the business world." His tone indicated his forte and left no room for doubt. He was a salesman and was proud of it. "T guess you are right," said Alyn. 545 "I had not thought of it in 'that way." "What had you thought of? You want work. What can you do? What has been your experience?": "None, I'm afraid," answered Alyn. "Well, in that case, Mrs...." "Fordyce," supplied Alyn automatically, and cold with tage and resentment at being patronized and scolded, she started to Astemmialle her things. ° Mr. Hendley continued, more kindly. "You could go to the State Employment Office; they may find something for you to do, if you must work." He seemed unable to associate the need for work with one so well dressed. "Husband out of work?" "No, my husband... " began Alyn and stopped; she could not tell this man anything of her private affairs. Mr. Hendley made a sympathetic gesture. ""I'oo bad, those things do happen." Alyn realized that he had mistaken her for a widow. "Frankly, Mrs. Fordyce, this is a hard world, a man's world. If you want to make your way with any degree of success, you must have some of the qualities of a man, and you must have something specific to offer or there will be no takers." How crudely he put it. Long afterward the words clung— you must have some of the qualities of a man, and you must have something specific to offer. ALYN went home wearily despondent. The recital of her lack of capabilities, humiliating, shattering, went through her mind despite every attempt to shut it out. She could not type, keep records, care 546 for a filing system; she was temperamentally unfitted for selling, therefore she was of no use in a man's world of barter and trade. Surely there must be something in her make-up that fitted her to do something reasonably well; there must be some place into which she would fit. She had thought herself well equipped to take a place in the world outside of her home. But just what could she do? She thought of combining her ladylike qualities in some way with commercial life, but she withdrew hurriedly from that thought. There was something distasteful about being charming for hire. The day's encounter had been enough and too much for her. John sat reading the paper and poring over texts on horticulture. Alyn pretended to listen to the radio, but in reality her thoughts made no clear pattern. She felt trapped, defeated at every turn. After an almost wordless evening, she went to bed to dream that she and John were swimming endlessly at sea; that she was towing John to a distant land, dim in the half-light; that he was heavy and resistant. She knew on that distant land were fresh water, food, comfort, but John could not be made to understand; that he kicked free to swim in some mad fashion of his own. Instead of relief at the loss of his weight, she found, paradoxically, that he had been supporting her, not she him. She was not rested in the morning, and it irritated her slightly to have John present himself at the table shining with vitality, brushed and shaved, smelling faintly of soap and toothpaste. He spooned into his apricots and held up a half for her to: see. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 "Alyn, you would be amazed to see the apricots on that limb I am watching. They're larger than these already and haven't begun to ripen; they're two whole weeks ahead of the crop. Milton and the other men are watching them, too. They all call them the "Fordyce" sport. "John," said Alyn. "How did you say you got your job?" "T just went in and told Milton I wanted it; that I had had no experience in that line, but I had always been interested in horticulture; and he gave me the job." "That easy?" Alyn looked at John with new eyes. "Well, almost. He was on the way out to look over some trees, and I went along. We talked an hour or so, and I guess he could tell my interest was not pretended. I told him how I felt about a person working at something he didn't like and how I didn't fit where I had been." "John, you didn't! And he hired you, knowing you to*be a fai..." Alyn caught herself. "Oh, John, I'm sorry." "I wasn't a failure," said John without rancor. "Mr. Milton said not many men would be as honest as I. He felt the same as I did, having been an outdoor man all his life. He said an office job would drive him daft in thirty days." It was almost easy to agree with John. "John, is it easy to sell things? I mean merchandise, dresses, real estate, and things like that?" John laughed. "It seems odd for a Merriweather to ask that question. Your family's money was earned through that special gift. My father used to say your grandfather could have sold a waistline to a wasp. Your THE MERRY-GO-ROUND father was just as capable, and Mother often envied your mother's ability to dispense dinners and charm in the right direction." "Oh, John! You make my people sound awful—money grabbers, Shylocks. Nothing is farther from the truth. The culture.... The background.... I suppose you think I am the same." "No, really. I have nothing but admiration for a gift, no matter in which direction it lies; but I don't believe in using one man's gift as a yard rule for all." Alyn couldn't believe that John was not treating her to a little subtle sarcasm, though she searched his face in vain for a sign. 'The suspicion nettled her. "What a crude conversation," she said, but in spite of herself little scraps of conversation, little incidents which justified what John had said came to her mind. "Well, darling," John continued, "a woman as beautiful as you are should not have to worry. I meant no insinuation that your people were not absolutely right. Selling, competition, was the breath of life to them. Certain lines of work would have been torture to your father, so it would have been silly to force him to do any work other than that which he did. Remember what I said about a dominating interest? You can't have it without doing the thing you love most to do. Know what I mean? SUDDENLY Alyn recalled all that had brought up this conversation; she remembered the quick snub she had received from Bea McIntyre when her financial status had changed. 547 "T know only one thing," she burst out, "so long as I live I shall have no desire to see Bea McIntyre again." As soon as the words were spoken she knew the outburst to be impetuous and childish, and she wished she might recall what she had said. "Bea?" questioned John. "Why do you say that, darling?" Alyn, somewhat abashed, would not answer. "Alyn, why don't you talk more freely to me? You are so reserved that I have to guess what goes on in your mind, and it distresses me very much. Believe me, darling, I want you to be happy. I still want that in spite of the motives you must sometimes apply to my actions. Has Bea been unpleasant?" John actually bristled, but Alyn remembered his prediction that her friends would soon make her feel the difference in her financial status. She wouldn't let John have the satisfaction of knowing his prediction had been fulfilled. "I must remember butter when I get the groceries," she said at random, trying to change the subject, but John detected the device. "Alyn," he said, sitting opposite her and taking both her hands in his own, "I have thought through our situation thoroughly. J know some unpleasantness is inevitable. I had planned to keep you happy in spite of everything, but when you don't tell me about what goes on I can't help the situation. I know a great deal of the wrong is in your own thinking. I do so want to help you settle your values as I have mine." Alyn was surprised and nettled. She drew back her hands, 548 ~"T think this is stupid," she said coldly. John gave her-a long, concerned look, and Alyn had a moment of regret that she had been so unpleasant. His words had the ring of truth, but how dared he suggest she was wrong? No matter how he felt about his own activities, he had no right whatever to force her into an unwanted situation. Everywhere she turned for escape she was balked by the lack of money. © She felt as if she were going mad. There was not one person in whom she could confide and who would understand. Resentment mounted within her; the same old nightmare, the same fissures at her feet. Sensibilities or not, the only possible way out for her was a job. GHE feverishly dusted and finished odds and ends of straightening, in haste to be off. She would go to the State Employment Office first, she promised herself; after that, if necessary, she would go to her friends. There would be no repetition of yesterday's mistake. She would be frank as to her lack of experience. Surely there would be someone in the Employment Office willing to talk to her about her situation. But there was no one. The place was extremely businesslike with rows of desks at which sat numbers of workers absorbed with stacks of papers. She was directed here and there with machinelike impersonality. "Fill out this form at one of the desks," she was told, or, "We will call you, Madam, if we can place you,' and she was dismissed, feeling, of course, that nothing whatever would come of it. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 Outside, on the sidewalk, Alyn took a long breath. Now for her friends. She realized suddenly that there was not one friendship she cared to risk. How could she open the subject, for instance, to Vivian Preece? Her steps tapped out the questions Mr. Hendley had asked her yesterday. Viv would be happy to see her after so long a time. But what if his face changed when he learned her reason for coming to him, as did Mr. Hendley's yesterday? It seemed not quite honest to play upon a friendship for something she couldn't get without such a personal appeal. She knew she couldn't do - it. Suddenly a thought struck her. "Your grandfather could sell a waistline to a wasp," John had said. So could her father and her mother. Perhaps she had the same gift inherent in her nature. The thought did something to her. A Merriweather at sea in business? She would show John Fordyce! She would apply for a selling job at every store on the street! The sign, "Charlotte: Chapeaux," caught her eye, and into the shop Alyn went. The one clerk was busy with a customer in the back. Alyn waited a few minutes, then her eye caught a hat, a lovely thing of fine, white straw with flattering lines. It was not rakish, but was perky enough to be smart. She simply must see how she looked in it. She took off her hat and moved toward it with the intention of trying it on. At that moment a girl swept in, nodded to her briefly, and quickly sat down before a mirror. She noted the hat Alyn was about to grasp, and said: "Yes—try that one on me." Alyn looked at her in amazement, THE MERRY-GO-ROUND then perceived that the girl thought her a clerk. She opened her mouth to explain, glanced about for another employee. The clerk was still busy, her back turned. Alyn closed her mouth and did as the girl bade. "We'll see whether I can sell," she told herself grimly. "Fine," said the girl, hardly looking at the hat. "I'll take it." » This was too easy. "No," said Alyn, distressed at the girl's offhand manner. Besides, the hat did not become her. "Look what the shape does to your jawline. This isn't your hat. Here...." She snatched andl hat from a niche—one with a youthful halo effect in blue and brim-facing of pastel flowers. "Look. See how it emphasizes the delicate point of your chin? A girl 549 with a smooth brow, so young and slim and lovely as you are should wear a girlish hat. It's the difference between being good-looking and beautiful." The girl stared. At her, wide-eyed. "Hats," she said, "are the bane of my life. I only buy them. Because Mother insists. I never know how to select one. Maybe you'll teach me. I'll come here every time. Mother... Her hats look like Queen Mary's.' " "TT,.." began Alyn. "You just do that, dearie," cut in a voice, "and I'll see that this lady always assists you in your selections. She does know her hats. There isn't one in the store that would become you better. Here, I'll box it for you. That will be twelve-fifty." (To be continued) i A TIME FOR MAGIC Nellie O. Parker I love to sit by the fire While the embers are all aglow And muse in the shadowy stillness Where things but vaguely show. It's then I feel a presence So peaceful and benign Which spreads a magic beauty Over everything of mine. The room takes on a richness No palace has rivaled yet; I feel glad and oh, so grateful— There are no troubles to forget. I hear the rhythmic breathing Of my dear ones up the stair; My heart beats strong in unison— Love is vibrant everywhere. Could it be this magic something Is the spirit of our home Drawn by my receptive mood To make her presence known? Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde No. IX Character Education N a program of home reading it is important to include something on the serious subject of character education. Although character education is a community problem, with responsibility resting upon the school and the church, it is also a home problem; what we become depends to a greater degree 'upon our homes than upon any other agency. The home has no more important function. Harry Emerson Fosdick says: "With the many overhead schemes for the world's salvation, everything rests on integrity and driving power in personal character." Since example is more effective than precept, parents themselves must be what it is desirable that their children become. But that is not enough. To do the job effectively we should become acquainted with the methods and channels by which character may be developed. The goal of all moral education is summed up in the commandments of Jesus: ""Thou shalt love the Lord thy God... And thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.... On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." But this is theory, and the practical method of working it out is our responsibility. We speak glibly of the term "character." It may be difficult to define, but certainly the test of character is the ability to live up to one's ideals. It is the life within that is of vital Page 550 importance, not the life our friends know. All the talent and gifts in the world will not make a man of one if one has not character. It is not always found in beautiful homes. It is even possible to have a beautiful home life without developing the essentials of character. Mr. Frank C. Sharp has written a book entitled, Education for Character, in which he discusses the aims of moral education and some of the methods of attaining those aims. "Children must be educated for the larger life," he says, "to help one's neighbor with love. No matter how attractive or gifted a child may be, moral education has not reached its goal until there have been adopted principles which enable the possessor to stand on_ his own feet, regardless of what others may do." A child must be taught to say "no when his whole soul cries out yes and to say yes when his soul cries no." When he can do that he has learned to stand alone. A notable example of what can be accomplished by skillful effort is found in the story of the great teacher Fenelon and his pupil the Duke of Burgundy. Fenelon was entrusted by Louic XIV with the education of this boy, his grandson. The young Duke was headstrong, at the slightest provocation showing a violent temper. Fenelon was a man of rare ability and intelligence. When the SOME LITERARY FRIENDS boy showed fits of temper, his teacher picked up his playthings and walked away, leaving him alone until his conscience mastered him. He gave him simple food and exercise in the open air, but most important of all he made his study so agreeable that he entered the schoolroom almost as readily as he left it. This developed in him a hunger for knowledge which was to fit him for his position as ruler of his people. To strengthen the boy's judgment, they read history and discussed the faults of rulers. The prince was always asked to give his opinion of the conduct of each king. His moral lessons came first from fables and fairy tales. From here they went to history and from history to politics, which prepared the boy for the throne. By this method, Fenelon completely changed the character of this child, correcting his faults and making of him a person who believed in the principles of truth and justice and who loved the happiness which comes from a sense of duty well done. In this story we have demonstrated two important factors in the building of character—the character of the teacher, which is the most important, and a knowledge of the methods and channels by which character may be developed. "Conduct," says Mr. Sharp, "is determined by the influence of contagion as by nothing else in the world." MR. SHARP discusses punishment and says that if properly administered it is not brutal. It tends to awaken in the child a sense of the seriousness of his act. He must be made to feel that he has trampled upon the rights of others, then he 551 may feel truly repentant. "Moral habits should not be merely outer conformity because the public demands it, but rather an inner loyalty to the moral ideal.... When we conform because we have to, we are likely to react against it when we acquire freedom." When athletes go back to the habit of smoking when the training season is over, it is apparent that they abstained to keep a place on the team, not from any moral ideal. Conflict with opposing forces is always involved in moral training. It is met at home and at school. Children must learn that much of the work of the world is drudgery, and it is their job to have enthusiasm for the tasks they dislike as well as for the tasks they enjoy. James M. Barrie says, "The secret of happiness is not in doing what one likes, but rather in liking what one has to do." Parents sometimes question the advisability of girls spending time on mathematics; but though it may never be used in life, the fact that they have met an intellectual difficulty and mastered it will give them strength to meet other difficulties in life. "The world's fundamental need is integrity or trustworthiness in_ its many forms," and yet cheating in our schools has become so common that it is a real problem. It will never be solved until we have created among our students what the author calls a "moral revulsion" against dishonesty. He lists the fundamental aims of moral education to be a knowledge of what is right, the desire to do right, and the ability to act right. We do not always do right when we know what is right. Mere 552 knowledge is not enough unless we can develop along with it a love of right. This can be developed in precisely the same way as a love of literature or art is developed—by proper criticism, which in literature means studying style, character drawing, and other things unnoticed by the untrained reader. It is the same with morals. Without training we fail to see life as it is. Only in times of death and tragedy do we seem to see life in its reality. When we have learned that "murder, theft, lying, breach of contract, injustice, are injuries to others, and that carelessness, laziness, want of pity, lack of public spirit fail to make others happier and better," we have taken an important step in good conduct. Thomas Arnold once _ wrote, "When I look around upon boys and men, there seems to me some one point of quality which distinguishes really noble persons from ordinary ones. It seems to me to be moral thoughtfulness." This can be developed only by a study of human life. HISTORY, literature, and biography are important channels through which we may study human life and through which ethics may be taught. History teaches us that there are both good and bad men in the world, that "whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap." Athens gained her independence and liberty, but when she denied it to other groups over which she had power, her fall came. "The fall of Athens and of Napoleon were due to the want of integrity, justice, and humanity," all three of which are essential to moral character. "The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 personalities which exhibit strength of character and devotion to duty arouse our admiration, thus awakening the desire to act in like manner…"Development of character must grow out of the story of the race. It can be done by good teaching— in other words, vivid presentation and a scientific spirit, the spirit which seeks for cause and effects. The best teaching involves strict adherence to truths. But truth involves balance." For example, "An accurate picture of Carlyle's quarrels with his wife is not a true impression of his life as a whole, but a false one." The parent or teacher without this sense of proportion will not accomplish her purpose. "Literature is more concrete than history, arousing more admiration and enthusiasm. The failure of Macbeth brings the truth of the fact that the wage of sin is death more effectively than the annals of the fall of Athens. For the supreme picture of black pessimism yoked with the possession of power, wealth, assurance of fame, and bits of colored glass for which the average man will barter his soul, we must go, not to pages of history, but to the last act of this play." The power to put oneself in the place of others lies at the very foundation of the moral life. Good literature does this very thing. "Biography combines many advantages of history and literature. It, more than any other study, can lead us to realize that right doing involves not the weakness of the will, but, on the contrary, strength, and that, as in Lincoln, strength is compatible with warm affections and a charity and power of forgiveness that may SOME LITERARY FRIENDS make their possessor loved and revered even by his enemies in defeat. It may train us to -recognize how difficult it is to read the motives of men and then pass judgment upon them. "HISTORY, literature and biography are valuable, but they cannot provide sufficient material for training in the power to distinguish right from wrong and how to deal with temptations.... The Golden Rule can be employed to untie many ethical knots.... It is the effect we seek to produce upon human welfare that determines whether an act is right or wrong. "What, then, are the values of life, and how can they be attained?... Boys and girls are apt to ignore fundamental things; to underestimate the value of some and overestimate others. We must make them, somehow, feel that it pays to resist evil, to stand for what is right, to be industrious and to meet the problems of life with courage. Satisfaction in life has a beneficial effect upon character, tending to develop a kindly feeling toward one's fellow men; dissatisfaction and disappointment tend to produce feelings of self-pity, envy, and hatred. The pursuit of the least satisfying goods— comfort, social position, 'success,' wealth, et cetera—is the source of the greater part of wrongdoing in the world. The most valuable things in life are non-competitive. The possession of some of the most precious things is open to man in proportion as he is pure in heart and unselfish in deed." 553 In the teaching of conduct to the very young, story telling is important, because in this form moral principles can be understood by them. Let us not forget to use true incidents; but legends and _ fables, too, embodying fundamental truths are always valuable. "Books are windows opening out into the world. "They show us life beyond our experience, broadening our outlook, and arousing in the mind of the child the desire to be a member of the world's great order of chivalry.... As parents we want to help our children to do a little better than we did. This does not mean that we consider ourselves masters of the art; we merely feel that our experience has helped us to find an answer to some of their problems. "For ordinary purposes the meaning of the Golden Rule is sufficient to teach a child he has done wrong. This at least serves as a foundation.... The old-fashioned home where members worked as a unit for the welfare of all, and which schooled them in self-control, is gone. The instruments of character-building left to us are: personal influence, membership in a_healthy-minded group, moral training in its various forms, and the training of the mind to moral thoughtfulness. If we use them conscientiously and with due reflection our children will rise up and call us blessed." Quotations used by permission of the Bobbs-Merrill Company, publishers of Education for Character. Woteds. FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Wherever the name does not readily indicate the geographical location of the stake or mission, the location of its headquarters is designated in parentheses. Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275. RELIEF SOCIETY ENTERTAINMENTS AND SOCIALS Palmyra Stake (Spanish Fork, Utah) PALMYRA STAKE, of which Mrs. Phoebe I. Markham is stake Relief Society president, held a closing social June 3 at the Palamor Pavilion in Spanish Fork for all Relief Society members in the stake. There were 500 members present. The oldest and youngest members in attendance received a gift. They were Mary Taylor of the Fourth Ward and Harriet M. Davis of the Salem Ward, both 88 years of age, and Helen Hill of the Lakeshore Ward, 19 years old. Each of the nine wards in the stake participated in the program. The number presented by the Spanish Fork First Ward was a pageant, "The Spirit of Motherhood," with the characters portraying Mother Eve, Mother of Moses, Mary — Mother of Jesus, Pioneer Mother, and the Modern Mother. Beautiful vocal and instrumental music added to the impressiveness of the scenes and readings. 'The pageant was presented under the direction of the ward enlistment committee with Anna B. Poulson as chairman, and Ann S. Nelson representing the ward presidency. Ida Anderson is - the president of this ward Relief Society. CAST OF PAGEANT "THE SPIRIT OF MOTHERHOOD" Spanish Fork First Ward, Palmyra Stake NOTES FROM THE FIELD OLDEST AND YOUNGEST MEMBERS PRESENT HONORED AT PALMYRA STAKE SOCIAL Sitting, left to nght, Mary Taylor and Harriet M. Davis, each 88 years old. Standing, Helen Hill, 19 years old. Central States Mission (Independence, Missouri) MARY EDNA BUTLER, secretary-treasurer of the Oklahoma City Branch Relief Society, sent the following interesting report of the two events held in honor of the organization's ninety-ninth anniversary: "Tuesday, March 11,. The eighteen members enrolled in this branch met for a delightful luncheon and program, where each lady costumed to represent one of the eighteen charter members of the Relief Society. 'These costumes are shown by the accompanying picture. "The annual birthday social, March 17, was unique, inasmuch as our Relief Society was entertained in its anniversary patty by the Priesthood quorums of the branch. The highlights of the social were the banquet and dance both held in the 555 Venetian Room of the Y. W. C. A. The tables were beautifully decorated with the Relief Society colors of blue and gold, as were the printed programs. 'The program, also arranged by members of the Priesthood, was very entertaining and encouraging to the audience, which numbered fifty-four." Dagmar Patterson is the president of the Relief Society in this branch, and James A. Cullimore is branch president. Inglewood Stake (Inglewood, California ) HONORING the ninety-ninth birthday of the organization of the Relief Society, the Inglewood Stake Relief Society was hostess Friday, March 14, at a_ get-together luncheon and party at the stake house. Following the luncheon, skits were presented by each of the seven ward Relief Societies in the stake. The idea for serving the luncheon was unique in that each guest brought a daintily prepared and delicious lunch in a box, with her own OKLAHOMA CITY BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Costumed to represent the 18 charter members of Relief Society. 556 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 INGLEWOOD STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY name inside. 'These lunches were placed in a group, and each of the women selected a lunch and retired to her own ward table which had been decorated to correspond with the skit each ward was to present. After eating lunch, it became the duty of each guest to look up the lady who had prepared her lunch and thank her. This proved an excellent way of becoming acquainted and caused much merriment. The very constructive theme for the day was, "Ideas and Ways to Increase Relief Society Membership," and was carried out by most of the wards in their skits and table decorations. 'The Inglewood Ward won the prize for the best table decoration. Carrying out the theme of their skit on nutrition, this table was decorated with horns of plenty containing colorful fruits and vegetables. Santa Monica Ward won the prize for the best skit, with its dramatic presentation of the founding of the Church and the organization of the Relief Society. Continuity for the skit was written by Clarissa Claridge of Santa Monica Ward. Approximately 150 Relief Society members were present. Josephine Barlow Prestwich is the president of the Relief Society in the Inglewood Stake. Blaine Stake (Fairfield, Idaho) LORENCE S. HART, secretarytreasurer of the Jerome Ward Relief Society, of which Elizabeth Wray is president, submitted a report of the recent program honoring its charter members, from which the following excerpts are quoted: "Four charter members, whose combined ages equal 324 years, were guests of honor at a meeting of the Jerome Ward Relief Society. A specially arranged program paid tribute to Annie Thompson, 78, Mary Blunt, 84, Phena Sidwell, 82, and Nancy McJunkin, 80. Tribute was paid to the honored guests and each was presented with a corsage. Similar tokens were sent to Kate Folkman, Dina Karren and Mrs. James Humphries, who were homebound. Refreshments were served following the program. Our Relief Society has been organized twenty-seven years." The Blaine Stake Relief Society president is Eva Pond. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Washington Stake (Washington, D. C.) ANNA LAURA STOHL CANNON, president of the Chevy Chase Ward Relief Society, has reported the very successful musicale and reception held by the ward Saturday evening, March 22, 1941, in observance of the ninety-ninth anniversary of the organization of the Reli ef Society. Well accepted by the audience as a fine addition to the excellent musical program, was a group of readings—"'The Story of Wheat." The first of these readings dealt with Joseph in Egypt, based on Genesis, 41:1-54, and was read by Edith Dinwoodey. The second section, entitled, "Emmeline B. Wells and the Relief Society," was read by Alice Wilkinson from text compiled by Olga W. Snell especially for this occasion. 'The text was based on articles on the Relief Society grainsaving activities written by Annie Wells Cannon, former member of the General Board of Relief Society, Sw and appearing in the Relief Society Magazine, February, 1915, page 51, and on other articles dealing with this activity and appearing in the Relief Society Magazine, October, 1940, and in The Improvement Era, March, i941, page 142. Participating in the musicale was the Chevy Chase Ward choir, with Ani Pearson, director, and Frances Berrett, accompanist, and vocal and instrumental soloists, Afton Margetts, Ellen Neilson Barnes and Betty Langlois. The invocation was offered by Louise. C. Bennion, then president of the Washington Stake Relief Society. Hyrum Stake (Hyrum, Utah) HE following report of the observance of the ninety-ninth anniversary of Relief Society on March 17 by the two Relief Societies in Wellsville was submitted by Bessie H. Jones, president of Wellsville Second Ward: "We were hostesses. To our sister ward, Wellsville First Ward. All appointments were carried out in our Relief Society colors, BANQUET HELD MARCH 17, 1941, TWO WELLSVILLE. WARDS 558 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 SINGING MOTHERS OF WELLSVILLE SECOND WARD WHO PRESENTED OPERETTA, "FRIENDSHIP, OR IN MOZART'S TIME" blue and gold. Our program was furnished by the Singing Mothers, including presentation by a group from the Second Ward of an operetta, entitled, 'Friendship, or in Mozart's Time.' A banquet, under the able direction of our refreshment committee, was served to 210. Toasts were given to old and new members." Minnie A. Miller is the Hytum Stake Relief Society president. Nevada Stake (Ely, Nevada) HOPE BROADBENT, first counselor and stake centennial chairman, has submitted the following details of an activity planned to serve both as a memorial to the recently retired stake Relief Society president, Anna M. Aljets, and as a nucleus for future stake and ward anniversary programs on March 17, and for the coming centennial observances in 1942. 'The plan for this activity developed from the general desire of the wards to join in presenting a token of appreciation to Mrs. Aljets, from her interest in the preparation and preservation of the Relief Society histories of the wards, and from the desire of the stake board to have recorded the impressive and beautiful faith-promoting stories of Relief Society women. The plan developed by the stake board was for the wards to prepare two loose-leaf scrapbooks—one for presentation to Mrs. Aljets and one to be retained by the stake board, and added to periodically. In arranging for each ward to prepare its individual pages for these two scrapbooks, the stake board also suggested that each ward prepare and continue to preserve its own ward Relief Society history. The stake board provided each of the wards with pages 11 1/2 inches by 151 1/2 inches in size for use in preparing their individual material. The tentative plan of contents outlined by the stake board for each ward was as follows: (1) Organization—date of organization and reorganizations, pictures and names of officers, biographical histories, achievements and personal stories: (2) History—relating to the ward Relief Society both before and NOTES FROM THE FIELD after inclusion in the Nevada Stake, (3) Activity — such as successful parties, Magazine and membership activities, bazaars, dinners, beautification and other special activities sponsored by the ward Relief Society, to be accompanied by drawings and pictures; (4) Welfare work—both Relief Society activities, as such, and assistance by the Society in the interest of the Church welfare program; (5) Reminiscence—including references to visits, experiences, and associations with ward and stake Relief Society workers; (6) Faith-promoting stories —collected especially from the older members of the Society and signed personally by them wherever possible. The wards adopted the plan wholeheartedly, using their own ingenuity in collecting and arranging the material, with the result that each ward record for this scrapbook represented the work of many individuals and included stories, experiences, original verse, songs, pictures and illustrations. The completed and assembled scrapbook for Mrs. Aljets was presented to her on the evening of March 8, 1941, at a well-arranged program honoring all past officers of the Nevada Stake Relief Society, when special tribute was paid to each of the three past presidents and a pledge of support was given to the present president, Mrs. Nellie C. Brunson. The continuity of the tribute to the past officers was adapted from "My Relief Society Tapestry," by Mary Grant Judd, Relief Society Magazine, March, 1940, page 165, with the poem, "Your Tapestry," by Lucy H. Nielson, Relief Society 599 Magazine, October, 1938, page 683, forming the introduction. A beautiful verse was selected for tribute to each president, portraying her outstanding virtue, followed by an appropriate hymn, also emphasizing this virtue, sung as a solo. During the musical tribute, a lovely corsage made by the stake work-and-business leader was presented to each president in turn. The audience, which filled the auditorium, was profoundly impressed by the beauty and appropriateness of the program. Representatives were present from all but three of the most distant branches, some of the women having traveled over 200 miles to attend. The success and value of this project are summarized in the following words from Mrs. Broadbent's statement: "Certainly the compilation of our scrapbook histories measured up to our expectations. Never have we experienced such united effort and such deep joy and satisfaction in the results of our efforts. The scrapbook is lovely to look at, but beneath the appearance is a heart and soul that stirs the reader to great depths because it represents the life of the Nevada Stake Relief Society up to the present time. Before we start on the second century in the life of the Relief Society, we have the satisfaction of knowing that our record up to date is well written and preserved." Weiser Stake (Weiser, Idaho) THE accompanying picture shows the cast of the pageant, "The Gate Beautiful," which was published in the Relief Society Magazine, April, 1935, page 226, and which was the main feature of the 560 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 "GATE BEAUTIFUL." CAST OF RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PAGEANT, WEISER WARD Relief Society anniversary program presented by the Weiser Ward, of which Laura C. Dorius is president. Musical numbers and a talk on the history of Relief Society were other features of the program, which was followed by a dance. The Weiser Ward was honored in having Edith Brown, Weiser Stake Relief Society president, as the reader for the pageant. Beaver Stake (Beaver, Utah) B BERTHA. T. SWINDLEHURST, stake secretary-treasurer, sent the following report: "On June 17, 1941, our stake held one of the most successful spring conferences we have ever had in Beaver Stake. _Each ward was well represented to receive the general instructions given. At the beginning of 1941, the stake adopted the follow. Ing slogan: '100 Percent Visiting Teaching in Each Ward of Beaver Stake This Year." We are happy to report that up to date we have reached our goal. "One of our board members, Mae C. White, wrote a pageant depicting the history of the organization of the Relief Society work in Beaver Stake. This was presented to the 176 persons present, and it was thoroughly enjoyed by all. We also prepared a display of pioneer relics, and at the close of the program light refreshments were served to all." Lacy R. Nowers is Beaver Stake Relief Society president. California Mission (Los Angeles, California ) MINNIE A. BLOOD, president of the Relief Societies in the California Mission, forwarded a very interesting report of the observance of the ninety-ninth anniversary of Relief Society in the Bakersfield Relief Society, written by Millie M. Houldridge, president, from which the following excerpts are quoted: "Enclosed is a picture of the March 17 celebration of the Bakersfield Relief Society. The ladies are seated at tables decorated to represent a particular month. As a feature of the program, a speaker at each table told why the particular month NOTES FROM THE FIELD r_presented by that table was famous. The table for March—Relief Society anniversary month—was the special table. The person whose birthday was nearest March 17 opened gifts brought to the Relief Society, and the person whose birth. Day was next nearest cut the large blue and gold birthday cake seen in the foreground. "Our very special guest, seated in the center front, was Hannah Miller, who died a week later, on March 24, in her ninety-seventh year. She was born in Wales, November 21, 1844, and moved to Australia when quite young, her father having been sent there by the King on a mining expedition. When she was ten years of age she was baptized in the ocean. Two years later she and her brother were sent with a group of Latter-day Saints to the United States, landing on the West Coast and staying in San Bernardino, California, until President Brigham Young called the Saints to Utah. She walked with the train of pioneers across the desert 561 and mountain paths to Salt Lake." In order to be with her brother, she returned to California in about 1875, after the death of her first husband and her son, and resided there for the remainder of her life. She had charge of the village postoffice until a few months before her death. "Another special guest at the anniversary celebration was Millicent Curtis Smith. She was called to be the first Relief Society president in Bakersfield, serving for over seven vears as president, and then as secretary for several years. She is seventyfour years of age and still a faithful Relief Society member. "We have two other sisters who were Charter members in the Bakersfield Relief Society, which was organized November 30, 1919. They are Maude Allen Bunting and Elizabeth Tuckett Brimhall. Mrs. Brimhall's great grandmother, Sophia Packard, was at the meeting on March 17, 1842, when the Relicf Societv was organized." ANNIVERSARY LUNCHEON, MARCH 17, 1941, BAKERSFIELD RELIEF SOCIETY 562 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 Blackfoot Stake (Blackfoot, Idaho) ON May, 13, 1941, living past presidents of the Blackfoot Second Ward Relief Society were honored at a social by the officers and the members of the ward Relief Society. Standing, left to right, Cecil Clifford Spindler, now of Sacramento, California; Jane Harward, Salt Lake City; Emma Merkley, Blackfoot; Jane Terry, Salt Lake City; Ida Eskelsen, Blackfoot; Afton Johnston, Blackfoot; Sarah Marshall, Blackfoot. Sitting, left to right, Mary E. Jacobs, Blackfoot; Flora Johnston, Blackfoot; Kathrine Heese, Blackfoot, first president; Viola Goates, Blackfoot, present president. Each guest was presented with a hand-painted memory book. The stake Relief Society president is Mary S. Bills. Bs. PAST PRESIDENTS OF SOUTH SEVIER STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY Left to mght: Matilda B. Ross, Nina Hanson, Ada Anderson, Anetta Christensen, Jetta Marquardson South Sevier Stake (Elsinore, Utah) South Sevier Stake Relief Society N interesting program and social president and board. A unique feawas given at the Elsinore Recreture of this entertainment was the ation Hall, May 17, 1941, by the presence of all former stake Relief NOTES FROM THE FIELD Society presidents, who were paid lovely tributes and presented with beautiful corsages. The main feature of the program was a pageant, "Mothers of Our Nation," by Mabel S. Harmer. This was taken from the Relief Society Magazine for May, 1935, page 308. A group of thirty Singing Mothers furnished the music. A reception followed. Two lovely girls in formal dresses of Relief Society colors presided at the refreshment table, which was beautiful with its English lace cloth, its crystal candleholders with blue candles, and its large crystal 563 bowl with yellow and white snapdragons placed on a reflector. Refreshments were daintily served to neatly 300. The past presidents honored on this occasion were: Matilda B. Ross, of Los Angeles, the first president; Nina Hanson, of Salt Lake City, the second; and Ada Anderson and Annetta Christensen, of Elsinore, the third and fourth, respectively. Since this party, the stake Relief Society board was reorganized on June 22, 1941, with Jennie Brown succeeding Mrs. Jetta Marquardson as stake Relief Society president. —<—- DEATH Anna H. Michie All down through time's vast, endless reaching hall Mankind of Death has harbored inward fear, Has grieved that friends must ever heed the call, Has mourned the parting of some loved one dear— In awe at this great, ruthless reaper's stealth; Found naught can stay his hand—not will, nor wealth, Not poverty, nor love, nor haughty pride; But ever does he come, and year on year He searches out his victims where they bide, And soon or late with Death we all must ride. Ah, could we but forget tradition's fright And only glimpse the truth beyond the veil, Nor harbor secret dread of coming plight, But Death's cold grasp with reassurance hail! "Tis but a quickening of the human soul, Its homing to its well-earned cherished goal; And Death, as thought, is not the ruthless thing— "Tis you who sets the heights your soul shall scale; To you the door of endless progress swings; You mount the steps when Death your message brings. LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage Lesson 2 CHAPTER 2, Gop AND THE Hoty TRINITY (Tuesday, November 4, 1941) I. Lesson Aim: To lead the class members to a greater awareness of the reality of the Godhead and to an understanding of the true nature of its personnel. II. Approach to the Lesson: The class leader might place herself in the position of an investi- _ gator of the Gospel, and as such III. She would ask questions of the class members which would assist her in arriving at a correct understanding of the nature of the Godhead. As members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the class members would defend, explain, and justify their belief and faith in the Godhead. The class leader, if she feels that the class members have not been sufficiently motivated by the. Previous general class assignment, could give questions to individuals in advance of the actual presentation of the lesson and ask them to prepare an answer. The questions and _ projects listed below under each major division of the lesson are merely Page 564 suggestive, and may be utilized to promote discussion. MAJOR DIVISIONS OF THE LESSON A. The reality of the existence of God (Articles of Faith, James E. Talmage, pp. 29-39) 1. Show that the exercise of faith is dependent upon a knowledge of the existence of God.. Give examples from your own experience to show that a belief in God is natural and necessary among humankind. What is the general belief of mankind as to the existence of God? What are the areas from which mankind draws its evidence to prove the existence of God? Which of these evidences appears to you to be the most important? Why?. Summarize the evidence upon which your belief in the existence of God is founded.. The Godhead—a Trinity (Articles of Faith, James E. 'Talmage, PP 39-42) 1. How can you account for the sectarian view of God, with its emphasis on immateriality and three Gods in one? In what sense is the Godhead a LESSON DEPARTMENT ''trinity"—that is, a unity of three personages? 3. Explain the interrelation between the three personages in the Godhead. (See note 11 in Appendix 2 in the last part of the "Articles of Faith." This note should be considered in the presentation of the lesson and might be assigned to a class member to be given as a special report.) 4. What was the unique contribution that Joseph Smith made to the theology of the world in regard to the Godhead? C. Divine Attributes of the Godhead (Articles of Faith, James E. Talmage, pp. 42-44) 1. Summarize the most important of the Divine attributes as attested by scripture. 2. Which of the attributes possessed by God give you most comfort in times of stress and sorrow? Explain. D. Non-Mormon Views of the Godhead (Articles of Faith, James E. Talmage, pp. 44-48) 1. Have some member of the class who joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as a convert relate the change which took 565 place in her concept of God after she came in contact with the Restored Gospel. Through the study of the doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, many beautiful passages of scripture will be revealed. Class leaders should be alert to familiarize the class members with these choice quotations. | Where there is a blackboard in the classroom one or more of these passages of scripture might be written on the blackboard before the beginning of the class period. 'Thought-provoking passages of scripture are found in this lesson. Two such follow: "For every house is builded by some man; but he that built all things is God." (Hebrews 3:4) "O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out.' (Romans 11:33) The class leader at the conclusion of the lesson discussion based on the above questions could profitably give a summarization of the major points. ES Visiting Seachers Messages To The Home Lesson 2 Prayer as an Expression of Faith (Tuesday, November 4, 1941) PRAYER, in general, is communion with God. It is a way of knowing His will, of acquiring insight into spiritual truth, of keeping in tune with the Infinite; it is a source of spiritual power and mental peace, an expression of faith in Him. Jesus in Gethsemane found prayer a fountain of strength for the terrible ordeal which he was to undergo on the cross. "Men ought always to pray, and not to faint,' Christ told his disciples when he was on the earth in 566 the flesh (Luke 18:1), and in our own time he said to the Prophet Jos-. Eph Smith, "Therefore, let the Church [obviously its separate members] take heed and pray always, lest they fall into temptation." (Doctrine and Covenants, 20:33) In his Sermon on the Mount, Jesus showed his Apostles how to pray. “This was in answer to a question by them. "After this manner therefore pray ye." 'Then he gave the most famous prayer in history. It contains but sixty-four words, and is so simple that even a child can understand it. Forty nine of its sixty-four words have only one syllable. He told them to pray to "our Father which art in heaven." All mankind are His children, no matter when they lived or where, whether their skin is black or yellow or white, whether they are ignorant or learned. In our Church we are instructed to pray "in the name of Jesus Christ." The phrase "hallowed be Thy name" implies not only that we hold God's name in reverence, but that we seek to honor him in our way of living, as a son does his earthly father when he lives a good life. In this prayer we are enjoined to pray that the will or law of God shall be obeyed here as it is in heaven, that His kingdom shall be established and maintained on earth. This phrase is full of meaning to us. Jesus says here that we are to ask for our daily bread. This means that it is proper to pray for material things— food, clothes, shelter, and other material necessities. We should not, however, forget that there are things higher than the physical. We are instructed to pray for forgiveness of sins, but we can obtain forgiveness RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 only on condition that we forgive others. It is important to remember this. (The phrase "lead us not into temptation," given in the King James' translation of the Bible, is given by the Prophet Joseph in his Inspired Revision of the Bible as, "Suffer us not to be led into temptation.") In the last sentence of the prayer we are required to acknowledge in humility the power and the kingdom and the glory that is beyond our comprehension. "Be thou humble," said the Lord to us in this age, "and the Lord thy God shall lead thee by the hand, and give answer to thy prayer." And again: "Pray in secret and vocally and in public." The Prophet counseled the brethren, and the advice is equally applicable to the sisters: "Seek to know God in your closets.... Follow the directions of the Book of Mormon, and pray over, and for your families, your cattle, your flocks, your herds, your corn, and all things that you possess; ask the blessing of God upon all your labors, and everything that you engage in." (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, p. 247) Questions for Discussion 1. Why is prayer an expression of faith in God? 2. What should be one's attitude if he sees no answer to his prayer? 3. Why do you think the disciples of Jesus asked him to teach them to pray? 4. What in this lesson would be a good starting point for discussing the subject in the home? 5. Discuss Bishop Le Grand Richards' statement, "It is better to pray with your children than for them." 6. Read Alexis Carroll, M. D., "The Power of Prayer," Readers' Digest, March, 1941. Work-andBusiness Better Buymanship Lesson 2 Judging Qualities in Materials (Tuesday, November 11, 1941) FOR many years the study and buying of textiles was comparatively easy with only the four major fibers—cotton, linen, silk, and wool —to be recognized. They were usually found alone and not in combination with other fibers. Today, however, we wonder what the coming years will bring with the hundreds of new fibers, mixtures, and finishes being offered in clothing materials, the most prominent of which is rayon. In order to judge materials and to choose those best suited to one's needs, it is necessary to have an understanding of the factors affecting price and durability and a knowledge of the various fibers and the type of care required by each to make them render maximum service. Price alone does not indicate how well a piece of material will wear, but if the price runs below or above a certain amount, one should question the cause. For this reason, it is well to know the usual price for reliable fabrics. As a general rule, new-style goods are more expensive because of the risk involved in dealing with them. Many expensive materials are not durable but have been made for appearance only, strength being sacrificed to do so. However, in the purchase of any article, the amount of money to be expended is one of the governing factors in selection, Width of material is an important factor in the price of any material. Often a wide fabric is more economical than a narrow one, because it cuts to better advantage. Simple habits and tests will always be of help to the consumer. Of these, the first is to read any labels attached to the material, any labeling on the selvage of the material, and any labeling on the bolt around which the material is wound. If any terms are not understood, ask the clerk for information concerning them. Watch carefully for knots or defective places in the weave; watch for soiled edges along the fold or on the ends of the bolt. Hold material to the light to detect thick and thin places. The more even the yarns and the more balanced the thread count (the same number of lengthwise and crosswise threads) the more wear one can usually expect. Very loose weaves or materials with long floats will catch and pull easily. Some materials may have heavy cords running through them which will result in a splitting of the material. The strength of the weave may be tested by scraping the fingernail over the cloth or by running a tuck in the cloth with a pin and pulling away from the pin on both sides of the tuck. The threads should not separate easily if the weave is strong. Another test is to grasp the cloth between the thumb and finger Page 567 568 of each hand with about an inch of space between the thumbs. Press downward and outward and note whether the cloth stretches out of shape easily or is firm. Sometimes the amount of starch sizing may be determined by rubbing the material between the hands or tearing to see if starch flies out. Examination of the yarn will often tell something about the wearing quality of the cloth. Untwisted yarns catch and pull out. Tightlytwisted yarns usually produce a fabric that can stand hard wear; however, they may become shiny. Fancy yams are often made with knots, nubs, or other irregularities. The fabric may look strong, but may catch and wear off. 'To know the character of the yarn, the cloth should be raveled both ways and the yarn untwisted. If the fabric is napped, rub it between the balls of the fingers. If the nap rubs away, the material will not give satisfactory wear. Many materials have finishing processes applied to them to increase their value or to decrease the amount of care that is needed; for example, sanforizing to prevent shrinking; vitalizing, tebilizing, or martinizing to make materials crease-resistant; duralizing or bellmanizing to give permanent stiffness. All of these and other processes which render materials color fast, needlized, moisture-repellent, fireproof, air conditioned, mildew, moth and bacteria proof are being applied to materials. Many of these finishes are permanent, but others wash out with the first washing. Watch for information concerning each. If the finish is guaranteed permanent and proves RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 not to be, return the merchandise. Many manufacturers are placing such information on the label as thread count, tensile strength, and resistance to abrasion. 'This is a distinct help since thread count alone does not determine the wearing quality of materials. "(Guaranteed high quality," "complete satisfaction," "perfect workmanship," "preshrunk," and "color fast" tell little. "Guaranteed all wool," "guaranteed not to shrink," and "guaranteed fast color" are more definite, but not definite enough. All wool does not tell the quality of the wool, nor fast color whether fast to wear, sun, laundering, or perspiration. Better labels are those which say, "Sanforized: guaranteed not to shrink more than one percent," or "guaranteed sun and tub fast." Labels mean mote if the manufacturer's name is attached. Read labels, analyze materials, and buy those which best fit your needs. If you want a cheap material, buy it, but do not pay as high a price for it as if it were good material. Know as nearly as possible what you are getting and the care it will need to give maximum value. Suggested Activities 1. Bring to meeting as many kinds ot material as possible. Know the price of each if possible. Analyze the materials as to wearing qualities. Compare the various prices charged for the same kind of materials. See if you can determine whether one piece should wear better than another. Can you account for the difference in price? Try simple tests to see if they help you to judge values. 2. Bring labels found on materials. Analyze them as to content. If there are terms you do not understand, try to find the meaning of them. (Sometimes sales clerks can offer help.) LESSON DEPARTMENT 3. Think about and list information that you would like to find on a piece of material when buying it. Because of the lack of available space in the Relief Society Magazine, the General 569 Board has sent to each stake a list of refences in blue bulletin No. 15, suitable for use in presenting this lesson. These references may be procured from stake workand-business leaders. A, Bl erate Humor In Life And Literature Lesson 2 Humor—Its Meaning, Principles Governing it, and Mediums of Expression (Tuesday, November 18, 1941) "The essence of humor is human kindliness. It is this element in humor, which has grown from a primitive beginning to higher forms, which lends to humor the character of a leading factor in human progress and which is destined still to enhance its utility to mankind."—Stephen Leacock Lesson Topics: 1. Brief summary of last lesson 2. What humor is 3. Principles governing humor 4. Words as a medium of humor Review of Previous Lesson In the first lesson of this course the relationship between literature and life was presented, and the fact was pointed out that since literature is a record of life as it is and a projection of life as we would like to have it, it has many phases and many values. Humor is an important factor in life; hence, it is significant in the field of literature. Reasons such as the following were presented to show why it is desirable for Relief Society members to study humor in their literature course this year: 1. A varied program of study is desirable for Relief Society members, and since serious literature has been considered for a long time, a change is thought advisable. 2. We are living in a time. When we need relief from tension caused by conditions and events in the world today. 3. A study of humor should serve to help relieve that tension and aid in the cultivation of a desirable sense of humor. 4. Humor is a fundamental part of literature and as such should have a place in any educational program. What Humor Is Humor is an elusive word, difficult to define. Originally it meant wetness, and some of that original meaning still survives in such words as humidity and humid. It early had a special meaning in relation to health and medicine; the well-being of an individual was thought to depend upon the liquids or humors flowing through the body. A man's health and vitality, it was believed, depended upon the proper distribution and the natural activities of these fluids. If all went well, a man was in "good humor." If a disease attacked him, he was in "ill-humor" or "out of humor." It was the work 570 of the doctor to keep people in "good humor." In time, the humors were believed to govern the complexion and the disposition as well as the health of the individual. If a man had an abundance of blood he had a florid complexion and a sanguine disposition. (Sanguine early meant red like blood, and we still use the term sanguine to describe a person of cheerful disposition, just as we use phlegmatic or bilious to designate certain types. ) Literature of the Middle Ages reflects this old meaning of the word humor. Chaucer has the hen, Perotelete, say, in substance, to her husband, Chaunticleer, "Certainly, this dream which you have had tonight came of too much blood which causes folks to fear in their dreams red flames and great beasts that will bite them; just as the humor of melancholy (black bile) causes many men to cry out in their sleep for fear that black bears and bulls will hurt them or that black devils will take them. Of other humors I could tell you that work woe in man." Based upon this old theory, Ben Jonson in the seventeenth century wrote two social satires which he called, respectively, "Everyman in His Humor," and "Everyman out of His Humor." In time the word shifted to mean caprice. So Shakespeare uses it in "The Merchant of Venice." Shylock says, "Why I rather choose to have a weight of carrion flesh than to receive 3000 ducats? I'll not answer that, but say it is my humor." And so gradually the word came to signify an incongruity which caused laughter as it does today. There are many types of humor, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 ranging from grotesque arrangements of sounds or words to distorted pictures, parodies, burlesques, and so on. Sometimes the humor lies in the situation, as in many of Shakespeare's comedies. An example is found in "The Merry Wives of Windsor." In one scene Falstaff hides in the hamper of soiled clothes from the husband of the woman he is visiting, and is carried away to the laundry. There is also humor in character, frequently arising from incongruous traits in a person, such as absentmindedness in the professor who has his mind so much occupied on abstract thoughts that he walks off with his host's umbrella or, to mention an exaggerated story, pours syrup on his head and scratches his hot cake. Principles Governing Humor | Savages laugh and exult when they destroy their enemies. Scientists declare that humor and laughter had their first expression in the exultation of primitive man over his vanquished foe. Children enjoy the humor of destruction. A broken object often amuses them. Even civilized adults laugh over slapstick comedy based on destruction, such as breaking dishes or furniture. The destruction which provokes mirth is not limited to inanimate objects. When a child, for instance, hears how the cat in Puss in Boots swallows the ogre, he is delighted. He laughs, too, when the selfish wolf in the Three Little Pigs is tricked into the boiling kettle. In this response, the child represents the primitive stage in man's development. In "The Cremation of Sam McGee," Robert W. Service employs this LESSON DEPARTMENT primitive appeal of destruction. In addition, the surprise ending is used —another source of humor. A different theory recognized by early writers is that humor rests on our enjoyment of the discomfort of others mixed with satisfaction that the discomfort is not our own. This source of amusement is seen in comic movies, in newspaper Cartoons, in performances of circus clowns. We can all recall humorous stories and plays of this nature, stories of hen-pecked husbands, of the fat woman on roller skates, of the absent-minded professor. We have laughed at the discomforts of each. Mention has already been made of Shakespeare's "The Merry Wives of Windsor" with its humor of this type. Aristophanes' "The Frogs" gives another classical example in the scene where the master insists on changing costumes with his slave and then is pommeled about to the delight of the servant. This same theory also explains the sense of humor evidenced by the "practical joker." He is highly amused to see another the victim of a ludicrous situation. It might be well, however, if this type of individual would stop to consider whether the situation would appear equally laughable were he the butt of the joke instead of being the perpetrator and amused onlooker. The field of humor from which we may draw is so extensive that it is never necessary to resort to the type of joke which gains its humor as the result of the wounded feelings of another. This is a lesson that children might well be taught. They can be cruel in their thoughtlessness at times. On the other hand, let us not be super-sensitive, but be able 571 to appreciate a harmless joke even though it be on ourselves. The disappointment theory is an explanation of another principle of humor. In this there is a carefully built-up expectation which is frustrated in the end. "The One-Hoss Shay," by Oliver Wendell Holmes, builds up the idea that the shay is going to last forever. The humor rests upon the disappointment which comes when it falls to pieces all at once. Humor is so versatile, appearing in so many shapes, so many garbs, it is so differently seen by different eyes, and judgments so vary that it is difficult to classify; for instance, try to. Classify the following from Mark 'Twain's Innocents Abroad. He tells about a guide in Genoa and Rome. "Our guide said, 'Come wis me, genteelmen—Come! I show you ze letter writing by Christopher Colombo! Ze great Christopher Colombo! He write it himself.' "The doctor laid the document down. 'Why, I've seen boys in American cities only fourteen years old who could write better than that.' "But zis is ze great Christo....”I don't care who it is. It is the worst writing I ever saw. We are not fools, by a good deal. If you've got any specimens of penmanship of real merit, trot them out! And if you haven't, drive on!'" Humor has been compared to Proteus, the Greek deity of the water, who could change his form at will. Sometimes humor lies in an apt illusion to a known story or in a pat application of a trivial saying or in the manufacture of an opposite tale. Sometimes, as Leacock points out, "it hides in a sly question or a pert 572 answer or an unusual reason or shrewd intimation. It resides, too, in such figures of speech as irony, hyperbole, metaphor, in imitative looks and gestures. Often we cannot truly tell from where it springs." A writer of three hundred years ago says, "Its ways are unaccountable and inexplicable, being answerable to the numberless ravings of fancy and windings of language. It is, in short, a manner of speaking out of the simple and plain way... Which affecteth and amuseth the fancy... It also procureth delight by gratifying curiosity with its rareness... By diverting the mind from its road of serious thoughts; by instilling gaiety and airiness of spirit... And by seasoning matter otherwise distasteful or insipid with an unusual and thence a grateful tang." Words as a Medium of Humor The earliest humor was in action rather than in words—in pantomimes, facial expressions, bodily contortions. We find it next in drawings and later in words. Words used in an unexpected or incongruous manner cause laughter. Sometimes humor lies in the misspelling of words. So we have unintentional humor. A student writer made a humorous "tragedy" out of a misspelled word. He wrote: "One night while my friend and I were at Yellowstone, we returned to our camp to discover that bears had been there. They had scattered our vitals (victuals) all over the place." Some writers consciously use misspelling to produce the humorous effect desired. This type of humor was widespread in early American literature. Mark Twain employed it in his beginning attempts to be funny, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 though he soon discarded it for more dignified and effective methods. Josh Billings and Artemus Ward maintained this medium throughout their writing careers. Lincoln read to his cabinet one of his favorite passages from Artemus Ward's "The High-handed Outrage at Utica," before he showed them his Emancipation Proclamation. The quotation began: "In the Faul of 1856, I showed my show in Utiky, a trooly grate sitty in the State of New York. The people gave me a cordyal recepshun. 'The press was loud in her prases." Bad grammar is another phase of this medium. In it is shown the exact transcription of what people do say instead of what they should say according to good usage. 'There are wrong tenses, case forms, diction and so on. Of this type of humor Ring W. Lardner was a perfect master. Finley Peter Dunne in his stories about Mr. Dooley combines this with misspelling. "Mr. Dooley on Golf" begins: ""An what's this game in goluf like, I dunnaw... Ye're a good deal in a spoort, Jawnny! Did ye iver thry it?' ""No... I used to roll a hoop once upon a time, but I'm out of condition now.': "It ain't like baseball... An' it ain't like lawn tennis, an' it ain't like forty-five, an' it ain't like canvasback duck or anny other game ye know,' said Mr. Dooley." There are many other means of creating humor out of words. Some of them are the overstatements in hyperboles much found in Mark Twain's Innocents Abroad and in the work of Bill Nye who, for instance, says, "There must be at least 5,000,000,000 rats in the United LESSON DEPARTMENT States; of course, I'm speaking only from memory." Here there is not only exaggeration, but the incongruity of "speaking from memory" about so many rats. Litotes, or understatement, is much used by English writers and Orientals. The humor of E. P. Wodehouse has been characterized as "sustained understatement." James M. Barrie employed this medium in some of his stories; for example, "My Lady Nicotine." Other tricks with words are used effectively by Robert Benchley and Stephen Leacock; for instance, the latter said: "The rejected lover in a wild frenzy of emotion leaped upon his horse and rode away in all directions." Similar to these verbal incongtuities is the following tantalizing quatrain by A. A. Milne: "Yesterday upon the stair, I saw a man who wasn't there; He wasn't there again today. I wish the fool would stay away!" Dickens often employs misuse of words to achieve humor, as does O. Henry, of whom it has been said that one may see in his stories a "perfect glory and riot of verbal forms; no one ever used language as he did. He threw words around in a careless way that has never been equalled or approached." "Humor is the kindly contempla- 573 tion of the incongruities of life and the artistic expression thereof." Problems and Projects 1. Assign such stories as the following to illustrate words as a medium of humor: "Grandma Keeler Gets Grandpa Ready for Sunday School," by Sarah P. Greene; "Mr. Dooley on Reform Candidates," by Finley Peter Dunne; "The Evidence in the Case of Smith vs. Jones," by S. L. Clemens; "Hezekiah Bedott's Opinion," by Frances M. Wicher; "The Real Diary of a Real Boy," by H. A. Shute. (These stories are all in Wit and Humor of America, by Marshall Wilder. ) z. Ask for volunteers to give brief reviews of favorite humorous stories or poems. 3. Give a sketch of the life of Artemus Ward, Bill Nye or Josh Billings, explaining the type of humor each writer employed. 4. Is there some person in your community known for his or her quaint or witty manner of telling things? Give illustrations of this local humor; point out the contribution of such a person to the community. 5. Ask the members to bring in different types of humor and analyze them. Supplementary Readings The Enjoyment of Laughter, Max Eastman. Sixty Years of American Humor, J. L. French. The Laughter Library, J. H. Johnson, et al. In Pursuit of Laughter, Agnes Repplier. Written Humor, A, A. Thompson. An Essay of Laughter, James Sully. Fun—Ancient and Modern, Dr. Maurice Davies. Oe Se pessimism, worry and despair, we must depend upon the sun within ourselves.... He who carries his sunshine with him on the journey of life has learned the master-secret of triumphant living."—Wilferd A. Peterson. 66 HEN the sun in the skies of our world is blotted out by the clouds of fear, Social Science Foundations Of Successful Marriage Lesson 2 The Heritage of the Home (Tuesday, November 25, 1941) Lesson Aim: To show that the foundations for successful marriage begin long before the time of marriage; in fact, that they begin within the homes from which the brides and grooms come. WE are married for only a fraction of our life's span, but the success or failure of that fraction depends to a large extent upon what has gone before. Happiness in marriage is the product of years of preparation, conscious or unconscious, whereby the infant is first formed and then molded gradually into a mature personality, capable of the loves and joys of married life. The roots of successful marriage for every man and woman reach deep into his past. Parents should realize that by giving birth to normal, healthy children, and by caring for these children and training them properly, they not only secure greater happiness in their own family lives, but they lay the foundations for successful marriage and family life in the generation to come. Someone has said that the home is the cradle of civilization, and this is very likely true. Most authorities feel that of all social institutions the home is the most basic, for it is here that life begins and grows, and it is here that habits are formed and that character develops. A good home is the most valuable heritage that man can have. Being Well Born The heritage of the home begins Page 574 with the biological and social backgrounds of the family lines involved. Being well born is the first and perhaps the most important thing in a good heritage, and it implies being born in a family that is both biologically and socially sound. Our biological heritage depends upon the kind of body and mind that was handed on to us from our forefathers through inheritance. Some people are handicapped from the start because of a weak body or an inferior mind, or because of a predisposition to such things as epilepsy and insanity. Such individuals are not well born, and their chances for successful adjustment in life and happiness in marriage are consequently much poorer than those who are normal and healthy from the start. When choosing a mate for marriage young people should realize that upon their choice will depend not only their own happiness, but the happiness of their children and of their children's children. Human traits may, of course, be modified and improved to some extent during life, but the basic capacities and tendencies of human nature are set by heredity and can be altered or changed but little. It is important, then, that we study family backgrounds and marry into only those LESSON DEPARTMENT families that seem to be free from the blights of hereditary weaknesses; it is important to do this if we would see that our children get a good start toward successful marriage by being well born. But being well born means more than being born of a sound hereditary stock. It means also being born into a family of industry, virtue, and high ideals; it means being born with a sound and healthy social, as well as biological, heritage. 'There are too many families that fall short of the mark in this respect. They may be able to bring children into the world who are both normal and healthy, but if they haven't the desire or the knowledge to properly care for and train these children, and if they, therefore, fail to give them the things so necessary to successful adjustment in life, they have failed miserably in their task. It means a lot to be born into a good family, a family with pure blood, a clean name, high ideals, and a courageous spirit. Latter-day Saints, for the most part, can feel fortunate because of the rich cultural and religious heritage that is passed on to them from generation to generation through the home. It means a lot to be well born. Personality Development Of the many functions performed by the home, personality development is among the most important; in fact, there are some who would say that it is the major function. It is true, of course, that a good home is valuable to society in other ways as well: it provides a: channel for the procreation of the race; it gives emotional satisfactions and happiness to the husband and wife, 575 et cetera. It could do all of these, however, and still fall far short of its goal. The home is the nursery of character, the seed-bed of all that is good in personality, and unless it is successful in its job of passing on this rich heritage to the children who are a part of it, it will have failed in its purpose. The human infant at birth is probably the most helpless of all infants. Furthermore, its period of infancy is longer than the corresponding period among other living creatures. These differences between. Man and animal present to man both a challenge and an opportunity. The challenge lies in the responsibility of caring for and training the young, and the opportunity lies in the possibility of learning and developing and advancing far beyond the animals. Animals are controlled largely by instincts and are unable to go much beyond them; man, on the other hand, is controlled largely by habits, and through the formation and re-formation of these habits is able to progress eternally. The helpless and plastic condition of the human baby, together with its relatively long period of infancy, makes possible the molding and building of personality. But it also places a tremendous responsibility upon the home, for unless the proper habits and attitudes are instilled into the lives of the children during the early formative years that they are in the home, bad habits and attitudes will take their places and the children will start through life with personalities that are warped. Home atmosphere is likely the most important consideration in personality development. If the atmosphere is healthy and stimulating, 576 the lives of family members who breathe it will likewise be healthy and vigorous; but if, on the other hand, the atmosphere is clouded by pessimism and quarreling and hate, the lives of those who experience it cannot hope to be normal. We have all seen examples of this very thing— lives made sweet or sour by the social climate in which they must live. The spirit of the home is contagious in the highest degree; and since it is, a good spirit is of primary importance to the personalities that are growing and developing under its influence. The atmosphere or spirit of the home is greatly improved in families where religion plays a dominant role. Any number of studies have shown that marriage failure is considerably greater in homes where there is no religion than in homes where there is religion. We know that in our own church, for example, the divorce rate is considerably lower than for the population at large, and that where marriages are performed in the temple the divorce rate is lower still. Latter-day Saints are fortunate in having a religious heritage that carries over in this way. 'There is something about religion and spirituality in the home that clears the atmosphere and makes the home a delightful place in which to live. Developing personalities need this influence as a background for their own marriages in the future. This is not the place to discuss the various problems and principles of child training. There are many, and space here does not permit them to be considered. But what we would like to do is to emphasize and reemphasize the thought that a healthy personality is one of the first foundations for successful marriage, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1941 and that the home furnishes the stuff from which personality grows. Here is a list of some of the major things that the home can contribute toward the development of the normal, healthy personalities within it. The list is not complete, but it is probably complete enough to show what parents can do through interest and effort to lay the background for successful marriage in the lives of their children. 1. Give the child attention, sympathy, and companionship, thereby helping him to feel safe and secure. 2. Maintain discipline over the child, but let this gradually evolve into self-discipline or control. 3. Train the child to accept responsibility and to exercise his own initiative. 4. Inspire the child with ambition and industriousness; give him some worthy goals to work toward. 5. Instill into the child the basic principles of morality, particularly those of honesty and virtue. 6. Help the child to adjust socially; that is, to learn how to get along with people and to make friends. So much for family backgrounds and general personality development within the home. Let us turn now to more specific ways in which the home can prepare its young members for successful marriage. Education for Family Life Over the past several years the writer has made a number of surveys of selected groups of university students for the purpose of determining what qualities young people look for in each other in choosing a mate, and which of these qualities they consider the most important. There have been variations in their choices from year to year and from group to group, but the following factors were regarded as indispensable or LESSON DEPARTMENT very important by all: (1) chastity, (2) dependable character, (3) good health, (4) emotional stability and maturity, (5) ambition and industriousness, (6) desire for home life and children, (7) pleasing disposition, and (8) education and intelligence. 'There were many more traits than these listed and stressed as highly desirable in a mate, but the ones given here are those that were consistently considered as most important by most of the groups. Since these are the qualities, then, that seem to be uppermost in the minds of the young people who are choosing their life's partners, parents would do well to remember them and to train their children accordingly. Burgess and Cottrell have recently made a rather thorough study of 526 couples for the purpose of determining and measuring the factors which make for success or failure in marriage. On pages 357-360 of their book, Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, they give a summary of their findings, together with findings from similar studies made by Bernard, Davis, Hamilton, Kirkpattick, Popenoe, Schroeder, and Terman. According to these studies the following home situations are among those that are favorable to successful adjustment in later marriage: (1) close attachment between parents and children, with very little conflict in the home, and with firm but not harsh discipline; (2) good health; (3) several or many friends; (4) happiness in childhood; (5) parents happily married; (6) regular church attendance; (7) church marriage; and (8) adequate and frank sex education in the home. These are some of the factors in early home 577 environment that are shown to have a lot to do with success or failure in marriage; and since they are, parents would do well to attempt to create these situations so that their children might be better prepared for their own marriages later on. But education for family life involves more than the development of personality traits and the creation of home situations that are favorable to successful adjustments in marriage later on. It involves direct training and instruction as well. Girls should be trained in the art of housekeeping and home management, boys in the occupational skills necessary for earning a livelihood, and both should be instructed in the psychological and physiological mysteries of sex. Sex education is no easy matter, but as suggested above in the study made by Burgess and Cottrell, it is nevertheless highly important for successful adjustment in marriage. Children should be given honest and complete information on the subject from time to time as they are old enough to understand it. The information should be given quite naturally and unemotionally, and usually in response to their questions. 'Too often parents are prone to shirk their duty in this matter, and thereby leave their children's minds to the warping and polluting influence of vile and vulgar stories. Morbid thoughts and practices exist among mankind largely because sex talk has been avoided by decent people and left to be dragged around in the dirt by the vile. A knowledge of sex will eventually be acquired. Why not give it in the home, gradually and naturally as the need arises, and in this way avoid the morbid 578 curiosity and perverted practices that have been the lot of so many? A good birth, a healthy environment for personality development, and specific education for family life —these are the contributions that the home can make to successful marriage. Problems and Projects 1. What does it mean to be well born? How can the choice of a mate for marriage affect the future married happiness of the children yet unborn? Discuss. 2. Why is the fact that the human child is so helpless and has such a long period of infancy both a responsibility and an opportunity for the home? 3. What do you understand by home atmosphere? What effect does it have on the future married happiness of children? Give examples from your own experiences if possible. 4. What are the most important personality traits that parents should try to instill into children? Can you add to the list given in the lesson? 5. What do you think of the eight qualities that young college students consider important in choosing a mate? Which to you are the most important of these eight? List the seven or eight qualities that you would like to see a child of yours consider most seriously in choosing a mate. 6. Do you agree that children's questions on sex should be answered in the home quite frankly and without emotion or shame? Discuss ways in which this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 might be done with the least embarrassment possible. 7. Any number of studies show that children who come from happy homes are more likely to have happy homes of their own than are children who come from unhappy homes. Why do you think this is so? References Baber, Ray E., Marriage and the Family, McGraw-Hill, N. Y., 1939, pp. 277-354- Burgess, Emest W., and Cottrell, Leonard S., Jr., Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, Prentice-Hall, Inc., N. Y., 1939, Pp. 355-361 and passim. Dickerson, R. E., "Prepare Them for Marriage," Parents' Magazine, December, 1087 "PE 24mebFolsom, J. K., Plan for Marriage, Harpers, N. Y., 1938, pp. 217 ff. Groves, B. G., "Education for Marriage," Parents' Magazine, July, 1936, p. 15. Groves, E. R., Marriage, Henry Holt, N. Y., 1933, PP. 45-60; 191-203; 458-475. Hart, Hornell and Ella B., Personality and the Family, D. C. Heath and Co., N. Y., 1935, pp. 255-306; 323-348. Jung, Moses, Modern Marriage, F. S. Crofts and Co., N. Y., 1940, pp. 37-51; 322-371. Richardson, F. H., "Training for Marriage," Hygeia, February, 1939, pp. 104- 106. Steffens, Lincoln, "The Influence of My Father on My Son," The Reader's Digest, July, 1937, pp. 23-26. Strain, Frances Bruce, "Sex Instruction in the Home," Good Housekeeping, May, 1938, pp. 80-81. GOSPEL HERITAGE Jeanette P. Parry God give me courage of tall trees That pierce the black of night, Give me the strength of seashore cliffs That turn the tide's mad flight. Give me the tenderness of snow That hides the faults of earth. Give me the power to proudly live My heritage of birth. Mission Lessons Latter-day Saint Hymns (For optional use of missions in lieu of Literature) Lesson 2 (Tuesday, November 18, 1941) O MY FATHER, THOU THAT DWELLEST O my Father, Thou that dwellest In the high and glorious place! When shall I regain Thy presence, And again behold Thy face? In Thy holy habitation, Did my spirit once reside; In my first primeval childhood Was I nurtured near Thy side? For a wise and glorious purpose Thou hast placed me here on earth, And withheld the recollection Of my former friends and birth; Yet ofttimes a secret something Whispered, "You're a stranger here'; And I felt that I had wandered From a more exalted sphere. I had learned to call Thee Father, Through Thy spirit from on high; But until the Key of Knowledge Was restored, I knew not why. In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason, truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there. When I leave this frail existence, When I lay this mortal by, Father, Mother, may I meet you In your royal courts on high? All you sent me forth to do, os With your mutual approbation Let me come and dwell with you. HIS poem, you will find, is very different from that which we considered in our last lesson. It is less imaginative and more doctrinal. It is, however, a favorite hymn with the Latter-day Saints everywhere, especially at funerals. This is because —Eliza R. Snow. Of the idea it expresses of the closeness of our relationship to God. ELIZA ROXEY SNOW, like Parley P. Pratt, came of a long line of American ancestors. She was born January 21, 1804, in Becket, BirkPage 5/9 Then, at length, when I've completed. 580 shire County, Massachusetts. 'Two years later the Snows moved to Mantua, Portage County, Ohio. Before the family embraced Mormonism they were Baptists, and their home was the gathering place of many intellectual persons thereabouts. It was in this religious and cultural atmosphere that Eliza, with her brother Lorenzo, was reared. It seems that the mother and one of her daughters were the first of the family to join the Latter-day Saint Church. By this time the Saints were gathering to Kirtland, in Ohio, and to Zion, in Missouri. In 1835, when she was thirty-one years of age, Eliza, after carrying on her own investigations, changed her residence to Kirtland, and here she met the Prophet and was baptized. From then on until her death at an advanced age she shared the joys and sorrows of her people—in Ohio, in Missouri, in Illinois, and in Utah. At Kirtland and Nauvoo she taught school. She was the first general secretary of the Relief Society, which was organized in Nauvoo, in 1842. In Utah, "she held the position of president of all the women's organizations rather more by common consent than appointment until 1880 when President John Taylor segregated the different societies and appointed and set her apart as president of the Relief Society of the Church, which position she filled until her death." (Relief Society Handbook, page 114.) Sister Snow traveled extensively, not only in the United States, but in Europe and the near East as well. In 1872 she made a special trip to Palestine, and visited such nations as Egypt, Greece, Italy, Germany, France, and England. It was on RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 this tour that she presented a copy of the Book of Mormon to Queen Victoria of England, who received it very graciously. ITH Sister Snow literary work was a sort of vocation, though she did not earn her living at it. She wrote prose as well as poetry, but verse was her chief form of literary expression and the form in which she excelled. One of her prose works was a history of the Snow family, with particular attention to her brother Lorenzo's life, for he not only became one of the Twelve Apostles, but also the fifth President of the Church. She produced songs, hymns, and nartative verse. At least eighteen of her poems were set to music, mostly by our own composers. With the exception of Parley P. Pratt and William W. Phelps, of whom we shall speak in another lesson, Eliza R. Snow has the greatest number of compositions in our new hymn book. It is not difficult to give a heading to each of the four stanzas of "O My Father." 'The first states the fact of our pre-earth life; the second suggests the reason for earth life; the third tells how we came to know the meaning of the word "Father" as applied to God, with a hint of a heavenly mother, too; and the last expresses a yearning for a reunion with the heavenly parents after death. THE idea of our relationship to God is the heart of revealed religion. Everything, in one way or another, stems from this relationship. In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 77, verse 2, we are informed LESSON DEPARTMENT that the spirit of man is "in the likeness of his person." This fact comes to us through the "Key of Knowledge" spoken of in the hymn—the "Key" restored by our modern prophet, for the Bible tells almost nothing about the pre-existence of man. And the idea of a "Mother" in heaven was, so far as we know, never thought of, even by those who believed God to be our Father. The doctrine elevates womankind to a plane beyond anything conceived before. This hymn teaches that God is the Father of our spirits. The thought of a heavenly Father implies - the thought of a heavenly Mother. This is a fundamental conception in our religion. OUR spirits, born of heavenly parents, lived in a world of spirits before they were born on the earth of earthly parents. How long they lived there, we do not know. But they lived there long enough, as President Young once suggested, to learn to know the Lord and their elder brother, Jesus Christ. And they lived there long enough, too, to approve the "everlasting covenant" that was to redeem us all from death and sin. There was "a wise and glorious purpose," the hymn teaches, in the spirits coming to earth. There was a reason, also, why the "recollection" of our "former friends and birth" should have been "withheld" from us. The purpose was, as we know from other sources of divine information, that we might take upon ourselves bodies of flesh and blood. This was one of the steps necessary to exaltation in the presence of our parents in heaven. It is the shutting off of these "recollections" that 581 makes us feel that we are "wanderers from a more exalted sphere" and that we are "strangers here." Jesus taught his disciples, in the sample prayer which we call the "Lord's Prayer," that God is our Father, but he did not tell them why or how this was so. 'This we have come to know through modern revelation. And modern revelation, too, informs us that "I've a mother there." Eliza R. Snow knew the Prophet Joseph Smith intimately, for she lived in his home both in Kirtland and in Nauvoo. She probably learned much of what is in this poem from him. We live here in mortality for but a short time—short, that*is, as compared to our life before and after this—and then, after a period in a disembodied state, we will be raised to immortality. But will we "dwell with" our heavenly parents again with their "approbation"? That depends on how we have lived here. If we have accepted again the "new and everlasting covenant," and if we have tried to live according to its teachings, then we may become citizens of the Celestial Kingdom. In that event we shall have the necessary "approbation" and "dwell" in the presence of God forever. Such is the theology of "O My Father." Questions 1. Select some lines in this poem that appeal to you and then memorize them. 2. Give the main facts in the life of Eliza R. Snow as they are told here, with such other facts as you may be able to get elsewhere. 3. A bit of writing often reveals the character of its author. Can you tell anything about Sister Snow from studying this hymn? What sort of things was she interested in? Was she serious minded or 582 otherwise? Give your reasons. Her view of life as revealed here? 4. Tell what you know, from any source, about (a) the pre-earth world; (b) the What was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1941 purpose in our coming here; (c) the conditions on which we may "dwell" with God in the next life. SE ERRATUM N the Relief Society Magazine, December, 1940, page 857, in the lesson on Latter-day Saint Church History is found the following statement: "For measuring distance in crossing the plains, a convert, William Clayton, had made an instrument called the roadometer." We wish to correct this statement, for in William Clayton's Journal, under date of May 11, 1847, is recorded: "Brother Appleton Harmon is working at the machinery for the wagon, to tell the distance we travel, and expects to have it in operation tomorrow." On May 12th is this entry: "Brother A. Harmon has completed the machinery on the wagon so far that I shall only have to count the number of miles instead of the revolution of the wagon wheel." On May 16th, he continues: "About noon today Brother Appleton Harmon completed the machinery on the wagon called a 'troadometer' by adding a wheel to revolve once in ten miles, showing each mile and also each quarter mile we travel, and then casing the whole over so as to secure it from the weather." (See also Relief Society Magazine, June, 1941, page 379, second paragraph. LIFE HAS: LOVELINESS Lucy Goodrich Lind Life gives such loveliness freely. This joy is all mine for the asking— High, buoyant spirit of morning; the voice of his trumpet calling The earth to the joy of endeavor; hoofbeats of prancing horses Across the high bridge to the meadows; Music of children's gay prattle, faces lit up with wonder, Trusting in me and confiding; rhythm of youth' s coming footsteps— Eyes loving, arms enfolding; Night's shawl rustling at twilight, spread with the day's sweet approval; Lyrics of birds in the cedars; moon-lighted, shivering aspens _ Wafting the scent of the shrubbery, breathing a holy spirit Over the earth at evening; and peaceful singing hours. Los Angeles, Californig 6003 Compton Avenue J efferson 1244 teeF; Also q com; I Cessories. Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Seciety Magazine send your daughter in the happiest clothes of her — life! Exclusively at ZCMI Here they are... America's smartest college clothes! Youthful, exciting and completely practical ZCMI brings them to you straight from the pages of Mademoiselle—straight from the critical OK of our own college board—plus a legion of ZCMI exclusive classics by Alice Carol. You'll find these fashions and also Good 'Housekeeping's wise wardrobe choices for grade-schoolers at ZCMI and no where else in Salt Lake. The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 28, NO. 9 LESSONS FOR DECEMBER SEPTEMBER, 1941 THE COVER Evening on the Jordan”  T. J. Howells, M. D. WINDING its uncertain course through the Salt Lake Valley from a fresh water lake to a salt sea is the Jordan River. As early as August, 1847, pioneers, at a meeting on the Temple Block, named this river the "Western Jordan" to distinguish it from its prototype, the Jordan in Palestine. In early days, it served as a boundary separating the fertile lands to the east from the waste lands below it. Today stretches of this historic river are beautiful, and in the not far-distant future its banks will be parked and a neglected river will come into its own. It is autumn, and our picture, "Evening on the Jordan,'' shows the effects of a sinking sun, and lights already appear in friendly windows. A beautiful moon is rising above the high Wasatch Mountains, which are already decorated with their first snow. The harvest moon is reflected as a mirror by the still water of the river. Inquisitive geese crowd the foreground and linger as if enchanted by the scene. This rare combination of mountain, moon, and river makes the cover, "Evening on the Jordan," a pleasing picture. In our great intermountain region the autumn countryside, mountains, and canyons are beautiful beyond description. Fall is the twilight of the year—the harvest over and the first pause for rest. In our land at present it is a season of peace and repose, and for the Latter-day Saints it is a time to pause and recount, with grateful hearts, God's many blessings. Editor's Note: "Evening on the Jordan," the photograph used as a cover picture for this issue of the Magazine, is by T. J. Howells, M. D. In this picture, Doctor Howells has captured the placid, serene mood of an autumn evening. It is a beautiful composition. Bordering on the silhouette, it still carries a great deal of interesting and artistic detail. The art work on the cover is by Evan Jensen. WE Index. To Inside Back Cover Fisher Baking Company.. C » « « « « « Outside Back Cover Larkin Mortuaries. Outside Back Cover L. D. S. Business College. Fly-leaf Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop... » « « « « « Inside Back Cover Otarion...... ~~.. « Fiy-leaf "L. D. S. Training Pays!" Yes! America is a land of opportunity... But only for those who do something about it! — Thorough business training will help you to succeed—and this is the right school for that training L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH (Just mail us a card for information) by e Before buying a Hearing Aid send for the interesting story of Otarion or come in for a FREE DEMONSTRATION DONALD G. LYMAN 511 McIntyre Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah Dial 5-4036 Leern NOW how you, too, can have Better Hearing TC You may send me the free, interesting tustreted story of Otarion. O Yeu may call of my home on at DATE When Buying Mention Relief Society Mayazine The Relief Society Magazine Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. 28 SEPTEMBER, 1941 | No. 9 Contents Special Features The Cover—"Evening on the Jordan"—T. J. Howells, M. D............. Inside Front Cover Back of Frontispiece—Transition ….Vesta P. Crawford 583 Frontispiece—Autumn Scene (Photograph by George Morgan)........Preserve, Protect and Defend.....Elder Levi Edgar Young 585 Why the Sabbath?.Elder George Q. Morris 589 Florence Jepperson Madsen......Orea B. Tanner 592 Upon Sacred Ground Dr. H. Wayne Driggs 596 Fiction Pink Lemonade for the Boys...........Olive W. Burt 601 A Garden Masquerade..............Vaunee T. Larson 613 The Merry-Go-Round—Chapter Six.... Morrey Bailey 623 General Features Home Accident Prevention.....Annie Wells Cannon 608 Editorial:  609; Tabernacle Choir Tour.....610 Notes to the Field:. Binder for Relief Society Magazine  611 Relief Society Annual Stake Conferences 611 Relief Society General Conference —........612 FMBWEE Society  612 No Social Science Lesson for December.. 612 Some Literary Friends—No. X (Biographies)...............Florence Ivins Hyde 620 Notes from the Field.................. Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 630 Lessons Theology and Testimony—Articles of Faith, by James E. 'Talmage, Chapter 3.......... 638 Visiting Teacher—Fast Day Observance as an Expression of Faith ... 639 Work-and-Business—Comparison of Fibers Used in Materials —.......... 640 Literature—Mediums and Types of Humor ....642 Mission—'"The Spirit of God Like a Fire" 20.0 649 Poetry Transition—Vesta P. Crawford...Back of Frontispiece Ber Still.... Olive C. Wehr 600 So Mark the Yeats.........Celia A. Van Cott 607 A Little Boy I Know..Sarah Willes Adamson 622 Mood.........Beatrice Knowlton Ekman 629 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magavine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. __ Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manu- - seripts for their return. " TRANSITION" Vesta P. Crawford 1 The sheaves from golden furrows now are gone, And fields are wide for one to walk alone: Yet long the mellowed warmth of summer stays, And patterns of its gilded light and shade Are lumined on the amber hill, arrayed In splendor like a flame, and all the ways Of autumn sear the heart; above my head The homeward legions of the birds are spread. To me the stubble and the fallen leaf Are poignant with a lasting memory And luted to the myriad sounds of grief Once more the wind makes in the barren tree. I yield unto an old resurgent mood;  My heart is breaking in this solitude. I The turning of the year will come tonight, And sheath of blizzard winds will wrap the land In silence and in web of drifted white. I shall be forced again to understand The motion of the earth upon its wheel; I shall accept a quietness so deep No breath of spring can melt; I shall feel The arid dark of poplar boughs that sleep. Some mark the seasons by the rain and snow, The leafless bough and the furrows that lie Reaped of their gold, the questing birds that go In wedges and leave empty lanes of sky. Yet I shall find an April that can bring Returning radiance to the aisles of spring. With measured tide the faithful seasons flow; The clock of time runs neither fast nor slow; For we who note the winter and the fall Have lived the summer days and loved them all. And thus, remembering, my thanks are given To the God of years within his windowed heaven. "And fields are wide for one to walk alone... And all the ways of autumn sear the heart.” The Relief Society Magazine Vol. 28 SEPTEMBER, 1941 No. 9 "Preserve, Protect, and Defend"' Elder Levi Edgar Young of the First Council of the Seventy INCE the day that George Washington became the chief executive of our Government, every President of the United States has been required by the Constitution to take the following oath on the Bible: "I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the office of President of the United States, and will to the best of my ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States." To the American people, this inauguration is sacred, for in a very real sense, it is also their inaugural. They share as no other people in the headship of the State. American democracy has developed a peculiarly close bond between the people and the Presidency, and this means that every American citizen, every family to the youngest child, has a responsibility to "Preserve, Protect, and Defend" the most sacred civic and political document ever given to mankind. The word "democracy" enters into the very life of the laws of our Nation, and is vested with sacred ae. It has to do with the "individual." The theme of American democracy deals with individuals. It recognizes that all individuals have the right to develop their individualities. We have the duties, therefore, of self-discipline, which in a democracy means the deepest respect and reverence for other people and their rights. This principle of righteousness is possibly the hardest to live in man's present state of mind and spiritual make-up. Yet, it is the most important of all our ethical principles. It is the core of the Declaration of Independence and the Bill of Rights of the Constitution of the United States, and its seed lies in the Golden Rule. Every individual must have motives that fall within the spirit of high regard for one another. This means the acceptance of each other's good faith. We have to rid ourselves of those suspicions which in our. Hearts breed fear and hate, jealousy and envy. We must come to understand people, and to feel the glow of good will, and the power to think gratefully of our fresh opportunities to do better. It means to avoid the pitfalls of the many evils that beset society today. Faith in God is always expressed in right action. To live in and maintain our Democratic Government becomes a Page 585 586 religious duty of deepest significance. I am writing this article within a few feet of Plymouth Rock, where one can sit quietly by the hour and think of one's country, our America. I recall the little. Party who sailed across the Atlantic some three hundred years ago in a little cockleshell boat, named the Mayflower. They left their homes, kindred, and country for the sake of finding homes in the New World where they could be free to worship God as they wished. They turned their backs on the Old World forever. From those days to the present, the AngloSaxons coming to these shores have kept in mind the purposes of their forebears. The principles of government which the Pilgrims and the Puritans brought, entered into the very fabric of our Government when it was organized. The Declaration of Independence and the Constitution were the expressions of human liberty which had been growing in the hearts of Englishmen from ancient times, and by the inspiration and help of God, this Republic of the United States was an event ordered of God for the bringing into being a nobler government than the world had ever known before. The treasures of the new continent were made to serve the cause of freedom beyond any dream that the founders ever had. This continent had been concealed until the right men, rightly trained, could build their homes in the wilderness and hold the ground for a purpose larger than they knew. Government was founded in religion, and though religion did not become a part of the political RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 system of the Government, it was virtually incorporated into the lives and thoughts of the people. All the Christian sects of Europe found asylum in America before the Revolutionary War. We speak of America as a "Land of Liberty." But we must not forget that the Bible was the charter of liberties for our fathers. The Pilgrim fathers looked upon the Bible as the most precious piece of cargo on board the Mayflower. What a thrilling story this settlement of America was — the Pilgrims and Puritans in New England; Episcopalians in Virginia, Maryland, and New York; Quakers and Moravians and Lutherans and Mennonites in Pennsylvania; Roman Catholics under Lord Balltimore in Maryland; and Baptists in Rhode Island. Differing greatly in language and race, they were one in a common desire to establish on this continent a commonwealth in which every man had direct access to the Bible, to learn from it for himself the will of God. These forces of religious convictions are what brought about the first article in the Bill of Rights of the Constitution, and to this day, America has given its citizens the right to worship God according to the dictates of their consciences. On January 9 of this year, William H. Wills was inaugurated Govyernor of Vermont, and in his inaugural address he urged a spiritual reconstruction of the people as a prerequisite to the economic and moral salvation of the Nation. "We have meetings and discussions on economic subjects," he said, "but the citizens of Vermont are not giving adequate attention to the spiritual needs of the individual "PRESERVE, PROTECT, AND DEFEND" and the State as a whole. We comment on the breakdown of morals, both within the State and the Nation, but fail to recognize the fact that it may be due, and in my opinion is due in large measure, to the spiritual indifference of our citizens. "We comment frequently on the prosperity of a bygone age, but seldom in our passing comments do we connect the two thoughts that the people of yesterday were pious and devout in the matter of their religious beliefs and practices. We as individuals would do well within our respective communities to join with others in serious study, analysis and action toward reviving interest and stimulating activity in the realm of our spiritual needs. If America is to be saved, each individual must first put his own house in order. The Ten Commandments cannot be improved upon, nor can the Sermon on the Mount be surpassed as a guide for ethical conduct." What our country needs is a spiritual awakening. It will not be the thousands of rifles made, nor the fifty thousand planes that are being manufactured, but the knowledge that God rules in the affairs of men if we will but let Him. We need more respect for the ancient truths, and the lessons of history, and the word of God. While we must keep our spirits in tune with the progress of the age, we must realize that in all the past, prophets, sages, and seers have given us standards of character that made men indignant at corruption and fearfully angry over injustice and wrong. Ages ago, the Greek, Epictitus, wrote: "You will confer the greatest benefit upon vour city, not by raising the roofs, but by exalting the souls of your 587 fellow citizens." What we need more than anything else in order to '"Preserve, Protect and Defend," is to return to the faith of our fathers, to the teachings of Holy Writ, and the impulse in all crises to turn to God in humility; a reconstruction of moral fiber and personal courage to a point that brings about a restoration of the principles of Christ to their place of first importance. All thinking Americans believe that the heart of religion must come back to the people and to the world, for in America the spirit of a free people is more firmly established and entrenched in consciousness than in any other country on the globe. While it is true that many influences are undermining our political and civic idealism, deep down in the American heart is the respect and the love for the constitutional background upon which our Government must function. We must watch our battlements, for there is a battle on, not so much with guns and planes as with the forces within which are trying to instill in the hearts of men a disregard for the established constitutional law of the land; to belittle justice and to defame the dispensers of law and order, and to lead the people to a complete abolition of constitutional restrictions. There are many ideals that we Americans must keep ever in our minds and hearts. One is the teaching of William Penn, when he said: "Governments like clocks go from the motion men give them; and as governments are made moved by men, so by them they are ruined, too. Wherefore, governments rather depend upon men, than men upon governments. Let men be good and the government cannot be bad; if it be ill, they will cure it. But if men be bad, let the government be ever so good, they will endeavor to warp and spoil it to their turn. 'That which makes a good constitution, must keep it, viz: men of wisdom and virtue, qualities that, because they descend not with worldly in-. Heritances, must be propagated by a virtuous education of youth." High in idealism, high in interpretation of what the law is in spirit, are the inscriptions given on the pediments in front of the Supreme Court Building at Washington, D. C. On the west pediment are the words: "EQUAL JUSTICE UNDER LAW," and on the east pediment "JUSTICE THE GUARDIAN OF LIBERTY." "Justice," said Justinian, "is the firm and continuous desire to render to everyone that which is his due." Because this ideal is enshrined and a daily effort made to practice it, the whole Federal Government gains strength; and life and liberty for the individual are more secure. THE American people will "Preserve, Protect, and Defend" the Constitution of the United States as they live for it. It is a patriotic duty which 140,000,000 people may undertake along with the President of the United States. The youth of the land must be touched with the higher issues of life, and they will be if we will bring them to the - truth of Christ by a teaching of the reality and beauty of the Christian life. While the Gospel is a message of eternal and divine truth and goodness, it is also a message of beauty. Without beauty, truth and goodness lack the transfiguration which makes them truly attractive. We have all rejoiced that God has spoken in ancient times in ways so marvelous and beautiful. The prophecies of the Old Law and the parables of the New are clothed in a beauty unrivaled. The writers of old saw and preserved the interdependence of truth, goodness, and beauty. When youth is stirred as youth can be -to the depths of their naturally truthful souls, they will take the lead in "Preserving, Protecting, and Defending" all that is good and noble. There is one other thing I should like to add before closing. It is in reference to the immigrants to our shores. In all the world's history no nation has thrown its gates so. Wide open to welcome into citizenship the peoples of other lands as has the United States; nor has any nation received such gifts as have come to us from the homelands of Europe. The main roots of our civilization are buried in the Old World soil of Europe, and American culture is a combination of European tradition and American environment. In Americanizing our immigrants, we must not overlook their best elements of character, but we must touch their souls with what is best in religion, political life, and morals. This we can do; this we must do. A 588 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 Why The Sabbath? Elder George Q. Mortis General Superintendent, Y. M. M. I. A: "Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work; but the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates. "For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day. Wherefore the Lord blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it." (Exodus 20:8-11) THE Fourth Commandment has never been revoked. Notwithstanding it is so generally disregarded, it still stands as the law of God to the inhabitants of the earth, with promises for those who obey it and with penalties for those who violate it. The violation and neglect of the Sabbath, with all it connotes, has brought confusion and misery to the world. So many people, nominal believers in the "Lord of the Sabbath," do not seem to comprehend how serious and fundamental this commandment is. In a peculiar way this one commandment goes back to the very creation of the earth; its spiritual provisions for the welfare of man are integrated with the provisions made by Deity for man's physical well-being. "And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made. "And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it; because that in it he had rested from all his work which God had created and made." (Genesis 2:2-3) This Sabbath observed by the Creator became the foundation and type for the Sabbath that was provided for man in his earth life. The earth was formed as a suitable habitation for man; and water and the land, plants and animals were all created and the necessary provisions were made so that man would survive physically. As a final creative act, the seventh day was set apart as a day of rest, and in that day the Creator rested and sanctified it. It is evident that the same love and wisdom that led to providing food and materials for shelter and clothing and that tempered the elements to make life for man possible upon the newly-created earth, also provided that when man pursued his life in the world so created, it was ordained that he should observe each seventh day as a day of rest, and that on that day he should worship the Creator who had mace the earth for him, and who had provided for him, among the other necessary things, his Sabbath. This Sabbath, the Almighty says, should be sacred both to man and to God. Since Deity deals in neither trivialities nor nonessentials, it must follow that man's nature being what it is, and man's relations and obligations to his Divine Creator being what they are, each seventh day of his earth life must be faithfully used for rest and worship or his life will be impoverished, and he will violate a sacred obligation with serious rePage 589 590 sults. How serious a matter this law is, becomes apparent from the words of the Lord as given to Moses, parts of which I italicize: _ "Speak thou also unto the Children of Israel, saying, verily my sabbaths ye shall keep; for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations; that ye may know that I am the Lord that doth sanctify you. "Ye shall keep the sabbath therefore for it is holy unto you; everyone that defileth it shall surely be put to death; for who. Soever doeth any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among his people. "Six days may work be done; but in the seventh is the sabbath of rest, holy to the Lord: Whosoever doeth any work in the Sabbath day, he shall surely be put to death. "Wherefore the Children of Israel shall keep the sabbath, to observe the sabbath throughout their generations, for a_perpetual covenant. "It is a sign between me and the Chil. Dren of Israel forever; for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth and on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed." (Exodus 31:13-17) F the Ten Commands given, this one was singled out as one of two most important and characteristic observances of the chosen people. Smith's Bible Dictionary says of it: "It is in Exodus 16:23-29 that we find the first incontrovertible institution of the day (Sabbath) as one given to, and to be kept by the Children of Israel. Shortly afterwards it was reenacted in the Fourth Commandment. Which gave it rank above that of an ordinary law, making it one of the Signs of the Covenant. As such it remained, together with the Passover, the two forming the most solemn and distinctive features of that Hebrew religious life. Its neglect or profanation ranked foremost among natural sins; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 the renewal of it was sure to accompany natural reformation." This law has been again given to the modern world through a modern Israel. By the same Divine Creator who gave it to Moses, it has been given to a modern lawgiver— Joseph Smith: "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from. The world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; "For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High; "Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times; "But remember that on this, the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord. "And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full. "Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or in other words, rejoicing and prayer."" (Doctrine and Covenants, 59:9-14) It has thus been again set up as an indispensable requirement for the successful living of each life; it is just as necessary as the physical requirements of life—if a properly balanced physical and spiritual life is to exist. This is true with nations, peoples and individuals. God will not be mocked. His eternal laws work their inescapable effects in human life to preserve or destroy, as they are obeyed or violated. "The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath." Such was the rebuke of the Master to those who prescribed ridiculous and fantastic rules for Sabbath Day observance and tried to trap Him. Since the Sabbath was made for WHY THE SABBATH? Man, man should have the right attitude toward it. The Sabbath is not a deprivation designed to impoverish, but is rather a high privilege designed to make life truly rich and joyful. It is largely a question of one's spiritual and intellectual capacity to devote one day out of seven to high spiritual pursuits. 'That capacity should be developed by all if they would truly live. Since the Creator ordained one day exclusively for rest and worship, the Church, of course, offers its members opportunities for worship on that day. A member who faithfully observes the Sabbath will probably be led to faithfully discharge his other obligations to the Lord. Conversely, one who fails in the faithful keeping of the Sabbath will probably fail in his other obligations to Deity. It is a key commandment. Brigham Young, speaking of those who were not keeping the Sabbath Day, said: "They are weak in the faith. Gradually, little by little, little by little, the spirit of their religion leaks out of their hearts and their affections, and by and by they begin to see faults in their brethren, faults in the doctrines of the Church, faults in the organization, and at last they leave the Kingdom of God and go to destruction. I wish you would remember this and tell it to your neighbors." | UITE generally the custom prevails to cease work on the Sabbath. Too often it makes way for a day of pleasure seeking. The essence of Sabbath observance is the worship of God. The home is the effective place to teach the proper observance of the Sabbath. The 591 conditions in it should be conducive to a sacred Sabbath. The spirit of the Sabbath should prevail. The home and the family should be in order, and preparation should be made because a holy day is to be kept. Life that day should be on a. Higher plane and should leave something that is to carry over till another Sabbath. No, the law of the Sabbath has not been abrogated. It has been reiterated. It is the counsel and the commandment of a loving Father, suited to his children living in this earth He created for them, to enable them to be true to themselves and to Him. These are His words concerning it: "And inasmuch as ye do these things with thanksgiving, with cheerful hearts and countenances, not with much laughter, for this is sin, but with a glad heart and a cheerful countenance— "Verily I say, that inasmuch as ye do this, the fulness of the earth is yours, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and that which climbeth upon the trees and walketh upon the earth; "Yea, and the herb, and the good things which come of the earth, whether for food or for raiment, or for houses, or for barns, or for orchards, or for gardens, or for vineyards; "Yea, all things which come of the earth, in the season thereof, are made for the benefit and the use of man, both to please the eye and to gladden the heart; "Yea, for food and for raiment, for taste and for smell, to strengthen the body and to enliven the soul. "And it pleaseth God that he hath given all these things unto man; for unto this end were they made to be used, with judgment, not to excess, neither by extortion. "And in nothing doth man offend God, or against none is his wrath kindled, save those who confess not his hand in all things, and obey not his commandments." (Doctrine and Covenants 59:15-21) Florence Jepperson Madsen Orea B. Tanner Instructor in English, Brigham Young University that follows its own course, yet keeps its banks verdant and flowering for miles on either side," wrote her mother of Florence Jepperson Madsen. In this one brief figure, her mother characterized the life of one of Utah's most prominent and successful musicians. Florence Jepperson Madsen's course from infancy has been a musical one. While a tiny girl, she stood at the family organ treading with one foot and reaching up to the keys to play the lead while she sang alto to familiar songs. Neighbors and friends came in to hear her and praise her. At the age of five, she was making regular public appearances. Florence came from a home devoted to the arts, especially to music and painting. Her father Samuel H. Jepperson, when he was thirteen, under circumstances of extreme danger and hardship, earned his first violin by delivering several loads of logs taken from Provo Canyon. Later he made musical instruments, taught music, organized bands and orchestras throughout the state, and developed an orchestra in his own family. He also distinguished himself as the pioneer landscape artist of Utah and has left many highly praised paintings for future generations. "One of the dearest memories of my life," says Florence, "is the joy we had in preparing our picnic and traveling in our buggy to some secluded and lovely spot where we Page 592 66 tern is like a river spread our lunch and enjoyed an afternoon of rest while father painted some beauty spot of nature. So trained were we to look for these lovely scenes, that to this day 1 find myself seeking out the picturesque spots that would make a suitable subject for a painting." Florence's mother, Minnie Johnson Jepperson, possessed a spontaneous humor, a deep love of beauty in all its forms, and a rich gift of spirituality. She, too, was a musician with a rare contralto voice, and was an outstanding soloist in Provo's early musical circles. With the guidance of such parents, the family, _ without wealth but with cheerful effort, cooperation, and sacrifice, created a home devoted to music, beauty, and to each other. All the children received a musical education, and have served their communities with cheerfulness and efficiency. Before she entered the Brigham Young University, Florence assisted Professor J. R. Boshard in his work as supervisor of music in the Provo City schools. After her study with Professor Anthony C. Lund at the Brigham Young University, she went to Boston to study at the New England Conservatory of Music, where she was graduated with high honors. She remained in Boston thirteen years, and during that time she was active and successful as church, concert, and oratorio singer. For eight years she was head of the vocal department at Lasell Sem- FLORENCE JEPPERSON MADSEN inary, Boston, which is one of the finest girls' schools in America. Mrs. Madsen's accomplishments in music are too numerous to list completely. She is renowned as singer, teacher, composer, and con- 593 teaching, she has trained many of our gifted and prominent singers. She has the ability to release to a marvelous degree the latent beauty in the voices she trains, and often finds and develops talent when it is FLORENCE JEPPERSON MADSEN ductor. Her singing is a joy to all who hear her. In listening to her sing one is never conscious of mechanics or training. One hears only pure music. Her singing is a perfect example of the artlessness of great art. Throughout the years of her entirely hidden to the ordinary ear. For two consecutive vears she conducted the music of the famous California Mission play. She organized and directed the first Oratorio Society in Provo. For four consecutive summers she demonstrated three and four-part ladies' 594 choruses at the National Summer Conference of Music in Chicago for the Educational Music Bureau. For the past sixteen years, she has spent her summers in Chicago, where she taught music at the Master Summer School of Chicago Musical College, whose president is the distinguished pianist and conductor, Rudolph Ganz. Her compositions include eight ladies' choruses and two anthems for mixed voices. The text for one of these is the poem by Dr. George H. Brimhall, "Oh, May I Know the Lord as Friend." Another uses as its text words from the eightyfourth section of the Doctrine and Covenants. On one occasion her "Indian Love Lament" was sung in the Boston Symphony Hall by a chorus of one hundred sixty-five voices accompanied by the full Boston Symphony Orchestra. Mrs. Madsen had the pleasure of attending the concert and rising to acknowledge the enthusiastic applause of the great audience. Not only has her gift of music spread beauty and joy, but so have her rich gift of friendship, her power to give encouragement, and her generosity in giving material aid when it was needed. She supported herself through all her study and managed somehow to provide four years of training in art and music for her brother and two years of musical training in the East for her sister. She has given material aid to many who could not have continued their studies without it. In a recent letter one of those who received her help and who has since found success in dramatic work says, "I shall alRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 ways thank God for blessing me with a friend like you. I shall never forget your encouragement, love and material help... I feel so indebted to you and so full of appreciation because you held out a kind, loving hand when I needed it. You have spent a lifetime helping others, dearest Florence. I do hope your efforts and sacrifice are repaid in gratitude." This letter speaks for many, and it all bears testimony to the truth of her mother's statement: "My Florence! She has been big sister, friend, goodly benefactress, as well as student. Her personality is the harmonious blending of all womanly virtues and graces. Beloved and loving, she has touched the lives of thousands." Florence Madsen now holds the following degrees: Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Music, Master of Music, Doctor of Music, Doctor of Music Education. Through all of her study and success, her devotion and service to the Church have been strong, steady, and untiring. Her appointment by the First Presidency as a member of the Relief Society General Board was announced August 15, 1941. In 1922, Florence married Franklin Madsen. Since then, they have won their honors and degrees together. The choruses trained and conducted by the Madsens at the Brigham Young University have a large part in creating the reverence ~ and joyousness so characteristic of that great school. Society at large is made richer by a public servant such as Florence Jepperson Madsen. Home Accident Prevention No. II FIRES—BURNS, SCALDS, SHOCKS, ASPHYXIATION The American National Red Cross, in its publication "Home and Farm Accident Prevention," states that "among women, fatal burns are relatively more important than any other type of accidental death except falls.... Nearly three-fourths of the fatal burns occur in home accidents." It suggests the following simple home activities to prevent burns, scalds, shocks, asphyxiations: Chimneys and flue passages should be inspected and cleaned at regular intervals, and chimneys kept in good condition. II. Fireplaces, Stoves and Stovepipes Fireplaces should have a metal screen to prevent coals and sparks from falling out on the floor and to keep children from getting burned. Care should be exercised in banking coal fires for the night, and chimney dampers should never be completely closed. Keep wall paper away from stovepipe hole; keep stovepipeone foot away from all wood. Have a metal or asbestos plate back of and under the stove and out a foot in front to protect the floor. Drying clothes, shoes or kindling in the bake oven or near the stove or grate has started many fires. III. Lamps Keep lamps away from walls and curtains. Make lamp shades of something that won't burn, not cloth or paper. Children should not be left alone with lamps; nor should a lamp be left burning with no one in the house. IV. Matches Take matches out of pockets before hanging away clothes. Store matches in a metal container, where children cannot reach them. V. Rubbish and Trash; Campfires Rubbish and accumulations are a frequent cause of fire. Buy or build a rubbish burner. Do not pile wood, coal, or papers near the furnace. A metal container for ashes may be worth a thousand times its cost. Out when breaking camp. VI. Electrical Wiring and Equipment VII. Have electrical wiring done right in the first place and keep it in repair. Insist on sufficient fuse blocks being used and keep proper capacity fuses in them at all times. Have all electrical connections out of reach from the bathtub, sink and lavatory. The use of a portable electric heater in the bathroom is dangerous. Provide a stand for the electric iron, or use the type with a heel rest. Check over all electric cords and discard those that are worn. In lighting Christmas trees, the use of electric light sets with broken insulation or with improper fittings is hazardous. Any type of heating pad needs to be used with care and judgment. Gas Pipes and Equipment Gas piping should be installed only by skilled workmen, the meter far from possible flames or sparks. Gas jets or cocks should be adjusted to turn smoothly, but not easily. Watch pots to prevent their boiling over and putting out the flame. Care should be used in lighting the oven. Open the door to ventilate before lighting. Apply the match at the same moment gas is turned on. Never look for a leak with a lighted match or flame. VIII. Frozen Water Pipes Thaw frozen water pipes with hot water, not with a flame. IX. Carbon Monoxide Dangers Always assure yourself that the garage is open before starting motor of car. (Continued on page 652) Page 595 I. Chimneys and Flues Campers should make sure fires are Upon Sacred Ground Dr. H. Wayne Driggs Assistant Professor of Education, New York University Author of "America's Witness for Christ" HREE hundred and fifty miles from Manhattan through the rolling country of the Empire State seems but a short drive when one feels the pull of Palmyra. To the Latter-day Saint, this little peaceful village in the heart of upstate New York has become the sacred spot from which the reality of the risen Christ and his modern prophet are born anew with each returning visit. Such has been the experience of many thousands of Saints who have journeyed to these beautiful scenes that surround tne cradle of Mormonism. In recent years, since the erection of the magnificent monument that lifts so inspiringly above Cumorah, new life and interest have been brought to this famous hill in the form of dramatic pageantry. To one who has witnessed stirring scenes from the Book of Mormon played under the open heavens upon Cumorah's slopes, and heard voiced upon the night air the classic grandeur of ancient American prophecies concerning the coming of Christ, there comes a hunger for more and more of the words of life. For great prophecies are like great music, they grow upon the listener with successive renditions. It has been with such longing in past summers that many thousands of people—by far the majority of whom are non-Mormons—have returned for five successive years to Cumorah to seé and hear "America's Witness for Christ." Page 596 And so on the late afternoon of July 12th, as one who had come | again, I too skimmed along the smooth macadam roads that wind over the green rolling fields toward the town of Palmyra. My wife, two sons, and two cousins were in the car with me. The lengthening shadows of evening were stretching over the farms as we rounded the last turn which threw Cumorah into full view. There upon its wooded slope were three huge stages, one directly above the other, set off with highly-colored scenic flats that depicted the skill and culture of the pre-Columbian inhabitants of the American continents. Even at this early hour before sunset a stir of expectancy among those present pervaded the quiet but inspiring scene. A number of the Eastern States missionaries in direct charge of the lighting, sound, and stage effects were on the grounds treading the many paths upon the slope in their routine check-up of equipment. Within the tent dressing rooms that lifted above the thickly-wooded wings of the central stages came the rustle of costumes. High along Cumorah's ridge two or three figures silhouetted against the deepening sky made their way toward the monument. Night came quickly over Cumorah this midsummer evening, for there was much to contemplate with friends upon this ground, and before we knew it the crowd about the base of the hill had thickened. TRUMPETERS HERALD PAGEANT, "AMERICA'S WITNESS FOR CHRIST" "THE 'STICK OF JOSEPH' WAS TO GO HAND IN HAND WITH A RECORD CALLED THE 'STICK OF JUDAH' " Upon the acres that apron the rising slope of the hill, state troopers assisted by an able staff of missionaries, had directed an unending line of cars that almost noiselessly rolled upon the parking field. People here have come to respect the sacredness of this spot. Scores of cars had been parked and thousands of seats had been filled by 7 p. M., two hours before the pageant was to begin. ALF an hour before curtain time, I stood upon the ridge of the hill and watched the necklace of moving lights that came from both directions along the Palmyra-Manchester road into the Y that forked upon the parking field. All proceeded in orderly fashion until the fields were completely filled. As the nine o'clock hour arrived, an announcement over the loud speaker from the lower stage instructed the huge crowd to turn off car lights and refrain from smoking. The response to this request was unusual. Nowhere have I seen so large an open-air crowd so uniformly respect the general wishes of those in charge of a production. 'Then came the swelling sound of music, and with it the field lights, high above the seated audience, faded into the darkness of the night. The pageant was to begin! Across the sweep of the hill, four floodlights lifted into sight the flowing white robes of the trumpeters who stood at the base of the monument. Then when the last blended notes from their golden horns died upon the breeze, the lights came up on the lower stage illuminating the 598 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 UPON SACRED GROUND single figure of the ancient prophet Ezekiel who spoke of the two sticks that would go hand in hand in the latter days to bear witness of the Christ—the Bible and the Book of Mormon. After, in successive order, came the scenes portraying Moroni in his father Mormon's workshop receiving the records which bore witness of the Messiah and his visit to the Americas. Then came the vision of Nephi, the testimony of Abinadi, the conversion of Alma the younger, the conversion of King Lamoni, the fiery words of Samuel the Lamanite, and last the appearance of Christ himse]f to the Nephites. As a closing scene, Moroni again appeared and delivered the plates of the Book of Mormon to the boy prophet, Joseph Smith, and with these immortal words the pageant closed: "And when ye, o people of the earth, shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of th Holy Ghost." Most impressive were the lighting effects. In the appearance of the Christ and the Angel Moroni, the intense light that illumined their beings seemed to come from within them. Equally good was the sound system which carried the voices of the characters far across the valley. The costumes were beautiful; and the excellent acting done by the large cast of missionaries was a tribute to J. Karl Wood and Harold I. Hansen, their directors. INSPIRING has been the growth through the years since the summer 599 of 1937 when Elder Don B. Colton, then president of the Eastern States Mission, first presented "America's Witness for Christ" at Cumorah. Following his lead, Elder Frank Evans, who succeeded him as mission president, heightened and perfected the performances through three successive summers. This year, the present mission president, Gustave A. Iverson, has brought many new and helpful additions to enhance the total effectiveness of the pageant and conference. Among other things, he has established two booths of information from which thousands of tracts were distributed and many copies of the Book of Mormon sold. He told the writer that after each of the two performances this year but few tracts had COSTUMES FOR PAGEANT WERE AUTHENTIC AND COLORFUL 600 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 STAGES, SCENERY, AND STAGE PROPERTIES WERE BUILT BY MISSIONARIES been dropped upon the fields. Nearly every piece of literature distributed was taken away. The deep interest shown by the most attentive audiences of Friday and Saturday evenings carried conversations about the things experienced far beyond the immediate scene of the pageant. So it was with the writer and his party. For during the whole of the long return trip to New York on the following day, the inspiring scenes of the night before had made Palmyra live again as a sacred spot in this new land, whence had come the Book of Mormon — "America's Witness for Christ." BE STILL Olive C. Wehr "Be still and know that Iam God." (Psalms 46:10) Be still, my troubled soul, and know His voice within the hurricane; I know He calls to me, and so I shall not faint again. Be still, my trembling heart, and hear, Where storms break cold and grey, The loving voice that draws me near— I shall not lose my way. Pink Lemonade for the Boys Olive W. Burt HE ice cream in the tightly clutched cones was melting faster than small pink tongues could lap it up, and the brown hands were speckled with drops of strawberry red, but neither Janet nor Stevie noticed this, and kept on licking automatically, while their eyes watched the men.! The men were fascinating creatures, perched high against the billboard in the summer sun. But the work they were doing was even more fascinating, for they were posting bills about the circus—brilliant bills that showed prancing horses with beautiful ladies standing on their backs; swinging trapeze bars, from which hung strong-armed men tossing smiling ladies back and forth: raging lions, teeth bared and eyes gleaming; elephants and clowns; all the dazzling attractions of a threeringed circus. Janet read the captions to her small brother, but the boy didn't need the words to tell him what the pictures showed so vividly. "Do you think Dad and Mom will take us?" he asked, his eyes shining. "They will, won't they, Janet?" "I suppose so," said Janet. "They're awfully good that way." "It'll be fun going with a family, won't it?" persisted Stevie. Janet nodded. She and Stevie had seen circuses before. Every summer that they had lived in the Home, after Father and Mother had gone, big buses had called at the Home and had taken all the children, who were old enough to go, out to the circus grounds. They had had reserved seats as guests of the men's clubs of the city, and they had been given ice-cream cones. It had been lots of fun. The children had talked about it for days afterward. But this would be different—that is, if Mom and Daddy took them. Janet didn't doubt at all that they would. Mr. And Mrs. Allen had adopted the two children in the spring, and since then they had done everything they could do to make the youngsters forget that they were not really their own children. Stevie had almost forgotten, and at times Janet, too, found herself thinking of the two as intimately as she had - used to think of her own mother and father. But Janet was desperately afraid of losing this lovely home—afraid that the two children might prove a burden to their benefactors—and so she hesitated to ask for things, and tried to put a gentle brake on her brother's unquestioning demands. It was quite a task, this keeping Stevie within the bounds of what Janet considered proper decorum and yet not remind him that he was merely adopted. She didn't want to do that; she wanted Stevie to forget; wanted him to feel that he belonged, that this was his family. Yet she herself didn't dare forget for fear that they might lose their present good fortune. So she took the last tip of the cone into her mouth, licked off her fingers, and said quietly, "Let's not Page 60] 602 ask them, Stevie. Let's wait and see what they say." AS soon as Janet saw young Mr. Allen walking up the pathway that evening, his eyes shining like Stevie's, she knew she needn't have worried. Daddy picked Stevie up and swung him to his shoulder, crying, "Guess what, kids! Guess what!" Janet, wise beyond her years in the ways of encouraging masculine enthusiasm, would have pretended ignorance, but Stevie blurted out, "The circus is coming! The circus is coming!" "Right the first time," Jaughed Daddy. "And what follows?" "Are we going?" cried the boy, assurance making the question into a command. ""Are we going?' he asks!" and Daddy gave Stevie a swing to the floor, to stoop and kiss Janet and then throw his arms around his smiling wife. "Do you hear that, darling? He asks us if we're going to the circus!" "You're more enthusiastic about it than he is, I believe," and Mom smiled at the two standing there so close together, so dependent on each other for happiness. "And what shall we do at the circus?" Daddy was waltzing around the room. "We shall eat peanuts and feed the elephants; we shall see the fat woman and the snake charmer; we shall dribble ice cream over our shirt fronts...." "And drink pink lemonade!" shouted Stevie, prancing after the cavorting man. Daddy stopped and looked at the boy more seriously. "Of course, pink Lemonade! RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 That's what makes a circus, really, isn't it? It's my favorite drink—and yours, too, Stevie, I take it?" Stevie sobered, too. "I think so," he said. "I've never tasted it." "Never tasted pink lemonade! Well, we'll take care of that, all tight. We'll have a glass or two before we go in and a glass or two when we come out; and if we get thirsty, we'll leave right spank in the middle and drink another glass or two, won't we?" Stevie laughed and bobbed _his head up and down. "Yes, we will— a big glass or two, a great big glass or two!" he repeated. Then making the phrase into a sort of marching tune, he pranced about shouting, "Pink lemonade! Pink lemonade! A great, big glass of pink lemonade!" Daddy joined him, and they made such a noise that Mom drove them out onto the lawn while she and Janet got the supper on the table. Janet thought she ought to explain about the lemonade. She said: "Last summer at the circus it was awfully hot and dry, and we all got dreadfully thirsty. They gave us ice cream, and we had reserved seats, but they didn't think about the pink lemonade. It looked good, and all the kids wanted some, but of course they couldn't ask for any." Mrs. Allen worked quietly. She had learned that silence brought confidence. Janet went on, _ "When we got back to the Home, we had some plain lemonade, ice cold, with gingersnaps. It was good, but we wondered about the pink lemonade. Stevie asked me if pink lemonade 'tasted prettier' than plain lemonade." She smiled at the remembrance, fondly, half apologet- PINK LEMONADE FOR THE BOYS ically, as she always smiled at her brother's bright remarks. Mrs. Allen said quietly, "Well, you shall both have all the pink lemonade you can drink, this time." "You're not afraid it will make us sick?" "Of course not! Whoever heard of pink lemonade making anyone sick!" "Even if it did,' Janet offered hopefully, "it wouldn't make any difference, would: it? We'd have had a taste, anyway." FROM that afternoon on, there was nothing in the world worth talking about but the circus. Naturally, Daddy and Stevie did most of the talking. They played at elephant and rider, at bareback tricks, at clowns and at sideshow barker. Their evening romp was given over entirely to circus. And each evening just before the romp was over, Mom would come out onto the lawn carrying a tray and crying, "Lemonade! Lemonade! Who'll have a glass of lemonade!" And Daddy, with Stevie imitating him, would take a glass of Mom's delicious lemonade and taste it and say, "Pretty good—but it certainly isn't pink lemonade. Try again tomorrow, will you, Mrs. Allen?" Mrs. Allen explained to Janet, "Your Daddy is really as excited as Stevie, dear. You know, he hasn't been to a circus himself since he was a little boy. And then he didn't have any money for pink lemonade or popcorn or sideshows. I think he carried water for the elephants to get into the big show, and that was all he saw. He remembers what fun it was, though. I'm so glad Daddy's getting this chance." And Janet 603 realized vaguely that perhaps they meant as much to their new parents as the parents meant to the two lonely little orphans; and she hoped, desperately, it would always be like this. But as time for the circus drew nearer, Janet began to worry. What if something happened so_ that Stevie and Daddy. Couldn't go to the circus? What if Stevie had one of his sick spells? 'True, since they had been with the Allens, Stevie hadn't had any upset stomach or any fits of crying. He ate everything that was placed before him, and he slept like a tired puppy. Janet sensed that it was partly due to the care with which his food was chosen and served, but more because of the feeling of safety and affection that he knew for the first time. But this extra excitement, this strain of waiting for the circus, this eternal bubbling over might be bad for him. If he got sick—if they couldn't go to the circus—Janet didn't dare think what this would mean to the two "boys" as she invariably thought of Mr. Allen and Stevie together. The circus was coming on Wednesday, and there was to be a "gigantic parade" in the morning, and both an afternoon and evening performance. Daddy was going to take the whole day off. They would all go to the parade, then have dinner in town and go to the afternoon show. Everything was planned so definitely, so confidently, that Janet didn't see how anything could prevent their following the program. If only Stevie, wild with excitement and singing in his sleep, "Pink lemonade!" kept well. By Tuesday, Janet's uneasiness had grown unreasonably. She felt 604 worried, unhappy, and began to imagine all sorts of disasters to their plans. She was grumpy about her little duties, and even became cross with Stevie, reminding him, almost brutally, that "he'd better be careful and take his nap, or he might not even be able to go to the circus!" Stevie's blue eyes opened wide, and he gazed at his sister in surprise. She so seldom spoke harshly to him. _ "Whassa matter, Janet?" he asked. "I don't know," his sister answered unhappily, putting her arms about the little fellow. "I'm just cross, that's all, Stevie." That evening she didn't want to join in their usual pre-bedtime play, but sat in her low rocker watching them with misgiving, and when Stevie was showered and in his pajamas ready for bed, she looked him over carefully. No, there was no fever, no soreness, no hint of trouble in the firm, brown little body. Still Janet worried. Mrs. Allen, coming in on the inspection, laughed. "What do you expect to find, Janet?" she teased. "IT don't know," Janet answered seriously. "But boys are so surprising! It would be just like Stevie to be sick tomorrow so they couldn't go to the circus!" "Oh, I don't think so," smiled the woman. "You look worse right now than Stevie does." Janet's hand flew to her own cheek, which was, without doubt, rather warm. "IT guess I've been worrying too much!" she apologized. "I guess everything will be okay. Only I wouldn't like Daddy and Stevie disappointed." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 "You've taken care of Stevie too long by yourself, so to speak," and Mom's arms went around the little girl, and she pressed a kiss on the top of the bright red head. "Now you get to bed or you won't be ready yourself in the morning." ANET awoke while it was still dark with the definite knowledge that something was wrong. Her first thought, as always, was of her brother, and she tiptoed to the door between their rooms and looked in. He slept as little boys sleep—spreadeagled on the bed, pajamaed legs and arms flung wide. He was breathing quietly, and Janet, long-practiced in watching out for disturbances in the beloved little form, knew that he was all right. Only then did she locate the dis-. Turbance. It was inside herself. She ached, dreadfully, all over; her eyes were watery; she felt nauseated. Her cheeks were burning. With trembling fingers she unbuttoned her own thin pajama coat and examined her chest and stomach. As she looked, tears filled her eyes and overflowed. She had chicken pox! Last winter, when an epidemic of the disease had struck the Home. She and Stevie had somehow, miraculously they thought at the time, escaped. Now she wondered bitterly why they could not have had the chicken pox then when it wouldn't have mattered, instead of waiting till now—the very day of the circus. She climbed back into bed and sat huddled against the pillow, wondering what she could do. For years she had been accustomed to meeting the problems that PINK LEMONADE FOR THE BOYS were constantly confronting her and Stevie, dealing with them as best she could, with the one rule to guide her: Stevie must be kept safe and happy. It seemed to her almost traitorous that now she, who should have helped him enjoy this day so - long awaited, would be the one to prevent his good time. For beyond question, it was impossible for her to go to the circus. Not only was she too ill to enjoy it— although she was not really very sick, she reflected—but she knew she could not expose other children. Anyway, Mom and Daddy wouldn't think of permitting it. When they discovered that she had chicken pox, they wouldn't even let Stevie go, though he was as well as could be. He might not even catch them, reflected Janet. He hadn't caught them last year, though he had played with the first boy to "come down" up to the very minute of the discovery of his ailment. It would have been better, Janet thought miserably, if it had been Stevie who had taken ill, as she had been worrying. He could have understood that better than he could comprehend his sister's depriving him of his great day. But the boy wasn't sick; probably wouldn't ever have the chicken pox. He ought to go to the circus. And Daddy, too! He had never been to a circus since he was a little boy— had never had pink lemonade to drink and pink popcorn to eat. He had counted on this so much. Janet got up again and looked at herself in the mirror. The soft summer dawn was just creeping up across the sky, but she could see, without turning on the light, that 605 her. Appearance proclaimed that something was wrong. If only she could hide away, so that Mom and Daddy wouldn't know! She couldn't face them and hide her trouble. If it didn't show so plainly, she might tell them she didn't want to go to the circus, and they'd go without her. Or would they? How could she convince them that she didn't want to go, and yet not reveal what was wrong? They mustn't guess this, or they wouldn't take Stevie—and then Daddy wouldn't get to go either. At last she set her lips in a determined line and went to work. She dressed very quietly. Then she sat down by the window, where it was light enough now to see, and wrote. It took her quite awhile to compose her note so that it suited her, but at last she got up, pinned the note to her pillow, and slipped out of the door, down the basement stairs, and across the big room to a cot that had been placed in a shadowed corner for the children to nap on during hot afternoons. She crawled under the thin coverlet, pulled it up over her head, and hoped that in the excitement of finding the note, in the hustle and bustle of getting away to the circus, no one would even glance toward the cot. Probably no one would even come down into the basement this morning. Anyway, she reflected as she dozed off wearily, it was the only place she could go, looking the way she did. {las sleep that morning was fitful, She heard the family awaken; heard the exclamations and talk going on above her when her note was discovered; heard Stevie's whimpering, and Daddy's voice ask- 606 ing what could have possessed her, and Mom's quiet talk.... Janet almost smiled. Mom would know that Janet had a good reason. Mom would cooperate all right. There was breakfast, and the two "boys" helped with the dishes. Then, almost before Janet was aware of it, probably because long periods were lost in troubled sleep, Daddy had the car at the back door, and the trio were off to the parade. They wouldn't be back until late in the afternoon, after the circus. — Janet smiled happily, and relaxed into real slumber. She awoke once or twice during the day, burning with thirst, and stumbled across to the tap to draw herself a drink. She wasn't hungry at all; she just wanted to sleep. So there, in the cool, shadowy basement, she stayed quietly. When she was asleep she dreamed of the circus, and when she was awake she thought about it and about what the "boys" would be doing. She remembered her note with a little surge of pride. It must have sounded all right, she reflected, or they wouldn't have gone as they had. She must have made them believe that she was really afraid of lions and elephants and would rather spend the day "with some of the kids" than to watch the antics of clowns and trapeze performers. "Don't bother to call up everyone and try to find me," she had written, "I will be all right, and will be home here when you come. I wouldn't do it this way, but you know Stevie. He would beg me to go, and I would have to go, and then I might get sick in the heat and spoil all the fun. Please do as I say. Please!" Once she said to herself, when RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 the water didn't seem to quench her thirst at all, "I «lon't really mind missing the circus, but I would sure like a drink of cold lemonade." It was nearly dark in the basement when the excited voices of the returning family awakened Janet. She sat up. The day had gone very well for her. She was hungry now, and felt much better than she had that morning, though she was a little wobbly as she tried to stand up. | The three came into the house, Stevie rushing before his parents, crying, "Janet! Janet! Janet!" as he ran from room to room. Janet stumbled up the stairs and stood blinking in the kitchen doorway. Her mother gave one startled glance at the blotched face, the watery eyes, and then her arms were around the little girl. "Janet, honey, what is it?" she asked tenderly. "Chicken pox," answered Janet in a matter-of-fact tone. Her mother held her closer, and aa and laughter seemed to choke er. "You knew it this morning!" she accused gently. "You knew..." then she stopped and kissed the top of the bright head. "Where did you stay all day, darling?" "In the basement. I slept most of the time. Was the circus good? Did you get some pink lemonade?" A swift look passed between the two adults. After the little girl's sacrifice for them they'd have liked to spare her this, but Stevie, the literal, said, "There wasn't any at this circus. We had orange drink in a bottle." For one brief moment there was PINK LEMONADE FOR THE BOYS silence, as the little girl took in the news. Then the blue eyes lighted, and a twinkle came into them; before anyone knew what had _ happened, all four were laughing merrily. Daddy picked Janet up. "To bed with you, sweetheart!" he cried, "Tl bring you some supper in a minute. And, Stevie boy, you'd better keep away from Sister. Maybe you won't have them.... I hope 607 you won't for my own peace of mind!" he added, ruefully. So Daddy undressed Janet and put her to bed, while Mom prepared a tray, and Stevie stood outside her door and told her about the circus. When Mom brought the tray in, Janet laughed again, and Stevie clapped his hands. For there on the tray, produced magically by Mom, were four tall glasses of pink lemonade. SO MARK THE YEARS Celia A. Van Cott Once more the summer's fruited days are done; Dry milkweed stalks fringe fields of stubbled hay; The grain has ripened in the summer's sun, And crickets grieve the fleeting hours away. Down quiet lanes within the country now Tall poplars lift nude branches to the sky; No bird mate carols from. A naked bough— Fall's symphonies, the dry leaves shifting by. I love this healing interlude of rest, Fach graying furrow numbed by harvest's gain; I love to walk upon the earth's shorn breast And dream of life in spring's warm slanting rain. Soon storm's white wrath shall mound the frozen sod— So mark the years that wing us back to God. HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon Like a jeweled queen, radiant THE American way of life might proceed normally and merrily were it not for the war clouds hovering over the horizon of our hopes. With the reopening of the schools and the clubs renewing their social study courses, there are many new books on the market. Some notable books by women are: My Theodosia by Anya Seton—gifted daughter of the writer, Ernest 'Thompson Seton —a pathetic story of the daughter of Aaron Burr; Mrs. Delafield of "Provincial Lady" fame offers No One Will Know, while Rebecca West in Black Lamb and Grey Falcon tells a Yugoslavian story. Then there is The Golden Skylark by Elizabeth Goudge, while Restlers Are the Sails by Evelyn Eaton makes an interesting bit. NEW YORK CITY claims to be the fashion center of the world today, now that Paris and Vienna are shorn of their glory. 'The Cornelia 'Taxi Company is hiring only women drivers, and women pilots are in great demand, so fashion may be largely uniforms. HELEN HULL JACOBS won the Seabright tennis games, holding her place thus far as world champion. MARY DEAN POWELL, daughter of Major Powell, who in 1869 took the long, perilous journey down the Colorado River and was its first explorer, is retracing her father's route this summer over the rough lands of Utah and Arizona bordering the Green and Colorado rivers. Page 608 September displays her gifts. DOROTHY KRISTY, "the Cinderella girl," is singing with the Chicago Opera Company. She is a protégé of Grace Moore. PATRICIA THOMAS, California girl, received the Amelia Earhart scholarship at the convention of licensed women pilots this summer. INGA WELLS, active in Church and social circles, died this summer. We also note a number of deaths of prominent women: Eleanor Lufkin Kimball, early resident of Alberta, Canada, and earnest worker in the Relief Society of the Northwestern States Mission; Edith Cherrington, poet and poetry analyst of Pasadena; Emma Endres, 104 years old, foreign correspondent and columnist; and Roberta C. Lawson, prominent clubwoman, granddaughter of the last chief of the Delaware Indians. Sarah A. Park Brockbank, who was feted on her 98th birthday, and who received special honors this year on Utah Day, July 24, as the sole remaining pioneer of Utah of 1847, passed away late in August. REMARKABLE group of Utah pioneer grandmothers, recently feted, follows: Mary F. Garner of Roy, age 105; Sarah A. Gibbons, 94, of Myton; Ellen Sandall, 91, of Layton; Melissa K. Lee, go, of Caliente; Annie C. Shaw, 89, of Salt Lake City; Mary K. Johnson, 88, of Brigham City, still an ardent angler; and Eugenia Snow, 85, daughter of President Lorenzo Snow. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Amy Brown Lyman  Marcia K. Howells - - - Donna D. Sorensen - - Vera W. Pohlman - - Belle S. Spafford Anna S. Barlow President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Marianne C. Sharp Edith S. Elliott Vivian R. McConkie Achsa E. Paxman Anna B. Hart Pauline T. Pingree Leda T. Jensen  Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton Rae B. Barker Mary G. Judd Gertrude R. Garff Priscilla L. Evans Nellie O. Parker Luella N. Adams Leona F. Wintch RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Florence J. Madsen Editor - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Vol. 28 SEPTEMBER, 1941 No. 9 Writers Round-up MONG the many groups designed to promote culture and advance creative arts throughout the country are the organized writers' groups. These groups are subscribed to by the leading artists in all fields of writing as well as by the novice. Their activities are reflected in increased numbers of gifted persons entering the writing field and also in improved writing technique. Among these groups is the League of Utah Writers. This organization is to be commended upon its activities in the interest of stimulating, improving, and marketing the work of local writers. The Writers' Round-up, held in Salt Lake City, August 9-10, under the direction of the Salt Lake Chapter of the League, was both stimulating and encouraging. 'The Round-up is an annual affair conducted by the various chapters of the League, and is an outgrowth of an activity originally sponsored and directed by the late Harrison R. Merrill, a gifted Utah writer himself and a generous and devoted friend of creative writers. Appearing on the Round-up program each year are writers of note in all fields—quality and pulp writers, prose-article writers, newspaper writers, poets, et cetera. Writers' problems in general are discussed, and guidance in their solution is given. Wave interests in reading as well as suitable markets are carefully considered. An interesting feature of the Round-up each year is the Poets' Breakfast. For the past two years a poetry contest has been conducted in connection with the Round-up. Prizes have been awarded, and prizewinning poems have been read by their authors at the Breakfast. The large number of local poets as. Well as their interest in this feature is indicated by the fact that more than 300 poems were entered in this year's contest. The general quality of poems submitted was above average. Prizes were awarded to Eva Willes Wangsgaard for her poem "Biography," Claire Stewart Boyer for "Zenith," and Martha Ross Stewart for "Sibyl." Judges in the contest were Dr. Sherman Brown Page 609 610 Neff of the University of Utah department of English, Dr. Carlton Culmsee of the Brigham Young University department of English, and Belle S. Spafford, editor of the Relief Society Magazine. That the local writers appreciate and benefit from the annual Roundup program is evidenced. By the large and constantly increasing attendance. Of special interest is the preponderance of women in attendance. At the meetings held this year, women outnumbered men by at least ten to one. When we review the writers of the past, such names as Shakespeare, Shelley, Keats, Thackeray, Chaucer, Pope, and a score of others readily come to mind—names of men. We recall that Mary Ann Evans, one of the greatest novelists of the nineteenth century, chose the pen name of George Eliot because in her time women had not yet found a place in the professional world. The fact that women—women of teal creative genius whose work is marketable—were in the majority at RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 the Round-up is significant. It is indicative of the place of women in the present-day field of literature. If literature is the great preserver of culture and the interpreter and influencer of life, then we are justified in believing that the influence of women on the future will be pronounced. When the roll of honor of writers of the twentieth century is called, there is no doubt that the names of many women will be among the great. The era in which we live bids fair for women writers. The Relief Society has always encouraged creative work of all kinds —music, art, handcrafts. Creative writing has been stressed. One of the purposes of the Relief Society Magazine is to encourage the literary aspirations of the women of the Church. The Relief Society General Board commends and endorses activities designed to promote and improve creative work and extends its best wishes to organizations striving to develop creative genius and to improve the quality of work done. Tabernacle Choir Sour cuss 17, more than 330 members of the Tabernacle Choir, accompanied by Church officials and friends, left Salt Lake City for California. Concerts were held in the Hollywood Bowl and in the San Francisco Civic Auditorium. 'Thousands of people were given opportunity to hear the famous singing organization of our Church. Conducting the Choir was J. Spencer Cornwall, director, assisted by Richard P. Condie, assistant conductor and soloist. Alexander Schreiner and Dr. Frank W. Asper, Tabernacle organists, were the musical accompanists. Lester Hewlett, president of the Choir, made the tour with the group. For years, the Tabernacle Choir has been a source of great pride to Church members. Its music has elevated and inspired the Saints and has contributed to the spiritual tone of Church gatherings held in the great Tabernacle. Concerts conducted by the Choir have delighted thousands. The weekly broadcast from the Tabernacle has been a source of enjoyment to people throughout the Nation as'well as an excellent missionary activity. The Relief Society General Board commends the Choir upon its many achievements reflecting credit upon the Church. Notes from THE FIELD Binder For Relief Society Magazine A SUBSTANTIAL, well-made cover, into which single copies of the Relief Society Magazine may be inserted or removed at will, and which will hold a total of twelve issues of the Magazine, is now available. This binder is covered in blue Fabrikoid, with the title Relief Society Magazine stamped in gold. This binder will be a great convenience to all stake and ward Relief Society officers, to class leaders, and to all Relief Society Magazine subscribers who like to keep a current year's issue of the Magazine together in one place. (Note: This is the binder which was shown at the general conference of Relief Society in April of this year, with the statement that announcement would be made as soon as the binders could be supplied by a manufacturer.) Inasmuch as the General Board is offering this binder to Relief Society Magazine subscribers at cost, all orders should be addressed direct to the General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. The price to Relief Society Magazine subscribers is 75c, postpaid. Relief Society Annual Stake Conferences ELIEF SOCIETY annual stake conferences for 1941 began on Sunday, August 24, with conferences scheduled to be held each Sunday thereafter (except on fast days) to and including November 23. Wherever feasible, two stakes will combine for a conference. According to the schedule, there will be a total of 51 one-stake conferences, and 43 two-stake conferences. A representative of the General Board will attend each conference. The plan of meetings is similar to that of last year, with a session for Relief Society stake executive officers, Relief Society stake board, bishops, and ward Relief Society presidents—all scheduled for Sunday forenoon— and an afternoon session for ward class leaders and visiting teachers. Since the separation of auxiliary stake conferences from the regular quarterly stake conferences, a change which became effective in 1940, the Relief Society stake conferences have taken the form of a one-day institute for officers and _ teachers, with no general session scheduled. All stake Relief Society presidents have been informed of the date of their respective stake conferences, and a supply of printed programs is sent well in advance of each conference for distribution to ward Relief Society presidents, who will inform the ward officers, class leaders, and visiting teachers of the time and place of the meetings which they are expected to attend. Page 611 The General Board deeply appreciates the work of stake and ward Relief Society officers in making the necessary arrangements for these annual conferences and in notifying all those who are expected to attend. Relief Society General Conference The semi-annual general conference of Relief Society will convene in Salt Lake City, Utah, Wednesday and Thursday, October 1 and 2, 1941. This fall conference features the educational work of the Relief Society. Stake class leaders are urged to attend the departmental meetings as follows: Visiting Teachers' Messages Theology and Testimony Literature Social Science A special departmental session of the stake choristers will also be held. The second day of the conference will feature an officers' meeting in the morning, for general officers, mission and stake presidents, stake officers and board members, and an afternoon session in the Tabernacle. The latter session will be open to the public. Relief Society Pin [N response to numerous requests, the General Board has arranged for the manufacture of an official Relief Society pin, the design for which was adapted from the official centennial insignia recently approved. The pin has been reproduced in two grades, both of identical design, size, and coloring, and will be available for sale at the offices of the General Board, September 15, 1941, and thereafter, at the following specified prices: No. 1 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 24 carat gold-plated, price $1.00, postpaid; No. 2 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solidgold front (1. E. Gold-filled), with 24 carat gold-plated back, price $1.65, postpaid. Although this pin is being issued as a feature of the centennial year, the only date appearing on it is the organization year—1842. The pin will therefore be appropriate for use after the centennial and will be carried in stock regularly hereafter. No Soctal Science Lesson Sor December N° SOCIAL Science lesson is printed in this issue of the Magazine as no lesson for this department is planned for the month of December, due to the holiday season. The General Board does not require that a meeting be held on the fourth Tuesday of December (December 23), but — if local organizations desire to meet on that date, it is suggested that a Christmas program be held. 612 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 A Garden Masquerade Vaunee T. Larson EMILY BRANT was kneeling in the midst of her flower garden, pulling out the weeds among the brilliant blooms with quick, vigorous jerks. She often said that her flower garden was the only luxury permitted by T'om's salary as cashier at the local Fall City Bank. When Tom had brought her to this home as his bride, twenty years before, she had surveyed with dismay the rambling structure of a bygone architectural style. It had looked grim and forbidding to the radiant young bride. She knew they could not afford to remodel it; but flower seeds did not cost much, so in the first year of her married life she had begun to clothe their house and edge their Jawn with nature's bright garb. The succession of profuse and gorgeous blooms from early March until late November was incentive enough for 'Tom and the three boys —Jim, seventeen, Allen, fifteen, and Gerry, eleven — to keep the grass trimmed and the graveled garden paths in good shape. Emily enjoyed caring for her flowers, especially on such a sunny fall afternoon as this. She stopped her weeding and sat back on her heels as she saw her friend, Amy Adams, hurrying down the street. "How was the club meeting today, Amy?" she called. "You look tired. Come in and rest a few minutes, won't you?" Emily motioned toward the comfortable garden chairs. "That's just what I'd planned to do," Amy said, as she dropped wearily on the bench. "I wish you had been to the meeting today." "Well, Amy, you know how I feel about it. You know why I stay away. I was so disappointed when I found the club would not consider working on my idea to secure a Civic recreational center that I decided my garden needed me more than the club. I still think Fall City would be a much better place in which to live and_ rear our families if we had a_ recreational hall." She broke off quickly, "Forgive me, Amy, for dwelling on that old disappointment. Won't you slip off your hat and_ gloves while I run inside—I won't be a minute—and get some lemonade. There's a pitcherful just waiting to be brought out." Amy relaxed in the cool shade of the garden. When Emily returned with the tray, Amy started the conversation abruptly. "Where were Jim and Allen last night, Emily?" "Last night...?" Emily mused a moment. "Why, they went to the library. They said they were going to meet your John and study together." A sharp premonition possessed Emily. "Why do you ask, Amy? Wasn't John at the library, too?" "Yes, John was there. But after that, Emily, later..." (Even with upsetting news Amy enjoyed telling it dramatically.) "they all went out to Tony's Place." "Tony's Place?" Emily repeated it incredulously. Page 613 614 "Yes, that tavern out on the Ridge Road. It is patronized by a rather fast crowd." She went on hurriedly, "Mrs. Gates told us all about it this afternoon. She said she and Mr. Gates went out for a drive in the country last night. You know how the place is lit up at. Night. Well, on the way home she said they drove by slowly, and she saw our boys just leaving, and Ann Fulton, that new girl in town, was with them! She tried to make it all sound so terrible, and she called that Fulton girl trash." Emily's eyes were blazing. "Amy, if it's true our boys were there with the Fulton girl, Pl wager they had _ some good reason. Perhaps they went out there for a lark. It's natural and desirable for them to crave a lively time and the companionship of other boys and girls, and what does Fall City offer our youth? Nothing, absolutely nothing! Of course, I don't approve of the boys' going to Tony's Place, but the thing we have to do, Amy, is to safeguard them from making a habit of going there by offering them something better." The two women talked on about their problem, but they could find no answer to it. Emily advised Amy not to question John. "Until we can offer a solution, I'm sure it will only antagonize our boys to think we have suspicioned them of wrongdoing," she cautioned. Thar night at dinner it was an effort for Emily to be gay and cheerful. While Tom and the boys carried on a gay banter, her thoughts were busy elsewhere. Her sons were good boys, she knew. Yet how easy at their age to make a misstep. If RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 only there were some organized recreational project for young and old alike. She had worked hard to promote such a project, but had met with insurmountable hostility from Mrs. Gates, the club president, who had said that she would always actively oppose any plan which would include all the "trash" of the community. No help could be expected from Mr. Gates, who was the mayor as well as Tom Brant's employer. Everyone knew Mr. Gates was only the nominal head of his household. Perhaps if she went about it in an indirect way she might yet be successful.... Jim had noticed that his mother was very quiet during the meal. "Say, boys, let's do a good turn for Mother—shoo her off into the living room with Dad, and we'll clean up the kitchen as slick as a whistle." "Now that's what I call a capital idea,' Tom's voice boomed out. "Come on, Mother. After working in the garden as you did this afternoon, you're entitled to a quiet evening of rest." Emily did not tell him that it was not the garden work which made her feel so tired. Instead, she smiled gratefully as he pushed her gently into the large armchair, adjusted some pillows at her back, and brought a footstool for her feet. He continued: "Nearly everyone who comes into the bank remarks about the beauty of our flowers. They all say theirs stopped blooming weeks ago, and here our garden is as pretty as ever." "Yes, it is," Emily agreed. "Oh, Tom, I wish I could share the joy it has given me with everyone in this town." "Share the joy... " Emily A GARDEN MASQUERADE silently repeated to herself. Then, in a flash a plan was born in Emily's mind. She rose hastily with new vitality. "Tom," she said eagerly, "don't ask me questions now, but call up the Adamses immediately. Tell all three of them to come over as quickly as they can. Oh, yes, tell Amy to bring all her old magazines and some scissors." Tom looked at his wife intently. "Emily, are you sure you feel all right? No temperature?" "Of course I'm all right," his wife laughingly responded. "Sons," she called to the kitchen, "when you're through there you may get out the extra leaves for the dining-room table. We can all work around it." She silenced their questions with a wave of her hand. "Oh, we're going to have heaps of fun tonight!" She went on talking to herself, "Now, I must get plenty of scissors, paper, paste, old magazines, pen and ink." Tom and the boys quickly did their assigned tasks. Emily had transmitted her sudden enthusiasm to them, and they were eager for the "fun" to begin. They all answered the bell to let the Adamses in. Gerry was so aquiver with excitement he resembled his witehaired terrier. He reached the door first and flung it wide. "Emily, what on earth is all this about?" Amy burst into the hall. "Tom was so secretive over the phone. My two are loaded down with magazines." "That's fine! Take them right into the dining room." Emily ushered them into the room. "Now do explain what all this is 615 about, Emily.' Amy _ was_ plainly mystified. "Well, tonight Tom and I were talking about our garden, and all of a sudden I thought what fun it would be to have a masquerade garden party and invite everyone in town. These fall nights are warm enough for such an affair. If we get busy and make the invitations tonight, we can set the date for next week, That will give people plenty of time to select and make a costume. How about it?" Emily's idea won an instant and overwhelming approval, especially from the boys. Emily caught Amy's glance, and said to her quietly, "If it all works out the way I hope it does...." She did not finish her sentence, but Amy knew that somehow Emily's hope for a recreational center lay in the success of the garden patty. With the advice and contributions from each one of the happy group, a creditable yet simple invitation evolved. With colored pictures of flowers pasted on it, the invitation read, Come one—come all, Come to Brants' garden For a masquerade ball! In one corner, the date and time were neatly printed. By eleven o'clock over one hundred invitations were piled on the table, while a tired group surveyed them. "Yes, there's just enough," Emily was saying, "for each family in town." "Mother, do you have one for the Fultons?" Jim tried to ask the question casually. "Why, no, I don't believe we do. 616 Here's an extra one, though, that you may address to them." "I'd like to take it to school to Ann. Her desk is next to mine in the study hall. The Fultons are just new people here and still live out in that trailer camp at the edge of town. 'The mailman might not deliver mail out there." The adults could plainly see that Jim, who had always loudly claimed that girls were "unnecessary _afflictions," had at last found out that after all they might be nice companions. Wisely, they refrained from making any teasing remarks. "Well, we'll certainly see that the Fultons receive their invitation," Emily briskly asserted. "However, I think it will be much better if Amy and I just drive out to their trailer house tomorrow, leave the invitation and make a call on Mrs. Fulton at the same time. She's probably lonely if they are strangers here." "I guess that would be best," Jim agreed. Fifteen-year-old Allen did not have the reticence of his older brother. He importantly confided to the adults, "Last night we boys formed a bodyguard for Ann and were.... "Be still, Allen. They aren't interested in that," Jim spoke quickly. "Oh, but we are," Amy and Emily. Chorused together. Allen continued, "We were going to see that she got home safely. But her father was waiting for her, so we didn't have to after all." Jim decided a more thorough explanation was necessary. "You see, Ann has to earn money for her schoolbooks, so yesterday she got a job washing dishes at Tony's Place. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 She's going to work a couple of hours each night until she has saved enough. She told me Mr. Gates was urging her father to move on to some other place. He says there's enough unemployed families here now. But Ann says her father is an experienced painter and carpenter, and he's sure when people know him he'll have plenty of work." So that was the real truth of the affair. Amy and Emily exchanged looks of relief. "I would like to meet Ann," Emily said. "I'm sure she must be a very fine girl." "Oh, she is, Mother. She's just as nice as Patricia and Ruth Gates." When the Adams family left, they took the invitations with them. "It won't be any trouble at all for us to drive by the post office tonight. Then they'll be delivered in the early morning mail," Amy said. She laughed, "Can't you just picture the reception the Gates' invitation will get?" "Well, I hope they come," Emily said aside to Amy. "It might change their minds about my project." PRECISELY at nine o'clock the following morning, Mr. And Mrs. Gates were summoned to their morning meal by the tinkle of the breakfast bell. Martha, their maid who had been with them for years, stood, stiffly starched, beside the table to see that all was in perfect order. The mail was placed on a tray for Mrs. Gates; the morning paper was neatly folded for Mr. Gates. Ordinarily their breakfast progressed in silence, as their daughters ate earlier and then attended school. The atmosphere was not homey and chatty as in Emily's A GARDEN MASQUERADE home. Here a rigid formality was observed. Mrs. Gates looked through the small pile of letters—a few bills, an invitation to a luncheon, a wedding announcement. Experimentally, she ran her finger over the wedding announcement to see if it were' engraved or just an imitation. 'Then her attention was caught by a small envelope printed in a childish hand. That was queer. The address was to the "Gates' Household." Why that would include Martha, too! She adjusted her glasses to better see this unique card. "Mr. Gates.... I beg your pardon, dear, for interrupting you" (this formality of addressing her husband had always appealed to her sense of social rightness), "but would you kindly look at this." She handed the invitation to him and spoke with vexation. ""That's more of Emily Brant's work. She's angry with me for not putting our club support behind a project of hers to get a recreational center here, and this is her way of showing me up. I just know it is. Well, we won't accept the invitation, and if I have anything to say about it, not many more in town will either. A garden masquerade ball, indeed! Whoever heard of such a thing. I think you should get rid of Tom Brant, too. I'm sure you can find any number of men just as capable." Ordinarily Mr. Gates did not overrule his wife's opinions, but lately for some unfathomable reason he had been finding it more and more difficult to control his irritability at her dictatorial ways. "Now my dear Mrs. Gates, you have said quite enough. I, for one, 617 would like to go to this... This ball. You know it's a fact that we have no real friends in this town. Of course, we're 'in' everything just because I'm president of the bank and mayor of the town. Yet people never asked us in for a nice sociable evening. And as for Tom Brant, he's the best man I have in the bank. In fact, I've been considering a promotion for him lately. He's already earned it." His wife's look, more of surprise than anger at this display of masculine assertiveness, urged him on. "We'll go to that party, Mrs. Gates. Furthermore, Martha and the girls will attend also."; When her husband used that tone, Mrs. Gates knew it was time to back down with as much dignity as she could muster. "Very well, Mr. Gates, we shall go to the ball." The newspaper now had lost interest for him. Between bites of Martha's fluffy omelette, he queried, "What's that you were saying about a recreational center?" As Mrs. Gates told him of Emily's project, he listened attentively, but his only comment was, "Hum...." THAT afternoon at three o'clock, Mrs. Fulton was agreeably surprised and glad to receive her two visitors. She offered no apology for her humble trailer home. Indeed one was not necessary. It was clean, orderly and neat. What else could matter? Mrs. Fulton read the invitation with interest. "We'll be delighted to come to the party. I'm sure I can make some suitable costumes for us." Then her face clouded. "I'm afraid Ann will not be able to attend, though. She is working to earn her school money, and according to her figures here (Mrs. Fulton took a paper from the table), Friday night, the night of the party, is the last night she must work. Even then she will have to budget carefully in order to meet her expenses. She will be disappointed, too, as she does enjoy getting out with other young people. She misses social life in this town. I tell her perhaps it will be different when we can afford to move into a little home of our own. So many have the idea that those of us who are forced to live in trailer homes leave the niceties of life behind us." "We cari readily see that that is not true of you," Emily reassured her. "i have it solved, Mrs. Fulton," Emily spoke convincingly. "You say that Friday night is the last night Ann must work in order to complete her school fund? Well, have her arrange to quit her work on Thursday night. Then on Friday night she must come to the party and be my helper for the evening. It's essential that we have someone to take charge of the punch table. I will gladly pay her the amount she still needs for her school fund." It took some minutes of persua- ' sion on the part of Emily and Amy to get Mrs. Fulton's final consent, and they secured it only when they had assured her that in reality they needed Ann's help. Now that Jim so apparently admired this self-reliant young girl, Emily felt she must do all in her power to help Ann get a happy start in her life at Fall City. In arranging for Ann to attend the garden party, she had made a good beginning. She could rely on Jim to see that Ann was given other opportunities to meet young people. "TOM and Emily and their sons, with the help of the Adams family, were tireless in their efforts to see that the party was enjoyed by all. At one end of the lawn they had constructed a huge wooden dance platform. Gerry had requested the special privilege of playing and changing the records. By the light of the Chinese lanterns festooned in the branches above, the garden was a paradise where pirates and their belles, colonial gentlemen and their dames, all wearing small, 'black masks, had come to life nght out of the story books. The Fultons arrived early, so that Ann could get instructions on her evening's duties. She made a charming picture as a masked Dutch girl. Her yellow hair in two shoulder-length braids shone in the lantern light. Emily knew now it was not by accident that Jim had insisted on going as a Dutch water boy. Of course, if one looked closely enough, it was relatively easy to figure out just who was who, but all the group soon caught the spirit of the occasion and pretended no recognition whatsoever. Mrs. Gates couldn't deny, even to herself, that it thrilled her—yes, thrilled her— when Mr. Gates found her in the throng and, making a sweeping bow, whispered low, "Sarah" (that was her first name), "may I have the pleasure of the next dance?" "Yes, Walter," she whispered back. Tom finally halted the dancing and games and requested the guests 618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 A GARDEN MASQUERADE to seat themselves in the folding chairs arranged around the lawn. "I know many of you are wondering just who your beautiful or terrifying neighbors may be. I suggest that you come to the platform, one by one, where it will be my pleasant duty to unmask you for the inspection of the others. 'Then you may proceed to the punch bowl." Amid laughter, the guests came forward and had their masks removed. As Mrs. Gates was unmasked, Emily noted her Puritan-lady costume was in keeping with her stern character. To Emily, the success of the party would not be assured until she had a chance to talk with Mr. Gates. He was apparently enjoying himself immensely. There he was now— the last one to appear. But when his mask was removed, he did not hurry off the stage as the others had done. He was raising his voice to say something to the crowd. Emily listened eagerly for his words. "Ladies and gentlemen, it has been brought to my attention by the enthusiastic response of the townspeople to this democratic get-together that what our little town needs and needs badly is a wellplanned and permanent recreational program. As mayor of Fall City, I hereby do announce to you townspeople that such a program is to be immediately initiated. I also publicly announce that I am willing to donate for such a project the vacant store building that I own, if that is agreeable to those of you here assembled. If we all work together, I'm sure we can...." His voice was drowned out by the thundering applause. Emily could at once picture club rooms to encourage hobbies for the boys and 619 girls, a gymnasium, and, maybe sometime, even a swimming pool. Now, there was no necessity for a "talk" with Mr. Gates. She _hastened forward to extend her thanks to him. As she approached him, he silenced the crowd once more. "There's another thing I want to publicly announce, this time in my capacity as president of the bank. Beginning tomorrow, Tom Brant is promoted to the position of manager of the bank. In the past, I assumed that job along with the presidency, but I believe from now on my time will be so much devoted to the civic good of this little community that I'm glad to put Tom Brant in the position he rightfully deserved long before this." Tom and Emily were much surprised by the announcement. They were given a rousing cheer. As they turned to thank their employer, Emily overheard Patricia Gates saying to her mother, "I want you to be sure and meet Ann Fulton, Mother, before we leave. I like her very much. She's good in Latin, too, and has promised to help tutor me." Events had taken such a surprising turn that Emily heard, without astonishment, Mrs. Gates reply, "Yes, I'm sure she is a lovely girl. I've been talking with her mother and father. They are very intelligent and have some splendid ideas." Then she saw Emily. "Oh, Emily, this has been a grand party! I was just thinking that if you'd only start - coming to club meetings, perhaps we could do as you suggested—all work together on this project and really do something worthwhile. Don't you think it would be nice if (Continued on page 652) Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde No. X Biographies N closing this series of articles, let us suggest a group of biographies. It is an opportune time to read the lives of eminent men and women. In all ages national crises have produced great leaders, and there is no more interesting subject than a study of the characteristics that made these leaders rise above the masses. Since the last world war, the most popular biographies have been realistic and sensational, flaunting before the reader all the indiscretions of their subjects, all of which has tended to break down regard for the ideal for which the character stood. After years of this sort of reading, people are beginning to feel "fed up" on realism. A true picture of a historic character without any effort at sensationalism is a welcome contribution. At this time, when war is uppermost in our minds and we are faced with the problem of demonstrating our patriotism for our country, we will find a delightful and well-written biography in the story of Florence Nightingale, by Mary Raymond Shipman Andrews, under the title, The Lost Commander. This story is delightful because of its refreshing style, and is well written because the author has lived up to the requirements of a good biography. The story of Florence Nightingale reads like fiction. It is full of adventure and romance, of conflict and, finally, of achievement. Born Page 620 into a family of wealth and social standing, she could look forward to love, marriage, children, and social prestige. But all these she renounced to follow the star that guided her destiny. When only six years of age, she said she believed she had a mission to fulfill. At eighteen, she refused her first opportunity to marry. At twenty-eight, she fell desperately in love, but again refused marriage because she had a strong feeling that some public service was before her. She says that throughout her life she saw during the night the eyes of her lover pleading. As you read of her life of sacrifice and hardships, you wonder if she didn't at times regret her decision. But there is never a suggestion of it in all her ninety years. Julia Ward Howe said of her when she had reached maturity, "She was elegant rather than beautiful, with the sweetest smile I ever saw." In her day, the profession of nursing was far from desirable. Only the lowest type of women were used as nurses. It was beyond belief that any self-respecting woman should enter the profession. But Florence Nightingale saw the tragedy of the situation, recognized the needs of her country, and, unlike most people, decided to do something about it. In spite of the objections of her family and friends, she gave up her life of ease and went into a little school of nursing in Germany, where SOME LITERARY FRIENDS she cooked, made beds, and scrubbed floors, until she had learned what there was to be learned about nursing. From that time on, life was not easy for Florence Nightingale. Her great struggle was against public opinion. Women took no part in public life. When she tried to organize units of nurses to go to the front in the Crimean War, she met with strong opposition. It was at this period of her life that she said, "It is so important for a woman to be a person." She had seen how piteously her nation had fallen down in caring for its wounded, and she never wavered in her determination to make it easier for the boys who were offering their lives for their country. What she accomplished when she was finally appointed to take charge of the wounded at the war front is almost unbelievable. Before a week had passed, after arriving at Scutari, she had organized her nurses into training classes, started a laundry, set up a diet kitchen, and a storehouse for supplies. 'The morale of the camp completely changed. The soldiers said, "Before she came, there was cussin' and swearin', but after her arrival it was holy as a church." Army officers were not used to women at the front. They were jealous, and when they ridiculed her, she lashed back at them with her caustic tongue. Only a person of strong character and unusual personality could have stood up against the onslaught of the army officers. Her unprecedented success may have been due to the fact that she was a nurse herself and worked as hard as those she was training. It is said that she at times passed eight tion to young people. 621 hours on her knees dressing wounds and comforting the dying men. Anesthetics were not much used in those days, and often she stood on her feet for twenty hours at a time giving courage to the boys who were undergoing operations. 'They worshipped her. Few bodies could stand up under the terrific strain that she endured during those months at the front. Her health broke, and she returned to England an invalid. But she never gave up. 'The rest of her long life she spent advancing her profession. From her invalid bed she organized a school in London which still bears her name — unless it has fallen a prey to the ravages of the present war, All her life, Florence Nightingale worked for the welfare of her country, with never a thought of reward. Her people offered her burial in Westminster, but she refused, saying she preferred to be buried with her own family. The only inscription on her tombstone in an obscure village cemetery are the letters "F. N.—Born 1820. Died 1910." OR the men of the family, we suggest the biography of Daniel Webster by Claude M. Fuess, or any story of our own American patriots. The life of Daniel Webster demonstrates the truth that one can become almost a genius by developing ordinary qualities to an extraordinary degree. 'The attitude he developed toward life is an inspiraWhen he was sixty-five, he wrote: "The longer I live the more highly do I appreciate the importance of a proper observance of the Christian Sabbath." He said, too: "I do 622 not go to church to learn history, but to be reminded of my duty." While he was Secretary of State, he was asked by a friend what was the most important thought that ever occupied his mind. He answered: "The most important thought that ever occupied my mind was that of my individual responsibility — to God." | ANOTHER fine biography is that of Frances E. Willard by Ray Strachey. | Frances E. Willard had neither money nor social position, but she Rose to the position of the first woman president of a college in America. During her life she continued to ask herself the questions: "What are you going to do in the world? What are you going to become?" Her answer was always: "Trust in the Lord and do good." She, too, met opposition and criticism. She even had untrue things said of her, but she answered it all by saying, "I despise their pigmy minds." % RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 Her biographer says she was as perfect as a human being could be. Her success may be due to the characteristic expressed by a friend when she said to her, "You have the hungriest soul I ever saw in a human being. It will never be satisfied." T is only in recent years that women have been granted equal rights with men. But from the beginning of time it has been women who have been the makers of history, for they have molded the characters of men. What we, as mothers, read to our children will be a great influence in determining what they will be. Let us read some things that will help them to meet the crises of life. We cannot face the present problem of seeing our boys give up so much that is dear to them to live the life of soldiers in the service of their country, unless we have learned that the principles for which this nation stands are more precious than life itself. END OF SERIES A LITTLE BOY I KNOW Sarah Willes Adamson Eyes as bright as diamonds in their setting, Cheeks that nature paints a cherry red, Ears attuned to words bereft of fretting, Lips like rosebuds in their sunny beds— Yet the sweetest words that e'er were uttered And the same dear story old but true Comes again in childish pitch and tender, "Granny dear," he whispers, "I Love You." The Merry-Go-Round Alice Morrey Bailey CHAPTER SIX SYNOPSIS ALYN FORDYCE struggles against her husband, JOHN FORDYCE, who insists upon continuing his work—which he loves—at the Milton Nurseries at a salary of $150 a month when Alyn has been used to $500 a month which he used to earn at work which he did not like. She thinks him selfish not to compensate her for her inability to have children, and is annoyed with his enthusiasm over a sport, or mutation, on an Apricot tree —one that blossoms earlier than the rest. She wishes John could meet JUDITH WYATT, whom she has met by chance, a young woman of good breeding who is to become a mother. Humiliated by her friends, who know of her reduced financial status and her refusal to admit it, Alyn decides to get a divorce. However, when she goes to fill the appointment with JUDGE OLDHAM, her lawyer, she overhears him denouncing a woman in her same set of circumstances. She hurries out of his office without waiting to see him, but abandons divorce plans and decides to get a job. In her fruitless search for work, she is surprised and shocked to learn that she has no specific training to equip her for the business world. She also learns that a person of pride cannot play upon friendships for favors, as she has insisted that John do. She is stung by John's remark that her family's innate gift is selling. Though she has been repelled by it, Alyn determines to get a job at selling, and seizes the opportunity to sell a that to another customer in Charlotte Chapeaux, a hat shop where she has gone to purchase a hat. 66 OW I'm in for it," thought Alyn, for she was as much a stranger in this store as was the customer to whom she had sold the hat. But a sense of elation possessed her. Now what of Mr. Hendley's direct challenge to her ability! She would certainly have to answer to this tall, too blond woman who had appeared suddenly and noiselessly from somewhere in the tear of the store. 'The woman must be Charlotte, of Charlotte-Chapeaux, and she was flashing a warning to Alyn to keep up the pretense until the sale was safely made. Alyn took the money the girl proferred and handed it automatically to the woman. The transaction was soon completed, and the door closed upon the girl, The two women looked at each other and burst into laughter—Alyn not too heartily; too much had happened too quickly. Still it was an amusing situation, and it was also a great relief to Alyn to see the reaction of the woman to her highhandedness. "If that wasn't something!" gasped the woman. "My other clerk has gone to lunch." "Are you...?" "Charlotte. Lottie to you. I saw you come in, but my secretary became suddenly ill. I thought for a few minutes she was going to pass out altogether. I couldn't leave her. When I saw that girl come in I was fit to be tied, but I had to get Judy on the couch." She sank to a chair, breathless with mirth over the turn of events, slapping her knee in a mannish gesture. "I've done the same thing myself— walked into a store and been taken Page 623 624 for a clerk." Alyn was amazed at herself, at this bizarre situation. She had actually made a sale when only yesterday she had been horrified by the mere thought of selling. Finally, she was laughing with and quite as heartily as this odd woman whose expensive clothing and careful makeup were so evidently a thin and confining veneer over a somewhat coarse nature; who slapped her knee with a too-wide hand. Lottie wiped her eyes with a filmy handkerchief. "That was a pretty piece of work. I was scared to death you'd let her take that other number. She'd have looked like old Aunt Abigail and would never have come back; besides, that was a nine dollar hat. You don't want a job, do you?" "As a matter of fact," said Alyn, "T do." "T knew it," shouted Lottie, "I've never seen it fail. If you see a woman dressed like a million and with a manner like Mrs. Astorbilt herself, you can bet your bottom dollar she's a working girl. Not one in a thousand of those old 'money-bags' can tell a hat from a coal scuttle. I don't know where you learned, but you do know how to fit hats. Can you start in the morning?" "Why, yes," said Alyn, somewhat dazed. “Well, then, come back and meet my secretary; she keeps the books, too. She'll get a laugh out of this, and she needs one just: as much as I did, poor. Kid." "And I," thought Alyn. That laugh had released something taut within her. "No, don't get up," Lottie said to the girl on the office lounge. "I want you to meet our new clerk, Mrs...." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 "Fordyce," said Alyn, not believing her eyes. This girl on the couch was the one who had so impressed her as a woman of wealth and family background—Judith Wyatt. Judith Wyatt, who was going to have a baby; whose husband was dead; working in this stuffy inner office! No wonder she was ill! ALYN went home that amazing afternoon full of mixed feelings. "A shopgirl! A common shopgirl!" she told herself. No, she wouldn't do it. It would be an easy matter in the morning to reach for the telephone and thank Lottie of Charlotte-Chapeaux, but tell her very kindly that she couldn't consider the position. It would no doubt please John if she accepted it; it would be a fulfillment of the vague theories he was always propounding of late. It would probably be-his interpretation of a "dominating interest" for her. Then, too, there was the extra money that it would bring in. But John was not pleased. When she told him over the dessert of the afternoon's happenings, he looked at her in unmistakable consternation. "Alyn dear! You mean to say you sold a hat by accident, and this Lottie gave you a job on the strength of it?" Alyn felt herself coloring defenain, "Yes, why not? I had been looking for work for days and had given"up hope. This fell as a gift in my lap." "T didn't know you were looking for work, darling. You didn't tell me." Alyn was exasperated. Why was THE MERRY-GO-ROUND it that anger piled up in spite of her whenever she talked with John? "No, I didn't think it necessary, John. But you surely aren't surprised after all you have said about my getting a 'dominating 'interest.' " How she despised that phrase! "Yes, but sweet! That has noth. Ing whatever to do with this. You selling? Every instinct you have is against it." ~"I can't see that it is any more degrading than your...." Alyn began and stopped. She wouldn't bicker. How did John know how she felt about selling? "Selling is the life of all business," she informed him frigidly. "True," said John. "But that isn't the point. Regardless of the merit of any job or profession, and selling is honorable enough, the point is in you, not the job—your view of it, your approach to it, your happiness and interest in it. Don't you see, dear?" "No, I don't," said Alyn flatly. She was not being difficult. She didn't see. Certainly one couldn't just walk into an establishment and say: "That person is doing the job I like to do, and I want it." One must take what one could get. It was likely just that John thought a woman's place was in the home. Besides, she could sell. "T'm sorry you were so hasty in your action. I wish you had consulted me," John was saying. "I have had your problems on my mind more than you know. I thought I had the glimmer of a solution." "Such as?" questioned Alyn icily. "I believe that basically your need is exactly what it was in the beginning—the need of every normal woman for children." 625 But John was treading on dangerous ground. It was cruel of him to pry into this old wound, silly to even talk of anything so hopeless. "I’d rather not discuss it," she said so sharply that John was silent and looked hurt. If he was, she didn't care. "I am going to work for Lottie in the morning," she said with finality. AFTER that nothing could stop her. In the days that followed an absurd little nursery rhyme ran through her mind: "There was an old woman as I've heard tell. She went to the market, her eggs to sell. She went to the market all on a market day, And she fell asleep on the king's highway. There came by a peddler whose name was Stout. He cut her petticoats all round-about; He cut her petticoats up to the knees Which made the old woman to shiver and freeze. When the little woman first did awake She began to shiver and she began to shake; She began to wonder and she began to cry, 'Oh, dearie dearie me! This is none of I. But if it be I, as I hope it be, I have a little dog at home and he'll know me. And if it be I, he'll wag his little tail, And if it be not I, he'll loudly bark ana wail.' Home went the little woman all in the dark, Up got the little dog, and he began to bark; He began to bark, so she began to cry, 'Oh, dearie dearie me, this is none of I.' " Yes, the poor, foolish old woman was in no more of a quandary with her lost identity than was Alyn. Alyn 'Merriweather—clerking in a_ store! Clerkship was a far cry from the Merriweather idea of finance. What would her friends think? She hoped fervently that none of them would ever come in. She had been employed at Charlotte-Chapeaux for a week and had come to know the other employees: the two. Sales-girls—Mrs. Pinkney and Ivy Walters—and Jim, the old janitor who took as a personal affront every odd scrap dropped carelessly on the heavy carpets of the store. The two nondescript women who made the hats in an unbeautiful back room remained anonymous to Alyn who hadn't much contact with them. Judith Wyatt, looking up from her couch that first day, had remembered Alyn. Her drained face had lighted, and she had smiled with genuine welcome, if somewhat tremulously. She offered no excuse for her disability then, but a few days later she had said: "I'm sorry that I was unable to be more on the welcoming committee the day you came, but I hope you have gathered that I'm glad you came to work here. You are one of my own kind. I was somewhat surprised, however, to see you here. I had pictured you in one of those huge houses—not... Not a working person." "It's odd," confided Alyn. "I followed you up the hill that day trying to place you. I still can't. Who is your family?" Judith was quiet a moment. She sighed. "No one you know, I'm afraid. I was born on the wrong side of the tracks and brought to the age of fourteen on boiled potatoes and water gravy. I knew very little of my father. He often left us for weeks at a time. One day he went away and we thought he had just gone on another vacation from us, that he would come back as usual. Months later we learned that he had died in an accident and been buried in a potter's field for lack of identification. I think that finished Mother's pride. I believe that she had had more than the usual amount to begin with, but she suffered so much humiliation and neglect that she died inside long before she passed away of an illness that proper care could have cured. Alyn was ie ry. I thought. Manner. "Acquired," said Judith. "I inherited one thing. My mother told me that intelligence, honor, and a kind heart were the building materials for almost anything; that her life was done, but mine was beginning, and that I had no one to rely on but myself. I added industry and put myself through school. It wasn't easy, but here I am. My success story," she finished whimsically. "I wouldn't talk to another soul as I am talking to you. You seem so much like the sister I've always wanted." The story shocked Alyn. She could just see the serious-minded little Judith, ill-clothed, _ ill-fed, probably laughed at by other children, and her heart ached. They had come from far distant points, these two, but an intangible something had drawn them _ together. Alyn had the feeling that anything she might try to explain to Judith would be understandably received, that somewhere, sometime she had known Judith, that they were truly sisters. | Her own generations of breeding and Judith's lack of them were swept away in the gentle force of this affinity. 626 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 THE MERRY-GO-ROUND IN the days that followed, Judith was invaluable to Alyn, not only as a friend, but as a source of education in her new business. Lottie was as hearty in her disapproval as in her praise. She had no inhibitions whatever, and gave vent to every emotion that swept her. The woman never ceased to amaze and amuse Alyn, who was both repelled and intrigued by the combined crudity and genius of her employer. "Isn't she priceless," Judith would say, as Lottie would put on a grand manner and awe some timid soul into buying a hat. Then she and Alyn would exchange glarices when Lottie would come back into the office and mimic with inanity the gestures and facial expressions of her victim, clapping a hat on the back of her head and staring at her image with vacuous admiration. She cocid turn the vitriol of her tongue upon one of the hapless employees as easily as she could let words of honeyed sweetness drip upon a lucrative customer, in the same breath directing some caustic observation at her retreating back. She could, too, in a fit of remorse, go out and buy some extravagant gift for the same hapless employee. Now, it was Ivy Walters who had given a customer a dollar too much change: "My overhead would make the national budget look like small change; it costs a mint to stock a place like this. You can't buy broadloom carpets and plate-glass mirrors at the five and ten. People like the Meades and Haywoods who could stuff their pillows with greenbacks don't pay me from one year's end to another. And that isn't enough —my clerks pass out dollars as if they were dimes." 627 Even Judith didn't escape: "My hair'll get too white to take a bleach, the way that girl worries me. What use is it for the doctor to tell me she should get out of this office? I can't do a thing with her. I've talked until I sound like a phonograph. Why doesn't her doctor show her the score instead of blasting at me? Who am I to put myself against a will like that? Besides, I'm not her mother." So far Alyn had miraculously escaped, and as miraculously held up her end of the sales. It was a point of pride with her to do so, and she used wiles she didn't know she had. She remembered and avoided doing the things that had always annoyed her when being fitted, and followed the lead of her first hat-selling experience in frankly telling a customer if a hat didn't suit her. She was rewarded soon, for a woman came in and asked for her: "I want Mrs. Fordyce, please. My friend bought a hat here the other day and, my dear! It's so comforting to know there is a clerk in town who won't sell you a garden straw and convince you its from Fifth Avenue." Yet with all the diverting presence of Lottie, the real joy of knowing Judith, and the scores of interesting people that trickled in—lone shoppers, bosom friends who came in pairs, an occasional bride perching a hat on her head for the inspection of an adoring husband who could see only her eyes, and the tweedy groups of college girls who came in shining-eyed, chattering droves—vet there was something lacking in complete satisfaction. She hated admitting, even to herself, that John was right. Whatever work like this held for other people—Mts. Pinkney who 628 looked forward to owning a shop of her own, Ivy walters who aspired to become a buyer—it had no future for Alyn Fordyce. It was, as John put it, simply another palliative, an excuse for not facing reality. Alyn had her first week's check and was amazed that the long hours, the long days had yielded her only eighteen dollars, scarcely enough to buy a hat or a pair of shoes and cover the extra cost of a cleaning woman for the apartment. Looking up from it, she had encountered Lottie's eyes. "I thought..." she began. "I know," said Lottie. "You can't take in being paid eighteen right from the start, can you, kid? Some of these skin-flint joints pay not a cent over the law, sixteen a week, and some of them discount Sundays and get by with it. I've been a working girl all my life, and I know how it goes." Alyn tucked the check in her purse and said no mote, but it didn't seem fair. She went home at night so drained physically by the hours on her feet, so drained nervously from contact with people that she hardly saw her lovely apartment any more, much less enjoyed it. Lint collected around the rugs between visits of the cleaning woman, and meals were sketchy and unsatisfying. Then, one day, like the proverbial rain, two of her friends came into the store on the same day—first, Cecile Borden, looking astonishingly chic and alive. "Alyn Merriweather!" she exclaimed, giving Alyn a quick squeeze and reverting to Alyn's maiden name. "It's ages since I saw you. You're as slim as ever and not a day older," she said without envy. "How do you do it?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 "You should know. You look wonderful yourself. Such wonderful clothes! Jim must...." "Jim doesn't make a cent more than he did, Alyn," Cecile said frankly, "and he never will. But a is a good man, steady. I've earned to manage better than I did. It keeps us fighting to keep the children in school and decently kept, but we make the grade.... Thayne was valedictorian last year. All of their marks are good... And that's worthwhile fighting for. Our home life is wonderful." "Don't you miss the parties —- meeting important people?" "We do meet important people —educators and the like. I'm the president of the P. T. A. At first I did miss the old crowd, and I don't want to hurt your feelings, Alyn, but I wouldn't be in the middle of that again for anything on earth. I don't envy you your continuous ride on that merry-go-round. Alyn suddenly found herself envying Cecile—her pride in reality; her knowledge of purpose. "Do you suppose the clerks will care if we help ourselves? I seldom buy my hats here—too expensive. I do come in for the style though, and then I usually find I must buy at cheaper places." Mrs. Pinkney was closing a sale. Ivy Walters was discussing an alteration with a customer, and Alyn perceived that Cecile didn't realize she was a clerk. She could have passed it thus, but suddenly she didn't want to fly under false colors—not with Geile, "Cecile, I am a clerk. Here." "No!" said Cecile, "What happened?": I work THE MERRY-GO-ROUND Alyn told her about John. "I can't keep up my end of the social bargain. I thought Id like to work." It was different when Bea MclIntyre came in. Alyn, rearranging hats on their pedestals, looked up and saw her coming, and fled before Bea could see her. After Bea was gone, she came out of the cloakroom to find Lottie mottled with anger. "Where were you when that customer was in?". "Hiding," confessed Alyn. "I didn't want her to see me. She was a friend of mine." "That doesn't make sense," said Lottie. "If you can't sell to your friends, who can you sell to? 'This 629 isn't a social register. This is a bust ness establishment. 'That makes two today, both sales muffed. Maybe a difference of $25 on the books doesn't matter!" Alyn didn't deign to answer. She was hot and cold in turns. No one had ever, in all her life, spoken thus to her. "I will not be talked to in such a fashion," she thought, "and by so common a person as Lottie." She longed to tell John about it, to have his comforting assurance that she was right. Suddenly she knew what she was going to do. She was going to quit this awful job. (To be continued) MOOD Beatrice Knowlton Ekman The summer hours are done... The harvest passed. High overhead wild geese are wending south. The distant hills with haze are overcast, And vapor veils the fields burned brown with drouth. Somberly quiet is this autumn mood; The muted music of the wind is spilled With falling leaf upon the solitude Of far-off places where the streams are stilled. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Wherever the name does not readily indicate the geographical location of the stake or mission, the location of its headquarters as designated in parentheses. Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275. A CROSS SECTION OF LOCAL RELIEF SOCIETIES "TYPICAL of the hundreds of ward and branch Relief Societies throughout the stakes and missions of the Church, which will resume regular weekly meetings on the first Tuesday in October, are the local Relief Societies represented in "Notes from the Field" this month. Santaquin-Tintic Stake (Elberta, Utah) THE accompanying picture shows the members of the Mammoth Ward Relief Society, who appeared -in a special program commemorating the goth anniversary of Relief Society, on March 17, 1941. A playlet entitled, ""The Centennial Messenger," was a part of this program, and the decorated stake was for that particular event, according to Blanche H. Eager, Mammoth Ward secretary.. Elizabeth Allman is president of the Mammoth Ward Relief Society, and Vera P. Patten is the stake president.: RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS WHO PARTICIPATED IN 99TH ANNIVERSARY PROGRAM, MAMMOTH WARD, SANTAQUIN.-TINTIC STAKE Page 630 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 631 NEWLY-ORGANIZED CARSON CITY RELIEF SOCIETY (RENO STAKE) Left to Right: Elder Jacob De Waal, Elsie Jepson, Luesybil Sheppard, Evelyn Jensen, Lela Ellertson, Lilieth Lee, Elizabeth Buttler, First Counselor, Elder D. Lyle Wynn, Edith Orr, President. Reno Stake (Sparks, Nevada) president. The seven members who were present at this first meeting THE newly organized Relief Society of Carson City, Nevada, held its first meeting February 3, 1941, at the home of Edith Orr, president. The seven members who were present at this first meeting are shown in the accompanying picture, together with missionaries, Elder Jacob De Waal and D. Lyle Wynn. FAIRVIEW SOUTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, FRANKLIN STAKE Taken on the Annual Clarissa S. Williams' Mothers' and Daughters' Day, Held April 22, 1941, under Direction of the Ward President, Sarah Rigby. 632 Twin Falls Stake (Buhl, Idaho) A Relief Society was organized at Castleford, Idaho, for the first - time on March 2, 1941, with Irene B. Skeem as president. The first meeting was held March 4, with twelve members. One month later, the stake Relief Society president, Afton W. Hunt, reported to the General Board that the organization had been completed, that all classes were being conducted, that the membership roll had increased to fourteen members (four of whom are not members of the Church) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 with all dues paid, and that seven of the members had subscribed for The Relief Society Magazine. 'This new Society had also quilted three quilts for the Society and had a fourth well on the way to completion. Plans for special work by the Society during its second month, April, included sewing service on fifteen children's dresses and a sale of cooked food and handwork. This new Relief Society observed the ggth anniversary of Relief Society on March 17, with a party for all the members and their husbands. NEW RELIEF SOCIETY AT CASTLEFORD, IDAHO, TWIN FALLS STAKE Left to Right, beginning on back: Ida Neumann, Rachel Peterson, Bessie Lewis, Edna Hammond, Nancy Thompson, Viola Sumner, Second Counselor, Irene B. Skeem, President, Clara M. Reynolds, First Counselor, Fern Brown, Elsie Hammond, Chorister, Vera Rosencrantz, Secretary-Treasurer. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 633 DUNSMUIR BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY (CALIFORNIA MISSION) Branch Relief Society President, Maude I. Dayley, in front at foot of stairs.. NEW MEMBERS OF HENEFER WARD, SUMMIT STAKE March 17, 1941. Blanche Cox is Ward President. 634 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 HERCULES WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, OF BACCHUS, UTAH (OQUIRRH STAKE) Alta Whitbeck is Ward President. MEMBERSHIP ACTIVITIES Box Elder Stake (Brigham City, Utah) AN account of Box Elder Stake's closing social, held Tuesday, June 3, 1941, was sent in by stake secretary-treasurer, Renie H. Littlewood, as follows: "Box Elder Stake Relief Society held its closing social in the form of a membership party at the local high school auditorium. The social was presided over by President Grace V. Price, and was in direct charge of stake membership coordinator, Stella Y. Phillips, assisted by other board members. Between six and seven hundred women of the stake were present. "The afternoon's program included a radio skit entitled, "The Inquiring Reporter,' designed, through interviews with members and nonmembers of the Relief Society, to emphasize the multitude of advantages offered by our organization. A one-act play entitled, 'Relief Society —Why?' and several musical numbers by the Orpheus Chorus, composed of a number of local young women, many of whom are members of the Relief Society, were presented. "Refreshments carrying out the Relief Society colors were served in the school cafeteria under the direction of stake nutrition leader, Phyllis K. Owen, and a group of nutrition and work leaders from various wards in the stake. Serving tables were artistically decorated with lace cloths and appropriate flower arrangements; souvenirs were napkins of blue and yellow organdy. "During the refreshment hour, a moving picture depicting the evil effects of the use of alcohol was shown in the visual-education room for those who wished to attend." Portland Stake (Portland, Oregon) LYDIA W. FANNING, secretary-treasurer of Portland Stake Relief Society, reports a successful membetship party held March 1. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 1941, in the Portland Stake 'Tabernacle, honoring the fifty-seven new members admitted to the Society during the past year. A pageant, "My Home—The Key To a Life Beautiful," written and directed by Zilla Mattice and Carlie McNeil, was an impressive feature of the evening's program. The pageant indicated that the courses offered by Relief Society—theology and testimony, applied home arts, literature, social service and music —aid the home, "the key to a life beautiful." Jeanette Batt was soloist and Zilla Mattice and Velda Ostlund were pageant readers. Preceding the pageant, Clarice G. Sloan, president of the Portland Stake Relief Society, welcomed the new members in an impressive ceremony. Each new member was presented with an attractive booklet with a tiny key attached. On the cover of the book, in gold lettering, were the words, "My Home—The Key To a Life Beautiful."'" On the flyleaf of the booklet was a choice poem on the home by Marguerite J. Griffin. The book contained a copy of "The Perfect Earth Home" from the address, "Our Homes," by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., published in the Relief Society Magazine, December, 1940. Membership awards were made by Marjorie Centro. Following the pageant, refreshments were served in the beautiful lounge rooms of the Tabernacle to approximately 200 guests. Teressa S. Johnson pronounced the benediction. Accompanying this interesting report was an attractive membership card prepared by the Portland Third Ward. 635 Mount Ogden Stake (Ogden, Utah) N interesting account of mem. Bership activities in the Mount Ogden Stake is sent to us by Ella P. Farr, Relief Society stake president. Anxious to increase the Relief Society membership, the stake officers suggested that each ward prepare a book containing a picture and a short biographical sketch of each Relief Society member, the book to be filed away as a history. The stake board prepared a similar book, containing photographs of the eight Re-_ lief Society general presidents, past and present Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society presidents and stake boards, and all ward presidents; short biographical sketches accompanied each photograph. Both ward and stake books were very attractive; the stake board book designed by stake officers was prepared by the Handicraft Shop. To further stimulate membership, a painting of the mountain, Ben Lomond, by Mary Warnock, displayed at the Springville Art Exhibit, was donated to the Relief Society by Brother and Sister E. A. Larkin. Each month, this picture is to be awarded to the ward showing the highest percentage of membership increase for the month. In 1942, the picture will be permanently awarded to the ward showing the highest percentage of increase since 1937. In presenting the picture to the stake, Sister Larkin said: "There is strength in numbers, and we appreciate the joy of associating together. In doing for others, we attain the fulfillment of our greatest desires. This law was given to us by the Savior, when He said: 'He that loseth his life for my sake, shall find it.” 636 "In giving this picture to you, we trust that its influence will be 'thrice blessed'—may it bless Sister Warnock that she will paint again; may it bless the sisters who come into this organization through your present membership efforts; and may it bless and inspire all who view it." Another stimulating membership activity of this stake was the anniversary service held in each ward on Sunday evening in connection with the Sacrament meeting. Sisters Donna D. Sorensen, Alice B. Castleton and Leona Fetzer Wintch, members of the Relief Society General Board, added much to the inspiring services in three of the wards. Malad Stake (Malad, Idaho) NELLIE S. GLEED, Malad Stake membership coordinator, sent the following interesting report of membership activities in Malad Stake: "Suggested by the Idaho Falls Stake candlelighting program reported in January, 1941, "Notes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 from the Field," candle-lighting ceremonies were held in almost every ward in our stake this spring. These services, held in connection with Sacrament meeting on a Sunday evening, have been very effective in helping Malad Stake increase its Relief Society enrollment, by June 10, 1941, to 72 percent of Latter-day Saint women in the' stake. "We have several wards which have attained almost 100 percent. With the active support of Bishop Guy Servoss and Mrs. Amelia Spencer, ward membership coordinator, Malad Second Ward made_ the greatest increase in enrollment. We are hoping to reach a still higher goal before December 31." The accompanying pictures are of new members of Malad Third Ward and Portage Ward Relief Societies taken following the candle-lighting ceremonies. Hanna S. Harris is Malad Stake Relief Society president. NEW MEMBERS OF MALAD THIRD WARD, MALAD STAKE, AT CANDLE-LIGHTING CEREMONY, MARCH 16, 1941 Membership Arch is in Center NOTES FROM THE FIELD 637 NEW MEMBERS OF PORTAGE WARD, MALAD STAKE, AT CANDLELIGHTING CEREMONY, MARCH 16, 1941 Membership Arch is in Center. South Los Angeles Stake (Huntington Park, California) RUTH RYAN, first counselor to Hazel T. Neville, president of South Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, recently reported summer membership activities in this stake. The stake "Wheel" and "Key" posters shown in the accompanying photograph were displayed at a successful luncheon which was attended by ward presidents, counselors, and membership coordinators. 'Tables were arranged to form the letter "M." The luncheon stimulated new interest and ideas. It was reported that of 1271 Latter-day Saint families in this stake, 725 members had been enrolled in Relief Society up to that time. SOUTH LOS ANGELES STAKE "WHEEL" AND "KEY" POSTERS The "Wheel' Turns, Putting the Ward with the Highest Percent of New Members at the Top. A Poster Contest was a Feature of Summer Membership Activity in this Stake. ie} DEPARTMENT Theology and Jestimony Articles of Faith, By James E. Talmage Lesson 3 CHAPTER 3, T'RANSGRESSION AND THE FALL Article 2—"'We believe that men will be punished for their own sins, and not for Adam's transgression." (Tuesday, December 2, 1941) I. Lesson Aim To teach that the fall of man was part of a God-ordained plan, and that each living soul is responsible for the exercise of his free agency. If. Divisions of the Subject Matter A. Man's responsibility for his freedom of choice. (Articles of Faith, pp. 52-57) B. The characteristics of sin, and its consequences. (Articles of Faith, pp. 57-63, 473-474) C. The exercise of free agency, and the fall of man. (Articles of Faith, pp. 63-67, someone who was converted to the Church because of the hope that the doctrine of free agency gave. The attention of the class leaders is called to the expressions of joy given by Eve when she, with Adam, learned of the effect of the fall and the atonement provided. Her words, as found in Pearl of Great Price, Moses 5:11, might be placed on the blackboard and be drawn to the attention of the class. Topics for Special Reports degeneracy and not of immorality. (See quences of the fall. (Articles Faith, Appendix 3, Note 4, page 474.) 236-242; Pearl of Great Price, Moses 5:10- III. Suggestions for Teachers 1) 3. Scriptural teachings regarding the duration of punishment in the hereafter. This lesson might be introduced by relating a story of (See Doctrine and Covenants 19:4-12.) Page 638 68-70) D. The nature and of Faith, pp. 67-68, 475- 476) 1. The fall was a process of physical conseJesus the Christ, pp. 29-31, and Articles of 2. The blessings that result from mortality. (See Vitality of Mormonism, pp. LESSON DEPARTMENT Questions and Problems 1. What evidence can you present to indicate that the fall was not an accidental happening, but was foreknown to God? 2. Distinguish between the expressions "Garden of Eden" and ''Paradise." (See Book of Mormon, Alma 40:12, and Articles of Faith, Appendix 3, Note 3, page 474) at were the consequences of the "death" suffered by Adam and Eve following their transgression? 639 References Talmage, Articles of Faith, Chapter 3, PP. 52-73, 473-476. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 18-20, 29-31. Talmage, Vitality of Mormonism, pp. 236-242. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 58-63. Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 85, 86. Book of Mormon, I Nephi 2; Alma 42; II Nephi 9. % Uisiting Seachers Messages To The Home Lesson 3 Fast Day Observance as an Expression of Faith (Tuesday, December 2, 1941) JN our Church one day in each month, usually the first Sunday, has been set aside as a day of fasting and prayer. On that day each member who is able to do so is expected to give the ward bishop contributions equaling the value of the two meals not eaten. The fast offerings are used for the care of those in need. Fasting is an equitable law, because it is based on the ability to give. Everyone eats, however little, and it is not to his injury financially to give the cost of what he might otherwise have eaten. Those who observe this law are compensated physically and spiritually. The interesting thing about this fast-day contribution is that no one is the poorer for the sum given, since he has saved the price of the two meals. Elder Joseph L. Wirthlin, member of the Presiding Bishopric, in speaking of the fast-offering plan, said, "It is a physical sacrifice for the receiving of a spiritual blessing. It places the body under subjection to the will of the Lord, establishes closer relationship between man and the Holy Ghost, which assures a high degree of spirituality and blessings so much needed in the world today.... By far the greatest spiritual blessing derived from the observance of this plan is the gift of testimony." There is a social advantage also in fasting. On fast day, one's attention is called to the unfortunate and the hungry, and thus he is put into a position where he can become "the good neighbor." Jesus. Said, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, ye have done it unto me." (Matthew 25:40) Fasting appears a simple requirement, but by reason of obedience to 640 simple requirements, the Lord has wrought mighty benefits to his children. | Prayer should always accompany fasting. Fasting and prayer are a means of faith renewal; they bring peace to the soul. In this dispensation we are urged to fast, not with a sad countenance, but with a cheerful spirit. President Joseph F. Smith has said, "The Lord has instituted this law. It is simple and perfect, based on reason and intelligence, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 would not only prove a solution to the question of providing for the poor, but it would result in good to those who observed the law." The practices that the Lord institutes among his people are invariably for their good. Questions for Discussion 1. What are the purposes of the fast day? 2. Who should observe fast day? 3. What blessings are to be obtained from obedience to this law? 4. Read Matthew 4:1-11; II Kings 5; Doctrine and Covenants 88:76. WVork-andBusiness Better Buymanship Lesson 3 Comparison of the Fibers Used in Materials — (Tuesday, December 9, 1941) EACH fiber that is made into material has definite characteristics which make it valuable in some situations and not in others. The appearance may be altered in manufacturing, but each fiber has its own qualities, assets, and liabilities, so consumers should know what each is like, how it will perform, and which fiber is present in the material purchased. Our most common material, due to its versatility and cleaning propesties, is cotton, which is used alone and in combination with other fibers. We find it not only in the finest organdies and voiles, but in the heaviest of denim and canvas. We see it napped to resemble wool and mercerized to resemble silk. It may be spun and treated to resemble linen. Cotton lacks natural elasticity, so it wrinkles easily, but it can be readily cleaned. It is the only material that can be safely boiled and ironed with a hot iron. Weak alkalies and cold dilute bleaching agents are not detrimental. Cotton absorbs as much moisture as linen, but has a tendency to become fuzzy and to leave a lint unless made of long, combed fibers. It will take dyes that are fast to washing and sunlight. Its coolness makes it valuable for summer clothing. LINEN, a vegetable fiber, is not commonly used even though it has some qualities which surpass cotton. LESSON DEPARTMENT This is because the cost of linen material is high, due to the hand labor involved in the preparation of the fiber and the finishing process involved in the manufacture. This also makes the manufacture of linen cloth in the United States almost prohibitive. Linen wrinkles more readily than cotton, due to its lack of elasticity, but when cleaned and pressed it is very beautiful, especially in table damasks. Because the fiber is smooth, dirt and germs do not collect on it easily. 'Though easily laundered, it takes more care and is a bit more sensitive to bleaches than cotton. As our best conductor of heat, it makes the coolest of summer clothes. Because of its ability to quickly absorb and give off moisture and its freedom from lint, it is excellent for towels. THE silk fiber is an animal fiber secreted by the silk worm. Again, the high cost of labor prevents our producing silk in this country, and so it is generally purchased from Japan, China, and Italy in the form of reeled silk (unwound from the cocoon). Silk is a poor conductor of heat and very elastic, which is the reason it is warm and doesn't wrinkle. It absorbs perspiration and oil from the skin, but sheds dirt easily. Perspiration and strong light as well as alkalies are harmful to silk. This makes it require special care both in wearing and laundering. Because of its natural, deep luster, silk is luxurious in appearance, and if pure and unweighted, it will last for years. Overweighting and metallic salts will weaken the tensile strength, decrease elasticity, and encourage quick deterioration from sunlight and perspiration. Spun silk has a lower tensile 641 strength and lacks the elasticity of reeled silk. It has short fibers which, though tightly twisted, may work themselves loose and make a fuzzy, rough, uneven surface. Silk feels warm and is smooth and pliable. Rayon feels cooler and heavier than silk in fabrics of comparable weave. Otherwise there is enough similarity to make recognition difficult. THE wool fiber, because of its structure, is called the "warmth" fiber. Its outside surface is covered with tiny overlapping scales similar to fish scales. When wool is wet, the fibers swell and become entangled. Heat, moisture, and friction cause felting; hot water and rubbing cause shrinkage. The structure of the wool fiber makes it possible for wool to enmesh air and gives it its warmth properties. Napping of the material, as in flannel and blankets, also enmeshes air and makes the material warmer than tightly-spun and woven unnapped materials. Wool is the most elastic of all materials. We have two main types of material made from wool—woolens and worsteds. Worsteds are made from long, corded and combed fibers, tightly twisted and usually unnapped so that the weave is easily distinguished. | Woolens are made of shorter, uncombed fibers, less tightly twisted and usually napped. Worsteds are usually made from virgin wool. Reworked wool, or wool from material that has been pulled apart and respun, is often used in woolens. As a general rule, materials made from virgin wool give more satisfactory wear, hold their shape better, are warmer, and wear longer than those made from reworked wool. There is some disagreement as to 642 the value of reworked wooi, though it is generally conceded that materials made from good reworked wool will outwear those made from poor virgin wool. In October, 1940, President Roosevelt signed the bill which requires that wool products be labeled as to the percentage of the total fiber weight that is wool, the amount of virgin wool, the amount of reprocessed wool made from waste not used by consumers, the amount of re-used wool from materials that have been used, and each other fiber in excess of five percent of the total fiber weight of the product. The label must also indicate the maximum percentage of any nonfibrous loading, filling, or adulterating material, and the name of the manufacturer of the wool product. There has been much adulteration of wool, but the new woollabeling act should prevent this. No RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 other fiber has the same qualities as wool. Therefore, when the purchaser desires wool materials, he is entitled to the protection which the wool-labeling act provides. Suggested Activities 1. Perform tests on known materials to show how they react to the feel, burning, lye, and other tests. Test some unknowns to see if fiber content can be determined. Why is it difficult to test materials made from more than one fiber? (See Better Buymanship Bulletin No. 23, "Fabrics," pages 30-32; see footnote. ) 2. There will always be. Some common, standard materials. Learn the names and characteristics by sight and feel. For what purpose is each suitable? 3. Compare the qualities of the various fibers. How do these qualities affect their use? Note: Because of the lack of available space in the Magazine, the General Board has sent to each stake a list of references in blue bulletin No. 15, suitable for use in presenting this lesson. These references may be procured from stake workand-business leaders. Te a rene Humor In Life And Literature Lesson 3 Mediums and Types of Humor (Tuesday, December 16, 1941) "Humor is born where there is diversity and tolerance of diversity and different points of view. This is why our American humor flourished most in the Middle West, because they had to get along together. In all humor there is a moment of incongruity. Humor cannot bring Heaven to earth, but it can keep it from becoming a hell." Lesson Topics: 1. Review of last lesson 2. Continuation of words as a medium of humor—the pun and similar types —J. Duncan Speath 3. Incongruities of facts and ideas as mediums of humor—the parody; the burlesque Review of Last Lesson In the last lesson the interesting LESSON DEPARTMENT history of the word humor was given —changes in its meaning from the original Latin definition of wetness to its use as a medical term, then as a word meaning characteristics of personality and appearance, next to a term denoting a whim or eccentricity, and, finally, to its present meaning. Theories existing from ancient times as to the principles underlying humor were reviewed with brief illustrations of humor based on each. Words as a medium of humor were considered, with examples of humor growing out of bad spelling, poor grammar, and other misuses of words. Continuation of Words as a Medium of Humor The pun is now considered one of the least elevated forms of humor, but it is still popular with many writers and speakers and has at some periods been widely used even by the most eminent writers. A pun is a play on words of the same sound but different meanings, or on different applications of a word. Many puns are to be found in Shakespeare's plays, and are sometimes used in the most tragic moments, and the humor, if such it can be called, in. These puns, is very grim. In Richard II he has poor John of Gaunt, who has become disillusioned and embittered, make a pun of his own name. The old gentleman, with political ambitions for his own son or later did become King Henry IV), has opposed King Richard II, his nephew. Ill from work and worry, he answers a summons from the king. Richard says, "How is it with aged Gaunt?" 'The old man plays upon his name in his reply: "Oh, how that name befits my composi- 643 tion! Old Gaunt indeed; and gaunt in being old— 'Within me grief hath kept a tedious fast, What man abstains from meat that is not gaunt? For sleeping England long time have I watched; Watching breeds leanness; leanness is all gaunt. The pleasure that some fathers feed upon Is my strict fast, I mean—my children's looks; And therein fasting, hast thou made me gaunt; Gaunt I am for the grave.... " It was not until the nineteenth century, however, that the pun really flourished in English literature. Carolyn Wells, in commenting upon this fact, says that recently a wellknown humorist was making an after-dinner speech when someone called out, "Louder and funnier!" She says that such a voice must have so called to the world's humor at the end of the eighteenth century, for with the nineteenth century the humorous element in literature was decidedly "louder and funnier." Reverend Sidney Smith, himself a great punner (He once said to his fellow ministers who were discussing the question of a wooden sidewalk around St. Paul's Cathedral, "Come, gentlemen, lay your heads together and the thing is done.''), wrote interestingly upon the subject of humor—of punning. He claimed that it was a mistaken idea people had that wit and humor were unattainable. He pointed out that a pun should contain two distinct meanings, one obvious and the other remote. The surprise of the relation of the two meanings is what amuses. He, as others, however, regarded the wit of words as shown in puns to be very inferior to the wit of ideas. Still he maintained that some puns redeemed their species. He liked the following one: Lamb, who was shy with strangers, was once introduced to some new people by a friend, who said, "Now will you promise, Lamb, not to be sheepish?" Lamb replied, "I wool." College students are fond of puns as well as of other vagaries of the language. A typical college pun is the one about the boy with a job on the golf course: "Yes, you see he's 'putting' himself through college." Even though the pun is in disrepute as a medium of humor, it sometimes has a much higher value than the mere ingenuity which amuses, for frequently, as has already been pointed out, it carries a further meaning than that on the surface and intensifies emotions other than that of merriment. This explains Shakespeare's use of puns at dramatic moments, as previously illustrated. Incongruities of Facts and Ideas As Mediums of Humor Words, obviously, are a necessary medium with any oral or written humor. However, the incongruities causing us to laugh are often in facts, ideas, characters, situations in life itself, and not in the words which -portray the incongruities. The following story illustrates this point: "An angry man burst into a repair shop and exclaimed: 'Didn't I ask you guys yesterday to send a man to my home to fix the front doorbell that's been out of order? And didn't you solemnly promise to send somebody out there right away?' "But, Mr. Whiffenbush, we did send someone. I'm certain of it,' protested the manager. Then he called to a workman in the back of the shop: 'Hey, Cokey, didn't you go to Whiffenbush Lodge yesterday to attend to that job?' "Yes, sir,' replied Cokey. 'I went out there all right, and I rang the doorbell for about ten minutes. But nobody answered. Guess there was nobody home.' " The following quotation from Christopher Morley also illustrates humor in the incongruous: "I give humble and hearty thanks for the safe return of this book, which, having endured the perils of my friend's bookcase and the bookcases of my friend's friends, now returns to me in reasonably good condition, "I give humble and hearty thanks that my friend did not see fit to give this book to his infant as a plaything, nor use it as an ash tray for his burning cigar, nor as a teething ring for his mastiff. "When I lent this book, I deemed it lost. I was resigned to the bitterness of the long parting; I never thought to look upon its pages again. "But now that my book has come back to me, I rejoice and am exceedingly glad! Bring hither the fatted morocco, and let us rebind the volume and set it on the shelf of honour; for this book was lent, and is returned again. Presently, therefore, I may return some of the books that I myself have borrowed." Expressed through this medium of incongruity of facts, ideas, treatment, and so on, we have many types of humor, including burlesque and parody. 'These are closely related 'and are called "parasitic" literature, because they, especially parody, are distortions of other pieces of literature and do not exist independent of them. 'The parody always extracts its humor from literature already written. Burlesque attempts to excite laughter by extravagant images or by incongruous contrast, as when a trifling subject is treated with mock gravity or vice versa. 'The above quotation from Morley has this characteristic. Such phrases as "endured the perils," "resigned to the bitter 644 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT ness of the long parting," "rejoice and am exceedingly glad," "bring hither the fatted," give a profound diction to a rather trivial subject. Some of the phrases make it almost a parody on the biblical story of the prodigal son. A burlesqued character is a caricature, one distorted by exaggeration, producing a grotesque or a ridiculous effect. Just so, a burlesqued picture (many cartoons), figure, or description show great exaggeration of the peculiarities of the person or thing depicted. Paul Bunyan, the mythical hero of the North Woods, of lumberjacks, is an example: "Paul Bunyan was no ordinary baby. No, sir. It took six unusually large storks, working overtime, to deliver Paul to his parents. And what a job that was. Flying two abreast, with Paul slung between them, the storks had slow work of it. Paul was so heavy two storks couldn't carry him very far. So with six storks working in three shifts, off they flew toward Paul's future home. Stops were frequent, and the storks changed off, and not much distance was gained between jumps.... Well, they finally got there.... As for the storks, the poor fellows got into the habit of shifting from one foot to the other, trying to get the load off their feet... And their offspring are still doing it." Later problems concerning Paul are filled with similar difficulty. As he grew older, for instance, haircutting was a difficulty: "First, the folks tried to use a pair of sheepshears. 'Then Pa started using a scythe, but it was an all-day's job. The last real haircut Paul had before he left home and went to the North Woods, where he encountered his great adventures, was when Pa Bunyan in- 645 vited the neighbors to help out. Paul lay down with his head on the edge of a gully. The neighbors lined up in pairs to spell each other off, and with a good crosscut saw and working right through from morning until night, Paul really got a haircut." A tendency to burlesque or caricature seems to be inherent in human nature. As has been suggested before, savages enjoy it, and it is found featured in the dances and other ceremonials of primitive peoples. Likewise it has been employed by great literary artists through the ages. Rabelais (Rab'-tl-l4), one of the greatest French writers of the sixteenth century, employed burlesque in his satires on humanity. He created Gargantua, the giant king, under whose tongue a whole army at one time took shelter from the rain, and in whose mouth and throat a city was built. Swift used burlesque in much the same manner and for the same purpose in Gulliver's Travels—his satire on human weaknesses. Dickens and Cervantes are other artists who introduced burlesque in their novels. Some of these writers will be considered in later lessons, along with other phases of our subject. Parody is closely related to burlesque, as has already been indicated. Some burlesques are parodies, and they both depend upon grotesqueness for their humor. But parody is dependent also upon previously written literature. It treats a ridiculous subject in the exact style (especially in its mannerism) of some serious and usually well-known composition or writer. It mimics or mocks the language or sentiment of an quthor. Sometimes parodies, though humorous, are lacking in taste. I recall one about the virtues of the Ford car written in the manner of the '"Twenty-third Psalm." The students of the University of Chicago sing a parody on doxology. The Rockefeller brothers, William and John, richly endowed the university. Their money was made in the oil industry. Some lines from the parody are: "Praise John from whom oil blessings flow, Praise him all creatures here below. Praise William some, but praise John most." John Erskine has used this form of humor in his treatment of the great classics, Adam and Eve, Sir Galahad, and Helen of Troy. He makes revered classical characters laughable in their modern reactions to ancient situations as well as in their use of modern slang. The American Magazine has recently been running a series of delightful parodies by Munro Leaf on literary classics. Writing parodies has perhaps always been a favorite sport of literary-minded college students, who do not always bear in mind this truth stated by Stephen Leacock: "Parody sometimes seems like the malicious smearing of paint over a beautiful picture." Most parodies on poetry have no desire to satirize or criticise. 'They merely employ the original as a pattern for a dress of vastly different material or for an opposite use. It is therein that the humor lies. Sometimes the parody is not of a definite poem, but of a popular idea expressed by many writers. The following anonymous poem is a subtle parody on the human manner of rationalizing. THE RATIONALISTIC CHICKEN "Most strange! Most queer—although most excellent a change! Shades of the prison house, ye disappear! My fettered thoughts have won a wider range, And, like my legs, are free; No longer huddled up so pitiably; Free now to pry and probe and peep and peer ' And make these mysteries out. Shall a free-thinking chicken live in doubt? For now in doubt undoubtedly I am; This problem's very heavy on my mind; And I'm not one to either shirk or sham; I won't be blinded, and I won't be blind! Now let me see: First, I would know how did I get in there? Then, where was I of yore? Besides, why didn't I get out before? Dear me! Here are three puzzles (out of plenty more) — Enough to give me pip upon the brain! But let me think again! ° How do I know I ever was inside? Now I reflect, it is, I do maintain, Less than my reason, and beneath my price, To think that I could dwell In such a paltry, miserable cell As that old shell. Of course I couldn't! How could I have ~ lain— Body and beak and feathers, legs, and wings, And my deep heart's sublime imaginings— ~ In there? I meet the notion with profound disdain; It's quite incredible, since I declare (And I'm a chicken that you can't deceive), What I can't understand I won't believe! Where did I come from then? Ah, where indeed? This is a riddle monstrous hard to read. I have it! Why, of course, All things are moulded by some plastic force Out of some atoms somewhere up in space, Fortuitously concurrent anyhow. There now! That's plain as is the beak upon my face. What's that I hear? My mother cackling at me—just her way, So prejudiced and ignorant, I say, 646 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT So far behind the wisdom of the day. What's old I can't revere. Hark at her: 'You're a silly chick, my dear; That's quite as plain, alack, As is the piece of shell upon your back!' How bigoted! Upon my back, indeed! I don't believe it is there, For I can't see it; and I do declare, For all her fond deceivin', What I can't see, I never will believe in!"' The parody in its serious function, as usually employed by the great writers, ls a protest against oversentimentality or the overreputation of the original. Someone has called it the discord that follows and corrects the note too often struck. It flourished in England during the Victorian period when there was a tendency toward too much "sob-sister" literature. Most of the poets and prose writers of this period have been parodied either in their own or our time. Swinburne made a clever parody on Tennyson's "The Higher Pantheism" as well as on some of his own poems. 'Tennyson's philosophical poem begins: "The sun, the moon, the stars, the seas, the hills and the plaines— Are not these, O soul, the Vision of Him who reigns? Is not the Vision He? Tho' He be not that which he seems?" Swinburne calls his parody "The Higher Pantheism in a Nutshell," and begins: "One who is not, see we; but one, whom we see not, is. Surely this is not that; but that is assured. Ly this. What and wherefore and whence? For under is over and under. If thunder could be without lightning, lightning could be without thunder." One of the most delightful paro- 647 dies in English literature is "The Rape of the Lock," by Pope. He gives the subtitle, "An Heroi-comical Poem," because it is a parody of the heroic epic. It is often called a mock epic. Pope treats a trivial matter with the manner of Homer when he told the story of the fall of Troy. The story is of the theft of a lock of hair. The humorous coupling of the trivial with the profound, and the solemn diction used in relating trivial incidents may be seen from a few quotations. Lord Petre is about to cut the beautiful curl which hangs over Belinda's fair neck: "The peer now spreads the glittering forfex (scissors) wide, To inclose the lock; now joins it to divide." Belinda discovers the loss of her favorite curl: "Then flashed the living lightning from her eyes, And screams of horror rend the affrighted skies; Not louder shrieks to pitying heaven are cast When husbands or when lapdogs breathe their last. Note the coupling of husbands and Japdogs as if they were of equal importance. Later, when the members of the picnicking party who witnessed the atrocity divide for battle, part of them uphold the Baron in his theft of the curl from the head of his beloved. Part of the company think that the lady is justified in her anger. The conflict is treated as if it were a great battle over some momentous problem. Little encounters between the individuals of the two "armies" are described: 648 "While bold Sir Plune had drawn Clarrissa down, Chloe stepped in and killed him with a frown; Sue smiled to see the doughty hero slain, But at her smile the beau revived again. Now Jove suspends his golden scales in air, Weighs men's wits against the lady's hair. "See, fierce Belinda on the Baron flies With more than usual lightning in her eyes. "This bold lord, with manly strength endued, She with one finger and one thumb subdued: Just where the breath of life his nostrils drew A charge of snuff the wily virgin threw. "Sudden with starting tears each eye o'erflows; And the huge dome re-echoes to his nose." Though poetry seems to lend itself most readily to parody, novels and dramas and other types of literature have been the basis of some amusing humorous writing of this class. In her Outline of Humor, Carolyn Wells gives many examples of parody. One of the most delightful sets of illustrations, she says, grew out of a game played by a group of authors. The poets decided to discuss the merits of the "classic" poem, "Peter, Peter, Pumpkin Eater." They stated that the style of the poem was "a little bare," so they took upon themselves the task of embellishing it. Many of the versions are very humorous, particularly those which transpose the jingle to the style of some well-known earlier poet, which gives rise to a sort of double parody. Carolyn Wells wrote RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 her version as a parody on one of Mrs. Browning's loveliest sonnets. (See Outline of Humor, by Carolyn Wells, p. 754.) It is quite evident, then, that parody is a source of amusement in literature. It affords one of the most popular types of humorous reading. Also, as Stephen Leacock has so well stated, this type has other values, too. "Parody," he says, "as a type, has use as a corrective to overstatement, as humor to relieve pain, to console against the shortcomings of life itself." Problems and Projects 1. Why is the pun considered a lower form of humor than parody or burlesque? Illustrate. 2. Give a review of Pope's "The Rape of the Lock," telling how it came to be written, discussing its literary values besides its humor, such as its revelation of the customs and ideals of the time, its quotable passages, et cetera. 3. Read parodies of well-known poems not given in the lesson. 4. Relate incidents to show how wise parents or teachers have used or might use parodies or burlesques to point out or correct faults in the children under their care. 5. Give a character sketch of the burlesque type of some humorous literary character, such as Paul Bunyan or Gargantua. Supplementary Readings Leacock, Greatest Pages of American Humor. Sketches and Humor (in library for the young). E. V. Lucas, and C. L. Graves, Hustled History. Robert Benchley, Of All Things. Nathaniel Hawthorne, Celestial Railway. James Stevens, Paul Bunyan, Garden City Publishing Company, New York. 1925-40. Social Sctence Foundations Of Successful Marriage (Tuesday, December 23, 1941) NO lesson is provided for this date due to the holiday season. (See "Notes to the Field," page 612.) ye Nission Lessons Latter-day Saint Hymns (For optional use of missions in lieu of Literature) Lesson 3 (Tuesday, December 16, 1941) THE SPIRIT OF GOD LIKE A FIRE The Spirit of God like a fire is burning! The latter-day glory begins to come forth; The visions and blessings of old are returning, And angels are coming to visit the earth. CuHorus We'll sing and we'll shout with the armies of heaven, Hosanna, hosanna to God and the Lamb! Let glory to them in the highest be given, Henceforth and forever; amen, and amen! The Lord is extending the Saints' understanding, Restoring their judges and all as at first. The knowledge and power of God are expanding, The veil o'er the earth is beginning to burst. We'll call in our solemn assemblies in spirit, To spread forth the kingdom of heaven abroad. That we through our faith may begin to inherit The visions and blessings and glories of God. How blessed the day when the lamb and the lion Shall lie down together without any ire, And Ephraim be crowned with his blessing in Zion, As Jesus descends with His chariot of fire! —William W. Phelps AFTER the idea of God and our First, we believe in God, in Christ relation to him, comes the idea as our Savior, and in the "plan of that the Holy Ghost may be given life and salvation"; second, we reto us to guide and comfort and enpent of all our sins, with a determinalighten us in this "vale of tears." tion to refrain from further sin to Page 649 650 the full extent of our ability; third, we are baptized by immersion for the remission of sins. 'Then we are ready for someone holding the proper authority to lay hands on our head to impart to us the "gift of the Holy Ghost." WILLIAM Wines Phelps, like the two poets we have already considered, was of old American stock. Born in New Jersey, on February 17, 1792, he went in his youth to what was then the western part of New York. He seems to have had a good education, though how or where he received it, we do not know. In western New York he was favored by fortune. When we fist 'learn of him there, he was the owner and editor of a partisan newspaper, which also did job printing. We do not know to which political party William Phelps belonged, but we do know that he was regarded highly enough by his party as to be seriously considered for the office of lieutenant governor of the state. It was here that he first heard of Mormonism, although he did not embrace it till after the Saints had gone to Kirtland, Ohio. In December, 1830, he and Sidney Rigdon had a ten-hours' conversation about the new Church. Elder Rigdon was then on a visit to Palmyra, to see and talk with the Prophet. In this interview Sidney Rigdon told William Phelps, "I know that this religion is true by the power of the Holy Ghost." William Phelps later visited the Hill Cumorah, talked with the Prophet, and examined all the evidences of the divinity of the Prophet's mission. On the removal of Joseph Smith to Ohio, Mr. Phelps hastened after him and was baptized. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 The chorus of this hymn is a kind of shout and song. It comes as an expression of feeling and gratitude One of the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants was given to Elder Phelps through the Prophet. It is Section 55. In it he was told that he was "chosen" as well as "called." This was given before he was baptized. He was promised that "on whomsoever" he should lay his hands, if they were contrite, he should "have the power to give the Holy Ghost." Later he was sent to Missouri, to set up and to edit the Evening and Morning Star, the first Church periodical. Later still, in both Missouri and I]linois, he served as the Prophet's secretary. He died in Salt Lake City in 1872, very greatly honored, after an active and devoted life. It is as a poet, however, that we are here concerned with William W. Phelps. His poetry consists of short poems, many of which have been set to music. Among those whose compositions are included in our Latter-day Saint hymn_ book, William W. Phelps comes second in number of contributions, there being exactly thirty of his compositions published in that volume. Some of his hymns are among the best in the language, and all of them are in the spirit of the New Dispensation. "The Spirit of God Like a Fire" was composed in time to be included in Emma Smith's collection of hymns, a task to which she had been assigned by revelation. (See Doctrine and Covenants, Section 25.) In this collection, published in 1835, there were twenty-six of William Phelps' compositions, as compared with five by Parley P. Pratt and two by Eliza R. Snow. LESSON DEPARTMENT The book came out about a year before the dedication of the Kirtland Temple. Upon that occasion, the hymn we are now considering was sung impressively. The Kirtland Temple, the first of its kind in this dispensation, was a notable building in more than one respect. 'I'he Saints were comparatively few in number, and there was much opposition to them in and around Kirtland. But they persevered until on March 27, 1836, the Temple was dedicated. The building cost about $75, coo—a large sum for that time. A special revelation (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 109) contains the prayer that was offered in dedication on that occasion. N the first stanza of "The Spirit of God Like a Fire," we have again an expression of the Restoration. "Latter-day glory," "visions and blessings" like those of the olden time, "angels visiting the earth'— these are marks of the new Church. The phrase "like a fire is burning" recalls the burning bush of Moses (Exodus, Chapter 3), and the statement of the Prophet Joseph Smith that God "dwells in everlasting burnings." Always, so far as we know, heavenly beings appear to men in great light. “This was the case when the Prophet saw the Father and the Son in the woods on his father's farm and when the Angel Moroni came to him in that _ attic room in the Smith home three and one-half years later. "Above the brightness of the sun" and "lighter than at noonday" are the phrases the Prophet uses to describe this light. The chorus of this hymn is a kind of shout and song. It comes as an expression of feeling and gratitude 651 that the former blessings have been revived: "Hosanna, hosanna to God and the Lamb!" "Let glory to them in the highest be given.... Henceforth and forever...! " As a result of the visions and glory, the second stanza tells us, the understanding of those who have accepted the new movement in teligion is "extending." Moreover, the knowledge of God and his power are "expanding" accordingly, and the "veil" of darkness "is beginning to burst." Note the phrase, "is beginning." 'The full flood of light has not yet come. Having received these great blessings and this knowledge, it is our duty now, we are informed in the third stanza, to "spread forth the kingdom of heaven abroad." This will be one means by which we may "inherit, through faith," the promises which the Lord has made to the faithful. For all mankind must be both warned and taught—warned of the "judgments" to come if they do not work righteousness, and taught the way to "inherit" the celestial world. As a matter of fact, upon the Latter-day Saints has been placed the same responsibility that the former-day Saints had of preaching the Gospel to "every creature." From the Restoration ideas, visions, and glories, the hymn goes, in the last stanza, to the millennial reign of Christ, when "the lamb and the lion shall lie down together without any ire." We are assured in the revelations given to our Prophet that when the proper time comes Christ "will reveal himself from heaven with power and great glory, with all the hosts thereof, and dwell in righteousness with men on earth a thousand years, and the wicked shall not stand." (See Doc- 652 trine and Covenants, Section 20, verse 11.) Theologically, then, this hymn tells us that a certain set of old things have been restored, as a result of which we know more than we did, and that it is incumbent upon us to proclaim these truths to the world, preparatory to the millennial reign of Christ. While these ideas are clearly given, at the same time the poem is full of feeling —- gratitude, praise, zeal, and yearning. It is, on the whole, a stirring hymn, and when sung by a large choir or a congregation of believers it is very moving. At the organization of the Relief Society, March 17, 1842, "the meeting was opened by singing "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning.' " RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1941 Questions 1. Select the lines in this hymn that you like best and memorize them. Can you memorize the entire hymn? 2. Give some details of the life of William W. Phelps. What kind of man do you think he was? Are there any traits of his character that stand out either in the brief sketch of him given in this lesson or in this poem? If so, what are these? 3. What visions do you think the poet had in mind in the first stanza? Tell these in detail. (Some more visions were received in the Kirtland Temple. See Doctrine and Covenants, Section 110.) 4. How was it that the understanding of the Saints was "extended"? "expanded''? What, for instance, do we know about God that we did not know before? (Study the "First Vision."') 5. What "blessings" were enjoyed by the Saints of old that are also enjoyed in our Church? % Home Accident Prevention (Continued from page 595) X. Lightning Precautions All buildings should be protected with lightning rods properly grounded and installed. Ground fence wires. XI. Spontaneous Combustion Have a covered metal can for the storage of oil rags, mops and polishing cloths. Burn paint and turpentine rags. Inflammable Fluid for Fuel; Dry Cleaning Never use or uncover gasoline in a room with an open fire or flame. XII. Never use gasoline or kerosene to start or quicken a fire. Filling a gasoline or kerosene stove while flame is lighted is positively dangerous. Never use gasoline for dry cleaning. XIII. Protection from Scalds and Burns Caused by Hot Water and Hot Fat Topstove utensils should have broad flat basés; handles should be turned inward to prevent utensils being overturned or reached by children. Be careful of the hot fat in deep-fat frying.. A Garden Mlasquerade (Continued from page 619) we could raise enough money to hire Mr. Fulton to do the remodeling and painting that our civic center will require?" Emily was speechless with happiness at having her dream come true. She could only nod her assent. "Another thing, Emily," and Mrs.: Gates actually said it a bit wistfully, "'won't you just call me Sarah?" Temple and Burial Clothing Temple Clothing For Men and Women Burial Clothing for Men, Women and Children FINEST MATERIALS EXPERT WORKMANSHIP QUICK SERVICE REASONABLE PRICES ® EXPRESS AND POSTAL CHARGES PREPAID RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD MORMON HANDICRAFT Gift Shop... Rare Hand-Made Gifts Quality Only Hands Can Produce GENUINE WATER-COLOR PICTURES—APRONS THAT ARE DIFFERENT —HAND-HAMMERED COPPER—UNIQUE PIONEER DOLLS—HAND-KNIT SWEATERS—BEAUTIFUL QUILTS—RUGS, AND MANY OTHER LOVELY GIFTS Sponsored by RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 20 Bishop's Building 21 West South Temple Street Salt Lake City Salt Lake City, Utah U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 SERVE Fisher' s BIG DUTCH LOAF FO GREATER Hot Weather Mealtime Enjoyment Have you tried Fisher's Delicious Mayflower Donuts yet? Today we walk by faith Tomorrow we walk by knowledge + LARKIN MORTUARIES Salt Lake City, Utah 260 East South Temple Dial 4-9126 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Ogden, Utah 466 24th St. Dial 7523 Los Angeles, California 6003 Compton Avenue Jefferson 1244 Street RELIEF MAGAZINE THE COVER The Assembly Hall on Semple Square in Salt Lake City... TO THE majority of Latter-day Saints October means conference time, and every autumn new interest is centered in historic Temple Square in Salt Lake City—in the Temple, the Tabernacle, Church Museum, and the Assembly Hall. It is thrilling to meet again with friends and co-workers, to be again one with the people who come from near and far to receive counsel and inspiration from our leaders. To Relief Society women, the Assembly Hall has special significance. It is there that hundreds of women meet for instruction in Relief Society officers' meetings held in connection with semiannual Relief Society conferences. The Assembly Hall stands on the southwest corner of Temple Square. It was built during 1877 to 1882 primarily for the holding of quarterly conferences for the old Salt Lake Stake. Made of granite like that of which the Temple. Is built, it is a beautiful, semi-Gothic structure, with a roof of four gables, each of which is surmounted with ornamental spires, as also are the four corners of the hall. This building has four entrances—one on each side and one at each end. The height of the tower rising from the center of the structure is 130 feet. The Assembly Hall is now used not only for religious services, but for public lectures and concerts for which the larger Tabernacle would not be suitable. It will _accommodate about 3,000 people. Editor's Note: Noted architects who have visited Salt Lake City have praised the beauty of the Assembly Hall. One visitor spoke of it as one of the most outstanding buildings, from an architectural standpoint, in the city. These features are well reproduced in the cover photograph by T. J. Howells, M. D., who has supplied many lovely covers for the Relief Society Magazine. Arrangements for this month's cover design are by Evan Jensen. NOW IN ITS THIRD EDITION... The Book of Mormon in Fascinating Form "A VOICE from the DUST" Edited and Arranged by Genet Bingham Dee All the majesty and inspirational quality of ''The Book of Mormon" has been —— enhanced in this masterly arrangement. Easy to read... Easy to understand. Beautifully illustrated—100 pictures—many in color. Writes Pres. David O. McKay— "It is a distinct contribution to our Church literature and will, I am sure, cause many to read 'The Book of Mormon' who otherwise might have neglected to do so."' Thousands already have received new knowledge, new inspiration from "A VOICE FROM THE DUST.'' Come to our store or pin your check or money order to this advertisement and mail to us. $2.50 Postpaid DESERET BOOK CO., 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City Index to Aduanrtisars. "A Voice From The Dust" (Deseret Book Co.) - < - - Fly-leaf Bennett Glass & Paint Co. - - - - - - - 728 Deseret Book Co. - - - - - - Inside Back Cover Fisher Baking Co. -- - - - Fly-leaf Larkin Mortuaries - - - - - - Inside Back Cover L. D. S. Business College - - - - 728 Mountain Fuel Supply Co. - - - 728 The Deseret News Press - - - - - Outside Back Cover Utah Power & Light Co. - - -728 NOW ENRICHED with VITAMINS and IRONProvides the Energy your Children need for their School Activities.... "Oven Fresh Daily At Your Grocer's When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine The Relief Society Magazine Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. 28 OCTOBER, 1941 No. 10 Contents Special Features The Cover—'"The Assembly Hall on Temple Square in Salt Lake City''.................. (Cover photograph by T. J. Howells, M. D.)..-------------------Inside Front Cover Back of Frontispiece—Hills are my Heritage............... Christie Lund Coles 53 Frontispiece, 654 The Refining Influence of the Gospel—Dr. Lowell Bennion The World-Famed Salt Lake Tabernacle Organ........Thomas Giles 660 Should Women Smoke?..... Alonzo L. Baker 665 Rising Prices—How to Meet Them....Fern M. Kimball 669 The Present-Day Need for Training our Daughters in Homemaking Skills................ Ieee Leda T. Jensen 677 Winter Cheer From Growing Plants.........James M. Kirkham 681 Plan for Memorizing the Articles of Faith -........E. Frank Soderborg 705 Fiction The Striped pencil Eva Willes Wangsgaard 673 The Merry-Go-Round—Chapter Seven...............Alice Morrey Bailey 690 General Features Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 684 Editorial: Conference Values........... 685 Notes to the Field: — Centennial Commemorative Book........... 687 Cards Containing Articles of Faith Delayed ...... 688 Change in Collection Time of Annual Membership Dues............................... 688 Two New Centennial Songs for Relief Society Song Book.............689 Relief Society Pin Subject to Excise Tax...........689 Notes from the Field................ Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 696 Lessons. Theology and Testimony—Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage, Chapter 4........ 706 Visiting Teachers'—Loyalty to Church Leadership as an Expression of Faith............ 708 Work-and-Business—Man-Made Fibers in the Spotlight —..0.2 eee 709 Literature—Types of Humor, Continued 711 Social Science—Stepping Toward Marriage Through Courtship -.......................... 716 Mission—While of These Emblems We Partake............. 722 Poetry Hills Are My Heritage.......Christie Lund Coles 653 Leone G. Layton 672 Carol Chamberlain 676 Pe Sn SM eh Dott J. Sartori 689 Snow Bound............Angie Bottomfield 695 I Thought That it was Reverie 2. Ruby Johnson 704 Fashion in Nature: Leone E. McCune 725 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuseripts for their return. Fills Are My Heritage Christie Lund Coles Hills are my heritage! My soul would be Lost where they were not; though I had the sea And desert each intriguing me with Boas I still should need the mountains with their grace, Their monumental spires, their velvet shades, Their amber tints when day's light slowly fades Into soft amethyst and liquid gold, Their darkly-phantom shadows that enfold Their heights, the fields and rivers at their feet, The forests on their thighs, each small retreat And cloistered valley, sleepy and secure Within their sanctity. I should need more— Their strength to cradle mind and heart of me, And lift my trust in God's supremacy. HILLS ARE MY HERITAGE The Relief Society Magazine Vol. 28 OCTOBER, 1941 No. 10 The Refining Influence Of The Gospel Dr. Lowell L. Bennion Director, Salt Lake City, L. D. S. Institute of Religion MEN dig ore out of the earth. Seldom, if ever, are valuable metals found in pure form. Coarser minerals, rock, and dirt are bedfellows of gold and silver. Mining men grind, wash, smelt and apply chemical processes to release the finer, valuable metals from those of little or no worth. Men give their most creative thought and risk their entire wealth to discover and refine the precious metals of Mother Earth. Man is not ore, yet there are elements in his life which remind us of ore both in a state of nature and during the refining process. Within the nature of each of us are capacities and appetites which may develop into qualities ugly or beautiful, weak or strong, base or noble. And within our social environment—something quite as much a part of our life as the physical body—are to be found countless things coarse and fine, good and bad. We too need to be refined. Our impulses need legitimate and joybringing expression. We ought to select the good in our environment and pass by the bad. But how? We cannot be thrown into a blast furnace for purification, nor can the coarseness in our natures be washed and ground away. Mining processes are not applicable here. Still the refining of our lives cannot be left to chance nor taken for granted. It too calls for ingenious planning and resolute action. We all have within us the ability to make some choices which will ennoble our living. We also have influence over others. How can we, then, bring more graciousness, serenity, strength, and beauty into our own lives and into the lives of our children, neighbors, and_ fellow Church members? The question is indeed a large one. Our sole purpose here is to suggest a few ways in which the Gospel of Jesus Christ can refine daily living. The Gospel is so rich and all-inclusive that it may be profitably considered in several ways—as a system of beliefs, as our total religious life, or even as a very practical Page 655 philosophy which has given birth to such guides as the Word of Wisdom and the welfare program. In this article let us appraise it for its refining influence in daily life. Does it dignify human relations by eliminating that which is crude, mean, weak, base, shallow and superficial in favor of things good and beautiful? OUR behavior is an expression of our view of life. Actions grow out of beliefs. Convictions help shape our deeds. What a man believes about his own life and that of others measureably determines what he says and does. The first contribution the Gospel can make toward refined living is an inspiring view of one's own life. Every believer in the Gospel can say to himself under all conditions: "I am eternal. My intelligence 'was not created nor made.' There is something in me that has always existed and shall never die. I shall live on forever as an individual. "And there are no limits to the possibilities for growth and self-realization of this my eternal life. I am 'that I might have joy.' My life is basically good and purposeful and may become more so. "I became a child of God, created in his image. He whose glory is intelligence, whose name is Creator, whose attributes are love, goodness, mercy, and justice is my Father and my ideal. He strives to lead me to the life abundant which is His. He wants me to learn the meaning of love, mercy, goodness, and creativity, that life may be full of joy. "And I am free to act for myself, for the Lord has said, 'Men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness, for the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves.' "As an eternal being with freedom to choose the right, a child of God with unlimited capacity for joybringing growth, I may share increasingly in all that the Father is seeking to. Achieve in the lives of men." Surely in such a view of life there is no room for cynicism, and despair. Cheap, shallow, base and vulgar living must give way, for the Gospel idealizes life and keeps our vision and our yearnings directed upward. AND that which we believe about our own life, Jesus insists we believe about the lives of others. So much has been taught about individual differences recently, and rightly so, that we forget how much men still have in common. Our basic needs — food, shelter, clothing, friends, faith, love, and recognition —we share. Jesus knew this when he said, "Love thy neighbor as thyself." Paul had become a real Christian when he preached to the Athenians that God "hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth." In nothing do we reveal the presence of the Gospel of Jesus Christ or the lack of it in our lives so quickly as in our relations with others. The Author of the Gospel lived nobly, and one secret of his refinement lies, we believe, in his attitude toward others. Jesus does not leave us in doubt.. He believed in the worth and sacredness of every human soul. Since He lived and spoke we know that to be His follower means to hold life in reverence. Only those who truly hold life in 656 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 THE REFINING INFLUENCE OF THE GOSPEL reverence are pure in heart, merciful, peaceful, and self-sacrificing. The Savior's own reverence for life is revealed again and again in the Gospels. An incident in Mark will illustrate His spirit: A certain woman, ill for twelve years, "had suffered many things of many physicians and had spent all that she had, and was nothing bettered, but rather grew worse. When she had heard of Jesus, came in the press behind and touched his garment: For she said, 'If I may touch but his clothes, I shall be whole.'... And she felt in her body that she was healed of that plague. And Jesus, immediately knowing in himself that virtue had gone out of him,... Said, "Who touched my clothes?' " His disciples, less sensitive at this time to the touch of faith and the ills of men than their Lord, could see and feel only the multitude. So they said unto Jesus, "Thou seest the multitude thronging thee, and sayest thou, "Who touched me?'"" If we let the woman assume the major role in this story, it becomes a great lesson in faith. Focus our attention on Jesus and we gain another. It is this: Do we see others as a multitude, in crowds, as belonging to this category or that, or as individuals with much the same desires as we and our children have— as persons who need our virtue and our strength? Ig is easy to profess faith in this refined, considerate view of life which Jesus taught, but in a world of war and hate, economic struggle and greed, noise and haste, and multiple shallow and superficial interests it is quite another thing to live it. For these undesirable features of con- 657 temporary living dull our finer sensibilities and hinder the realization of a rich emotional life. How can we translate the refining influence of the Gospel into daily living? Ways and occasions are provided if we will make the effort. They are not new. Like the gold and silver in the earth, they have been with us a long time. We know them by name, but we have yet to realize them in rich measure. Let us consider some practical principles of living which will bring daily the refining influence of the Gospel into our consciousness. The ancient Mosaic law—"Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy" was a great blessing to the Jewish people. It meant rest from hard toil for man and beast. Men remembered their Creator on this day and His purpose in their creation. By the time Jesus was born, many Jews, in their eagerness to obey the Law of Moses, interpreted the Sabbath commandment as a series of prohibitions. Jesus broke with this negative view of religion and gave us a new and enriched understanding of the meaning of the Sabbath. As it now stands in the "New Testament" record and in the Doctrine and Covenants, we know that the keeping of this ancient law can be a. Positive and refining experience in modern life. When discovered healing the sick on the Sabbath, Jesus was accused of desecrating God's holy day. His teply was a question: "Is it lawful to save life or to lose it?" "Ts it lawful to do good?" "To heal?" The obvious answer is yes. By doing good, by offering encouragement and friendship to those in need, we sanctify the Lord's day. It is the 658, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 one day in the week when, freed from mundane cares, we could devote our energy to bringing joy and strength to others. In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 59, a second purpose of Sabbath day living is stated: "... Thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day... And to pay thy devotions unto the Most High;... Confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord." It is a day to worship God and to gain help and strength from him that we might have the desire and needed inspiration to go forth and do good. Jesus used to go up to the Mount of Olives and pray all night, and then he would go down and comfort and bless the children of men. He received strength and power from the Father with which to save the souls of men. Such was the essence of his life. The Sabbath is our opportunity to be truly Christ-like — to commune with the Father and then go forth and do his will. The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is the ordinance in the Church best adapted to bring the refining influence of worship into our lives. It is a renewal of our baptismal covenant in which we pledge—in the words of the Book of Mosiah—that we were "willing to come into the fold of God, and to be called his people, and... Bear one another's burdens, that they may be light; yea, and to mourn with those that mourn and comfort those in need of comfort, and stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places...." It is an occasion to remember Jesus and everything that he did and taught; a time to evaluate the quality of our own moral living using his life as a standard; a sacred hour in which we, in the presence of like believers, pledge our loyalty and devotion to Christ and his Gospel. Let us not let this ordinance become a routine practice which we disgrace by talking with our neighbors. Let it mean rather a spiritual renewal, a resurrection of our determination to be real disciples of Jesus. This means that we cleanse our hands and make clean our hearts and thoughts; that we beautify as much as possible the place and manner in which we commune with our Lord. THE home can provide another setting in which the refining influence of the Gospel may work in us. But again, this home influence must not be taken for granted; it needs. To be. Thoughtfully engendered. May we be suggestive? Let us spend more time at home as a family. This can be done by eliminating some outside interests, business and social, and by buildin a home program which will hold the interest of the children. They love to read, sing, converse and play. They slough work at every opportunity when left alone, but they will work unceasingly when parents work with them and make a game of it, commenting on their muscles and their achievements. In the democratic spirit of the Gospel we should plan life with our children. Have a definite time in which to pray, work, read, and play. Regularity in these essentials will refine and stabilize family life. Another suggestion is that we spend less money on the house and more on the home — on music, THE REFINING INFLUENCE OF THE GOSPEL books, house-paint, aesthetic touches here and there, and liveability for each member of the home. Let us make it easier for children to learn respect for each other's property, rights, and duties. We must grant our children the stability, the strength, and the graciousness that come from having lived in a lovely Latter-day Saint home. Upon it may some day depend their faith in God, in their fellows, in themselves, and in all the refining influences of the Gospel. HERE are numerous ways in which the Gospel can beautify our lives individually. We-can suggest but a few. Enjoy life. Beautify yourself, your home, your yard, your Church, your community. Look up at the sky and unto the hills; feel the rain on your head; behold the flowers, the sunset, and, once in a while, the early dawn. Express your joy in smiles, song, play, words of affection and in deeds of good will. Don't be a pessimist! Have faith. Find things to live for—the happiness of your husband, the education of your children, the success of your Sunday School class, the making of a beautiful (not elegant) home. Lose your life in pursuit of these 659 goals. Believe in things and live for them. If they are noble you will become noble also; if not, you will discover it and discard your goals for higher ones. Find a time each day for quiet meditation and prayer. Make the Lord your confidant. Ask him to help you achieve your goals. Evaluate your own integrity. Weigh the values in life you ascribe to and resolve to be true to them. Refuse in these moments of privacy to be caught in the whirl of meaningless activity we have all experienced some time or other. Eliminate trivial, superficial talk, ceaseless wisecracking, and cheap novels, magazines and movies. Rid life of the love-destroying, soul-killing attitudes of envy, jealousy, anger, hate, selfishness, conceit, fear, worry, and remorse. Live the life of love and service. Live at peace with yourself by being honest and true to your convictions. Live at peace with the world by being generous, tolerant, and merciful. Begin at home. Let your neighbors in on it, and then your Church and community. Entertain charity toward all men. Let the Gospel in all its beauty and strength not only be our faith, but our life. "In proportion as we perceive and embrace the truth do we become just, heroic, magnanimous, divine." —William Lloyd Garrison. The World-—Famed Salt Lake Tabernacle Organ Thomas Giles Head of Music Department, University of Utah THE TABERNACLE ORGAN IN EARLY DAYS THE tremendous vastness of the great West with its towering mountains and never-ending plains probably affected the lives and thoughts of all members of pioneer groups wending their way across the wastelands and the prairies. Their leaders foresaw huge industries, great cattle ranches, large flocks of sheep, immense stores of grain, et cetera. In the face of such experiences, is it any wonder that the people of the early days suw rising before their very eyes a building with Page 660 the world's largest unsupported roof, saw organized one of the land's largest choral groups, and heard glorious tones from one of the earth's greatest musical instruments! The Tabernacle organ was begun in January, 1866, less than twenty years after the arrival of the original pioneers, and more than a year and a half before the 'Tabernacle was completed. Joseph H. Ridges, who had. Been an organ builder in Australia, was placed in charge of the work. Mr. Ridges, well known to the writer in the days of his youth, was a Cultured individual as well as a skilled wood-working mechanic. He knew the various types of wood and metal necessary for all parts of the instrument, and he knew how they should be pieced together to form an organ. Samples of wood were procured from all parts of the state, and the proper type for the manufacture of the wooden pipes, of which there are many hundreds in the organ, was found near Parowan. This necessitated oxteam transport of the lumber for a distance of about two hundred fifty miles. Most of the lumber was fashioned on the Tabernacle grounds and glued with homemade glue procured by boiling cow and other hides. The glue was also made on the Tabernacle grounds. The magnificent instrument was first dedicated in October, 1867, with a total complement of seven hundred pipes, although work continued until the originally contemplated two thousand pipes were in place. On this first occasion, the organ was used chiefly as an accompaniment for the "well organized choir under the leadership of Professor George Careless." From the time of this original performance until the present, the instrument has consistently gained in size and importance. The original groupings of pipes constituted what is known as a two-manual and pedal organ with twenty-nine stops. The manuals, played by the hands, as the name implies, are complete sets of keys, which apply to separate organs. 'The complementing set of pedal keys are played by the feet. The original manuals had only fiftysix keys each (at present the number is seventy-three), while the pedals were twenty-seven in number (at present the number is thirty). A stop refers to a set of pipes corresponding to the numbers of keys stated above. Each stop thus controls a set of pipes and may be used singly or in any form of grouping, such as two stops, four stops, twenty-seven stops, et cetera. The action was the so-called "tracker" type, mechanical throughout, which made the manipulation of the keys a difficult one, especially ~ when the keys of the two manuals were coupled together. Graphite was used freely, and levers were made as long as practical in order to relieve the organist of as much physical strain on the fingers as possible with that type of action. This action is a bit of lever mechanism which operates directly from the depression of the key to. The valve which opens to permit the passage of air into the pipe, thereby causing the sound of the particular pipe or pipes, if connections are made, to ensue. 'This "tracker" action, the only type known at the time of the building of the original organ, remained in the organ until 1900. The console at that time (this term is used to define the grouping of the various keyboards and pedals), was located at the base of and immediately in the center of the organ and formed a part of the front of the case. The console occupied this position until the "tracker" action was abolished in 1900. The supply of air was originally furnished by a hand-manipulated bellows, which supplied air to the so-called wind chests or reservoirs and various pressures determined by large, pure lead bars placed atop the bellows and reservoirs. 'These bars bore the stamp "Great Salt Lake City Deseret." A later development applied hydraulic motors to the bellows, and these in turn were supplanted by electric motors which were again replaced by the presentday power blowers which maintain the constant pressure desired, without the aid of bellows or separate air reservoirs. HE first real change in the construction of the organ took place in 1885 when Niels Johnson enlarged the organ from 2000 to 2648 pipes and added one more manual, making a total of three. Mr. Johnson added two organs (solo and choir) to the three existing ones (great, swell, and pedal), making a total of five. These changes brought the instrument quite abreast of the times and spread its THE WORLD-FAMED SALT LAKE TABERNACLE ORGAN 661 fame as one of the great organs of the world. It was now compared favorably with the best Europe and the eastern states had to offer. The tone of the instrument has undoubtedly never been surpassed from the first, due to the miracle of perfect acoustics existing in its near where it now stands, and the pressure of air was increased in all of the separate organs. One new row of keys (manual) was also added, giving the organ a really large console of four manuals and sixty-one notes, and pedals of thirty notes. In the new arrangeTHE WORLD-FAMED TABERNACLE ORGAN AS IT LOOKS TODAY glorious abode, the Tabernacle. Report has it that the first renovation and enlargement of the instrument (1885) brought forth favorable comment from the public and press. Not so, however, with the second changes of 1900. Many felt that the character of the old organ had changed. Truly it had. The organ was now "grown up." It had been enlarged to a very considerable extent. New sets of pipes, unknown at the time the original organ was built, had been added; the console had been moved from the organ case to the front of the choir seats, ment of air and pipes, enlargement of scope and power, some felt that sweetness had been sacrificed. The fact is that much sweetness had been added. In the construction of older organs, one group of pipes was encased in a heavy box with opening shutters. The ability to expand the effect of tonal volume caused this organ to be known as the "swell" organ. At present, all organs with the exception of the pedal are enclosed and subject to the swelling and subsiding of the tone at the command of the organist. A large foot pedal, manipulated by the right 662 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 foot, is used for this effect—simply opening and closing felt-padded shutters on all sides of the box. 'This mechanism alone quadruples the "sweet" sounds. The growth of the daily organ recital again made increasing demands on the organ, with the result that the Church authorities sanctioned remodeling and enlarging the great instrument in 1915. As in previous renovations and alterations the organ was again enlarged, and to such an extent that the widening by thirty feet of the great case was made necessary. 'The case was originally a splendid copy of the organ in the Sydney, Australia, Town Hall, built of pine wood and stained a walnut color. The original consisted of a pattern of two large columns formed by groups of pipes (thirtytwo feet) separated by a broken arch and surmounted by large, ornate, almost crown-shaped caps, supported on the sides by two smaller columns of a similar nature. The widening process necessitated the addition of two columns with decorations to match and gave the west end of the Tabernacle a decorative scheme which practically covers the entire end of the building. These internal as well as external additions were of the greatest importance to performer and listener alike. The total rows of pipes became increased to 128, and the electropneumatic action of 1900 was now replaced by the newest all-electric action, making possible instantaneous contact with every pipe. One of the chief additions was the beautiful Celestial or Echo organ located beneath the floor in the extreme east end of the building, opposite the organ itself. Other important additions of this period were the Orchestral and String organs and the addition of many unique stops of pipes (rows) in the pedal and other organs. The organs as of 1915 were: Great Organ of 22 stops, not including the chimes and the seven row or rank string organ which can be used from the great manual, Celestial Organ of 9 stops, not including the Celesta (steel bars), Swell Organ of 22 stops, Orchestral Organ of 16 stops, Solo Organ of 14 stops, not including the Concert Harp (bars) and chimes, and the Pedal Organ of 27 stops, making a huge assemblage of more than 8000 pipes. To all of this must be added the various coupling devices (47 of them), the tremolos for each organ and the pistons (64 of them) for arranging different combinations of stops with pedals controlling separately or en masse the shutters referred to above. The organ heard today has an added dozen of stops to the above, constituting one of the world's largest and finest instruments. Many of the original pipes of the organ of 1867 are still giving valiant service in the present organ, the ones seen in the front center of the organ (gilt) particularly. These pipes remained silent from 1867 to 1915 due to the false notion that a round wooden pipe would not "speak." Brother Ridges must have smiled when they sang so sweetly after the 1915 remodeling. He knew when he made them that the proper application of air pressure would cause these carefully and beautifully made pipes to "speak." They do. THE WORLD-FAMED SALT LAKE TABERNACLE ORGAN 663 664 THE organ has always been favored with serious, earnest musicians at the console. The first regular organist was Joseph J. Daynes, a skilled musician and performer, who functioned prior to 1870. The writer's father, Henry E. Giles, when a boy of fifteen years served while Brother Daynes was East studying (1874-1875). Organist Daynes retained his post longer than any of his successors to date. He retired in 1899. John J. McClellan, who inaugurated the daily organ recital and who was almost wholly responsible for the modernization in 1900 and 1915, was appointed in 1899 and held his post until his most untimely death in 1925. He was an organ artist of the highest type and carried the great work forth from where his predecessor had left off. He popularized organ music, taught young musicians to handle the instrument and developed his own virtuosity to the point where he was known throughout the land. The writer of this article was his first assistant in the Tabernacle before regular recognized assistants were appointed, and it was this position which paid his study and travel expenses over a period of seven glorious years in Europe during the "Golden Age" when Europe was Europe. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 Following John J. McClellan came Tracy Y. Cannon (now retired) and Edward P. Kimball (deceased). The present group, Alexander Schreiner, Frank W. Asper and Wade N. Stephens, continue to maintain the high standards established before them. These artists, each of whom has had the finest European (Paris, Berlin) and Amertican (Boston, New York, Chicago) training possible to procure, furnish accompaniments for the marvelous choir and recitals of the highest order. It is doubtful if a finer group of musicians can be found functioning anywhere at the present time. While this is being written, new additions and improvements are now going on in the organ again moving it forward in the vanguard of famous instruments. 'The organ today has more than 140 stops and about 9,000 pipes. The daily recital certainly calls for a word of comment. It was not uncommon in the first twenty years of the innovation to have in attendance an audience of from 20 to 75. Later audiences, thought huge, rose to 1,800. At present it is quite a common sight to see over 3,500 in attendance at what is probably the country's most extensive series of musical programs, "The Tabernacle Organ Recital." a "There let the pealing organ blow, To the full voic'd quire below, In service high, and anthems clear, As may with sweetness, through mine ear, Dissolve me into ecstasies, And bring all Heav'n before mine eyes." —Miuilton, Should Women Smoke? Alonzo L. Baker Field Secretary, Race Betterment Foundation Editor's Note: Through the cooperation of Elder Joseph F. Merrill, member of the Council of the Twelve and Chairman of the Church Campaign Committee, this article was secured for publication in the Magazine. In providing the article for us, Elder Merrill wrote: "I was asked to furnish an article relative to liquor-tobacco education for publication in the Magazine. I know the women of the Relief Society are very willing and anxious to do everything they can to further this cause. What to write was my problem. The readers of this magazine desire and like articles of quality. But I was ready. I had just received permission to have republished the article 'Should Women Smoke?' which appeared in the June, 1941, issue of Good Health magazine. The author, Alonzo L. Baker, is field secretary of the Race Betterment Foundation and associate editor of the Good Health magazine. He is an able and dependable writer on health subjects. All readers will no doubt agree that this article at least is stamped with those qualities." FROM every corner of the land I hear feminine voices instantly replying, "Why not? The men smoke, and we can, too, if we wish. Whose business is it anyway if we women want to smoke?" There can be no argument whatsoever that so far as personal liberty is concerned, women have the same tight to smoke as do the men. However, here are two facts that should be borne in mind by every girl and woman in America: 1. Tobacco harms women more physically than it does men. 2. Tobacco does more damage to the race through mothers than through fathers. Now, that isn't the fault of the men, neither has it anything to do with "equal rights," or "equal suffrage," or any other moot question. As the small boy would say, "It is just one of those things." If it had never been intended that women should be mothers, perhaps then tobacco would damage them no more than men, but women are made differently because they have a different function to perform in life. Repeated tests have shown that women respond more actively to smoking than do men. The quickening of the pulse is more marked in women when they smoke than in men; the same amount of tobacco will produce higher blood pressure in women than in men; the temperature of the hands and feet (due to constriction of the blood vessels) is lowered more in women than in men after the smoking of even one cigarette. In both men and women tobacco is the foe of a normal cardiovascular system. Because the primary effect of nicotine is the constriction of the capillaries, veins and arteries of the body, both the pulse rate and the blood pressure are raised, thus putting more work on the heart and more strain on the blood vessels. All these effects are especially deleterious to women, for they increase the tension and nerve pressure under which they must live. Women always have been more inclined to nervousness than have men, and now with so many women smoking, this condition has been considerably Page 665 worsened, as every physician who sees patients daily in his office can testify. ONE of the most baleful effects of the use of nicotine is the extra load it puts upon the kidneys. While it is true that much of the poison brought into the body by tobacco smoking is thrown off by the lungs and skin, yet tobacco adds a definite load to the kidneys in their valiant endeavor to eliminate the poison. Anything which overloads the kidneys should be carefully watched by Americans, for our kidneys are not holding up too well under the program of diet, living habits, etc., which we follow. In the case of women who are to become mothers, kidney overload should be particularly guarded against, for pregnancy always puts a great strain on the kidneys, even when such poisons as alcohol and nicotine are not present. And that brings us to the vital question of the effect of tobacco in pregnancy. These two facts are indisputable: (1) Nicotine is one of the few substances that passes through the placenta to the fetus; (2) Nicotine passes to the infant in its mother's milk. In view of the virulence of the poison that nicotine is, damage both to the unborn child and to the nursing child is inevitable when he is nicotinized before and after birth. 'Thousands of experiments have been made upon the progeny of the lower animals, but all reveal the same result.. For example, in 1937, L. A. Pechstein and W.R. Reynolds tested the effects of tobacco smoke on four generations of white rats. (See How to Live, by Fisher and Fisk, pp. 283-284.) Four facts were revealed: 1. The size of the litter was reduced in all generations. In the fourth generation the average litter became 3.4 instead of the normal 8.5. 2. Many of the young were stunted. 3. Each succeeding generation of smoke-fumed rats became less adept in finding their way out of a maze (a mechanical contrivance to test the mentality of the rat). 4. The prenatal and postnatal mortality rates were increased from generation to generation, until only 17.6 percent of those born in the fourth generation survived. 'Thus the stock was practically eliminated by four generations of exposure to tobacco fumes. Each generation was subjected to the fumes of tobacco from 30 minutes to 3 hours daily from 30 to 62 days. The tobacco burned varied from 5 to 20 grams at each fuming, and was burned in a small tubular container in the center of the cage. Since nicotine has a high boiling point (447.2° F.), much of the poison never reached the rats because of condensation on the walls of the tube and of the cage. The human mother who smokes absorbs much more nicotine into her system than those rat mothers did. It has been proved, too, that the heavy use of nicotine through sclerosis produces atrophy and degeneration in ovaries and testicles, and thus tends to barrenness. To be sure, the smoking habit has become widespread among women of recent years only in America, and medical statistics over a long period of years are not therefore 666 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 SHOULD WOMEN SMOKE? 667 "Every girl and woman should consider her unborn children when she asks the question, "Shall I smoke?" available, but preliminary reports thus far made indicate that the number of stillbirths and premature children born to habitually smoking mothers is markedly higher than for mothers who are abstainers from tobacco. | Physicians also report that as smoking among girls and women increases, the number of women patients suffering from impaired endocrine activity is also increasing. This is inescapable, for the ductless glands of the body, such as the pituitary, the thyroids, the adrenals, and the ovaries, are closely linked with the emotional balance of the body, and anything, like nicotine, which increases mervousness, raises the blood pressure, increases the pulse tate, etc., must take its toll of the power plants and regulators of the human body—the endocrine glands. The active principle in the secretions of the ductless glands is called a hormone. The hormones have a vitalizing and balancing effect upon all the tissues, nerves and bodily processes. 'They are the dynamos which activate every organic mechanism. When nicotine depresses the action of the glands, it depresses the activity of the hormones. Nicotine is a narcotic, and acts as a depressant upon all the glands of the body. The glands are greatly handicapped in normal functioning when such a heavy millstone as nicotine is attached to them. JUST cause for alarm is the rapidly growing number of girls who form the tobacco habit before they have come to physical maturity. Smoking on the part of girls during their teen years is nothing less than a tragedy, for those are the years when nicotine does its greatest damage to the growing nerve and glandular systems of the female body. From the physical viewpoint, tobacco does more to the American people than does alcohol, for a greater number of people smoke than those who drink. Furthermore, among smokers the percentage of heavy smokers far exceeds the number of heavy drinkers among those who indulge in alcoholic beverages. This is particularly true among girls and women, for the number of female "immoderate" smokers far exceeds the girls and women who drink immoderately. We do not wish to be misunderstood on the use of "moderate" and "immoderate," for we hold that the use of any poison is unwarranted, and that even in moderation, the use of either alcohol or tobacco damages the user, but at the same time, it is evident that so far as the effect upon the body is concerned, alcohol and nicotine in large dosages do more injury than in small amounts. That the abstainer from nicotine has decidedly better chances for a long life than even the moderate user, was made evident by the exhaustive research of the late Dr. Raymond Pearl, of Johns Hopkins University. Dr. Pearl and his associates made complete life-tables on 6,813 white men beginning with the age of 30 to the time of death. He divided this group into three—2,095 non-users of tobacco; 2,814 moderate smokers; 1,905 heavy smokers. For each 1,000 of the men studied, the following table shows how long they lived: Moderate Heavy Age Non-Users Smokers Smokers 30. 1,000 1,000 1,000 40 915.5 908.8 811.9 50 811.6 784.4 627.0 60 665.6 619.1 462.3 fo 459-2 405-3 sear This table shows beyond dispute that the abstainers at every age level lived longer than the moderate users, and much longer than the heavy users of tobacco. In another study made by Dr. Pearl he ascertained that the heavy users of tobacco die sooner than the heavy users of alcohol. It is true that the table above was made after a study of men only, but women fare no better, and in some respects worse, from the use of tobacco than do men. With the astounding increase in the number of women smokers during the last ten years, the conclusion is inescapable that the health of our women will be severely damaged, and worst of all, that American babies, many of whom are being born and will be born of tobacco addict mothers, will be fearfully handicapped by the poison habit of their mothers. We come back to the question asked in the title, "Should Women Smoke?" As we look at that question in the light of what tobacco does to the female body, and through her to the children of our race, we think of the observation that Charles Kingsley long ago made. Kingsley declared there are two kinds of freedom: freedom to do what one likes, and freedom to do what one ought. Said Kingsley, "The first freedom is a fallacy, for in the last analysis, men are free only to do the things they ought." 668 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 Rising Prices—How To Meet Them Fern M. Kimball District Home Management Supervisor, Farm Security Administration 66 WE, hear much talk about the increased cost of living. Thus far this is largely propaganda," says Roger Babson. "In July, 1941, living costs are ten percent below 1929 while wages are ten percent higher. During this war there has been an increase in the United States of only five percent, and that largely in cities and defense areas. When farm prices reach parity, there will be a slowing down in the rate of increase. "The honest answer to this entire cost of living question is this: If we insist upon having the same things in the same amount as before September, 1939, then our cost of living will go up considerably. If, however, we will be satisfied with certain substitutes that are nearly as good and perhaps healthier, and if we will cut out waste we will have nothing to fear. However, look for real growing pains in the defense effort. Controls will soon begin to grip. Expect virtual elimination of civilian uses for many nonessentials. Supplies of luxuries will shorten; merchants will be unable to restock. There will be further demands of simplification and standardization of consumers' items, but even this need not increase the honest cost of living, which is very different from the habits of living." We see in this statement a forecast for the need of making sacrifice of the nonessentials, the elimination of waste, and the use of the "just as good," but not the same, as we have been using. This is the appeal now being made to the people of our nation both for consumer protection and for defense needs. The civilian consumer is being given every consideration along with the defense program. From the Consumer Division, Office of Civilian Supply, help is being given to keep prices in line through price stabilization, through appeals for self-restraint, through the spreading of sound economic information, through the development and use of standards and informative labeling, through discouraging "scare advertising" and through curbing installment buying. The Consumer Division is working with public and private organizations to educate and give protection to consumers. Harriett Elliott, Consumer Commissioner of the Consumer Division, in her article "Price and Supply in the Home Front" writes, "Every increase in food prices places a burden on the low-income consumer. The food prices occurring at the present time constitute a burden which must be lightened by redoubled efforts to make possible wise buying, to assist consumers to know and use less expensive foods which give the same food values, and to promote special programs which put food of high nutritive value within reach of all families. Increased prices make imperative the much wider use of quality standards and grades to enable consumers to compare products, stretch their food pennies and make their food purchases fit their needs. Price itself is meaningless without quality. Price controls cannot be administered unless a price applies to a specific quality." "Civilian demands for goods must be adjusted as closely as possible to supplies available for consumption," Marriner S. Eccles says. "By deferring civilian demand at this time we can help avoid inflation, we can aid in defense, and we can store up a backlog of buying power that will help offset a post-defense slump." When the supply will not meet the demand, prices always go up. With all that is being done to stabilize price levels, consumers will have higher prices to meet. To know the facts as they exist, to meet them with courage and with understanding, to follow advice of those who are in a position to give correct information and sound advice, is the responsibility of the consumer, and it is the action which will help him to meet rising prices. Purchasing of goods on the installment plan has enabled the consumer to have articles which he otherwise would have had to wait for, but this system of credit has limited the purchasing power of the consumer. The high rates of interest paid on installment purchases have made the purchase price very much higher than it otherwise would have been. In paying more for the goods than he would have done had he purchased them for cash or at interest rates lower than those usually charged for installment purchases, the consumer has used some of his income that could have been saved for the purchase of other goods. Curtailment of installment credit will limit the purchasing of nonessential goods; in turn, it will extend purchasing power for the essential goods, and it will create a demand for goods during the postdefense period, which will help to keep industry going and prices for consumer goods adjusted to that of normal times. A CONCEPT of the essentials and the nonessentials in our living today will do a great deal to give us "honest living." A concept of the basic human needs—the essentials in building strong, healthy, happy individuals—is important to us in meeting the living problems of today. Enterprising families have found that it is important to make a careful estimate of the necessary expenses for family living. 'They realize that they need to have a fairly accurate estimate of the amount of food that will keep the family healthy and growing. Forty percent of the American people do not have adequate diets. Fifty percent more green vegetables are needed and seventy percent more tomatoes and citrus fruits. |More eggs, fish, and meats, more whole grains, more milk and milk products are needed. These protective foods should be put into the pattern of eating every day. Hungry people, undernourished people, ill people, do not make a strong nation. The amount to be expended for food will depend on what the family can produce and preserve for its own use, the substitutes it can use without sacrificing essential food factors, and its knowledge of how to prepare foods to preserve and conserve food nutrients. Wise meal planners will learn the season when different 670 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 RISING PRICES--HOW TO MEET THEM foods are cheapest, the most economical forms in which food comes, and the most economical quantities in which to buy foods. "A good diet cannot be judged so much by the cost as by the elements the different foods supply. How to get the most of these at a cost within the limits of income is the responsibility of the homemaker. Even within income limits good meals can be had, but it takes knowledge to make sure that they supply what the body needs. If orange juice is too high as a source of Vitamin C, it is possible to get adequate amounts from tomato juice, cabbage, salads and fruits in season." Prices and quality standards for other items besides foods have a direct bearing on the consumer's food budget since expenditures for these items often crowd the food budget. UP to the present time, the consumer has felt very little hardship in the way of rising prices in clothing, but now budgets need to provide for this as there is evidence that there will be some rise in clothing prices. To get the most for our dollar, we will need to know the changes that are being made in materials, styles, weaves, workmanship, et cetera. Naturally, there will be a tendency on the part of the consumer to purchase a cheaper article, but this may mean waste and inefficiency in the home. Goods bought for a purpose they do not serve, clothes that do not wear well, must be replaced. "When the purchaser makes his purchase he should be armed with intelligence and information to know whether a shirt at one dollar or a dress at five dollars 671 is in reality cheaper than one which costs more." A planned clothing program including wise buying, home construction of clothing, and good care of clothing will be important if the clothing needs are met. To prevent further increases in rents, the Consumer Division is assisting local communities to set up "Fair Rent Committees" that will make a study of conditions and do what they can to hold rents to a pre-defense level and give families healthy living conditions, To conserve purchasing powcr, consumers can buy coal in the summer when prices are lower. It has been customary in many localities for retail coal dealers to offer substantial discounts during the summer months for the purchase of coal. Consumers can work together to secure the cooperation of coal dealers. The Consumer Division of the Civilian Supply Administration ls enlisting interest in a campaign whereby communities can carry on an educational program and secure the necessary factual information to help them determine good purchasing values. Consumers should insist upon knowing why any price is increased or whether the price in any locality is out of line with prices in other places. A bimonthly bulletin, "Consumer Prices," is now sent out to furnish information about supplies and prices of food, clothing, shelter, home furnishings and other articles of consumer expenditure so_ that consumers may plan their buying "This bulletin will be available through the Consumer Division of county defense councils. wiscly, make the best use of commodities, and learn good substitutes for articles prohibitive because of price. HEN the basic physical necessities are planned for, then the flexible necessities should be considered and planned for—medical, educational and social needs. — Until these essentials must be limited or sacrificed, the family budget should provide for them. We may need to be ingenious in order to secure these - essentials for satisfactory living. If we as consumers can restrain from purchasing the nonessentials. If we can substitute those commodities of which there is a greater supply than demand for those we are used to purchasing, if we can produce more of our food and clothing, if we will take better care of clothing and equipment so that usefulness is extended, if we will eliminate all forms of waste, if we will plan our expenditures to meet essential needs, if we will study and obtain all information possible for better buymanship, if we will make use of standards and informative labeling, we will be able to meet rising costs and have satisfactory living. Ever since the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, similar advice has been given. Faith in the counsel given us, observance of the principles of the Gospel and a willingness to make the necessary sacrifices, will give us courage to meet the economic conditions in this emergency period. AUTUMN MOOD Leone G. Layton Now sadness comes— The long autumnal days That pierce our hearts. The birds go on their way To southland sunshine. I am left alone— Here left to listen To the swishing moan Of winds come seeking, Seeking dying leaves Playing the dance of death. My spirit grieves, Loving the poignant sadness of the song Autumn winds sing, Yet wishing that from dying beauty's bier T too could wing. 672 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 The Striped Pencil Eva Willes Wangsgaard 6¢ I'LL give it to you now, Celinda," and Judith Rawson twitled a red, white, and blue pencil in her small fingers. "But I don't want it," Celinda said, and she tossed her light brown ringlets in emphasis. "Why don't you want it? Two days ago you were wild about it. You said you wouldn't play with me any more if I didn't give it to you. Now you won't take it. Why?" Celinda flashed a knowing smile. "Teacher's going to give us new pencils today. I saw the box on her desk." So that was it. Judith looked at the three inches of striped pencil. Monday it had been a new one. She had brought it to school and reveled in the envy of the whole third-grade class. But it hadn't proved as good as it was pretty. It kept breaking, and now there was hardlv any pencil left. Judith thought over the situation. Teacher would have the new pencils passed and would instruct the monitor to pass Judith by because Judith would have this one. Miss Warnock would say that no child needed two. Then she thought of her playmates. How they would laugh and tease her, especially the ones who had coaxed hardest for the bright tool on Monday! "Stingy! Stingy! See what you get." She couldn't bear even to think of it. The teacher announced recess. Judith found a place under the wooden steps and sat down to think things over. She couldn't take the pencil home. She couldn't put it back in Father's desk now. It was so short. Father would know that someone had taken it out and used it. Margie would remember how she had coaxed Father for it when it was new, and Artie would torment her. Her eyes smarted. She knew she shouldn't have taken it. What could she do? She couldn't bear to have Father look at her the way he would when he found out what had happened. He had said that he couldn't give it to one when all three of the children wanted it, so he had put it into the little hidden drawer in his desk. It didn't help much to remember that he had intended to give it to Judith before the other children saw it and wanted it too. He hadn't - given it to her. She had taken it. Now she didn't even want it. She crawled out from her hiding place. Maybe Arnold would like it. But Arnold had heard about the new pencils. So had Mary and Hazel and Blanche. Recess time was nearly gone. You couldn't throw a red, white, and blue pencil down in the schoolyard or in the grass. It stood out bright as a peacock. Somebody would pick it up and take it to teacher and say, "Here's Judith Rawson's pencil." 'Then Miss Warnock would ask where she had got such a pretty one. All of a sudden there was a dreadful pain in her throat. She wondered if she were going to have scarlet fever all over again. Page 673 She ran to the creek. 'lhe water went slipping by in little ripples. Judith looked around. Nobody was paying any attention. She leaned over the stream and opened her fingers. The bright strip of wood floated away like a little red, white, and blue canoe. Judith sighed and straightened up. The pencil was gone, but the hurt in her throat was still there. Maybe it was even worse. The bell rang. 'The first grade gathered in a wriggly line before the east door of the little two-room schoolhouse. Judith stood with the second and third-grade pupils at the west door. Miss Warnock stood on the stoop with the handle of the bell tucked up her long sleeve. "Order!" she commanded. 'The buzzing stopped. The organ began to play Marching Through Georgia, and the children filed in. Judith had never taken her seat and sat so quietly before. 'Teacher was pleased and called on her to pass the pencils. Judith stood up, and her spirits rose with her. She could have a pencil after all. No one had told Miss Warnock. N the way home, Judith kept fingering her slender golden treasure. It wasn't round, but it had six corners. She felt its sharp edges. She had never seen anything more beautiful. But something was still wrong. She didn't feel well. Something ached inside, and looking at the pencil somehow made it worse. At supper, Mother asked, "Are you ill, Judith?" Judith shook her head, but she sat too still and couldn't eat much. Food refused to be pushed down her throat. There didn't seem to be room. After supper, when the dishes had been washed and wiped, Margie and Judith sat at the dining table with their books. Father came in from his chores, washed his hands, and sat down in the wicker rocker with the paper. Suddenly he looked up. ""Weren't report cards due today?" he asked. "Yes. Oh, yes!" and the children ran to get their cards, and then presented them proudly. Father examined them. He beamed. "Not one low mark. Not one complaint." The children waited expectantly. "Why, Judith," Father _ said, "what a wonderful record! All excellents! You should have something for that. What shall it be? A kiss?" He kissed both the girls. "Maybe we can find something that lasts longer." He went to the desk. He opened the "secret" drawer. Judith's brown eyes opened in -alarm. She stood stiff and shivery. Father looked back at her. She dropped her eyes and studied the little spider webs of white thread in the blue squares of the checked gingham cushion of the chair. "Where is the pencil, Judith?" -he asked. "In the creek," said Judith. "Was it an accident?" asked Father. Judith was very still. "Was it an accident?" Father repeated. "No, sir," Judith whispered. "Tell me about it," he said. Judith told. Father sat very thoughtful. Finally he began to speak. "You realize, don't you, Judith, that if ou continue doing tricks like this you'll be just like that pencil? You'll look all right outside, but you'll be 674 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 THE STRIPED PENCIL weak and useless inside.-What good is a perfect report card if you have a faulty, too faulty, character?" "No good," Judith answered. "But you are different from the pencil. Nobody can give it a new lead, but you can make yourself as strong inside as you make up your mind to be." "Yes, sir," said Judith. 'How do you intend to go about it?" Father asked. Judith thought. She would offer to pick gooseberries. 'That ought to make anybody strong inside. 'The work was so slow and the limbs were so prickly. But gooseberries wouldn't be ready for months. She thought again. "T could do the supper dishes alone for a whole week," she said, but it seemed like a dreadful doom. Father just waited. Evidently he was not satisfied. Judith thought and considered what would be likely to make a person grow stronger inside. "I would read the Bible, too," she thought aloud. "You could tell me which verses." Father rested his nght hand on her head a moment; then he rose and took the Bible off its shelf in the bookcase. It was a great book, much heavier than a child could lift, and the beginning letters on all the chapters were fancy and written in gold. Father laid it carefully down on the table under the hanging lamp and drew up a chair for Judith. He turned the pages until he found the right place; then he went back to the wicker rocker and picked up a book to read. Judith stole a peek. It was David Harum. Judith turned back: to the Bible. 675 AT the top of the page was the word "PROVERBS." The outside column was headed "Chapter XX." At first, she couldn't understand what she read about things like iniquity and scorners, kings, mockers, and wine. But there must be something helpful here because Father always had a reason for what he made her do. The fifth verse made her stop and think: "Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water; but a man of understanding will draw it out." She remembered that something in Father had drawn from her heart the thing that had been troubling her, and she remembered how silently he had waited for her to draw upon her own counsel. But she knew she had not yet found the verse Father had meant for her to find.. The answer was not in the next verse, either, but she stopped and thought again after reading number seven: "The just man walketh in his integrity: his children are blessed after him." She wanted to ask Father what "integrity" meant, but he would just say, "consult the dictionary," so she did. But she still couldn't see. She wrote the word on a piece of paper and took it to Mother who was setting the sponge for bread. Mother said that it meant being good through and through. Judith went back to her Bible and reread the verse. Maybe that was what Father had wanted her to see —that it wasn't the value of the pencil that mattered, though a pencil like that would cost a dime, and a dime was a lot of money, but it was the doing of a dishonest thing. And it wasn't the now that counted, either. She had met and faced that 676 difficulty and was paying for it. But it was that children grow up to be parents, and if they haven't "integrity," they can't live right themselves. So how could they be a help and a blessing to their own little children? But maybe even that was not all Father was trying to have her understand. She read on. Number nine said: "Who can say, I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin?" And numbers eleven and twelve: "Even a child is known by his doings, whether his work be pure, and whether it be nght. "The hearing ear, and the seeing eye, the Lord hath made even both of them." So being bright in school was a gift lent by the Lord and must be carefully used. There was nothing again that Judith could apply until she came to verse fifteen: "There is gold, and a multitude of rubies: but the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel." And there were striped pencils, too. Oh, someday she hoped to have touched the "lips of knowledge" that Father had! But it was the seventeenth verse that brought her the true understanding: "Bread of deceit is sweet RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 to a man; but afterwards his mouth shall be filled with gravel." Judith remembered the sweetness of Monday, when she had been the most sought after child in the school. And she remembered this afternoon, when she had sat under the steps with a great problem in her head and a pain in her throat that went way, way down. She was still ashamed, but understanding made her feel better. The badness inside the pencil didn't hurt, but the hurt inside a child made her do something about it. - Judith went and stood beside Father. He looked up from his reading and waited. "T have found it," Judith said. "The striped pencil was pretty, but it wasn't worth the price of taking something not mine. Are pretty things always not worth it?" "Not always," Father said, "but often. But you have that knowledge now, and that is a precious jewel. It is not pretty, but beautiful. It is all the more beautiful because you earned it. Tomorrow, I shall get you a small Bible all for your own. Would you like that, Judith?" Judith kissed him for answer and the pain was all gone. The SOLUTION Carol Chamberlain A problem solved... A sense of peace, A happy heart, A smile's release; New love of life... Of everyone; Gone is strife.— The battle's won. The Present-day Need For Training Our Daughters In Homemaking Skills Leda T. Jensen Relief Society General Board Member "Train up a child in the way he should go; and when he is old, he will not depart from it." (Proverbs 22:6) LL members of a family living together in a home should be interested in that home as more than a place in which to eat and sleep and to which they may go when there is no other place to go. The wise mother, interested in the welfare of her children, does not carry the full responsibility of the home no matter how heavy or light the load may be. She enlists the help and cooperation of every member of her family. She trains each one to accept in the spirit of fair play his share of responsibility and activity. No matter what other interests a girl has in life, what line of academic learning she desires to pursue, what service she chooses to render in the world, every normal girl expects some day to marry and have a home. Such being the case, regardless of the training she may acquire in other fields, she should be trained in the art and skill of homemaking. Girls cannot fully enjoy their homes and families unless they have learned proper values relative to homemaking activities. Heads of dormitories, mothers in mission homes, matrons in nurses' homes and elsewhere where girls come together to live in groups, report that many girls show little evidence of having been trained in the arts and skills of the home. Many are untidy; they do not clean and repair their clothing; they cannot properly make a bed, set a table, or wash dishes, and they lack managerial ability. Because of lack of training, they have poor habits which are difficult to overcome; they do not enter with zest into required duties, and it takes them longer to perform a given task. A lesser degree of happiness is the result. HOMEMAKING experiences include clothing purchase, production, and care, food purchase and preparation, home improvement activities, infant care, guidance of children, home management, consumer buying as well as experiences in family and social relationships and personal care and improvement. The more we know about any subject, and the more skillful we are at performing any task, the more satisfaction we derive therefrom. The girl who does not know the easy and effective means of housekeeping, how to purchase and wisely conserve household furnishings, clothing, and food supplies, how to prepare balanced meals, how to care for the baby, how to make her home livable and attractive, may substitute confusion, conflict and distaste Page 677 for home and its problems, which is frequently the reaction of the girl who lacks training, for the joy that comes from being prepared. Mothers want their. Daughters to find their greatest peace, joy, and happiness in their homes. 'They also want them to have time outside of their homemaking activities for intellectual development, social and religious activities. This will be possible if girls have acquired managerial ability and a working knowledge of homemaking skills. Girls should be taught to share the activities of the home as soon as they are able to assume responsibility. Certain inescapable duties should be theirs. Their attitude toward these duties should be, "This is my home; I am a member of the family; I must contribute to the well-being of the family in order to deal fairly with other members." If all members of a family could grow up with this philosophy of home life, much unpleasantness and conflict would be avoided, and harmony would prevail. Much of the training in homemaking skills should be given in the early, formative years of a child's life, before the schools and society demand a great deal of time for specialization in other lines of activity which are remotely, if at all, connected with the home. It is unfortunate that many mothcrs lack the necessary training themselves, and often they also lack the time to properly train their daughters. For these reasons, we should appreciate what our schools are doing to supplement the home. No matter what other courses a girl desires to study in high school or college. She should, by all means, avail herself of at least the general courses offered in homemaking subjects. Young gitls should be impressed with the importance of this type of. Training, so that popular opinion, lack of interest, what the crowd does, or other factors will not keep her out of homemaking classes. TODAY the world needs young people who are prepared to render definite kinds of service. The better prepared one is, the less difficulty he has in finding a place to be of service, and the easier it is for him to adjust to life's problems, and to find peace and happiness. Homemaking skills have definite values. In these days of economic stress and strain, with indications of darker days ahead, the. Economic values attached to the ability to sew, to plan wisely the food requirements of the family, to cook well, and to purchase wisely is very apparent to those who actually work with time and figures to determine economic values. No girl should grow up to say, "I've never taken a stitch in my life; I can't use a thimble; I've never helped with the family laundry; I can't bake a cake; I've never mended my clothes or darned my hose." No one girl is apt to become an expert in all lines of homemaking, but there is no reason for her not knowing the fundamentals in all lines in case a need for this knowledge arises. The family income may be large enough to relieve her of the necessity of home production in order to conserve and stretch the buying power of the family dollars, but one cannot see all the problems that lie ahead, and there is no greater asset to any individual than to be prepared. 678 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 If she is prepared, she can meet her problems, whatever they may be; and better still, she will find numerous avenues for service to others. Only when selfishness ceases to rule our lives, when we learn that only those things endure which we give to or share with others, will we be on the way to peace on earth and the Christian way of life. THERE are other important values attached to the acquiring of homemaking skills apart from the economic values involved. People who work together understand one another and have sympathy for one another. If mothers and daughters plan together, and work together to carry out their plans, a closer companionship grows up between them than is possible when mothers make all the plans in the home and execute them themselves while daughter goes her way with her interests all outside the home. Mothers need to get close to their daughters and enjoy confidential companionship with them. Today the home is losing much of its influence in the lives of children, because the movies and other outside interests have taken the place of activities in the home. There is little challenge to our personal development to sit leisurely back in a comfortable seat watching a movie or listening to many of the programs offered for entertainment today. While there is value in much of our commercial entertainment when taken in moderation and with careful attention to the type, in the lives of too many people today it occupies too much of their leisure time in proportion to the benefits derived from it. Many thinking men and women who are' trying to analyze the problems of today say that great changes are ahead for us in our thinking and in our habits and way of life. Many artificial standards have been built up in our great democracy. 'Too many people, old and young, want to be on the move all the time, going places, being entertained, spending money, living a life of excess; otherwise, they are restless and bored with life. We must return to an appreciation of simple things —entertaimment and other family activities in the home, good books, et cetera; frugality, high moral standards, and other worthwhile virtues must be restored to their positions of importance. N harmony with this trend of thinking, a third value is to be found in the mastery of homemaking skills—the satisfaction and joy that comes to one through working with one's hands to create and achieve. 'To make an article of wearing apparel, to crochet an interesting pattern, to knit a sweater, to bake a cake, to plant and raise to maturity a flower garden, to decorate one's room, to mend and darn skillfully, are all creative experiences, which, if entered into with enthusiasm and carried to completion, will bring satisfaction and joy not experienced by those whose hands lie idle. Not all girls will find interest in the same form of creative art. Many people do not sew or do handwork because of a nervous or irritable reaction to it. Allowances, of course, must be made in such cases, but girls who can learn to do these things without these unpleasant reactions NEED FOR TRAINING OUR DAUGHTERS IN HOMEMAKING SKILLS 679 should be given the opportunity. They usually experience great joy from this type of activity. We cannot properly train our daughters in homemaking skills and creative arts unless we have mastered them ourselves. None of us are too old to learn if we are converted to the need for learning and are determined to become accomplished. By watching others do things who are skilled and enthusiastic about what they are doing, and by soliciting their help, which they are generally willing to give, we too should be able to achieve. Well-directed conversation about current literature, current events, improved methods of housekeeping, newer findings in the field of nutrition, beauty hints, and numberless other subjects add to our pleasure and profit while knitting, crocheting, doing needlepoint or embroidery, or piecing quilt blocks. Who does the quilting in Relief Society today? Too often a few of the older women in the wards who are masters of the art. Unless we interest the younger members in learning the art of quilting, it will be relegated to the past, and 'one of the fine traditions of Relief Society will be lost. For the amount of money spent, nothing can take the place of a homemade quilt, neither for comfort nor appearance, whether it be made of lengths of fabric or pieced blocks. 'There is romance and interest in a pieced quilt. One scrap of material will recall a certain dress and the important occasion upon which it was worn; another will recall how adorable the baby looked in a certain dress, or what a gay shirt or play suit brother had, made from this material. If one sews the family clothing at home, many scraps left from the articles made can be put to use as attractive quilt blocks. Quilting is an outlet for expression and is a creative art that has not lost its power to give satisfaction. As mothers, let us take an inventory of our own sense of values and the degree of success we have reached as_ well-rounded homemakers. If we find ourselves wanting, let us plan and order our lives to include some of the important values we have neglected. Then let us strive to help our daughters recognize true values. Many people travel through life managing, in some way or other, to get along without knowing the joy that comes from living according to high standards. It is our privilege to choose whether we will travel on the high road or the low. When we climb to a high level and experience the satisfaction that comes from so doing, we wonder how we could have found happiness on the lower road. Home is the cradle of progress and civilization. Here foundations for happy lives are laid. We should sense our responsibility in doing all we can to help our daughters prepare themselves to be wise, helpful wives and mothers when they assume those roles in homes of their own. The need today for training our daughters in homemaking skills is apparent. As mothers in Israel we should resolve to rally to our responsibility and to discharge it with enthusiasm and efficiency. 680 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 Winter Cheer From Growing Plants James M. Kirkham Secretary of Church Beautification Committee POETAZ NARCISSUS, ORANGE CUP IF anyone doubts what is taking place in the Church Beautification Program, he has only to make a careful survey or read reports coming in from the different ward committees to be convinced. There are many outstanding achievements. We find that many communities are cleaner, more wholesome, and more livable. As a result of the campaign, we have more beauty spots and fewer unsightly places. Many home grounds have been improved and made more lovely through the inspiration received from those actively engaged in this beautification program. In all of this, the women of the Church have taken a very active part. We appreciate your wholehearted support. Orchids to you! The flower shows held in wards or at county and state fairs have given us a splendid opportunity to select the kind and variety of flowers that we would like to have in our homes or gardens, either this winter or next spring. We suggest that a survey be made in every ward to learn what plants, roots, or bulbs, are available for exchange or purchase from neighbors. This is one way to increase the number and kind of flowers and shrubs at very little cost. If there is a surplus, it may be given to some neighbor who needs encouragement to beautify his home grounds. HE fall season is upon us, and winter will soon be here. Many have had the experience and others should know the joy of having flowers in the house all winter long. A great variety of flowers will bloom indoors with little trouble. Arranged on shelves or in a window box near a sunny window, they will keep bright throughout the winter. The easiest plant to grow indoors is the bulb, both the hardy kind which is usually grown in gardens, and the tender variety which will not stand our cold winters, but grow vigorously indoors. The culture of bulbs for winter flowering is becoming more popular all the time. The careful selection of good firm Page 681 682 bulbs of different varieties will result in a succession of bloom from December until spring. A bulb is the underground storehouse of a plant, and it contains the unfolded plant yet to come, which under favorable conditions will yield fragrant flowers. Some bulbs need potting in soil, others can be grown - in bowls with fiber, moss, or even pebbles and water. Select bulbs according to the experience you have had and the attention you are willing to give them. It is easiest to grow those which flower in pebbles and water, but more interesting, and a better test of your gardening skill, to bring into flower those which require soil. All bulbs can be grown in soil, a smaller number in fiber, and still fewer in water with pebbles or moss. A few of the latter include the tender narcissi, known as Paper Whites (white), Soliel d'Or (yellow), and Chinese sacred lilies; also the largest size hyacinths and lilies of the valley. In bulb fiber, which is a mixture of peat and plant food, it is possible to grow, in bowls without drainage, all of the above, together with daffodils, early tulips, crocuses, freesias, calla lilies, grape hyacinths, and scillas. In pots with soil, all of the above bulbs can be grown, together with all garden tulips and narcissi, amarylis, Roman hyacinths, and, by the more skillful, lilies. From this list, one may select a pleasing assortment of flowers to decorate the winter garden. By starting bulbs in succession, a bowl or pot may be replaced as soon as its flowers fade, and a continuous display can be maintained throughout the season. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 The bulb is packed full of foodstuff and it requires clean water and plenty of fresh air. Once the plant is well up, if you want to prolong the growth and flowering, do not keep it in too high a temperature;. Or, on the other hand, if you wish: to force it into bloom for any par-_ ticular reason then bring the plant. Out into a warm room. In order to grow roots, the plant must have darkness, and it must be kept damp and cool. Many like to place bulbs away after planting, keeping them in a cool dark cellar or closet for about six weeks. GERANIUMS are favorite plants for winter, but they will not. Flower well unless they can have plenty of sunshine. Geraniums that have flowered during the summer will not bloom during the winter. Nature demands that they need a rest. Start new cuttings, and when they reach the blooming stage you will have flowers for at least four months and maybe longer. Plant cuttings in small pots. They do not need too much water, but should be kept moist at all times. For next winter's house flowers. Start cuttings of geraniums, coleus, begonias, and others right now. Plant cuttings in a jar or small box of fine sand. Keep them moist, and roots will soon start. When sprouts are about one inch long, each cutting should be replanted in a small pot of sandy soil. If you want an attractive vine, select a good firm sweet potato. Place it in a glass container or jar filled with water, so that a part of the sweet potato is out of the water and will remain that way; soon you will have a beautiful vine. The tuber WINTER CHEER FROM GROWING PLANTS may be started in a hanging basket or bowl. A piece of charcoal should be kept in the water at all times to keep it sweet and pure. Warmth is necessary for the growth of a good vine. It does not need to be kept in a dark place to start growth. 'There are many varieties of ivy, wandering jew, and other vines which may add to the attractiveness of the home during the winter season. Thoughtful planning in the selection of containers, such as the jardiniere, in regard to color and design, may greatly add to the artistic effect 683 of the room. Such containers will also enable one to use flowering plants for attractive table decoration during the non-growing season. With such leadership as the Relief Society members are able to give this beautification program, there is no doubt but what our Church property and our homes will be more beautiful. Likewise, with the aid of the Relief Society members, the coming winter will be more enjoyable because of the flowers that will be found blooming in their homes. A BOW TO THE MORMONS A LINE O'TYPE OR TWO The following interesting item appeared in the Chicago Daily Tribune, September 16, 1940. "We came back from Salt Lake City with plans for a winter's reading about the Mormons, whose pioneering forms one of the strangest and most fascinating chapters of American history. We will probably. Begin with M. B. Werner's Brigham Young, a work of some years' vintage which we have not yet tackled. Its point of view toward the religious background is, no doubt, highly cynical. Mark Twain, too, has been elaborately humorous on the subject. But wisecracks grow old and wither away while the Mormons continue to pattern their lives after the industrious bee and to make their desert blossom, year after year, like the rose. "Every Mormon is apparently under a vow to water his lawn three times a day and plant trees and flowers wherever possible. The idea, prevalent in Chicago, of chopping down cottonwoods as votive offerings to the sewer pipe cult, would seem like sacrilege to a citizen of Salt Lake. The residential districts are a pageant of garden exhibits, even when the houses are merely those of the low-salaried middle class. Water meter rates are fairly high, but these thrifty folk pay their bills gladly for the sake of their petunias and rambler roses. "We remember, in_ particular, one fine home in a new subdivision where the petunias in bloom ran into acreage, evoking ohs and ahs of admiration from a 'Seeing Salt Lake' bus. Beyond the wall of that radiant little estate was open country—a sage brush hillside, stark and hostile to civilization. The contrast was of more value as a commentary 'on Mormonism, than a shelf of printed controversy by skeptics over the alleged revelations of Joseph Smith." HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon If somber thoughts assail you as you tread The russet carpet that the night-wind spread, Look to the hills aglow with gold and red! THE world we love is on the brink of chaos and destruction, combatting a tempestuous madness never known before. Women today have harder tasks to face. Meet them with courage! The demands of this war call for greater sacrifice, greater force, greater faith. The call of the hour is to muster all the spiritual forces of the soul to overcome the evil that is sweeping the ideals and culture of civilization into oblivion. The words watch and pray have now a deeper significance! "Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet, Lest we forget—lest we forget!" ALICE MARBLE, tennis star, last month opened national headquarters in New York, to direct a physical-fitness program for American women as part of the civilian defense effort. THIRTY wives of aircraft corporation workers took their places alongside their husbands in the San Diego defense school, a vanguard of women destined for employment where manual dexterity is patamount. Women are also called to barrage balloon details, thus releasing man power for duty with the R. A. F. Another recent call is to furnish strands of hair, as they are told human hair can be used in the manufacture of plastics which can be used in innumerable armament industries. LADY HOWARD, beautiful Hungarian daughter-in-law of the Page 684 Earl of Effingham, was imprisoned in Holloway jail, London, under de- _ fense regulations, but she harbors no ill feeling, saying she knows precautions must be taken. Now she is free it is her desire to engage in war work for Britain. SARAH DELANO ROOSEVELT, 87, mother of the President of the United States, died in September. She was a notable American mother, greatly admired for her gracious qualities. SOPHRONIA BATEMAN, of Utah, celebrated her eighty-ninth birthday recently. She is a pioneer and Relief Society worker. Her descendants number 173. There are five generations. Anna H. L. Vincent was also feted by her family. She reached the age of 101 in September. She is a pioneer of Utah and has over one hundred descendants. SARAH PALFREY COOKE, of New York City, won the women's championship at the world tennis tournament held at Forest Hills in September. Helen Jacobs and Alice Marble, both professional now, are out of competition. MARGARET STEED'S The Sun is My Undoing, Jane Nicholson's Shelter, Mary Roberts Rhinehart's Familiar Faces and Amazon Throne by Bertita Harding, are among the list of worthwhile books for fall reading. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Amy Brown Lyman - - - Marcia K. Howells - - oO Donna D. Sorensen - - Vera W. Pohlman - - Belle S. Spafford Anna S. Barlow Vivian R. McConkie Achsa E. Paxman Leda T. Jensen Wiery G. Judd Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Luella N. Adams President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Edith S. Elliott Pauline T. Pingree Alice B. Castleton Priscilla L. Evans Florence J. Madsen Marianne C. Sharp Anna B. Hart Ethel B. Andrew Gertrude R. Garff Leona F. Wintch RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman OCTOBER, 1941 No. 10 Vol. 28 EDITORIAL ~~ Conference Values PROVERBS 24:6 says: "In a multitude of counselors there is safety." The organization of our Church is unique in that it provides a constantly traveling counsel. Through the activities of the General Authorities and the various general boards, missions and stakes are regularly visited; their achievements are recognized, and their problems are brought to light. Counsel is given to leaders as well as to members. They, in turn, are privileged to offer counsel, and many excellent suggestions are given for the stimulation and advancement of the work of the Church. Returning to Church headquarters, general officers, meeting in counsel under the direction of inspired leaders, discuss these achievements and problems and carefully evaluate suggestions and recommendations which have been made. Plans, based upon these, are made for future activity. Many of these plans, together with plans and counsel that are the result of direct inspiration, are presented to leaders and members who assemble in general conferences. Each conference the best that has been gleaned from all over the Church is presented in organized form. Plans and precepts are given which, if carried out, will bring strength to the Church, abundant life to the individual, and the world will be made a better place in which to live. The Relief Society holds two general conferences each year. The April conference gives special emphasis to the Relief Society welfare work, which is the basic work of the Society. Special activities, such as music, Magazine work, et cetera, are also given consideration. The October conference features the educational program. An excerpt from an old Relief Society publication reveals the place of education in our program. It states: "This Society, though basically philanthropic, is also educational, in the best and highest sense of the word, dealing with all subjects that tend toward the elevation and advancement of women in all lines of thought and action." Page 685 The educational conference this October is particularly important. New courses of study are being introduced, designed to increase our understanding of the Gospel, to help us cope with the pronounced strains and stresses of life today, and to help us extract joy from everyday living. Class leaders have perhaps never been more challenged than they are this year. Our greatly increased membership, due to the intensive activities of the membership-building program, calls upon them for classwork of the highest quality. Upon class leaders will depend, to a marked degree, the interest of new members in the Society and their desire to remain with it as active members. Class leaders will do well to visualize for a moment their influence as teachers of approximately 100,000 mothers and homemakers. Our educational courses, properly taught, should promote personal growth for every class member; they should elevate standards in the homes; through the increased knowledge and understanding of mothers, children should be influenced to appreciate and want the finer things of life, things which have enduring values; testimonies of the truth of the Gospel should be strengthened, and the work of the Lord advanced. Picture for a moment the peace, the happiness, the stability, the power of 100,000 homes presided over by women who have been so influenced by our educational program. Seeing this, class leaders have a vision of their possibilities and responsibilities, and their place in the work of Relief Society is made plain. The October conference should be of inestimable value to class leaders in helping them to efficiently meet their responsibilities and to realize their full possibilities. Valuable as are our conferences in directing and interpreting the work, these are not the only values to be derived from them. Other values, perhaps even greater, should be received. We should be fired anew with a testimony of the divinity of our organization; our faith should be renewed; we should be inspired with a love for the work of the Church. We should go back to the sisterhood of our local organizations full to overflowing with the glory of our calling. Then, this conversion, this enthusiasm, should be transmitted to approximately 100,- ooo women who are our Relief Society members. Can you see the power in this, and its influence for good? When we review all that is to be gained from our general conferences, we recognize their importance and are grateful for the many values which they hold for us. 686 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 Notes to THE FIELD Acentennial Commemorativbe Book SPECIAL centennial commemorative book will be issued by the General Board about May 1, 1942. This book, consisting of 96 pages, size 9x12 inches, will be chiefly pictorial, setting forth in picture and story the history of the Relief Society from its beginning to and including the general centennial celebration in April, 1942. This book will be bound in a blue paper book cover with its title "A Centenary of Relief Society" and the centennial insignia stamped in gold. The price of the book is to be fifty cents per copy, postpaid. The "Centenary of Relief Society" will make an appropriate and welcome gift, and will be off the press just in time for Mothers' Day in May, 1942. The General Board will send a special gift card with all copies of the book which are designated as gifts. The 'centennial commemorative book will be historically accurate and will bring together for the first time in a single volume pictures, information, and historical material relating to the Relief Society which cannot be procured elsewhere in one place. It will be an official souvenir of interest and value to all women of the Church and will become increasingly valuable as time goes on. All stake and ward Relief Society presidents have been issued a list of historical material, and rules for its submittal, concerning which the General Board would like to receive pictures and facts to be considered for use in the centennial book. Ward presidents will make repeated announcement of the General Board's request for historical Relief Society material, and all Relief Society members who may have the desired historical pictures and facts are requested to cooperate with their ward presidents in making them available for the use of the General Board. A limited edition of this book is contemplated, and it is realized that the demand for it may exceed the number which the General Board is now planning to print, especially in view of the exceptionally low price of fifty cents per copy. Because of the increasing difficulty, due to the national emergency, of procuring quantities of paper on short notice, ° a reprint on short notice in order to supply the demand might not be possible. In order not to disappoint the many members of the Relief Society who will want copies of the centennial book for themselves and for gifts to others, the General Board has asked all Relief Society Magazine representatives to begin at once to take advance orders for "The Centenary of Relief Society." These advance orders will be of great help to the General Board in determining the number to be printed, and those who order in advance will have their copies reserved for them. Orders may be placed at any time between _ now and publication of the book, and will be filled in the order in which they are received. Orders cannot be accepted without the remittance of fifty cents per copy. Page 687 688 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 Cards Containing Articles of Faith Delayed THE lesson preview for 1941-42 relating to theology and to visiting teachers' messages (Relief Society Magazine for June, 1941, pages 403-404) announced the plan of the General Board to have a_ printed card copy of the Articles of Faith distributed to each home by the visiting teachers during the month of October. We regret that due to the national defense. Situation delivery of the card stock on which the Articles of Faith are to be printed has been greatly delayed, although our order was placed months ago, and the cards will not be available for distribution in October, as planned. The latest information which we have with respect to the card stock is that delivery of the material will be made in time so that the cards can be printed and sent to the stakes during the month of November. Therefore, it is expected that these cards can be distributed to the homes by the visiting teachers at the time of the December visits. Change in Collection Sime of Annual Membership Dues AFTER careful consideration, the General Board of Relief Society has decided to change the time of collection of annual membership dues of the Relief Society from the month of January to the month of October. This change is to become effective during 1941. Hereafter, the annual dues will not cover the calendar year, but a membership year extending from October 1 to September 30 of the following year. In making the change this year from a calendar to a membership year, the General Board realizes that members who paid dues in January, 1941, will be expected to pay dues on the new basis in October, 1941. However, no collection will be made next January, and the dues paid in October this year will cover the period up to September 30, 1942. Because regular weekly meetings of Relief Society are not held during the four-month period, June through September, any new members enrolled between April 1 and October 1, 1941, who paid initial membership dues during this period, are to be considered as having paid dues for the new 1941-42 membership year, and are to be issued a 1941-42 membership card without further payment of dues this year. All new members enrolling after October 1, 1941, will be expected to pay annual membership dues upon enrollment for the ensuing membership year ending September 30, 1942. New membership cards have been issued by the General Board covering the membership year October 1, 1941, to September 30, 1942. Inasmuch as this period includes the lcoth anniversary of Relief Society, the new membership card is printed in the Relief Society colors, blue and gold, and bears the official centennial insignia. NOTES TO THE FIELD Two New Centennial Songs For Relief Society Song Book THE General Board announces the publication of two songs in commemoration of the Relief Society centennial. These songs, punched to fit the Relief Society Song Book, are the first additions to the loose-leaf Song Book since its publication early in 1940. The new songs are listed below, with their prices! A Song of Triumph, words and music by the late Beatrice IF'. Stevens, 2 pages, 5c per copy, postpaid; In His Form, words by Dr. Carlton Culmsee, music by Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, member of the General Board, 7 pages, 10c per copy, postpaid. These songs will be off the press during the forepart of October, and will be for sale only at the offices of the General Board, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Inasmuch as the combined price of the two songs is 15c, the Song Book, which now sells at 85c per copy, postpaid, will hereafter be priced at $1 per copy, postpaid, with the two new songs included. Relief Society Pin Subject to Excise Sax THE Relief Society Magazine for September, 1941, carried, on page 612, announcement of the new Relief Society pin, and a description of the two grades in which it is available, at $1.00 and $1.65, respectively. Since that time, Congress has passed a federal law providing for a 10 percent excise tax on jewelry, effective October 1, 1941. Accordingly, all Relief Society pins purchased from the General Board, October 1, 1941, and thereafter, must be sold at the following increased prices which include the excise tax: Pin No. 1—$1.10, postpaid Pin No. 2—$1.80, postpaid AUTUMN Dott J. Sartori Earth has had her May Day And her pulsing youth, Sung her springtime blooming, Taught us all of truth. Now the bright magenta 'On her summer frock And the velvet purple Withers on its stock. Earth has done her courting, Spent her bridal day, 'Borne her brood, the harvest, Moved the Master's way. Now her hair is faded And we see her veins, Her splendid spirit passes, Her fulfilled trust remains. - 689 The Merry-Go-Round Alice Morrey Bailey CHAPTER SEVEN SYNOPSIS ALYN FORDYCE struggles against her husband, JOHN FORDYCE, who insists upon continuing his work—which he loves—at the Milton Nurseries at a salary of $150 a month when Alyn has been used to $500 a month which he used to earn at work which he did not like. She thinks him selfish not to compensate her for her inability to have children, and is annoyed with his enthusiasm over a sport, or mutation, on an apricot tree —one that blossoms earlier than the rest. She wishes John could meet JUDITH WYATT, whom she has met by chance, a young woman of good breeding who is to become a mother. Humiliated by her friends, who know of her reduced financial status and her refusal to admit it, Alyn decides to get a divorce. However, when she goes to fill the appointment with JUDGE OLDHAM, her lawyer, she overhears him denouncing a woman in her same set of circumstances. She hurries out of his office without waiting to see him, but abandons divorce plans and decides to get a job. In her fruitless search for work, she is surprised and shocked to learn that she has no specific training to equip her for the business world. She also learns that a person of pride cannot play upon friendships for favors, as she has insisted that John do. She is stung by John's remark that her family's innate gift is selling. Though she has been repelled by it, Alyn determines to get a job at selling, and seizes the opportunity to sell a hat to another customer in Charlotte-Chapeaux, a hat shop' where she has gone to purchase a hat. CHARLOTTE, proprietor of CharlotteChapeaux, is a good-hearted, but rather coarse woman. She watches Alyn and is so pleased with her sales ability that she offers her a job, which Alyn accepts. Page 690 Alyn is surprised to discover that Judith Wyatt, who is ill, is also an employee of the shop. A fine friendship is established between Judith and Alyn. Alyn arouses the wrath of Charlotte when, sensitive to her position as a clerk, she slips into the cloakroom rather than meet one of her wealthy friends who comes to buy a hat. Charlotte's rebuke is so severe that Alyn, in indignation, decides to quit her job. "LYN did not quit her job as clerk at Charlotte Chapeaux, for when she went to the office to gather her things, she found Judith bent over her desk, sobbing quietly, deeply. "Judith, you mustn't! Has Lottie...?" "No," said Judith. She raised her head, dabbing at her tears, trying to laugh. "I have an awful case of selfpity. I might have known I'd get caught." "Stop trying to be brave and tell me about it. Go ahead and cry if you like. Maybe it will help." Alyn put her arm across Judith's shoulder, and Judith did as Alyn had urged, the accumulation pouring with relief from her pent emotions. "It's a little bit of everything. I'm homesick for Theo. I'm tired and afraid." "Afraid? Well, that's a normal ° reaction I should imagine. I was afraid when I knew I was going to have my appendix out. It is just...." "I wouldn't care for myself," Judith was saying. "Theo took everything I wanted with him when he left. The only precious thing I THE MERRY-GO-ROUND ever had—our love. It was so short a time to have him." "How long?" "We were married a year after we first met. We had been married only five months." "Five months! Oh, how awful. "He didn't want to die. He was delirious—pneumonia—and he kept fighting. We pinned the covers to the mattress above his shoulders, but his hands kept working back and forth. 'A man can't fight, a man can't fight!' he repeated over and over. It was awful." Alyn, searching her mind for comforting words, could find none. She wished fervently that John were here. He could be so reassuring, so restful. "I thought it would be easier by now, but it gets worse. I need him so, and, wherever he is, I know that he needs me, too, that he is waiting for me. All we had was each other. I often hear his footsteps, almost his voice. Every once in awhile I look up and see someone like him on the street. Before I can think, my heart leaps. I just can't get used to him being gone." "But your baby, Judith. Must think of it." "I know. I do most of the time, but he needs a father as much as he does a mother. Everything is so hopeless—a little lonesome child in the care of strangers, a working mother, and no father...." | "Oh, you'll find some comfortable, baby-loving soul who will be glad to mother the baby for you." "Yes," said Judith, and laughed suddenly. "I can be the father, coming home from the office at night with a new whistle, or a doll—if it's a gitl. You see how silly I am?" You 691 "Your husband's people, Judith? What about them?" "Theo had no people. We were both orphans. That was really the thing that brought us_ together. Then we found so many things in common—books, music, plays. In fact, everything! But it was that background that made everything so understandable. Neither of us had anyone." "You soon will have, Judith," said Alyn brightly. "Before you know it that youngster will be here, and then you will have someone that demands all your attention. What do you think it will be, a boy or a girl?" "I really don't care. A first-born is generally thought of as. A son, isn't it? But a girl would be sweet! Think of it—dressing her, sending her to school, hearing her prayers, her confidences. Oh, Alyn, how awful of me to be so thankless, so serious...." "The serious thing is your being cooped up here all day. You need fresh air and sunshine. No wonder your thoughts are dark. Lottie said she'd begged you to quit, that she'd continue your wages. You really oughtn't to refuse, Judith." Judith's chin lifted. "No, Alyn. The baby and I will pay our own way. _Lottie's grand, letting me work so long. I couldn't take advantage of her generosity. Besides, Lottie has load enough. Her sister was left with nine children and not a cent in the world. Lottie is sending all of them through school. Fight years she's been at it now, and there are still many years ahead for her, but she never mentions it." "T didn't know that," said Alyn. "It makes things different." "Alyn, I'm a new woman," Judith - 692 suddenly exclaimed. "My troubles seemed so colossal and so real, but now I feel wonderfully relieved. I don't know why I let things bother me so much. It's amazing what having a friendly shoulder to weep on has done for me. Thank you so much." — "Tl tell you what ll do," said Alyn. "It's five-thirty right this minute. I'm going to call a taxi and take you home with me to dinner. After dinner we'll do whatever you want to do—go to a movie or chat. Itll be fun!" And Alyn was thrilled herself at the prospect of it. What would John think of Judith? Probably he wouldn't like her at all. BUT John did like Judith! He warmed to her immediately. He came forward to meet her carrying a little box as if it contained something priceless. - "Well, well, so this is Judith! Alyn has told me so much about you that it's like meeting an old friend." Alyn could have hugged him, for she really hadn't said much about anything connected with the store to John. "I love Alyn," said Judith simply. "Well, at least we have something in common," said John, his brown eyes twinkling. | | Judith smiled, "Give me an apron please, and Ill help with the dinner. "Now you gitls curb your ambitions about that dinner for a few minutes," John continued. "I have something to show you. This is a great occasion, made greater by a fifty percent greater audience." With an air of mystification, he carefully laid the box down on the table and opened it. One by one, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 he produced three apricots, amazingly large, beautifully colored, and smooth of skin. "Now, why," he said, "did I bring home three instead of two? I thought at the time that it was because the box would hold three and because they were the first to ripen, but now I know one was for Judith." "Oh, lovely!" exclaimed Judith. "I didn't know apricots were ripe." "They are truly beautiful, John," Alyn agreed. "Apricots are not ripe generally," said John trying to control his pride. "These from my sport are exceptions." Oh dear! Thought Alyn. John was going to be tiresome about that apricot tree again. But Judith was interested. "Sport! What is a sport?" "No, not a word of explanation until you've sampled my wares." The apricot was really the most delicious one Alyn had ever tasted, fine grained and sweet, filled with juice and deliciously flavored. "T think I have never tasted anything, anywhere, so good," enthused Judith. "Apricots are my favorite fruit." "Alyn?" questioned John anxiously, and waited for her reply as if the world hung in the balance. "I agree with Judith entirely," said Alyn, wishing she had given her opinion spontaneously and wholeheartedly, to satisfy the intense desire betrayed in John's eyes. Suddenly pity for John swept her. He was so patient with her, so thoughtful, his love for her so unwavering, and she knew suddenly that she had, especially of late, given him very little in return. "John," she said, "I'm not flattering you when I say THE MERRY-GO-ROUND that it is the most superb apricot in every respect that I have ever seen or tasted." She was rewarded by the quick surge of joy which came to John's eyes. "A sport," he said, in answer to Judith's question, "is a happy mistake of nature. It is one limb or branch on a tree that blossoms before all the rest and produces superior flowers or fruit earlier than all the rest. Horticulturists are always on the lookout for one." "How very interesting," marvelled Judith. "But why do horticulturists want sports? They must be practically lacking in value for commercial purposes." "Their value is that they can be budded and eventually produced on a large scale. One sport can generate a whole new species." Alyn opened her eyes, figuratively. This was interesting. Now she could remember John saying something of the sort numerous times before, things she had ignored in annoyance, or hadn't heard through lack of interest. How completely selfish and stupid she had been. If there was a demand for these things, she thought suddenly, there must be money in them. Perhaps she had underestimated John. "What a marvelous thing," Judith was saying, "to know that one had created a new thing, a thing that might go down through centuries; it's like writing a great book, but perhaps men don't think of it with so much sentimentality." "Quite the contrary. It is a most satisfying thing to work, hope, wait, and accomplish such a thing. Each step along the way is so filled with miracles, each one an accomplishment, until the culminating thing 693 brings a thrill that can't be surpassed. It's like having a private little slice of heaven," John finished. Well, that was one way of looking at it, thought Alyn. Maybe John was right, and she was just mercenary. She wouldn't ask now how much money might be involved. This, then, was John's idea of success—to find a sport and successfully bud an apricot tree. Alyn couldn't feel the thing, but realized there was something of joy, something of ecstacy that she was missing. How simple and wholesome they seemed to her, Judith and John, talking in a language alien to her, yet perfectly understandable to them. She felt some envy, yet was glad they liked each other. The fact vindicated, in some vague way, her judgment of them both. John looked at her and smiled, sharing Judith with her, as if she constituted a bond. THE next day, Lottie approached Alyn a little diffidently. "Here's that little number you admired so much in the window. It's yours if you want it." It was the white hat that had attracted Alyn into the store that first day. This was, she knew, Lottie's apology for yesterday's unpleasantness. "Why Lottie, you darling. But I couldn't think of it. That's a grand hat, and I'd like it, but I'll buy it." "If you want the cost price on it, it's a deal." "All right," agreed Alyn. "Lottie, I'm sorry about yesterday. I didn't quite understand. I'll do better next time." "Forget it, kid," said Lottie, and the matter was ended. 694 "Someone wants you on the telephone," said Ivy Walters, comin out of the office. Who could it be? No one had ever called her at the store. It was John, and his voice held a note of excitement. "Alyn darling, will you do something for me, something important?" "Why, yes, John, certainly. What is it?" "I want to bring a dinner guest home tonight?" "Who, John? Know?" "No, darling. It is a man, an orchard man, from the East. Milton knows him, and he wired Milton that he would be here for dinner tonight. Milton's wife is ill. I offered to take him." Well, this was unusual for John Is it anyone I to become socially minded. Alyn. Smiled to herself. "I guess we can manage it," shesaid indulgently, thinking swiftly. Maybe she could serve some ham and last night's potatoes made into croquettes. There would be enough ice cream in the refrigerator tray.... "Alyn, you're a sweetheart," John was saying. "I know you must be tired, especially after last night. Can we splurge a little, dearest?" Splurge! Well that was a little different. John couldn't expect her to go to too much trouble, after a full day at the-store, and with such. Short notice. "John is bringing home a visitor," she explained to Judith as she hung _ up the receiver. "You took it beautifully," observed Judith. Some women fuss so much over an unexpected guest that they spoil whatever their husRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 bands had in mind—not your kind, not my kind. I'm thankful that whatever Theo and [ had to give, in the short time we had each other, was given freely and generously. It would always have been that way. It must be tragic when there isn't harmony in marriage." "It must be," murmured Alyn, wondering in which category her own might be placed. "You know," continued Judith, "you and Mr. Fordyce remind me of Theo and me in so many ways." "In what ways?" said Alyn, sur- " prised. "You seem to have preserved that harmony, that communion of spirit so remarkably. He is so devoted to you. You home life—you have all the things we planned and would have had, too, if Theo had lived." Alyn was touched, and thankful that Judith hadn't penetrated the disquiet in her heart. She felt, however, that the unrest that was most certainly there would grow until it would be perfectly apparent to everyone, that something must be done to stop it. Until last night, she had thought that conditions had to change, but now, all day, she had had the very strong conviction that her trouble was something ugly and deep within herself that must be subjected to some sort of alchemy— the base metal must be turned to gold. But where, and what in this world of shifting values, was the alchemy? INSTEAD of the dinner she planned, she served steaks, sizzling and brown, potatoes whipped to creamy whiteness and buttered peas. She took special pains for the crispness of the salad and made a THE MERRY-GO-ROUND delicious dessert with fruits and whipped cream. And she was only slightly annoyed when John repeated the ritual of last night with the apricots. The visitor was a silent sort of person, with a straight, inflexible mouth. He ate the apricot slowly, in dead silence, turning it between bites, examining it, the skin, the meat, and the stone. He even put it to his nose and smelled it. Something tense in the scene conveyed itself to Alyn. It was a queer way for two grown men to be behaving. John was watching the man, a Mr. Moyle, as he had watched her last night, but if he was expecting effusions he was certainly disappointed. "Nice apricot," said Mr. Moyle when he had finished, in exactly the same tone as he might have said, "Nice day." However, he reached over and took another apricot. And turned it minutely in his hand before he bit into it. "Going to bud it?" he finally asked. "Yes," said John. 695 Both men ate silently, seeming oblivious to the food. Conversation was strained, and each subject that was opened in hope fell flat for lack of interest. It was only as he started to go that the visitor seemed to remember Alyn. "Nice dinner," he said. After he had gone, John went to the window and looked out into the June night across the auroral light that spread into the sky over the business section of the city. "John, darling," said Alyn, when she could stand it no longer. "Why didn't you tell him—like you did Judith last night?" She put an arm about his waist and patted him sympathetically. "There was nothing to tell, dear —nothing he didn't know." He put his arm about her shoulder, and they continued to stand at the window. Finally John drew a long breath. "IT gave him all the eloquence I had," he said, "in that little apricot." (To be continued) SNOW BOUND Angie Bottomfield With his chilly breath and icy hand Winter came and swept the land From mountain peak to valley ground. And left them all again—snow bound. An ancient bridge, a stream below; Lathy trees black-penciled on the snow; A faithful mountain looming high Mingling with the azure sky; Calmly, quietly looking down Upon that little world—snow bound. Notes FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Wherever the name does not readily indicate the geographical location of the stake or mission, the location of its headquarters is designated in parentheses. Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275. RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUSES OF SINGING MOTHERS Western States Mission (Denver, Colorado) RHEA M. CARRICK, president of Albuquerque Branch Relief Society, in New Mexico, sent the following report: "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." (Doctrine and Covenants 25:12) "The Singing Mothers of the Albuquerque Branch of the Western States Mission feel that they have received 'a blessing upon their heads' for their participation in this great Church-wide singing program. "Organized here early in the year of 1938, we met each week—sometimes in the hall where we held Relief Society, but more often in the home of our faithful and much loved director, Anne Ellis, who seemed to have the vision of us singing publicly as well as in our Church activities. We felt she was very optimistic, as there were no really trained voices among us, but as we practiced together our love for music increased, as did also our desire to make her dream for us come true. "We now have a membership of seventeen, and during the past few months have been called several times to participate in programs both in and out of the Church. We presented the entire musical proSINGING MOTHERS OF ALBUQUERQUE BRANCH, WESTERN STATES MISSION Page 696 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 697 SINGING MOTHERS, SACRAMENTO STAKE gram for a meeting of the Eastern Star and gave a patriotic number at the close of a piano recital presented in our Church recreation hall. We have been called to furnish musical numbers for funeral services, conferences, for our regular Sacrament meetings and also for special Church programs. From our group have been formed duets, trios, and quartets which have added variation to our programs. We have also found that by wearing our blouses and by memorizing our numbers, we can present a more finished program and sing with more ease and sincerity. We appreciate the many favorable comments given to us by those who have heard our group and we have truly been enriched by the service we have been able to give when called upon." Luceal R. Curtis is the mission president of Relief Society. Sacramento Stake (Sacramento, California ) THE choruses of Singing Mothers of all wards in the stake sang together as a stake chorus for the first time when they presented the cantata, Resurrection Morning, April 25 of this year. 'This combined stake chorus was composed of ninety women. Mary Nelson, stake Relief Society secretary, who submitted this report, stated that "Great praise is due the ward directors who worked under the direction of stake chorister Emily Stoddard and stake organist Ethel Pierce." Edith D. Sellers is stake president of Relief Society. Franklin Stake (Preston, Idaho) LOUIE M. COLE, first counselor to Alice S. Merrill, stake president of Relief Society, submitted the following report: "During 1940-41, the Franklin Stake Relief Society has enjoyed success in many undertakings, including the presentation of the Easter cantata, Resurrection Morning, on March 16, 1941, by our very loyal and united group of Singing Mothers. These women are organ- SINGING MOTHERS, FRANKLIN STAKE ized in the stake with the following officers who put forth every effort for the success of the cantata: Hellen Palmer, president; Ruby S. Nash, secretary; Matilda B. Gilbert, chorister; Valeta D. Nash, organist. Lorena Benson also assisted at the organ. 'The chorus meets once a month for practice. Every woman with a desire to sing is invited to join. "Among other achievements during 1940-41 was the completion of a blue and gold stake name quilt upon which nearly 1000 names of women of the stake were embroidered, a fee of ten cents being charged for each name. 'The arrangement of names on each block was in the form of a wheel. Another successful undertaking was the printing of a souvenir booklet containing a brief history and pictures of men and women and places of interest of the stake since its organization in 1918. 'The proceeds from the sale of this booklet helped to furnish our new stake house, in which we have a very beautiful Rehef Society room." - Oneida Stake (Preston, Idaho) THE Relief Society of Oneida Stake, of which Ora W. Packer is president, sent the following re-. Port: "An outstanding performance was given by the Oneida Stake Singing Mothers in their presentation of the sacred cantata, Resurrection Morning, March 23, 1941. The stage was beautifully decorated with ferns and tall, lighted, white tapers. A large picture of The Christ was floodlighted and stood near the piano. Large flower baskets of Easter lilies completed the effective arrangement. "The chorus, composed of fortyfive Singing Mothers, was directed by Adeline Fortie, with Lucetta Archibald as pianist, and Constance Davis at the console. A string orchestra also participated in the presentation. Ida Evans, president of the group, introduced Pauline T. Pingree, a member of the General Board of Relief Society and of its Music Committee, who was the guest of honor on this occasion." Preceding the cantata was a reading 698 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 699 SINGING MOTHERS, ONEIDA STAKE on the message of Easter, presented by Lucille Woodruff. Copy of this reading, and also of the reading interjected during a pause in the singing, as suggested on page 29 of the cantata, are on file in the office of the General Board for the use of any other Relief Societies desiring copies. Sevier Stake (Richfield, Utah) THE accompanying picture is of the Singing Mothers of Sevier Stake, who made their first public appearance at the stake quarterly conference, November 3, 1940, at the stake tabernacle. Thelma Buchanan is stake chorister, and Thelma Meyer and June Walker are accompanists. In appreciation of their efforts, the officers of the Sevier Stake Relief Society, of which Myrl Brugger is president, presented each member of the chorus with a corsage of gold and blue flowers. Blaine Stake (Fairfield, Idaho) THE accompanying picture of Singing Mothers of the Blaine SINGING MOTHERS, SEVIER STAKE Stake includes seventy-five members of the chorus which, at the time the picture was submitted early this year, had an enrollment of 107 women. Clara Bleak is director, and Mary B. Thompson, organist. The Blaine Stake, of which Eva Pond is stake Relief Society president, is to be commended for the successful organization of this chorus, particularly in view of the scattered condition of the population. The various ward choruses comprising the stake group travel many miles to attend their respective ward chorus practices, and some of them travel as far as 130 miles to attend a rehearsal of the combined stake group. Efforts to bring the chorus to its present effectiveness have extended over a period of nearly six years, and the members are all enthused over the accomplishment. They are very proud of their uniform Singing Mothers' blouses, and enjoy the new Relief Society Song Book. Bear River Stake (Garland, Utah) THE accompanying picture of the Singing Mothers of Garland Ward was taken in the summer of 1940, when the chorus completed its seventh year of service. At that time the group was recognized by a write-up in the Garland Times, from which the following excerpts are quoted: "The Garland Singing Mothers were organized July 31, 1940, with Mary A. Shumway as president, Lucetta Thompson as secretary, Mary Nish as organist and Vida Manning as director. After a short time Mrs. Amelia Davis replaced Mrs. Nish as organist and the organization has remained the same until the present. Perhaps one-third of the original group still belong to the chorus. Mrs. Manning has relinquished the baton for short periods to Mrs. Aglaia Manning and Mrs. Lizzie Manning, when illness kept her at home. "The women have held weekly practices for seven years except for one summer period. They have sung at numerous funerals, stake and ward Relief Society conferences, reunions, temple sessions, and SINGING MOTHERS, BLAINE STAKE 700 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 NOTES FROM THE FIELD SINGING MOTHERS, GARLAND WARD, BEAR RIVER STAKE were once the official Garland Ward singing organization for two months. "Far from being tired of her work as leader, Mrs. Manning looks forward to more years of opportunity in the same capacity. She says she finds it a real joy and an opportunity for service in the community. The group will sing at the meeting at the Logan temple August 9, when the Relief Society is sponsoring a temple mission." SINGING MOTHERS, TABER Hilda H. Castleton is president of the Relief Society in Garland, and Clara H. Fridal is the Bear River Stake Relief Society president. Lethbridge Stake (Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada) HE accompanying picture is of the Singing Mothers of the Taber Ward, Lethbridge Stake, with WARD, LETHBRIDGE STAKE held the high standards of the Society. Their chorister, Emma B. Harris, and organists, Annie H. Miller and Eva Francis.. Ida P. Wood, stake president of Relief Society, and other members of the stake board living in Taber, are also identified with this chorus. Records show that this enthusiastic, loyal group of about thirty members has been a great power for good in its ward. The chorus holds regular weekly. Practices and is frequently called upon to furnish music for ward activities, as well as for conferences and other special occasions. Long Beach Stake (Long Beach, California ) HE Singing Mothers of the Long Beach Stake presented a musicale in the Long Beach Chapel March 21, 1941, in commemoration of the ninety-ninth anniversary of Relief Society. Seventy singers, ranging in age from twenty-one to seventy years, composed the chorus, and made a beautiful appearance in their regulation white blouses worn with long black skirts. 'The chorus was directed by Martha Cottrell, and accompanied by Erma Zimmerman, pianist, and Madge Fowler, organist. Also featured was an instru. Mental trio. Preceding the concert was a oneact play entitled Memories, adapted from An Interesting Shut-In, a play published in the Relief Society Magazine, September, 1937, page 581. Pearl C. Miner, president of Long Beach Stake Relief Society, reported that the comment of the large audience in attendance was very favorable and that this entertainment upheld the high standards of the Society. SINGING MOTHERS, HANKSVILLE WARD, WAYNE STAKE Wayne Stake (Loa, Utah) THE Singing Mothers of Hanksville Ward responded so well to their first invitation to sing for a stake gathering—a conference held in Loa, July 14, 1940—that a stake chorus was later organized. The accompanying picture is of the Hanksville Ward chorus at that: time, of which Mary Sargent was director. The ward Relief Society president, Martha McDougall, and her counselors were also members of the chorus. The stake president of Relief Society is Ida M. Jackson. It is expected that the stake chorus will participate in centennial celebrations in 1942. South Los Angeles Stake (Huntington Park, California ) THE South Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, of which Hazel T. Neville is president, sponsored a Hymn Festival June 3, 1941, bringing together the Singing Mothers of all the stakes in Southern California 702 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 NOTES FROM THE FIELD which, at that time, numbered seven. The artistic printed programs were in blue and gold. 'The festival was held in the Huntington Park chapel from 1:15 to 3:15 in the afternoon, and was preceded by a delightful luncheon in the stake lounge for the Singing Mothers and special guests. 'The lace-covered luncheon tables were decorated with blue and gold flowers. 'The visiting stake presidents were presented with yellow rose corsages, and the South Los Angeles Stake Board of Relief Society, as hostesses, wore blue and gold spring flowezs. Gardenias were given to the organists and directors from the seven stakes and also to the ward presidents of the sponsoring stake, who with their counselors assisted the stake board as hostesses. The singers, nearly 4oo in number, were beautiful in their white blouses, seated on an elevated stage, against a background festooned with spring flowers and ferns. The program consisted of five numbers by the combined choruses, interspersed with seven numbers by the separate stake choruses—one from each stake group. Sabra R. McLaughlin, chorister of the sponsoring South Los Angeles Stake, directed the combined choruses, which were accompanied by Lucille Peel, organist, and Ruth Haycock, pianist. 'The separate stake choruses were directed and accompanied by their respective choristers and accompanists. Ruth Wilson was the reader. The festival received favorable newspaper comment. The Huntington Park Signal of June 11, 1941, carried an excellent eight-column picture of the combined choruses 703 with a write-up from which the following excerpts are quoted: "Among numbers sung by the chorus, made up of young mothers, middle-aged mothers, and gray-haired mothers, were For the Strength of the Hills by Evan Stephens, and America the Beautiful. America need never fear for its future while Singing Mothers carry its torch." The California Intermountain News of June 13, 1941, said in part: "Hundreds of people were deeply stirred by the exquisitely moving presenta tion of almost 4oo Singing Mothers of Southern California Relief Societies in a festival of hymns, well-loved by Latter-day Saints. High praise goes to Sabra Mc. Laughlin, who was the guiding spirit of the affair. "Mrs. McLaughlin planned for this festival after hearing President Grant express a wish that we, as a people, would return to the 'old' songs. She planned the program, wrote the continuity which so beautifully carried out the theme of the fes tival and brought together the singers to carry out her dream.... Ruth Wilson added much beauty to the program with her clear sweet reading of the story by which the songs were woven into the program. Her precision was commendable; her voice lovely in tone and spirit." The General Board was very pleased to receive the following letter from George A. Baker, of the South Los Angeles Stake presidency, dated June 3: "I have just returned from the Hymn Festival at which our stake played host to six other Southern California stakes 'in presenting their Singing Mothers in this muscal innovation. Fifty mothers came from San Bernardino, a round trip of about 180 miles! "I want you to know that this was onc of the most uplifting and soul-inspiring events it has ever been my pleasure to attend. The whole mammoth affair, with approximately 400 singers, proceeded with out a hitch or sour note. Never before has the Gospel been presented more 704 effectively to the many non-members in attendance. 'The reading between each selection was most appropriate and splendidly given by Sister Ruth Wilson. The singing itself, particularly the combined group numbers, was superb, in fact, one could not expect anything better even in our great Salt Lake Tabernacle. "Great credit is due President Hazel Neville, her counselors and faithful board. As for Sister Sabra McLaughlin, too much praise cannot be accorded her for sponsormg, writing, and directing the whole afair. "Preceding the program, luncheon was served to all Singing Mothers and other stake and ward visitors. Following the program, refreshing punch and_ cookies were served to all as they passed through our patio grounds. "Presidents Iversen and Waite were unable to attend, and I assure you it was a genuine pleasure for me to represent the stake presidency and greet the many who attended, about 1,200 in all. "I felt you would be interested in learning RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 how well this event turned out, and want you to know we think highly of our Relief Society leadership." MEXICAN SINGING MOTHERS, LOS ANGELES, SPANISH-AMERICAN MISSION Emma Haymore, mission Relief Society president, reports that it is thrilling to hear this group sing, "'Cien Mil Pider Crecer" (the Relief Society rally song A Hundred Thousand Strong). | THOUGHT THAT IT WAS REVERIE Ruby Johnson I thought that it was reverie— That hour when sleep came beckoning, And I had said I would not sleep, As night had bade, But let my memories come back at will To taunt and thrill me And to make me glad. I thought it would be luxury To dream without a reckoning Of right and wrong, of rise and fall— While yet awake. I put ambition on the shelf, Banished thoughts of drudge and pelf, But this was my mistake. For when reflection called to life the past, The present mingled in my transit mood; The thought of future, nebulous before, Aroused ambition, hope— And faith brought sleep once more. Plan For Mlemortzing She Articles Of Faith Reprinted by permission of E. Frank Soderborg God— 1. We believe in God the Eternal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. Men— 2. We believe that men will be punished for their own sins, and not for Adam's transgression. Mankind— 38. We believe that, through the Atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. 4 Principles— 4. We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are: first, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; second, Repentance; third, Baptism by immersion for the remission ig fourth, laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy ost. Hands— 5. We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof. 6th of April— 6. We believe in the same organization that existed in the Primitive Church; namely, apostles, prophets, pastors, teachers, evangelists, ete. 7 Tongues— 7. We believe in the gift of tongues, prophecy, revelation, visions, healing, interpretation of tongues, etc. Translate— 8. We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly; we also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God. Divine— 9. We believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God. 10 Tribes— 10. We believe in the literal gathering of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten Tribes; that Zion will be built upon this [the American] continent; that Christ will reign personally upon the earth; and, that the earth will be renewed and, receive its paradisiacal glory. Odd One— 11. We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may. 12th Kings— 12. We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law. 18th Cor. 18. We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men; indeed, we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul—We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things.—Joseph Smith. NOTES The first article refers to God. The second article refers to men. The third article refers to mankind. In memorizing these first three we remember that God is first, men second, and mankind third, in order. The fourth article refers to the first four principles of the Gospel. The fifth article refers to "laying on of hands." Hands suggests five fingers. The sixth article refers to organization and is suggestive of the sixth of April, the date on which the Church was organized. The seventh article refers to tongues; being plural, we say seven tongues. Number eight rhymes with translate. (8 witnesses.) Number nine rhymes with divine—revelations. The tenth article refers to the ten tribes. The eleventh article we remember as the odd one and commences with, 'We claim," et cetera. The twelfth article refers to kings, Kings being plural, we say, twelve kings. The a article refers to a passage in the thirteenth chapter of First orinthians. Theole gy and Sestimony Articles of Faith, By James E. Talmage Lesson 4 CHAPTER 4, THE ATONEMENT AND SALVATION Article 3—"We believe that through the Atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel." (Tuesday, January 6, 1942) I. Lesson Aum To understand the nature of the Atonement of Christ and how it affects our lives during mortality as well as in our postmortal state. II. Divisions of the Subject Matter A. The nature and purpose of the Atonement of Christ. (Articles of Faith, pp. 74- 79) B. The motives that prompted Christ to make the Atonement. (Articles of Faith, PP- 79-81, 477-478) C. The Atonement _ foreordained and foretold. (Articles of Faith, pp. 81-85, 476-477) D. The scope and general effect of the Atonement. (Articles of Faith, pp. 85- 89, 477) EK. The effect of the Atonement on the individual. (Articles of Faith, pp. 89- 9 III. Suggestions to Teachers The subject matter of this lesson is composed of material Page 706 that is common knowledge to most Latter-day Saints. The class leader should lead the class discussion, through the use of questions that will draw upon the general information of the group. The class leader should be very conscious of the objective of this lesson and see that her questions direct the thought of the class toward a realization of that objective. Latter-day Saints are often accused by the Christian world of knowing more about the Atonement, but feeling it less inwardly and spiritually than other Christians. To some extent this charge may be justified, because we are prone to talk about the facts and theories of the Atonement to the exclusion of its relationship to daily life and its personal worth to each individual. We should know more about the Atonement and also feel it more deeply than any other Christian group, because we have more information concerning its nature and purpose, due to latter-day revelation. Two factors must be kept in mind LESSON DEPARTMENT as the teacher leads the discussion: first, there must be a consistent attempt to get the class members to express the various ways in which the doctrine of the Atonement has appealed to them or become a determining factor in the motivation of their daily lives; second, if the objective is to be realized, it should bear fruit during the period of testimony bearing that is to follow the presentation of the lesson. This testimony period becomes, in reality, the laboratory in which the beauties of the Gospel plan are shown as determining factors in the lives of Latter-day Saints. The measure of the success of this lesson will be found in the extent to which its objective sets the theme for the testimonies that are borne. To achieve this goal, the questions must be prepared with care in advance of the meeting, in order to direct the discussion away from trivialities and to concentrate on the objective of the lesson. For assistance in the formulating of questions, consult J. T. Wahlquist's Teaching as the Direction of Activities, pp. 117-125. 'The class leader should, as the lesson progresses, summarize the contributions of the class members and direct their thinking toward a definite understanding of the Atonement, but more important still, she should lead them to appreciate deeply the results of the atoning sacrifice of our Lord. Topics for Special Reports 1. Explain the difference in the meaning of the word "atonement" (a) as used in the "Old Testament," (See "Bible Dictionary," based on "Cambridge Companion to the Bible," found in some editions of the Bible, under title of "Sacrifice") and (b) the modern theological 707 usage. (See Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 252-257; Articles of Faith, pp. 74- 75:); 2. Define or explain the meaning of: atonement, Savior, Messiah, Jesus, Christ, and Jesus the Christ. Consult "Bible Dictionary," based on "Cambridge Com. Panion to the Bible," under these various titles. 3. Distinguish between the results of the Atonement as it influences general salvation and special salvation (or exaltation). 4. If possible, secure someone who joined the Church during her mature years and have her relate the impressions, the feelings of joy and hope that the Latterday Saint concept of the Atonement gave to her when she heard its message. Questions and Problems 1. What had brought about the situation that placed mankind in need of a sacrificial mediator? 2. To what did mankind need to be reconciled? 3. In what sense was the Atonement of Christ a sacrifice? 4. Why was Jesus of Nazareth the only person who could perform the Atonement? 5. In what respect does the Atonement of Christ have any influence on your life today? 6. What hope does the Atonement give amidst the uncertainties of mortality? 7. How can we make our children more fully appreciate the priceless heritage that is ours through the Atonement of Christ? 8. What does it mean to you to know that death has no permanent binding power over your soul? G. What value does this knowledge of a release from sin and a promise of forgiveness have to you as you live day by day? 10. To what extent should we testify in our testimony meetings of the meaning of such personal feelings as we have concerning the Atonement? References Talmage, Articles of Faith, Chapter 4, PP 74-95, 476-479. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 17-31. Talmage, Vitality of Mormonism, pp 48-68. John Taylor, Mediation and Atonement. Bible, Leviticus 16; Revelations 20. Book of Mormon, II Nephi 9; Alma 42; Ether 3. 269 Doctrine and Covenants 19:16-19, 76, 128. Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 264- Gospel Doctrine, pp. 252-257. S Visiting Seachers Messages To The Home Lesson 4 Loyalty to Church Leadership As An Expression of Faith (Tuesday, January 6, 1942) VERY group of persons, large or small, who wish to work toward a common goal must of necessity have a leader. This is as true of a church as it is of a political organization. Leadership, then, grows out of the nature of society. Jesus set the standard for leadership. When the mother of two of His disciples wished to have Him give precedence to her sons, He said: "Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister; And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant: Even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister." (Matthew 20:20-28) The leaders of our Church, whether general or local, are striving to live up to this high standard. They have not set themselves up as leaders, but have been chosen by those having authority. Faith in God leads naturally to faith in those whom He has chosen to hold office in the Church. Church officers are chosen and set apart in their positions by those holding the Priesthood. "We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof." (Articles of Faith, Article 5.) It is not possible for any man to achieve perfection of character on the earth. Therefore, freedom from. Every human fault is not to be expected of any man. A small failing in a leader ought not to blind one's eyes to great and good qualities in him. Besides, every Latter-day Saint is given the opportunity to vote upon leadership in the Church, whether in the ward, in the stake, or in the general organization. It is only a matter of fairness, therefore, that once the leader has been sustained, he should receive the unrestrained loyalty of those over whom he has been chosen to preside. This is his due. Faith in the leaders of the Church may be shown in several ways: (1) by refraining from adverse criticism of them in the home or elsewhere, because this has a tendency to destroy confidence in them both in the minds of those who criticize and 708 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT in the minds of those who hear the criticism, and because its effect on the personality is unwholesome; (2) by attendance at the Sacrament meetings, by responding to whatever call is made of us by the authorities of the Church, and by showing a spirit of cooperation and helpfulness in Priesthood and auxiliary organizations which are carrying forward 709 the work of the Church. In doing these things, we express our faith in the Lord as well as in his servants. Questions for Discussion 1. What effect on one's self and others does destructive criticism have? 2. What did Jesus mean when he said, "Judge not that ye be not judged'? 3. Why is faith in our leadership an expression of faith in God? Te WVork-andBusiness Better Buymanship Lesson 4 Man-Made Fibers in the Spotlight (Tuesday, January 13, 1942) NO product has had such a difficult time establishing a reputation for itself and making known its identity, as rayon. Though it was patented in 1884, it is regarded as a product of the twentieth century. Its manufacture began in the United States in 1911, but it was not until 1924 that it was undertaken seriously. Within the last ten years, rayon has become an important factor in the American textile picture. A Frenchman, Count Helaire de Chardonnet, while attempting to produce artificial silk discovered that cellulose chemically treated would make a fiber. As a result, this new fiber became first known as "artificial silk." However, it had few, if any, of the qualities of silk. Instead, it is another fiber with characteristics and properties of its own. At first it was crude, ugly, with little durability and a cheap metallic luster. Years later, it was given the name of "rayon." Many people today do not know what rayon is or how it will act. Salesclerks, because of ignorance or to take advantage of the consumer, speak of it as silk rayon or sometimes just silk. Today we see rayon in very beautiful and very sleazy materials. It is used in combination with all other fibers and also alone, with finishes to make it resemble other fibers. Its use in table linens is becoming quite common. It is used in blankets, and has become extensively used in combination with wool in varying percentages for dress, suit, and coat materials. It is made into many beautiful materials that cannot be distinguished from silk. One fact that has caused much confusion is that rayon has taken on the names of silk materials, such as crepes, taffetas, satins, and velvets. In 1937, the Federal Trade Commission issued trade practice regulations regarding rayon which required that fabrics containing rayon should bear labels giving the kinds of fibers used in the fabrics and the percentages of each by weight. If the material is composed of rayon plus another fiber, the fiber composing the larger part should be listed first. Because rayon is exceedingly weak when wet, it is difficult to care for. Even when dry it is not nearly so strong as silk, but when wet, it loses from two-fifths to three-fourths of its original strength. For this reason, it must never be soaked, rubbed, wrung out, or, if the article is heavy, hung up to dry. Instead, it should be rolled in a towel to absorb excess moisture, and it should be ironed while damp. Rayon lacks elasticity, having only about two percent, and elongation takes place in rayon fabrics. These qualities make articles made from rayon wrinkle readily and become baggy and out of shape. Today we see and hear much about spun rayon. Spun rayon is made by cutting the continuous lengths into short lengths called 'rayon staples," which must then be spun as other short fibers. Rayon staples can be made in all lengths, in various thicknesses or sizes, shiny or dull, giving the widest range of possibilities in fabric creation. Some rayon fabrics are given a permanent crimp to resemble wool. Generally speaking, spun rayonmixture fabrics are crush resistant either because of texture or finish. The woolen-like types of fabrics are soft to the skin and are usually cooler than real wool. They may be had with — shrinkage-controlled treatments and water-repellent surfaces. Many rayon fabrics have been developed into washable materials. However, because the care for rayons is so varied, it is wise to know at the time of purchase whether or not the material can be laundered or whether it must be dry cleaned. Acetate rayons require more careful treatment than other rayons, because they are melted by too hot an iron. A very cool iron must be used to prevent damage. Even when a cool iron is used, pressing over seams or thick places results in holes long before the article is worn out. To prevent injury to the fabric from ironing, pressing, or cleaning, it is best to know whether or not the article is made from acetate rayon. This can be determined by burning a small sample. Most rayons burn in a bright flame leaving a_ grey feathery ash much like cotton, while acetate rayons melt, drip, and leave a crisp, black, shiny ball with a slight odor of acetic acid. If the material is composed of both types of rayon, this can be revealed by soaking a bit of it in fingernail polish-remover containing acetone. The acetate rayon will dissolve, leaving the other unhurt. When carefully chosen and handied, rayons will prove quite satisfactory, but one must realize their limitations. NOTHER man-made material receiving much recognition is nylon. It is characterized by its extreme toughness, elasticity, strength, and resistance to abrasion. Nylon is also flame proof, will withstand higher temperatures than other fabrics, and will dry much faster because it absorbs less moisture. It 710 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT is proof against moth and mildew. And is as strong when wet as when dry. In spite of all these excellent qualities, nylon will snag and will run very readily, so nylon hosiery must be handled with as much care as any other hosiery. Other fibers being read about and experimented with are vinyarn, vinylite, soya-bean fiber, glass fiber, and casein fiber. Little definite information can be given about these, since these and many others are in the experimental process, but the future looks exceedingly hopeful for synthetic materials. An understanding of fabrics is the basis of the selection of all household and clothing materials. Wise consumers will use all the knowledge they have available, analyze 711 their past mistakes, and not make the same mistakes twice. Suggested Activities 1. Show what happens to acetate rayon under a hot iron. 2. Show tests to distinguish acetate from regenerated rayons. (See Better Buymanship Bulletin No. 23, "Fabrics," page 32; also see footnote.) 3. Examine samples of rayons of various types and qualities. Can tests used to determine qualities of other materials be used on rayon? 4. Show, if they can be obtained, samples of materials made from nylon and more recent synthetic materials. Note: Because of the lack of available space in the Magazine, the General Board has sent to each stake a list of references in blue bulletin No. 15, suitable for use in presenting this lesson. 'These references may be procured from stake workand-business leaders. Berane Humor In Life And Literature Lesson 4 Types of Humor, Continued (Tuesday, January 20, 1942) "Humor is the good-natured side of any truth.... It is a sudden light on the funny side of things that often keeps one from saying or doing something foolish." Lesson Topics: Review of last lesson Satire Humor of situation Review of Last Lesson The previous lesson dealt with the mediums through which humor is expressed; that is, humor through the various unnatural and unusual combinations or uses of words, as in puns, and in the humor of coupling —Opie Read incongruous facts and ideas, as in parodies and burlesques. The nature of the different types of humor thus produced was discussed and examples given from writers of the past and present who have employed these mediums. Satire In the last lesson mention was briefly made of the use of burlesque as a means of satire. Though satire 712 often employs burlesque and carica- | tute, it is not dependent upon them. Satire is a literary composition holding up to ridicule the abuses, vices, or follies of mankind, or of individuals. Its purpose is ordinarily reform. It is not always humorous, though it usually is. As a literary type, satire is very old. The great Greek comedian Aristophanes (Ar''-is-tof'u-néz) used comic satire in an effort to reform all phases of the life of his time. He recognized the power of comiedy to clear the mind, to strip away evils and artificialities. The Frogs, by Aristophanes, shows the weakness of the author's time when there was a general breakup of the old morale which had made Greece great. He has the god Dionysus (Di'6 ni'siis), or Bacchus, patron of the arts, go to Hades to bring back a worthy poet. The god and his slave have many humorous adventures before they reach their destination. The quest is to find a poet who can inspire his country to its old glory. The most comic scene is that in which the god calls the two greatest Greek poets, Aeschylus (Es'ki lus) and Euripides (U rip'i déz), both dead, to compete for the privilege of returning to earth—to the mission of redeeming their country. The author favors the poetry of the older Aeschylus. His purpose is to recall his people, through bringing Aeschylus back, from influences of the newer poetry of Euripides, which he thinks has deprived them of their manhood. So the satire shows the weaknesses of the more modern poets. This poetic contest is as humorous as anything in modern literature. A pair of huge scales is brought RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 forth. The poets are then summoned and made to stand before the balances and recite their poetry into the balancing pans to test their power. The god says: "Move up. Stand close to the balance... Take hold now and each repeat a verse." This they do, and the scales show the line of Aeschylus to be the heavier. Euripides cannot see how this happens. But the god explains: "He slipped a river in, like the wool-jobbers, to moisten his meter. But your line was light, a thing with wings, ready to fly away." They try again. Euripides recites: "Speech is the temple and the altar of persuasion." Then Aeschylus recites: "Death is a god that lives no sacrifice." Again the older poet wins, and the god says: "No wonder, with death put into it—the heaviest of all calamities." The farce goes on for a time, Aeschylus continuing to outweigh his brother poet. Consequently it is decided that he is to return with the god and "restore his city to peace and wealth." The comedies of Aristophanes served as a model in humorous satire followed by later writers, including Moliere, Shakespeare, and even Bernard Shaw. One literary critic says that it is in Aristophanes that one can see the first clear note of the power of real comedy. He laughs both at lesser frailties and at national stupidities on a large scale. He had the power through his brilliant satire to point out the most glaring faults to his audiences and to win their applause. It has been said that the Greeks poisoned Socrates for telling the truth to their faces, but that they LESSON DEPARTMENT crowned Aristophanes with laurel for doing the same thing with humor. Chaucer was another poet to use satire as a weapon of reform. He shows up the evils of his day in the church, in the professions of law and medicine, and many other fields, through his characters in 'he Canterbury Tales. He does it as Aristophanes did, with delightful humor, not with the bitterness some satirists use. Swift is perhaps one of the bitterest of all satirists. Even in Gulliver's Travels, he strikes viciously in his indictment against humanity; though for most readers, the satire in this book is hidden under the burlesque of the story. One may read it as a romantic tale of imaginative adventure without realizing that it is satirical. Pope and Dryden were great satirists who made even bitter personal satires humorous. _Pope's 'satires against some of his literary and political enemies were so effective that he gleefully wrote that it pleased him much to see men who were not afraid of God, afraid of him—or at least of his poems. The essay is a type well adapted to satire, and modern literature is rich in this type. "Death in the Stadium," by Robert Nathan, satirizes many characteristics of Americans, particularly their desire for publicity. It tells the story of a great actor who stages his death scene in a stadium where people gathered to see the spectacle as if to see a football game. Robert Benchley is. One of the most humorous of modern satirists. In "Shakespeare Explained," he uses all that Harvard could do for him in making fun of that training. This 713 essay is a satirical protest against scholarly footnotes which he feels detract from literature. Stephen Leacock's new book, Too Much College, is a humorous satire of somewhat the same type. Leacock says the college attempts to teach the unteachable. In literature, for instance, he says that all that is best —the flowers of poetry and drama, imagination and inspiration — becomes distorted by systems of examinations and credits which defeat it. Literature, so taught, he states, looks in the mirror and reflects back a comic credit which is the real master and which controls degrees and jobs. This he calls a great joke on literature. He says, "It is as if education said, 'Divide the beauties of poetry into six elements and say them over to me, and I'll give you a degree as a horse doctor.'" He goes on with his indictment by saying that we substitute text knowledge for literary appreciation, the questions and answers of written examinations for reading for reading's sake. Examinations, he feels; poison love of literature at the root. Children remember what their mothers read to them because they were not prejudiced against that reading by the thought of examinations. Satire is doubtless one of the best known types of humor and one that most readily yields itself,. As has alteady been noted, to purposes of reform. But there are other types that give perhaps even more spontaneous laughter to the world. One of these is the humor of situation. Humor of Situation The humor of situation rests on circumstances that cause embarrass- ment or chagrin because they are incongruous. For instance, a gentleman and his son went from the country to the city for a day. Finishing their business early, the father said, "We'll go out and see Aunt Carrie." They had not been to Aunt Carrie's for a long time, and when they arrived she was not at home. 'They went in, however, thinking to surprise her. After waiting a while the father said, "I'm sure Aunt Carrie wouldn't mind if we got a bite to eat." They went to the kitchen and placed the food they found in the refrigerator upon the table and were beginning to eat when someone opened the door. It was not Aunt Carrie, but a startled, indignant stranger who had taken over Aunt Carrie's home for a few months while Aunt Carrie was away from the city. / Another illustration also from real life, follows: A lady was invited to pour at a tea to be given at a girls' dormitory. On the day that she thought had been designated for the 'tea, she dressed in her formal gown, took a taxi to the dormitory, swept up the walk and entered the lobby, only to find it occupied by girls and their boy friends who stared at her questioningly. "Isn't... The... I came to pour at the tea," she stammered. "That is next Thursday," one of the girls explained amusedly. This type of humor is found in literature of all ages. There are stories in Greek mythology which show it was popular hundreds of vears before Christ. Vulcan once played a practical joke upon his mother by making her a golden chair which closed like a trap when she sat in it. The humor of situation resulted. Gammer Gurten's Needle, the first English comedy based upon local material, is a comedy of situation. Poor "Gammer" had lost her one and only needle. The whole community turned out to search for it, but to no avail. Finally, when her grandson sat down, the needle was found. She had left it in his pants which she had been mending when someone called her attention from her work. The humor is boisterous and crude, but it shows a type which was to continue to be popular. Many of Shakespeare's comedies employ this medium. As You Like It is an example. One of the situations, upon which others of equal incongruity rest, is the disguise of Rosalind as a young man when she, accompanied by her cousin, Celia, steals from her uncle's court to seek her banished father in the Forest of Arden. There she meets Orlando, who has gone to the forest for safety from his selfish brother who has planned to have Orlando killed so that he himself may have the younger brother's property. Orlando had previously fallen in love with Rosalind, and after he arrives in the forest, he spends his time writing love poems to her, which he hangs on trees. These are brought to Rosalind, who is also in love with Orlando. She devises a meeting with him, and safe in her disguise as a young shepherd, promises to cure him of his hopeless love by pretending to be his beloved and listening | to his avowals. These love scenes are extremely funny, as are the scenes arising from the same original humorous situation — that of mistaken identity—in which Phoebe, a rustic maiden, tries to win the love 714 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT of the young shepherd she thinks Rosalind to be. In other plays, Shakespeare uses this same humorous situation of mistaken identity, as in Portia, disguised as a lawyer, in The Merchant of Venice. Oscar Wilde achieves much of his humor through complicated situations. His play, The Importance of Being Earnest, is an excellent comedy growing from the mistaken-identity situation. Barrie, Shaw, and other modern playwrights use similar means of humor. Barrie's What Every Woman Knows and Shaw's Man and Superman are but two of many such plays. Novelists also recognize the importance of humorous situations. The picaresque stories of the Middle Ages, forerunners of the modern novel, were practically all of this type, the hero, always a ruffian or person of low estate, getting the better of a nobleman or master. Mark Twain's "The Blunders of a Bashful Man" is based upon the humor of situation and resembles very much the old picaresque or rogue stories. The Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court, not so long ago made into a popular movie, is an excellent illustration of the same medium. This book, like many other books of humor in its highest form, is more than a funny story written to make people laugh. It has a serious purpose as well; it was the authors denunciation of aristocracy with its special privileges. Humor of situation is well adapted to the short story and has been used successfully innumerable times. "The Hazing of Valiant" is the story of a group of college boys who plan to enter the room of a freshman in the night and drag him out for 715 hazing. The one commissioned to enter the upstairs room of Valiant by means of a ladder, is horrified to see, as he steps into the room, a woman arise from the bed and come toward him in the dim moonlight. She begins to talk to him as if he were her husband. He thinks he has by mistake climbed into the apartment of a young professor. When the woman is about to scream, he, in humiliation, explains that he was only seeking a fellowstudent, and he begs her not to expose him. She makes him promise to abandon his hazing plans, and, finally, for the sake of his mother in whose name the intruder has begged to be shielded from the disgrace of publicity, she lets him go. The next day the would-be hazer receives a letter from Valiant explaining that a long nightgown, a black wig of braided hair, and a skill gained in imitating a girl's voice in high school all-boys' shows proved an effective disguise. A few others of the many excellent short stories of this type are: "Wanted—A Cook," by Alan Dale, a story of the imposition of a cook upon those who hired her under the false assumption that she could not speak English; "The Experiences of A. C.," by Bayard Taylor, the story of an effort of a few people to reform poverty; "The Girl and the Julep," by Emerson Hough, a story of Southern traditions of hospitality; and "The Enchanted Hat," by Harold Macgrath, the adventure of a letter. Still others are: 'That Other Baby at Rudder Grange," by Frank R. Stockton; "The Invisible Prince," by Henry Harland; and "Not oailieaiaes to Schedule," by Mary Stewart Cutting. Perhaps no type of humor has a greater part in real life than the humor of situation. Doubtless each member of the class has been the central figure in some situation, not humorous to her perhaps at the time, but decidedly so to others and to herself after her embarrassment had worn off. We should strive to look at these experiences objectively and enjoy the humor in them, instead of suffering in sensitive embarrassment. A sense of humor can turn many situations from tragedies to comedies. "From the days of Aristotle down to the present time it has been maintained, with varying emphasis in various keys, that it is the business of comedy to lay bare vice in its less aggressive shapes, and by exposing it, to improve the morals of the age."  Y. T. Greig. Problems and Projects 1. Discuss the advantages and danger of satire as a means of humor, remembering that kindliness is ever an element in real humor.. 2. Give illustrations, other than those in the lessons, of satire used as a means of reform. Most books of modern essays contain excellent illustrations. Some tecent dramas, such as You Can't Take It With You, have the same purpose. 3. Which do you énjoy more—humor based upon unusual uses of words, upon the grotesque combinations of facts and ideas such as in parody and _ burlesque, or humor growing out of situations? Give reasons why. 4. Relate interesting situations in your own life or the lives of your friends which. Would serve as a basis for written humor. 5. If a committee is writing humor for your group, some of the experiences brought out in the above exercise might be used. 6. Discuss the use of humor in situations which might be regarded, from another viewpoint, as tragic. Illustrate from experiences or observations. Supplementary Readings Agnes Repplier, In the Putsuit. Of Laughter. Oppenheim, Great Impersonations. Wilder, Wit and Humor of America, Vols. I, VIII, X. Satirical Poems of Pope, Dryden, Swift. Novels of Wodehouse. Comedies of Shakespeare. Ring Lardner, Round Up. Eric Knight, The Flying Yorkshire Man. To Social Science Foundations Of Successful Marriage Lesson 3 Stepping Toward Marriage Through Courtship (Tuesday, January 27, 1942) Lesson Aim: To discover some of the factors in courtship which make for success or failure in marriage. HE boy and girl friendships of childhood and early adolescence eventually give way to the more mature and emotionalized attachments of courtship. As young people grow older, they quite naturally start thinking seriously of marriage and begin looking around, in an exploratory 76 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT way, for a mate. Courtship is the period immediately preceding marriage in which young people associate with each other in pairs, because of mutual attraction, and for the purpose of choosing a mate and preparing for marriage. Successful courtship goes a long way toward laying the foundations for successful marriage, and the mistakes or failures of courtship, on the other hand, are often responsible for the disappointments and failures of marriage. It is important, then, that we understand the problems of young people during this period, so that we can better help them over the pitfalls of courtship and guide them into happy and lasting marriage relationships. The Romantic Fallacy Not all societies choose mates for marriage upon the basis of sentiment, affection, and romance, as does ours. Most societies, in fact, look toward more practical considerations: Is he a good provider? Is she a good cook? Does the person considered have good health, et cetera? With many peoples the marriage matches are arranged by parents or relatives, and the actual participants have little, if anything, to say about the matter. But even so, these couples often learn to love each other and to make genuine successes of their marriage relationships. Few places in the world have as high a divorce rate as the United States, and yet it is here that most emphasis is put upon the idea of romance in courtship and marriage. Here romance is overemphasized. The romantic fallacy is not the belief in love and affection alone, because certainly every marriage should have 7 some of that, but rather it is the belief that love or romance is everything that needs to be considered in choosing a mate or in making one happy. It is a fallacy because it is false; when lovers become too absorbed in love, they are prone to forget some of the more practical things that are equally important to successful marriage. It is no wonder that our young people are so often swept off their feet by romantic infatuation, for almost everything they do in courtship stimulates and reinforces the idea. The modern novel and the picture show usually depict the struggles and conflicts of courtship, highly flavored with romantic passion, and then end with marriage and the assumption that all conflict is over and that eternal bliss is certain. 'These modern fairy tales, although they do not say "they lived happily ever after," imply as much. Their harm lies in their overemphasis on romance and erotic stimulation, and upon the unreal picture of life they paint in the minds of those who follow them. 'The popular song, which is given so much attention in the dance hall and on the radio and elsewhere, does very much the same thing; it stimulates the sentiments and builds up the idea that love is all that matters. Now this is the fallacy or the illusion that so many of our young people are living under. They are often in love with love, and nothing more; they see their lover through colored glasses, rather than with clear vision; they are blinded by romance. What is needed is a more realistic approach to the problems of both courtship and marriage. Love is important, but it isn't all-important. 718 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 And furthermore, love is something more than the physical passions and the emotional infatuations that are satisfied in the romantic complex. Love is something that deepens and grows with close and continued association and with the sacrifices and adjustments of married life. 'There is no such thing as love at first sight, although there may be the beginning of love at first sight. Someone has expressed the thought that one seldom marries the one he loves, but often learns to love the one he marries. This perhaps overstates the point, because couples are often well on the road to love before marriage, but the thought is that love which begins during courtship may enlarge and develop after marriage. And it will do so, if at all, through sacrifice, adjustment, and understanding. 'True love is companionship on the physical, emotional, intellectual, and spiritual planes, and this all-inclusive companionship cannot be found in a day; it must be built up realistically through years of working, playing, and living together. Chastity and Related Problems The conduct of children during courtship is the worry of every parent, for at this time the passions of the young are strong, temptations they are subjected to are many, and the controls of parents over them are less direct than formerly. But parents will do well to remember that a psychological weaning from the home nest is both natural and necessary, as is also the normal, process of courtship. If children have been given adequate knowledge and the proper ideals with which to guide their conduct, the chances are they will not go far astray. Parents should, of course, be concerned and should give help and _ guidance where possible, but they will do well to allow their children a normal amount of freedom and to avoid worry and anxiety as much as possible. ~"Necking," "petting," and "pitching woo" are some of the popular slang expressions used by young people today to indicate the kissing and caressing that is so often a part of courtship behavior. This is not the place to analyze the problem in any detail, but we do feel safe in making the following general points: (1) "Necking" is particularly objectionable and dangerous when it is engaged in intimately, frequently, and between persons who care very little for each other. There is too much exploitation in courtship; too much selfishness; too much of the idea, especially on the part of boys, of going "as far as she will let me." These mote or less intimate caresses of lovers should be mutually sincere. Furthermore, they should be reserved in the main until about the time of engagement, and even then they should be engaged in with reserve and moderation. Nothing should be done during courtship that will tend to destroy one's respect for himself or for the other person. (2) The chief dangers of "necking" are: first, it may cheapen the friendship and kill the respect so necessary for enduring love; second, it may stimulate unreasoned infatuation and result in a marriage that is ill-planned and between mates that are poorly matched; third, it may help to build up in the minds of the participants a shallow and false conception of love; fourth, LESSON DEPARTMENT it may lead from the less to the more intimate types of behavior until finally chastity itself is lost. There is no way of accurately determining the extent of unchastity in this country, but according to a number of estimates and other indications, it is high enough to be very definitely alarming. Dorothy Dunbar Bromley and Florence Haxton Britten in their recent book Youth and Sex, for example, indicate that about one-fourth of the girls and about one-half of the boys in college have had sexual relations. 'Their study was based upon 1,300 college students whom they contacted in various colleges throughout the land, and while their figures may be an overstatement because of the type of sample studied, they do emphasize the seriousness of the problem. Unchastity is perhaps less common in Utah and among our Latterday Saint people than in the nation at large. But even though less common, it is nevertheless frequent enough in our own communities to constitute a real problem and to challenge the attention of every thinking person in the Church. Sexual purity is one of the highest and most sacred principles of the Church, adultery being regarded as a sin second only to murder in seriousness. 'This alone should be incentive enough for clean living. But even aside from the religious and moral aspects of the problem, it is not difficult to find reasons aplenty for chastity. Margaret Banning, in her Reader's Digest article of August, 1937, called "The Case for Chastity," outlines most of these in a very clear and interesting manner. Briefly, her objections to unchastity 719 are as follows: (1) the danger of pre-marital pregnancy, with the resulting unsavory alternative of either induced abortion, illigitimacy, or a hasty and usually unwise marriage; (2) the danger of contracting one of the social diseases, with all of the stigma and expense and suffering that this involves; (3) the social penalty attached, which takes its toll through the loss of respect and influence; (4) and finally, the emotional and psychological price that one must pay through worry, fear, nervousness, et cetera. Hamilton, Davis, and others who have made careful statistical studies on happiness in marriage have all found that those individuals who have been unchaste before marriage are much less likely to be happy in marriage than those who have not. Truly the price for those who would indulge is great. But young people do not always realize this. And even when they do, they often find themselves in situations that make cool judgment and control very difficult. 'The task before parents, and others who would help, is a task of wise counsel and guidance. This is not an easy thing to do, but here are a few suggestions that may be of value: (1) understand your children and keep their confidences, so that you can reach them in their hour of need and assist them in their most personal problems; (2) see that the sex education of your children is properly taken care of so that their knowledge of the subject is adequate and their attitudes are healthy; (3) develop in your children, with the aid of religion, a strong sense of right and wrong and the power of self-control; (4) guide your children in their choice of partners, and counsel them 720 on behavior during courtship. It is well known, for example, that alcohol inflames the passions and at the same time reduces the power of judgment and self-control. It is also known that "necking," especially when engaged in experimentally and somewhat selfishly as a pastime, often leads to more intimate types of behavior and even to the loss of virtue. If young people could be made to realize these things a little more, if they were better trained from their early childhood, and if they could have the confiding help of the experienced in times when it is most needed, they would be able to avoid the pitfalls of courtship in greater numbers and would thereby be able to lay better foundations for successful marriage. Specific Preparation for Marriage We have seen that the first background for successful marriage is laid in the parental home through such things as good birth, healthy personality development, and education for family life. We have seen also that the attitudes and the behavior of courtship help to either make or mar a person's chances for happiness in marriage later on. But aside from these more or less general foundations for successful marriage, there are a number of rather specific ones that are usually made by the couple not long before the ceremony is performed. The first of these is the choice of a mate. Young people start the process of selection in the early stages of courtship when they "date" periodically with a number of partners on a friendship basis; they narrow their selection when they start "going steady"; they make their RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 selection or choice rather final when they become engaged. The difficult part of the choice is knowing when to let the head rule and when to let the heart rule. Parents can help by sympathetic understanding and wise counsel, but they should avoid imposing their own choices upon their children. If young people could be made to realize that the head should come first, especially in the early stages of courtship when the field from which selections are to be made is being narrowed down, if they could face this problem a little more realistically and a little less romantically, if they could be made to use their heads a little more before marriage and their hearts a little more after marriage, their choices of life partners would be far better and their chances for success in marriage would be far greater. Such things as morality, character, health, disposition, intelligence, and similarity in interests and backgrounds, are important considerations in choosing a mate; and in most cases it is foolish to think of "reforming" the one you love after the ceremony has been performed. Love is important, too, but if the object of one's affections is chosen carefully and rationally, the early and somewhat immature love of courtship can be permitted to ripen into the eternal love of marriage; otherwise it may flicker out and die. Engagement. Symbolizes a final choice of marriage partners and is for the purpose of making the last necessary preparations and adjustments before the marriage ceremony. Courtship behavior during this period will quite naturally tend to be on a little more intimate level, and for this reason, couples should LESSON DEPARTMENT be extra cautious to maintain the same reserve and good judgment that characterized their earlier associations, so that the things for marriage will be left until marriage, and so that nothing will happen to mar their love and respect for each other. There are many problems that will need to be talked over before marriage; those who are engaged will want to come to a common understanding on such things as religion, education, money, and children. Physical examinations for both man and woman are another very important thing that every engaged couple should attend to. They will want to voluntarily present themselves before a competent physician about a month or six weeks prior to the time for the marriage ceremony in order that they may be examined for disease or physical abnormalities and that they may be given information and advice regarding the important relationships of married life. A great many mistakes and disappointments could be avoided if the pre-marital physical examination were resorted to more frequently. Finally, the engaged couple will want to make rather definite plans as to the time and kind of ceremony, the honeymoon, the place of residence afterwards, et cetera. Rational courtship is one of the foundations of successful marriage. Problems and Projects 1. What are the most important things to consider in choosing a mate? What do you think of the advice that one should use his head more before marriage and his heart more after marriage? What is the romantic fallacy? Is it safe to marry a person on the basis of love alone with the hope of reforming him after marriage? 721 How far should parents go in helping their children choose marriage partners? 2. Should a couple wait until marriage for their first kiss? Is it all right for a couple to kiss on the first date? What are the major objections to intimate "neck- "petting" during courtship, and how can young people be helped to use judgment and control in these matters? 3. Discuss the problem of chastity from the following standpoints: (a) causes of unchastity; (b) objections to unchastity; and (c) remedies, or ways of improving the situation. 4. Discuss the engagement as a step in the preparation for marriage. How long do you think an engagement should be? Why? Under what circumstances is one justified in breaking an engagement? Why? Discuss the pros and cons of pre-marital medical examinations. 5. Look back in your own lives upon the days when you were courting, and in the spirit of self-analysis, see if you can pick out those things that have helped to make your marriage successful. Would these same things apply to the young people of today? How can you pass your experiences on to them? References Anderson, Venice F., "Courtship," Improvement Era, January, 1928, pp. 198- 207. Baber, Ray E., Marriage and the Family, McGraw Hill, N. Y., 1939, pp. 142-200, 561-583. Baber, R. E., "They Know What They _ Want," Parents' Magazine, March, 1937, pp. 20-21. Banning, Margaret C., "The Case for Chastity," The Reader's Digest, August, 1937, PP. 1-10. Baykin, E., "Should Mothers be Matchmakers?", Parents' Magazine, August, 1936, pp. 20-21. Burkhart, Roy A., From Friendship to Marriage, Harpers, N. Y., 1937, PP. 1-110. Butterfield, Oliver M., "To Live Happily Even After," The ' Reader's Digest, May, 1936, pp. 27-30. Dittrick, H., "Getting Ready for Marnage," Hygeia, June, 1939, pp. 515-520. Elliott, Mable A., and Merrill, Francis E,. Social Disorganization, Harpers, N. Y., 1935, Pp- 460-475. Folsom, Joseph K., Plan for Marriage, Harpers, N. Y., 1938, pp. 1-28, 72-112. Folsom, Joseph K., "Finding a Mate in Modern Society," The Reader's Digest, July, 1938, pp. 56-58. Groves, E. R., Marriage, Henry Holt, N. Y., 1933, PP. 75-155. Groves, E. R., "When He Comes a Courting," Good Housekeeping, September, 1937, pp. 28-29. Hart, Hornell and Ella B., Personality and the Family, D. C. Heath and Co., N. Y., 1935, pp. 52-126. Lawton, S. W., "Women Men Marry," Forum, July 1939, pp. 33-35: McConaughy, James L., "Now That You are Engaged," Good Housekeeping, October, 1937, pp. 28-29. McKay, David O., "As Youth Contemplates an Eternal Partnership," Improvement Era, March, 1938, pp. 136- 139, 191. Rice, T. B., "Choice of a Marriage Mate," Hygeia, February, 1938, pp. 122- 124, Waller, Willard, The Family: A Dynamic Interpretation, Cordon Co., N. Y., 1938, pp. 173-302. Williams, Helen Spencer, "Romance," Improvement Era, June, 1938, pp. 330- 331, 380-383. Williams, Helen Spencer, "You Are Going To Be Married," Relief Society Magazine, June, 1938, p. 380. LTlission Lessons Latter-day Saint Hymns (For optional use of missions in lieu of Literature) Lesson 4 (Tuesday, January 20, 1942) WHILE OF THESE EMBLEMS WE PARTAKE While of these emblems we partake, In Jesus' name and for His sake, Let us remember and be sure Our hearts and hands are clean and pure. For us the blood of Christ was shed, For us on Calv'ry's cross He bled, And thus dispelled the awful gloom, That else were this creation's doom. The law was broken, Jesus died That justice might be satisfied, That man might not remain the slave, Of death, of hell, or of the grave; But rise triumphant from the tomb, And in eternal splendor bloom; Freed from the power of death and pain, With Christ, the Lord, to rule and reign. OHN NICHOLSON, the author of this sacramental hymn, was born in Scotland on July 13, 1830, three months after the organization —John Nicholson of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, although, of course, he was not born into that Church. Of his early life and 722 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT environment, we have no information whatever. He embraced the Restored Gospel in 1861, at the age of thirty one. As was the practice in those days, John Nicholson was called on a mission from his home town, two years after his baptism. His field of labor was in England. For a time he presided over the conference in which he labored. After three years of missionary work, he immigrated to America, and in 1866 settled in Salt Lake City. Twelve years later, in 1878, he was again called on a mission to England. He spent two years in the mission field, during which time he served as associate editor of the Millennial Star. These facts point to the nature and talents of John Nicholson. He was not only deeply religious, but he was also a very able man, patticularly as a public speaker and writer. Both as a preacher and as a writer, he was forceful and vigorous. This was his 'natural disposition. Positive in his ideas and feelings, he spoke frankly and convincingly. This quality of positiveness stood the Saints well in hand during the time when they were being much persecuted in Utah and elsewhere for their faith. Elder Nicholson gave lectures on various topics during these years of stress. He was also associate editor of the Deseret News at this time, Elder Charles A. Penrose being its editor. During his last years, Elder Nicholson worked in the Salt Lake Temple and reported the discourses given at the general conferences of the Church. He died in January, 1909. 723 F we were to distinguish among the various ordinances of the Church with respect to their importance, we should have to say that the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is the most vital. The principal ordinances in our Church are: (1) baptism; (2) confirmation; (3) the sacrament; (4) ordination to the Priesthood; and (Ss) healing the sick. There are others, such as marriage, but these are the most common. An ordinance ls sometimes called a rite, a ceremony, or ritual, and constitutes an act as distinguished from a thought or a word. While, of course, all the ordinances of the Church of Jesus Christ are sacred and should always be regarded as such, still, as already stated, the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is undoubtedly the most sacred. A little reflection will show that this is so. For one thing, the central fact in the religion of Jesus Christ is the death and resurrection of Christ. "He died that we might live" in a real sense, both in this life and in the next. "Adam fell that men might be," but Jesus died that we might be saved and exalted in his kingdom. As a result of Adam's transgression in the Garden of Eden, the spirit and the body of man would be eternally separated. It was necessary, therefore, that there should be something to reunite them. That something was the sacrifice of Christ. "As in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made alive." That is the way Paul puts it. The fall of man was not an accident, but an essential part of the "plan of life and salvation." In this idea, Latter-day Saints differ from all other Christians, for they seem to think that if Adam had not died, we should all have been very happy. The fact is that we wouldn't be happy at all, for we would be always thinking that Adam had done us a great injury, instead of a great good. Without the death of our first parents, we would not have needed Christ, with the example of an ideal, a perfect life. And then, for another thing, the death and resurrection of Christ being the central fact in revealed religion, everything in our faith revolves around it and takes its meaning from that fact. We have faith in Christ and his plan of salvation; we repent because we have in some way come in conflict with one or more of His laws, or commandments; we are baptized in His name, along with that of the Father and the Holy Ghost; we are confirmed into the Church of Christ; and our men receive the Priesthood so that they may act in His name on the earth. Indeed, whenever we pray, or heal the sick, or perform any of the ordinances of the Church, we do so "in the name of Jesus Christ." The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is the only ordinance that reminds us directly and concretely of the death and the sufferings of our Lord for us. We eat the bread in remembrance of the body which He gave up in death for us, and we drink the wine (water) in remembrance of the blood which He shed for our sins, that we might not have to suffer in like manner for them. Thus, in the most literal way, we are reminded, every time we partake of these emblems, of the great sacrifice which Christ made for us.. Of bread and wine. Of course, this ordinance of the sacrament was restored in our time, with other ordinances and essential principles. But, for certain reasons, water was substituted for wine, and smaller pieces of bread were used also. For, as the word "supper" indicates, the first celebration of this ordinance was almost a meal, made "It mattereth not," says the revelation to our Prophet on the subject, "what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink when ye partake of the sacrament, if it so be that ye do it with an eye single to' my glory—remembering unto the Father my body which was laid down for you, and my blood which was shed for the remission of your sins." (Doctrine and Covenants, 27:2) We partake of the sacrament oftener than other believers in Christ. O far as we know, there was no special event or incident in the life of John Nicholson that led to the composition of this hymn. The poet was a very devout man as well as thoroughly informed on the teachings of the Church, and he was thoroughly converted to its doctrines. It is said that on his mission to England, between 1878 and 1880, he laid special stress on the work of salvation wrought out for us by the Savior. In view of this poem, we can understand this. Few men believed more sincerely and _ intelligently in that work than he. And few men lived more consistently with the teachings of the Gospel of Christ. The progress of thought and emotion—more of thought than feeling —is simple in this poem: first, we have the condition under which we 724 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT should partake of "these emblems" —cleanness of hands and purity of heart; second, the purpose of the sacrifice of Christ—to save the world from "doom"; third, this is carried over into the third stanza including the thought "that justice might be satisfied," since a law was broken by Adam; and fourth, the fact that, in the release of mankind from the tomb, we shall rise from the dead "triumphant," to "rule and reign" with Christ, the Lord. Here, then, we have the fact, the reason, and the result in the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper. Questions 1. Which stanza of this poem appeals most to you? Suppose you memorize it, if not the whole poem. 2. Give the main facts in the life of John Nicholson. What was his vocation 725 in life? On what two Church periodicals did he work at different times? 3. Consider this poem with the idea of getting some information from it about the kind of man Elder Nicholson was. Is it mainly a poem of thought or a poem of feeling, or both? What ideas does it give us about the work of our Savior for us? Set down on paper as many of these as you can. 4. In what condition of soul should one partake of the sacrament? What is the significance of the words "hands" and "hearts" as used in this poem? When is one "pure in heart'? 5. Why do we partake of the sacrament? How do we come to use water instead of wine in the sacrament? (See History of the Church, Vol. I, page 106, and the prefatory note to the current edition of the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 27.) 6. What should we think about when the sacrament is being blessed and passed? Do you always try to bend your thoughts on the sacrifice of Christ for us, the benefit we derive from this ordinance, and its significance? % ~ FASHION IN NATURE Leone E. McCune The mountain has such perverse Moods in fashion... In winter, when the mode is black or brown, She wears a soft white trailing gown, A wide blue hat With curling plumage drooping down. In summer, girls don bathing suits or less; She wears a deep-green velvet dress, A fringe of leaves, And wild flowers pinned upon her breast. Once only, on the chilly days of fall, Is she reasonable at all— She drapes about Her shoulders a brilliant paisley shawl. Gor greatest comfort.-- HEAT YOUR HOME with gas. Comfort means not only the right temperature, but it also means freedom from irksome labor—and Gas Heat, you know, requires no work whatever. It's surprisingly economical, too. Let us give you an estimate o { costs, without obligation. MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY Salt Lake - Ogden - Provo Serving 23 Utah Communities -EYESTRAIN DAYS ARE HERE AGAIN a m~ SEE YOUR DEALER OR UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. "L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS!" Henry Ford says: "It seems to me that a school should do something to prepare youth to Take Hold Somewhere!" —Enroll any Monday for Day or Evening classes. — L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE _ Salt Lake City, Utah Color-Siyle YOUR HOME — for greater beauty and livability with | Bennett's Paints Climate-Tested for use in the Intermountain Country BENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO. SALT LAKE CITY Dealers Throughout Utah, Idaho and Neighboring States When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine ANNOUNCING A NEW BOOK TO BE READY FOR OCTOBER CONFERENCE THE PRESIDENTS OF THE CHURCH By PRESTON NIBLEY 300 pages, printed in large 14 pt. Readable type. Beautifully illustrated with large pictures of the seven Presidents of the Church. Written in a popular style which will make very interesting reading for children as well as adults. Contains a brief biographical account of the life. Accomplishments and missionary labors of the seven great men who have served as leaders of the Mormon people. "Every effort has been made to present exact historical information and wherever possible the words of the leaders themselves have been quoted."' An ideal book for teachers of Priesthood Quorums and Auxiliary organizations. ON SALE OCTOBER lST Price $2.50 Postpaid THE DESERET BOOK COMPANY HEADQUARTERS FOR BOOKS. GIFTS AND GREETING CARDS FOR EVERY OCCASION Truth is the rock foundation of every great character. —William George Jordan. 9 LARKIN MORTUARIES Ogden, Utah Los Angeles, California 466 24th St. 6003 Compton Avenue Dial 7523 Jefferson 1244 Salt Lake City, Utah 260 East South Temple Dial 4-9126 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah ANNOUNCING A NEW BOOK TO BE READY FOR OCTOBER CONFERENCE THE PRESIDENTS OF THE CHURCH By Preston Nibley INVITATION TO OUR FRIENDS WHO COME TO CONFERENCE... When you come to conference this fall drop into our plant at 29 Richards Street (just a few steps from the main entrance to the Tabernacle Grounds) and have a look around in our big, modern printing plant. Here you will find, in various stages of production, all the Church magazines, including, of course, The Relief Society Magazine. You will see. In course of printing, seminary text books, Church literature of all kinds, as well as an infinite variety of smaller commercial work. IT WILL BE A PLEASURE TO WELCOME YOU! THE DESERET NEWS PRESS When you come to conference gather up and take along all those back numbers a publications. Bring them in and let us bind them into neat, compact volumes. 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City aif ie VOL. 28, NO. 11 LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY NOVEMBER 1941 THE COVER Bishop’s Building —Relief Society Headquarters THE Bishop's Building, located at 40 North Main Street, was completed in 1909. Relief Society was assigned rooms on the north side of the second floor, including the large front room overlooking Main Street, to be used as headquarters for the General Board. The new headquarters were beautifully furnished by the General Board and officially opened for a meeting of the Board on December 3, 1909. Prior to this time the business of the organization had been transacted in the office of the Woman's Exponent by courtesy of the editor, Emmeline B. Wells, who was also general secretary of the Relief Society. The south side of the second floor of this building was assigned to the Seventies and Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. The third floor was assigned to the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and Primary Association. The entire first floor was reserved for the Presiding Bishopric. The top floor was reserved for an auditorium with adjoining extra rooms. In 1920, the entire second floor was given to the Relief Society when the Priesthood organizations were given quarters in the Church Office Building. The cover picture is a view of the north side of the building looking west and shows the north entrance to the building, which is the entrance used in reaching Relief Society headquarters. The Salt Lake Temple is seen in the background. Arrangements for this month's cover design are by Evan Jensen. RA en Serve, Fishors. PLEASING Delicious VARIETY DUTCH BREAD A PRODUCT OF THE FISHER MASTER BAKERS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine "L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS!" Henry Ford says: "It seems to me that a school should do something to prepare youth to Take Hold Somewhere!" Ce i Enroll any Monday for Day or Evening classes. —L. D.S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Salt Lake City, Utah Index to Advenrtisors Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Outside Back Cover Fisher Baking Co.. Inside Front Cover Larkin Mortuaries.... - Fly-leaf L. D. S. Business College.. Fly-leat Otarion of Salt Lake City Inside Back Cover "Though I have all faith, So that I could remove mountains, And have not charity I am nothing." Ogden, Utah 466 24th St. Dial 7523 Salt Lake City, Utah 260 East South Temple Dial 4-9126 9 LARKIN MORTUARIES I Corinthians 13:2. Los Angeles, California 6003 Compton Avenue Jefferson 1244 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine The Relief Society Magazine Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. 28 ~ NOVEMBER, 1941 No. 11 Contents Special Features Back of Frontispiece—Remarks.......President Amy Brown Lyman 727 Frontispiece—Committee in Charge of Arrangements for Relief Society Gentral Conference, October 1-2, 1941 728 Relief Society Conference............ Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 729 Officers' Meeting, Wednesday Forenoon—Greetings.............Amy Brown Lyman 735 Union Meeting Lesson Demonstrations............." 737 Theology and 'Testimony Department: Why Study the Gospel...........--------------Vivian R. McConkie 739 Stimulation of Testimony Bearing in Relief Society.................... Edith S. Elliott 741 Officers' Meeting, Wednesday Afternoon—Round-Table Discussion, led by Dr. M. Lynn Bennion. Onecnnene =o z = 743 Literature Department: Humor a Universal Benefactot........Rae B. Barker 747 Public Conversation, "Let's Talk It Over"..........  748 Social Science Department: Supplementary Reading Material...........Pauline T. Pingree 749 Officers' Meeting—Thursday Forenoon Report and Official Instructions...............President Amy Brown Lyman 751 The Home Stretch in Membership...............Belle S. Spafford 761 Highlights and Sidelights in Membership.........Zora C, Paulson 762 General Session Message from President Heber J. Grant.. 764 Opening Address President Amy Brown Lyman 766 Our Permanent Centennial Memorial..........Mary G. Judd 769 The Need of Organization:..........Counselor Marcia K. Howells 770 Meeting Relief Society's Challenge..................Counselor Donna D. Sorensen 772 Fiction The Merry-Go-Round—Chapter Eight.........Alice Morrey Bailey 777 General Features Happenings.. Ne oriceAnnie Wells Cannon 774 Editorials: Birthday Greetings to President Heber J. Gramt —............775 General Conference Message........ 775 Oscar A. Kirkham Named to Council of Seventy............. 776 Lessons; Theology and Testimony—Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage, Chapter v............ 779 - Visiting Teachers'—Attendance at Sacrament Meetings as an Expression of Faith...... 781 Work-and-Business—Ready-to-Wear Dresses and Coats........ 782 Literature—Some Humorous Characters........ 785 Social Science—The Start and the Art of Marriage..............791 Mission—We Thank Thee, O God, For a Prophet............. 797 Poetry Rootéed-in Faith ............—Jasmine R. Edmunds 800 PURLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 8-2741, Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. Remarks President Amy Brown Lyman Welfare Session of General Conference Salt Lake Tabernacle, Saturday, October 4, 1941 T is a joy to note the tremendous gain which has been made by united, faithful effort in the welfare movement of the Church. The plan to maintain what has already been gained in the last four years, to seek, step by step, for even greater accomplishments, to set out for higher levels of physical, moral, social and spiritual well-being for all members of the Church, inspires us with zeal and a desire to renew and intensify our efforts. Relief Society women are peculiarly fitted for welfare work. They are fitted by tradition, background, experience, and training. Before anybody in this great auditorium was even born, they were going about their mission of mercy and human helpfulness, aiding others—and in a neighborly fashion, aiding one another. For over 99 years, in cooperation with and under the direction of their ward bishops (who have respected and honored them and appreciated their efforts), they have helped to house the homeless, feed the hungry, clothe the naked, and to furnish and create employment. They have nursed the sick, comforted the sorrowing, and laid away the dead. In addition to all this, they have worked for mass betterment by promoting and carrying forward programs of constructive, preventive welfare. So it has been that all down through the years no matter how interesting their educational and cultural programs have been, Relief Society women have never been satisfied with mere selfimprovement. They have realized the need of contributing to something outside themselves. They have had a feeling that life was incomplete unless through their work and themselves they were able to make a contribution toward the welfare of others. Thus, they have fulfilled their original assignment, given to them by the Prophet Joseph Smith. And now today they offer whole-heartedly their service and their accumulation of knowledge-and experience to the welfare plan and program of the Church. Their hearts are in the work, and they shall never be found wanting. GENERAL BOARD MEMBERS IN CHANGE OF ARRANGEMENTS FOR RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENC, OCTOBER 1-2 1941 Front row, left to right: Dr. Florence Jeppe; Madsen, Edith S$ Elliott, Paxman. Merianne C. Sharp, Priscilla L. Evans. ' D. Sorensen, Annt S. Barlow. Mary G. Judd. Back row. Left to right: Luella N. Adams, @ ' dé R, Garl. Vivian Ro Mc' The Relief Society Magazine Vol. 28 NOVEMBER, 1941 No. 11 Relief Society Conference October, 1941 Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer "Let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap, if we faint not."—Galatians 6:9. This was the theme of the semiannual general conference of Relief Society which was held in Salt Lake City, Wednesday and Thursday, October 1 and 2, 1941. Counselor Donna D. Sorensen, member of the General Presidency in charge of educational work for the Society, was chairman of the October conference committee, and was assisted by eleven other members of the General Board who served on this committee. This conference featured especially the educational work of the Relief Society, but also gave consideration to plans for the observance of the Relief Society centennial in 1942, and lent impetus to the closing months of the Relief Society's fouryear membership campaign. The Relief Society greatly appreciated the added strength given its membership campaign by the General Authorities who, at two sessions of the general conference, urged the women of the Church to affiliate with the Society, and suggested that stake presidents and bishops cooperate with their respective Relief Society officers in the furtherance of this campaign. Schedule of Meetings On the first day of the conference, two educational department meetings were held simultaneously in the forenoon and also in the afternoon, and in addition, a music department was also held in the afternoon for stake choristers and organists. Both the forenoon and afternoon department sessions were preceded by a short officers' meeting for all stake and mission officers and board members. Counselor Donna D. Sorensen, chairman of the conference, conducted both of these general officers' meetings. The department sessions were conducted by their respective chairmen, as indicated in the ac- © companying schedule, each of whom gave a preview of the coming season's work. President Amy Brown Lyman presided at the Thursday forenoon officers' meeting in the Assembly Hall, and at the afternoon general session in the Tabernacle, which was open to all Relief Society officers and members, and the public. Page 729 730 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 SCHEDULE OF MEETINGS Meeting Time and Place Chairman Attendance WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1941 Officers' Meeting Assembly Hall, g:30-10:10 a. M. Counselor Sorensen Departments— Visiting Teachers' Theology and Testimony Barratt Hall, 10:30 a. M.-12:00 V. R. McConkie 450 Officers' Meeting Assembly Hall, 1:30-2:15 p. M. Counselor Sorensen Departments— Literature Barratt Hall, 2:30-4:00 p. M. — Anna B. Hart 350 Social Science. 18th. Ward Chapel, 2:30-4:00 p. M. Anna S. Barlow 300 Music Assembly Hall, 2:30-4:00 p. M. Florence J. Madsen 250 THuRsSDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1941 Officers' Meeting General Session Changes in General Board Personnel At the general session of the conference, President Lyman announced, in the following words, changes in the personnel of the General Board since the April conference: "Since we met last we have been called upon to part with one of our General Board members, Sister Beatrice Farley Stevens, who contributed so much to the music of the organization. Sister Stevens is known far and wide for our stimulating rally song, 'A Hundred Thousand Strong,' which has been sung in local branches all around the world, the words having been translated in a number of languages. She also composed and left for us a centennial song, called, 'A Song of Triumph,' which has been released at this conference. This was the last work she did, and it was completed only a few days before her death. "We are pleased to announce the appointment of two new Board members: Sisters Priscilla L. Evans and Florence Jepperson Madsen. Assembly Hall, 10:00 a. M.-12:15 Tabernacle, 2:00-4:00 p. M. President Lyman 1,010 President Lyman 6,000 Sister Evans is best known to Relief Society women as former president of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States Mission. She is at present corresponding secretary of the National Council of Women of the United States, Inc. Sister Madsen is professor of music at the Brigham Young University, and is one of the first musicians of our state and Church. I am sure we will all be happy to work with these two dear sisters."; Both new members participated in the conference program: Mrs. Evans addressed the general session in the Tabernacle on Thursday afternoon, and Doctor Madsen, who is chairman of the General Board's music committee, conducted the music department and also led the congregational singing at the three officers' meetings and at the general session. In a brief impromptu talk at the close of the Thursday afternoon officers' meeting, Doctor Madsen urged Relief Society women to maintain high standards in music and literature, and to sing. She sugMessage 18th Ward Chapel, 10:30 a.m. Achsa E. Paxman 400 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE gested that choristers read something of the lives of the great composers to their singing groups. She expressed the hope that the time would come when an audience such as the one assembled could sing together as a chorus. Representation and Attendance Members of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society were in constant attendance at the three main entrances to the Assembly Hall during the three officers' meetings held there, welcoming the representatives attending the mectings, distributing printed programs, and assisting in the registration of attendance. All twenty-three members of the General Board were present at the conference. __ Nearly every stake of the Church responded to the roll call in the officers' meeting on Thursday morning—135 of the total of 138—all but San Luis in southwestern Colorado, Seattle in Washington, and Washington in the District of Columbia. In addition to stake representation, mission Relief Society presidents or their official representatives from six of the twelve missions in the United States were present: the California, Central States, New England, Northern States, Northwestern States, and Western States missions. Local Relief Society officers were in attendance from four other missions in the United States: East Central States, North Central States, Southern States, and Texas missions. 'T'wo Relief Society workers from Hawaii were also present— Eva B. Jensen, president of the Japanese Mission Relief Society, and Sai Lang Akana Aki, of Honolulu, a 731 Relief Society visiting teacher from the Oahu Stake in Hawaii, who is also chairman of welfare work in a Church organization there for the Chinese. Helen Harker, a Relief Society member from Australia who is visiting in the United States, was an enthusiastic attendant at the conference. The attendance at each session of the conference is shown in the schedule of meetings. President Heber J. Grant sent a written message (reproduced in full on page 764), which was read at the general session in the Tabernacle by President Amy Brown Lyman. The address, "Women and the Church," by Elder Stephen L Richards, of the Council of the Twelve, delivered at the general session, will be printed in a later issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Elder Marion D. Romney, one of the assistants to the Council of the Twelve and newly appointed Assistant Managing Director of the Church welfare program, spoke in the officers' meeting on Thursday morning on "The Church Welfare Program for 1942"; this address will also appear in a later issue of the Magazine.. Wives of General Authorities of the Church who attended various sessions of the Relief Society conference included Mrs. Heber J. Grant and Mrs. J. Reuben Clark, Jr.; also Madeline B. Wirthlin, Fern T. Lee, and Ida J. Romney, each of whom offered prayer in the principal sessions. Recently returned Relief Society mission presidents also offered prayer—Luella R. Christiansen of the Texas Mission; Ann P. Nibley, Northwestern States Mission; and Fawn B. McKay, Swiss Mission. Mrs. McKay made a spe- 732 cial appeal in prayer in the interest of the Relief Society women and _ members of the Church generally in the countries which are at war. In her opening address at the Tabernacle session, President Lyman mourned the passing earlier in the week of Emily T. Merrill, wife of Elder Joseph F. Merrill, of the Council of the Twelve, commenting on Mrs. Merrill's regular attendance in the past at general conferences of Relief Society, and her valuable service as a ward Relief Society president. Music at the Conference Lily Priestly rendered the organ prelude as the 'stake officers and board members congregated for the three officers' meetings of the conference in the Assembly Hall. She also accompanied the singing at the sessions in the Assembly Hall, and gave valuable assistance in the Wednesday afternoon music department, which was also held in the Assembly Hall, and which featured the ten songs to be included in the concert to be presented in the Salt Lake Tabernacle in April, 1942, as a part of the general centennial celebration. Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen was in charge of the music department, and was assisted by Wade N. Stephens, assistant 'Tabernacle organist, in giving instruction and conducting a practice of the songs for the centennial concert. Following is a list of the ten songs which are to be sung in addition to the cantata Resurrection Morning, at the centennial concert: Price "A Song of Triumph'—Beatrice F. Stevens (words by Beatrice F. Stevens) Two Centennial Songs RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 "In His Form"—Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen (words by Dr. Carlton Culmsee) ... 10¢ Other Songs "The 23rd Psalm'"—Schubert (arranged by Saar)........ 15¢ Published by Carl Fischer, New York, No. 5106 "Love's Dream" (3-part chorus for women )—Liszt-Harris.......... Published by Oliver Ditson "Peace I Leave With You"—Roberts 10¢ Published by G. Schirmer, No. 5065. "Through the Silent Night'—Rachmaninoff. 15¢ Published by Oliver Ditson, No. 13,867 "My Heart is a Silent Violin"—Fox Andrews... Published by Carl Fischer, New York, No. 5217 "The Kerry Dance"—Molloy-Harris.. 12¢ Published by Oliver Ditson, No. 13,019 "O Winds, Blow Ye Softly"—Mozart 18c Published by M. Witmark and Sons, New York, No. W-2987 "Forget-Me-Not"—Bach............10c The two new centennial songs may be purchased only from the General Board (see page 752, also see Relief Society Magazine, October, 1941, page 689). The other eight songs are not carried by the General Board, but may be purchased at music stores, some of which offer a discount, according to quantity ordered, to representatives of Relief Society. For information as to purchase of cantata, see Relief Society Magazine, March, 1941, page 200. For details concerning delegation of not more than nine singers from each stake and mission to participate in the general centennial concert, see page 753; also Relief Society Magazine, May, 1941, pages oo and 3209. | At the beginning of the general RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE session in the Tabernacle, the Temple Square Choir, conducted by H. Frederick Davis, and accompanied by Alexander Schreiner at the organ, presented two numbers, "Hallelujah, Amen" from Judas Maccabaeus (Handel), and "What Affliction Mine Exceeding?" from Requiem (Verdi). Soloists featured during the second number were Marianne Madsen, soprano; Jessie Evans Smith, contralto; Ray Brimhall, tenor; Philip Dalby, basso. A special feature of the general session was the Tabernacle organ solo, improvisation on "A Mighty Fortress is Our God" (Luther), by Alexander Schreiner, Tabernacle organist. A special musical number was presented at each of the four department sessions on educational work, as follows: Jessie Evans Smith sang two numbers, ""That Sweet Story of Old" (West), and "Eye Hath Not Seen" from The Holy City (Gaul), at the department session on visiting teachers' messages; Richard P. Condie, assistant conductor, Tabernacle Choir, sang "If With All Your Heart' (Mendelssohn), accompanied by Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, theology and testimony department; Albert Eccles sang two numbers, "The Song of the Flea" (Moussorgsky) and "King Solomon" (Cooke), at the literature department; Bessie Rogers sang two numbers, "Homing" (Teresa Del Riego) and "When Children Pray" (B. Fenner), at the social science department. Singing Mothers were not featured at this semi-annual general conference of Relief Society as is the custom, because October conference plans originally contemplated only departmental sessions, and the plans were changed too late to allow time 733 for selection of a group of choruses from outlying stakes and their adequate preparation. However, the General Board was requested to arrange for a chorus of Singing Mothers to appear at both sessions of the general conference of the Church in the Tabernacle on Friday, October 3, and great credit is due the six Salt Lake City stakes—Bonneville, Cottonwood, Emigration, Ensign, Highland, and Wells—which tresponded willingly and sang well at these sessions of the conference with only a day's notice. Educational Work Featured The October conference featured the educational work of the Relief Society, with special emphasis on the union meeting. In her opening remarks at the first session of the conference, Counselor Sorensen reported that a survey conducted by the General Board at the close of the 1940-41 lesson season had disclosed, among other important findings, the need for more help in conducting union meeting lesson departments. {n order to help meet this need, a union meeting lesson department demonstration was conducted in each of the four educational department sessions of the general conference. Because of limited Magazine space in which to report proceedings of the general conference, and because the objectives of the union meeting lesson department and methods for achieving them were similar in each of the four demonstrations, a composite report of these demonstrations has been prepared, embodying the principal objectives and methods brought out in the demonstration in each separate department. 'The details of the re- spective lessons used in the demonstrations have been eliminated inasmuch as these lessons will have been given in stake union meetings prior to issuance of this November number of the Magazine. This composite summary of the main points of the union meeting demonstrations appears on page 737. Each of the four lesson departments also gave additional helpful material relating to their respective ' departments. 'This material is summarized and presented on the following pages in the order in which it was programmed. An unusual demonstration in the literature department was the public conversation, "Let's Talk it Over," in which Anna B. Hart, Mary G. Judd, and Alice B. Castleton, of the General Board, and Irma Felt Bitner, of Ensign Stake, participated. A summary of the main points brought out in the conversation appears on page 748. A special feature of the department on the visiting teachers' message was a play, The Great Fig Tree, written and directed by Joseph J. Cannon, which will be published in full in: a later issue of the Magazine. The two short officers' meetings which preceded the forenoon and afternoon department sessions on Wednesday were also devoted to problems of Relief Society teaching. In opening the conference, Counselor Sorensen emphasized the great responsibility which devolves upon Relief Society. Class leaders in interesting and retaining the thousands of new members who have been enlisted during the four-year membership campaign which ends this year. At the same meeting President Amy Brown Lyman gave valuable advice to class leaders, full text of which appears on page 735. The officers' meeting preceding the Wednesday afternoon department session featured with great effectiveness a round-table discussion on "Problems in Relief Society Teaching," conducted by Dr. M. Lynn Bennion, assisted by Florence I. Hyde, Ensign Stake; 'Thelma J. Ryser, Bonneville Stake; Gwen Jones, Salt Lake Stake; Mae S. Best, Highland Stake. Magazine space for the conference proceedings does not permit reproduction of the full text of the discussion, but the problems in Relief Society teaching presented during the discussion, and the suggestions made concerning them, are summarized and presented on page 743, of this issue of the Magazine. Mimeographed copies of "Mediums and 'Types of Humor," were distributed at the literature meeting. Stakes which did not obtain a copy of this bulletin at the conference may do so upon request to the office 'of the General Board, so long as the supply lasts. In her opening address at the general session in the Tabernacle on the following afternoon, President Lyman informed the thousands in attendance that the méetings of the previous day, featuring the educational work of the Society, had constituted a comprehensive teachers' institute. She spoke of the high standards of Relief Society study courses and expressed appreciation for the mighty work being accomplished through the devotion, earnestness, and efficiency of Relief Society class leaders throughout the Church. She said, "They are not only presenting to us members interesting and valuable facts and in- 734 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE formation, but they are helping us to improve our lives, our attitudes, our habits of thought and action; in other words, helping us to live more effectively. They are also helping us to understand, love, and appreciate the Gospel. 'As general and local officers, our advice to our class leaders is the same as that which was given by President Brigham Young to Karl G. Maeser when the latter was sent to Provo to help establish the Brigham Young University, and this advice they are following. President Young said to Brother Maeser, in substance: Let the Gospel permeate all your teaching; do not attempt to teach even the multiplication table without the spirit of the Lord." Summarized Report of Proceedings A condensed account of the 735 proceedings of the conference, presented according to the order of meetings listed in the schedule on page 730, follows. An exception to the listed order is the summary of union meeting lesson demonstrations which appears on page 737, for the reason already explained. Space of the November issue of the Magazine is insufficient for the entire report of the proceedings. In addition to the addresses already mentioned as being withheld for publication in a later issue of the Magazine, the following presentations will also appear later: ""Highway for Americans," read by Ned Williams in the literature department; "Home Life, A Social Science," summary of talk by Dr. Harold T. Christensen in the social science department; and condensed Tabernacle address, "The Spirit Giveth Life," by Priscilla L. Evans. Officers Mjeeting Wednesday Forenoon Greetings General President Amy Brown Lyman IT is a great pleasure to me to extend to you dear sisters, in behalf of the General Board, hearty and affectionate greetings. We are very happy to meet with you after a sixmonths' interval. It is a great joy to look into your friendly faces, to feel the warmth of your hearts, and the strength of your goodness and uprightness. You are a constant inspiration to us. I wonder sometimes if we, as general, stake, and mission officers and board members, realize the heavy responsibility which we bear in directing the work of this great and mighty organization—an organization of nearly 100,000 members who are linked together in a world-wide chain which encircles the globe, and who look to us as exponents and liv- 'ing examples of all that the organization and the Church stand for. The very thought of this is almost overwhelming to me at times, and fills me with a feeling of humility 736 and dependence, and with the realization that we must seek the Lord earnestly and constantly for help and guidance; and, furthermore, that we must live so that we will merit the help we need and feel that we must have from Him if we are to succeed. It is no wonder that the President of the Church exhorts and expects all leaders such as we to pray for divine aid to serve the Lord and live righteous and exemplary lives, because so much depends upon us, and because the Church itself is judged by all its leaders. This day we shall devote to our educational work. I am sure we shall have a profitable time together. Our course of study for next year is already laid out for us. It appears to be interesting, stimulating, and helpful. What we shall need to do now is to study and make careful plans for presenting the work to our members, for adult attention is difficult to hold unless careful planning is done. Someone has said the prepared teacher is the inspired teacher. I would like to add that she is also the inspiring teacher. The Relief Society class leaders are among our most important workers. Upon their good work depends much of the success of the organization. 'Their contribution to our union meetings and our weekly meetings cannot be estimated. On every Tuesday during our educational year in Our 2,132 wards and branches there are 2,132 class teachers conducting lessons. Our total teaching force consists of 690 stake class leaders, and 10,660 ward class leaders, making a total of 11,350. During the coming season the work of our ward class leaders will be especially strenuous. They will be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 confronted with larger classes than they have ever had before, and with the task of interesting new members who are unaccustomed to our work. Their teaching may be one of the determining factors in the attendance of our new members. They will need all the help and support stake leaders can give them. A few years ago Sister Emma Brown, who at that time was Professor of Primary Education at the Brigham Young University, brought to our attention some problems which she thought were pertinent in our Relief Society teaching. The following quotations are from her paper published in the Relief Society Magazine, November, 1934, page 660: Relief Society teaching seems to have a triple purpose—information, inspiration and participation. Ruskin says: '"Education does not mean teaching people what they do not know. It means teaching them to behave as they do not behave." It means educating for and training in, not merely telling about. In order to make clear to you my meaning, I shall venture to suggest a number of persistent problems which I suspect may be pertinent in your teaching:. 1. How may I, a teacher, help in getting women of the community to attend and join the organization? 2. What may I do to make Relief Society more attractive, interesting, and worthwhile to these women than any other Tuesday afternoon activity? 3. What may I do to the environment which will stimulate and encourage regular attendance? 4. How may I plan and organize the subject matter and materials of instruction so as to gain and hold the interest and attention of the group? 5. How shall I guide the class activities and so stimulate interest and attention? 6. What may I do to secure individual and group participation in class activities? 7. How may I discover the interests, pos- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE sibilities and purposes of the individual and the group? 8. How may I make the activities sufficiently comprehensive to give each learner a chance to make his contributions to the group? G. How may I vary activities and so add to the interest?. 10. How may I socialize the group so as to interest everyone in the common good? 11. How may I encourage, stimulate and build confidence in the diffident and retiring member? 12. How may I check, without giving offense, the talker who takes up too much time? 13. How may I create a friendly attitude of give and take? 14. How may I utilize constructively the talent of the group? 15. How may I radiate a friendly happy spirit of cooperation and helpfulness? 16. How may I leave the learners eager for further understanding? 17. How may I best develop desirable attitudes, ideals and appreciation? When we have settled upon the goals _ or objectives we are then brought face to 737 face with these troublesome issues: What to teach. How to organize this for teaching. Miss Brown then discusses how to proceed to teach. She says the following are some of the things that the teacher must think about: 1. What do I want to accomplish? 2. What are the fundamental ideas I am trying to fix regarding the subject matter? 3. How will I give them? | 4. How may I arouse interest? 5. What. Materials will I need to carry forward these experiences in order to achieve the goals? Teaching is said to be the noblest of the professions, and teachers are considered to be greatly blessed in their field and the opportunity it gives them. But there is the realization that with this opportunity there comes a great responsibility—the responsibility of influencing human behavior and molding human lives. That the Lord may bless you in your work is my earnest prayer. Union Meeting Lesson Demonstrations UNION meeting lesson demonstrations were held in each of the department sessions as follows: Theology, conducted by Counselor Donna D. Sorensen, assisted by Marianne C. Sharp, Ensign Stake; Zittelle M. Snarr, Mabel H. Burgoyne, Zina H. Ashton, Salt Lake Stake. Visiting Teachers' Message, conducted by Stella P. Rich, assistant professor of English, Brigham Young University, assisted by Jennie B. Knight, Inez B. Allred, Catherine Anderson, Edna B. Culmsee, Provo Stake; Edith Y. Booth, Delilah B. Adams, Utah Stake. Literature, conducted by Elsie C. Carroll, professor of English, Brigham Young University, assisted by Anna P. Redd, Iva Jensen, Provo Stake; Annie A. Tanner, Maurine Taylor, Utah Stake. Social Science, conducted by Belle S. Spafford, General Board member, assisted by Veda Davies, DeEtte Stewart, Eva Heiner, Christe Smith, Mabel Jones Gabbott, Thelma Gunn, Wells Stake; and LaRene Lindquist, South Salt Lake Stake. In the departments on theology, visiting teachers' message, and social science, the demonstrations were based on Lesson 2 of these respec- 738. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 tive courses for 1941-42; in the literature department Lesson 3 was used. The purpose of these demonstrations was to suggest ways and means whereby the union meeting lesson department sessions might achieve their objectives. The objectives were defined as: (1) to inspire ward class leaders with the spirit and purpose of the Relief Society educational program; (2) to guide and direct them in the use of specific subject matter so as to achieve desired teaching objectives; (3) to provide opportunity for the growth and development of ward class leaders. Demonstrations in each department emphasized the fact that a realization of union meeting objectives is dependent upon the attitude and cooperation of ward class leaders as well as upon the preparation and teaching skill of the stake leader. 'The union meeting session was presented as an organized study period in which specific subject matter is carefully analyzed, stimulation and direction for further study given, and assistance provided in the effective use of lesson material in the wards. The demonstrations revealed that the union meeting lesson is not just a smooth unfoldment of ideas which move from a point of departure to a logical conclusion. They also showed that the lesson in hand influences to a marked degree the factors which need consideration and emphasis in the union meeting. The following factors are a composite of the suggestions for successful union meeting lesson work brought out in the various demonstrations: 1. The ultimate objective of the Relief Society educational program. 2. The importance of Magazine material as a groundwork for the lesson. 3. The clarification and evaluation of immediate lesson objectives. 4. Suitable approaches to the lesson. 5. The value of review and its appropriate use in connection with the lesson in hand. 6. The organization of subject matter so that the lesson will move forward logically toward the desired goal. 7. The wise apportionment of time with regard to the various phases or divisions of the lesson. 8. Clarification of difficult or misunderstood parts of the lesson. G. The discriminate use of supplementary reading matter, particularly with tegard to references listed at the end of the lesson; discriminate and profitable use of other lesson enrichment material, such as visual aids, personal experiences, cards containing Articles of Faith, et cetera. (Page references were given to available books suitable for use in connection with the lesson under consideration. Where books were not available, individuals in the class, who had been previously assigned the responsibility, reported in detail on the content. Where material was not too lengthy, quotations copied from these references were distributed. ) 10. Anticipation of problems which might be encountered in presenting the lesson, such as trends the lesson might take which would defeat the objectives set up, parts of the lesson on which there might be marked differences of opinion, et cetera. (Teachers were fortified to meet these problems. ) 11. The importance of teachings being in harmony with Latter-day Saint teachings and an evaluation of the lesson from this point of view. 12. The importance — of _ theological teachings being orthodox and backed by scripture. 13. Suitable methods of presenting in the wards the lesson under consideration. 14. The value of special assignments; sections of lesson lending themselves to assignments; recommendations on how to make successful assignments, such as: (a) capitalize on the interests and the abilities of the adults; (b) enough time should be spent with the member to whom the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE assignment is made to make sure that the assignment is clear—allow the assigned individuals to ask questions; (c) make assignment definite by writing it out and explaining it orally if necessary; (d) make the time limit very clear; (e) make sure that material for use in preparation of assignment is available, or make it available; (f) some follow-through by the class leader should be made before the actual day of presentation. 15. The value of the general assignment with recommendations on how and when to make this. 16. The use of carefully formulated questions in securing class participation. 739 The development of teaching leadership (one of the objectives of the union meeting) was considered in the following ways: (1) instruction; (2) challenging assignments made in advance of the union meeting discussion; (3) encouraging and providing opportunity for women to make unassigned contributions to the lesson; (4) providing opportunity for class participation through well-formulated questions. Sheology and SJestimony Department Why Study The Gospel? Vivian R. McConkie Relief Society General Board Member HE Gospel of Jesus Christ is a plan or system of laws and ordinances by strict obedience to which all people are enabled to return again into the presence of the Lord. It embraces all the laws and ordinances necessary for salvation; therefore, the Gospel is the plan of salvation. But obedience to it does more than reinstate us in the Spiritual presence, as we were before the fall. It takes us far beyond the glory that we there enjoyed. The great Jehovah contemplated the whole of events connected with the earth before the world was. He was acquainted with situations of all nations and with their destiny. He ordered all things righteous, according to his own righteousness, and he foresaw the conditions of all men both in life and in death, and their redemption. And all of the children of men will be given opportunity to accept or reject His plan which is incumbent upon all men. Jesus himself preached the Gospel in Galilee. He commanded that it be published in all nations for a witness that He is the Savior and the Redeemer of men. But it is necessary that we understand the Gospel if we are to publish it. Otherwise, we cannot know how to think or to act to gain salvation. We cannot be saved except we obey the law, and we cannot obey the law unless we know what it is, and we cannot know what it is unless we search the scriptures. It is necessary to study the law and to know that it should be obeyed. Before we can overcome all things, we must overcome ignorance and doubt, and must see the necessity of obeying all righteous laws. If we do not see the reason for any of the Lord's laws, we should, nevertheless 740 obey them. Blind obedience leads to the light. Mothers should teach righteousness to their children before children can possibly see the reason for it, and if they obey, the spirit will some day tell them why. The spirit comes to us and gives us understanding because of individual righteousness. That it is impossible to be saved in ignorance is accepted Church doctrine. But what many seem not to understand is that the reference is to a knowledge of God. The Prophet Joseph Smith said: "A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge, for if he does not get knowledge he will be brought into captivity by some evil power in the other world, as evil spirits will have more knowledge and consequently more power than many men who are on earth. Hence it needs revelation to assist us, and give us knowledge of the things of God." (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Joseph Fielding Smith, page 217) Evil spirits have retained knowledge of the past, but our memories of our pre-existence have been taken from us. Their whole purpose is to thwart the Savior's plan, which they well remember and know. They make it increasingly necessary that we acquaint ourselves with the revealed plan. For salvation is based on a knowledge of the things of God, which is the only knowledge that has saving power in it. President Joseph F. Smith said: "We may know all about the philosophy of the ages and the history of the nations of the earth; we may study the wisdom and knowledge of man and get all the information that we can acquire in a lifetime of research and study, but all of it put RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 together will never qualify anyone to become a minister of the Gospel unless he has the knowledge and spirit of the first principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ." (Gospel Doctrine, page 324; see also Book of Mormon, II Nephi 9:27-29) Amulek says that when we are judged before the bar of God our reward will depend upon whether we have hardened our hearts against the word and upon that portion of the word which is found in us; in other words, upon how we have received the Gospel and increased our knowledge of God. (Book of Mormon, Alma 12:12-13) We are commanded to study the Gospel. "Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled." (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 1, verse 37) | The Lord has always commanded that we shall teach the Gospel with diligence one to another. If we do so, His promise is that His grace shall attend us, that we may be instructed more fully from day to day in the teachings and ordinances of the Church. (See Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Joseph Fielding Smith, page 309.) If we gain salvation, all the laws of God must be obeyed. All the ordinances are necessary. (See Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 332.) As men grow in the knowledge of God they become more and more like him. As man approaches God, he is enlightened. The Prophet Joseph Smith. Said, "We consider that God has created man with a mind capable of instruction, and a faculty which may be enlarged in proportion to the heed RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE and diligence given to the light communicated from heaven to the intellect; and that the nearer man approaches perfection the clearer are his views, and the greater his enjoyments, till he has overcome the evils of his life and lost every desire for sin; and like the ancients, arrives at that point of faith where he is wrapped in the power and glory of his Maker and is caught up to dwell with Him. But we consider that this is a station to which no man ever arrived in a moment: he must have been instructed in the government and laws of that kingdom by 741 degrees until his mind is capable in some measure of comprehending the propriety, justice, equality, and consistency of the same." (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 1) Therefore, it becomes evident that if we desire salvation we must subject our wills to certain requirements that were prescribed before the foundations of the earth were laid, which we call the Gospel. That we might know what they are, the Lord has given us the scriptures and has made it a continuing law that we study them. Stimulation Of Testimony Bearing In Relief Society Edith S. Elliott Relief Society General Board Member FOLLOWING each theology lesson period we have a precious fifteen minutes when Relief Society class members are given the opportunity to bear their testimonies. __ The most important reason for studying the Gospel of Jesus Christ is to gain a testimony of its great truths. The word Gospel is so often used as a general term. Do those of us who use it understand all of the divisions that go into making up the whole? It is our hope that by studying the Articles of Faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, Relief Society women will understand these various elements which are the necessary parts of the Gospel. We may look upon these Articles as the thirteen foundation stones for the building of testimonies. Many women feel shy about standing on their feet to express their more serious thoughts. This is particularly true in Fast meeting. Some women are too timid to arise where members of the Priesthood are present. So how fine it is that a sister can stand among her friends and neighbors in Relief Society and tell of God's goodness! We seldom miss the opportunity to discuss freely some great pleasure which has come our way—a vacation trip, a new house, an unusual recipe, a gift, or even style trends. Yet, when it comes to speaking of spiritual matters we get a lump in our throats and our thoughts freeze before we can voice them. Why can't we feel as free to discuss the spiritual as we do to discuss the material things of life? We can, if we will just convince ourselves that the one is as easily expressed as the other; further, our beliefs are strengthened when they are expressed verbally. 742 Our Heavenly Father is pleased when we bear witness of his goodness to us. He tells us in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 62:3: "Nevertheless, ye are blessed, for the testimony which ye have borne is recorded in heaven for the angels to look upon; and they rejoice over you, and your sins are forgiven you." There are those of our sisters who have said, "I don't know that I have a testimony." Others have said, "How do I know whether or not I have a testimony?" I think all Latter-day Saint women have a testimony. Let any one criticize the Gospel or any of its teachings and there swells up within us an urge to defend and explain the points under fire. In this, I feel certain that we all have the elements of a testimony. The Lord is glad to help us secure spiritual knowledge, for he says, "Seek and ye shall find.- Knock and it shall be opened unto you." If we want to study chemistry, physics, or any of the other exact sciences, we plan to set aside a given amount of time for research and learning. If we want to be accomplished in any of the fields of art, we systematically map out a plan of activity that will help us to achieve our goal. Yet there are some of us who would like a knowledge of spiritual truths, and still we do little to secure it. We progress in any course only in so far as we prepare ourselves to achieve in that course. Our fellow men in large numbers expect the Lord to open the heavens RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-NOVEMBER, 1941 and give them a personal manifestation. They ask for a sign or a miracle. In the theology text, Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage, the. Author gives a very enlightening treatise on miracles in the chapter entitled "Spiritual Gifts." He writes that we shouldn't look to miracles for proof of divine teachings. He points out that the adversary also has the gift of performing miracles and generously displays his art to deceive and confuse mankind. Inasmuch as we can't always rely upon miracles, we should gather fact after fact and truth upon truth, and with these we can build a bulwark strong and invulnerable to any destroying power. We must keep in mind that a Gospel testimony is a living thing. It may be compared to a fine rose bush which must be cultivated, fertilized, watered and pruned—one which must be guarded as to light and temperature in order to produce lovely blossoms. If any detail of care is left undone the bush either dies or retrogrades into a_ wild, thorny, undesirable shrub without value or beauty. So with a testimony—it must be nurtured, safeguarded and added to, or it will die. Relief Society sisters should safeguard their testimonies and help others to gain one. We read in John 3:33: "He that hath received his testimony hath set to his seal that God is true." And for witnessing this, we may be heirs to our Heavenly Father's choicest blessings. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 743 Officers Meeting Wednesday Afternoon RoundTable Discussion Conducted by Dr. M. Lynn Bennion, assisted by Florence I. Hyde, Ensign Stake; 'Thelma J. Ryser, Bonneville Stake; Gwen Jones, Salt Lake Stake; Mae S. Best, Highland Stake. Dr. Bennion: Our assignment is to discuss some of the recurring problems in the teaching of Relief Society classes. I am going to ask Sister Jones to suggest a problem she has encountered. Gwen Jones: In our present campaign for membership, we expect to enroll young matrons of 20 and grandmothers of 7o and 75. Will our classes be interesting to all of these age groups? Dr. Bennion: That is a very pettinent question. I will ask Sister Hyde to give us her opinion on this. Florence I. Hyde: Many of our older women, whose children are married, feel that the lessons have more purpose in the lives of young women who are rearing children. Therefore, I believe it is important for teachers to make an effort to show these women what the lessons can do for them. In the first place, I feel that we can very easily convert them to the fact that any knowledge is worthwhile, and that the knowledge of the things our lessons are designed to teach is very important because of its cultural value. I feel that the lessons have a very practical value for older members, for, after all, grandmothers do have a part in the rearing of their grandchildren, and a knowledge of psychology, theology, and literature, in fact all of the subjects which we teach, will give them greater wisdom in solving problems that may come up in relation to their grandchildren. I remember as one of the richest experiences of my life my grandmother reading stories to her grandchildren, telling of her experiences, and singing some of the old songs that mothers of today do not know. I feel that an effort should be made on the part of every teacher to make her members feel that they have a place of great importance in the plan of life. Dr. Bennion: How can you determine the age of a woman—the intellectual age? Thelma J. Ryser: Very often a woman is young at 65 or 70, or she may be old at 50. I believe it is a good idea to break down the barrier of age. Very often a clash of ideas will bring forth participation from women of all ages. Dr. Bennion: Do you feel that the writers of the lessons had this problem in mind as they wrote? Do you think they made a universal appeal in their writings? Mae S. Best: I think the material does appeal to every age group. There is enough variety in our lesson material to satisfy all. Dr. Bennion: Is there any problem that you have in mind, Sister Best? Mae S. Best: Yes, I would like to ask how we can make our discussions fruitful for everyone, regardless of age. Dr. Bennion: I am glad you used 744 the word "fruitful." Someone has said that when the Germans get together they march, when the French get together they sing, and when the Mormons get together they discuss. In other words, any mature group of Latter-day Saints will discuss if you give them a chance. One very easy way to teach is to throw out a question and just let nature take its course. But the question is whether or not this is fruitful. Sister Ryser, how can discussion be made fruitful? Thelma J. Ryser: I think that assigning a topic is one of the best ways to make a discussion fruitful. There are many ways of assigning a topic. I think a teacher is inviting failure if she just assigns a topic by saying, "We are going to study such and such"; and I think a teacher should not assign a topic unless she is familiar with it herself. She should think the topic through before assigning it, and know to whom she is making the assignment. The assignment should be made in the light of the ability of the sisters, and early enough for thorough preparation. Assignments should be clear and definite and direction should be given in where material dealing with the assigned subject can be found. A time limit should be placed on its presentation. But that is not all; the assignment should be followed up and checked upon by the teacher. Dr. Bennion: Do the women take these assignments, or do they resent being assigned the work? In other words, would they sooner come and listen to a lecture by a well-informed teacher and just acquiesce in what is said, or are they willing to dig in and think through the problems and enter into a discussion? Gwen Jones: I think that depends RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 largely upon the class which they are attending. In the social science class I believe the women like to discuss familiar problems, but in theology and literature I think that they really prefer to just listen. (Dr. Bennion asked members in the audience who agreed with this statement to raise their hands, and a large portion of the audience agreed. ) Dr. Bennion: Sister Best, we have heard that the assignment must be very specific, to the point, and followed up, if the discussion is to be fruitful. That is particularly true if the lessons are one month apart. How are you going to keep the discussion pertinent to the lesson objective? Do you have any trouble with class members wanting to get off on a tangent? Mae S. Best: I believe that if the leader is well prepared, and has a clear and concise idea of the information she wishes to impart, this need not be a great problem. Her questions must also be clearly stated and must not be misleading. 'Then if a person does get off on something that is irrelevant to the subject, she can tactfully ignore it and ask someone else her opinion. I think it is very wise for the leader to always have several illustrations in her own mind that will bring the discussion back to the subject matter at hand. Dr. Bennion: Suppose during a discussion that the necessary facts were not forthcoming; that is, the members did not know the necessary facts to clarify a point or problem. What do you think the teacher should do in that case? Florence I, Hyde: 'The teacher should do a great deal of outside reading and have a wide knowledge of her subject so that she can clarify RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE a point in question when the class cannot. However, a teacher cannot know everything, so she might say, "Let us look it up for next time," or she might give it as a special assignment to someone. Dr. Bennion: Do you think it is a disgrace for a teacher to say, "I do not know'? Thelma J. Ryser: If I do not know, I do not mind saying so, but I always arrange to find out before the next class period. Dr. Bennion: We have discussed rather thoroughly how the discussion may be fruitful. Here is another fundamental problem. How can we determine whether the lessons are carrying over from one month to another? Thelma J. Ryser: I think that the problem would be different in different departments in Relief Society. However. I believe all lessons should be subject to review. We have certain points we wish to stress, certain objectives to reach, and during the discussion these points are driven home with force. At the end of the lesson the teacher brings these points together in one definite statement or summary. A review of these main points is a connecting link between one month's lesson and the next. Repetition or the reiteration of any idea fixes it. Dr. Bennion: In other words, it is the obligation of the teacher during the discussion to seize on to the fundamental things brought out. She should put these on the blackboard, in organized fashion, and bring them together in a summary, and these are the things that must be reviewed, repeated, and drilled upon. Would you approve of an examination about 745 twice a year upon these fundamental things? Thelma J. Ryser: I think that might frighten our women. Dr. Bennion: If you did it in sporting fashion it might be a good thing. Children in school have to face it all the time. In more ways than one, we are tested all the time. I am sure, however, that the finest way to make sure your lessons carry over is to take these fundamentals and apply them jn your lives, then they become part of your experience. Thelma J. Ryser: I should like to know how a teacher may improve her work? We all need improvement all the time. Dr. Bennion: There are three or four fundamental things that ought to be mentioned in answering that question: First, the teacher must have a philosophy of life. A religious teacher must have a testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ—a growing testimony. If she does not have that, if she does not keep rekindling it, she will get discouraged and wonder if her work is worthwhile. Second, she must have a love for human beings; she must be a student of human nature all her days. She must know her group. Third, she must be a student of the learning process, or how learning takes place; she must know something about it. The mission of the teacher is to stimulate and to help develop that which is inside a person. That is a lifelong study. To give a specific suggestion on how a teacher may improve her work, I think at the end of each lesson she teaches, when she gets home, she might sit in a quiet corner and pass judgment on what she did, not just on herself, but on the total situation. She might ask such questions as these: (1) Were the members interested in this class, and what point was most interesting and what point least? Why? (2) Did every member really take part? (3) Did I do my best to enlist such cooperation, particularly with the more timid and backward women? Did they seem to think the lesson worthwhile? (5) Were my objectives achieved? (6) Did the students seem clear as to the purpose of the lesson? (7) Wasmy lesson plan changed any from the way I prepared it? Were these changes good changes, and did they meet the needed situation? (8) Did I make a good assignment? (g) Is it clear to the members why they should undertake it? (10) Are they likely to carry through the assignment? An evaluation of her work helps the teacher to improve it. Thelma ]. Ryser: In addition to technical training, don't you think we need spirituality in our Relief Society teaching? Dr. Bennion: The reason you people who may not have had technical training make wonderful teachers is because you have the spirit of the Gospel in your hearts, you love human beings, you want to try to help save them and you have at least average intelligence. Then you must pay the price in effort. I cannot tell you what that price is to each of you, but if you are willing to pay it, you will be a successful teacher. When asking someone to teach in Relief Society, you should not say, "If you will be a teacher in the Relief Society all you have to do is this and that." Rather, you should say, "This is going to be a great challenge and a big assignment. It will take the very best spiritual and intellectual RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 qualities you have if you do it right; but if you will pay the price and do it right, there will be unheard of joys, blessings, and compensations come to you." I would like to emphasize another thing, After receiving this assignment, I inquired around a little and found that in a good many Relief Society classes the teacher is doing the work in lecture fashion. While adults get by with'this better than any other group, it puts a great responsibility on the teacher. The women may enjoy it; it is better for. Them than not being there, for they do some thinking and have a fine social contact by being in attendance. But there is a whole side of them which is neglected—the creative side. We are offspring of the Creator, and the creative side of us is very beautiful; it is divine. If we are going to learn a thing we must think, and discussion stimulates thinking. If we are to learn to judge and weigh one thing against another, we must have an interchange of views. In the lecture, one brilliant person does it all, and the members are deprived of a creative experience. In closing, I would summarize our discussion as follows: We have considered rather briefly four important questions regarding Relief Society teaching— 1. Are the lessons of interest to women of all age levels? My associates in this discussion feel that the lesson writers have had in mind the wide age range in Relief Society and have chosen themes of universal appeal. The sharing of experience by women of all ages is profitable and enriching to all. Nobody is old whose mind is alert and open to new discoveries. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 2. How may class discussions be made most fruitful? First, arouse interest in the lesson and a desire on the part of class members to seek new light on it. This may be done by asking questions to discover what they already know about the lesson or by telling a story or incident which relates the lesson theme to their own lives. Then make a careful, specific assignment and follow it up to be sure it is understood and will carry through. A fruitful discussion should follow, based on an exchange of new insights achieved through fulfilling the assignment. The discussion is a cooperative search for the really significant points of the lesson. The teacher must be able to recognize these essential elements and make an orderly outline of them on the blackboard as they emerge out of the group discussion. 'The teacher should endeavor to meet such handicaps to successful discussion as: (1) lack of needed facts; (2) unwillingness to face new facts; (3) closed minds 747. And resistance to new ideas; (4) love of argument for its own sake; (5) teacher domination; (6) the hobby rider. 3. How can we determine whether the lessons carry over from one month to another? Fssential points of the lesson are brought together in a blackboard summary by the teacher. These should be copied down by each member in a notebook. These are the things that must be reviewed, repeated and drilled upon. Whenever possible, activites should be suggested to help make the lesson a part of life's experiences. Then they become a part of the person and change life for the better. 4. How may a teacher improve her work? By critically evaluating her efforts in the light of her ideal of good performance, by constant study, by prayer, and by living the Gospel of Jesus Christ, a teacher will continually improve her work. Ee itera ture Department Humor—A Universal Benefactor Rae B. Barker Relief Society General Board Member T the time the subject of humor was selected as the 1941-42 literature course of study, there was only a foreshadowing of dark days ahead in world affairs. Now storm clouds hang heavily on the social horizon of the whole world. This year, as in other years, it seems that the choice of subject matter was directed to mect a specific need. When bewilderment, headlines, and grim newscasts begin to devitalize our spirits, it is wisdom to consciously do something which will help to release the psychological tension and maintain healthy group morale. At the present time, we may look back and see how in all periods, in all 748 places, and for all people, humor has served as a safety valve, a balance spring to offset the degenerative effects of excesses—too much gruelling work, too much worry, tragedy, excessive vanity, pride, pretense and the common sin of being overserious. | Aside from the present apparent need for more humor, there is another major reason for choosing this particular subject, as indicated in the title itself—"Humor in Life and Literature." Humor is a fundamental human emotion, and as such should be a definite part of good literature, for good literature records life faithfully. Our Relief Society study of literature would be as incomplete without consideration being given to humor as our lives would be drab if robbed of humor. The same test may be applied to determine good humor as to determine good literature in general. The lessons have been developed by the writer in such a manner as to give us definite help on this phase of the subject. The axiom, "Tell me what you laugh at and I'll tell you what you are," directs our thinking to another objective in the selection of this course: the development of discrimination. To direct the choice of illustrations used, to cultivate refinement, polish, and a sense of appropriateness will challenge our best efforts as literature leaders. The result of our work will no doubt be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 a rise in the general tenor of humor enjoyed by Relief Society women. Wholesome enjoyment is certainly a worthwhile objective. Perhaps one of the finest ways in which this course will serve will be through the benefits which will come to our families. We believe that because of it our families will be happier families. Quoting Elsie Carroll, "Humor is a vital element in successful, happy living; a sense of humor is a precious, saving characteristic which (fortunately) can be, at least to some extent, cultivated." Humor lubricates the wheels of living. If we laugh more, perhaps we will scold less. To laugh with our children, to be equipped to tell stories by which they absorb discrimination, is an invaluable means of helping to keep young people wholesome and older people young. To be young in spirit is no idle ambition. The vicissitudes and the many disillusioning experiences which accompany maturity make it so easy to lose much of the natural response to merriment which as children we were blessed with. Because humor has served all periods, we can expect it to serve now. Our appreciation of good, high-class humor as part of good literature will, no doubt, be increased during the coming year, and the level of that which we enjoy should be improved. Our families should be made happier, and we ourselves should be aided in keeping buoyant and young. Public Conversation—'Let's Talk It Over" Presented by Mary G. Judd, Alice B. Castleton, Anna B. Hart, and Irma Bitner. HE conversation, "Let's Talk it Over," was presented for the purpose of suggesting suitable methods of teaching the lessons on humor RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE as well as appropriate activities which might be engaged in in connection with these lessons. The conversation occasionally applied the method suggested to specific lessons. It pointed out that. The lessons in humor were primarily planned to help release present-day tensions and to help establish habits of cheerfulness in our children. The conversation itself demonstrated a method that might find a place in a literature class period. The following helpful suggestions were brought out in "'Let's 'Talk it Over": 1. Assign one member of the class the responsibility of bringing to class an example of a certain type of humor. Ask some one else to explain why we laugh at this. 2. Let a class member dramatize an actual humorous situation. This might lead to more pretentious humorous dramatizations. 3. A number of humorous characters of literature might be presented in the form of a panel discussion; for example, five or six characters might be assigned to five or six different women. The teacher, acting as chairman, would draw out information 749 about these characters through questions. 4. 'Selected humorous subjects might be assigned to small committees. The group would then get together at least one afternoon to prepare the report for class presentation. 5. An appropriate humorous story, song or picture might be used at the beginning of the class period to create a joyful mood. 6. Choice, well-selected cartoons or pictures which tell a humorous story might be shown on a bulletin board or blackboard.. 7. Everyday humorous sayings or situations might be collected and a scrapbook made. 8. Women might discuss their hobbies that touch on humor. G. Several weeks in advance of the lesson, choice humorous selections might be assigned to be memorized and presented to the class. 10. Women who are clever writers might read some of their own humorous compositions. 11. At the first literature lesson, cards might be passed out. On one side of the card women might indicate their own talents; on the other side, the talents of others in the class. 12. In making assignments, a paper might be passed which lists all of the assignments to be made. Women might be asked to sign their names opposite the assignment they are willing to accept. % Social Science Department Supplementary Reading Material Pauline T. Pingree Relief Society General Board Member NE day a friend of mine, referring to a certain teacher, said, "You know when she enters the classroom it is as though a candle had been lighted. She has such a rich educational background! She is well informed about her subject and loves to teach." It is a wonderful thing for a teacher to be able to inspire her listeners in this manner. If a teacher can make the members of her class feel that she has a fund _ of information back of what she is saying, she inspires confidence and adds to her success as a teacher. Now the question arises, "What 750 shall we read in the preparation of our lessons?" First, let us read the Relief Society Magazine. It is a guide for the busy reader, and a first dependable source of information in the preparation of our lessons. It is from lesson material published in the Magazine that lesson objectives are determined and the point of view, approved by the General Board, from which lessons should be taught, is obtained. Magazine material is always in harmeny with the Latter-day Saint point of view. It is a guide in the selection of supplementary reading material necessary to lesson enrichment. Because space in the Magazine is so limited, it is suggested that class leaders do as much outside reading as possible. Read at least two good books this winter which can be applied to our lessons. It is desirous that class leaders be imbued with the Latter-day Saint philosophy of life. Therefore, let us all read the scriptures. They provide information, inspiration, satisfaction and comfort. Other Church publications worthy of our time are The Improvement Era, Brigham Young's Discourses, Gospel Doctrine, by President Joseph F. Smith, Church History, biographies of our Church leaders, et cetera. The chapter, the "Marriage, 'Home, and the Family," found in' Gospel Doctrine, pages 341 to 399, is especially suitable for use in connection with our lessons. In this chapter, President Joseph F. Smith speaks of the necessity of marriage, the sacredness of marriage as it has been revealed to us in the latter days, and eternal marriage. Brigham Young's Discourses, chapters 17 and 18, contains excellent material on the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 family and deals with many problems of family life. President Clark's address, "Our Homes," given at the Relief Society general conference, October, 1940, and published in the © December, 1940, Relief Society Magazine, is worthy of consideration. We also recommend the address, "Training For Woman's Work," by Elder John A. Widtsoe, given at the Relief Society general conference, April, 1940, and published in The Relief Society Magazine, June, 1940, page 379. Back lessons on family relations will also be found profitable reading. Current magazines frequently provide excellent articles suitable for use in presenting social science lessons. I am especially partial to The Reader's Digest. Articles published in this magazine are taken from the best magazines on the market; being digests, they are quickly read. I have selected eleven articles from this magazine that are applicable to our lessons: 1. "Footnotes to a Happy Marriage," September, 1939, page 71. 2. "Parents Should be Seen and Not Heard," George Kent, September, 1939, page 81. 3. "Married Leve," Alexis Carrel, M. D., July, 1939, page 12. 4. "Don't Have an Abortion," Jane Ward, August, 1941, page 17. 5. "A Present for the Bride," Francis Newton, August, 1939, page 88. 6. "I Would Not Divorce Him Now," (Anonymous), September, 1941, page 18.. 7. "The Burden Marriage Bears," Harry Zorbaugh, December, 1939, page 41. 8. "Your Happiness is in Your Hands," Boris Blai, April, 1940, page 68. G. "The Philosophy for You in These Times," Bertrand Russell, October, 1941, page 5. 10. "Have You an Educated Heart?" RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Gelett 1941, page 81. 11. "The Basic Axiom of Marital Felicity," Donald C. Peattie, October, 1941, page 111. The Ladies' Home Journal is now publishing a series of illustrated articles entitled "How America Lives." Each month this magazine presents the life of a supposedly successful family. 'These families have been selected from different parts of the United States. Up to date, twenty articles have been published, and all are very good. Other periodicals which will be found worthwhile are Good Housekeeping, Parents, Consumers' Guide, American Home, and Hygeia. A number of reference books are listed in the Magazine each month at the end of the lesson, but none has been adopted as a textbook because the content in its entirety cannot be recommended by the General Board. If you desire to buy one book, however, we recommend Good Burgess, October, 751 Housekeeping Marriage Book. 'This book is an outgrowth of a series of articles contributed by such wellknown authors as Eleanor Roosevelt, William L. Phelps, Ellsworth Huntington, of Yale University, and others. Arranged in book form, these articles give to prospective husbands and wives, as well as those already married, specific answers to many questions about marriage. The book is published by Prentice Hall, Inc., New York, and sells for $2, including tax. It is the right use of our spare moments in reading and study which qualify us for leadership. It is not lack of ability that holds people down, but lack of industry. For all who seek self-improvement there is a lion in the way, the lion of selfindulgence, and it is only by the conquest of this enemy that progress is assured. One or two hours' good reading every day will accomplish wonders. Officers ITleeting Thursday Forenoon President's Report and Official Instructions President Amy Brown Lyman THE following report of organizations and reorganizations was given, with grateful appreciation for the splendid service of the retiring officers, and a warm welcome to those newly appointed. ORGANIZATION Stake South Salt Lake Formerly Part of Grant and Wells Stakes Winnie O. Lavin Appointed President Date September 2, 1941 752 REORGANIZATIONS Stake or Mission Released Appointed President Stakes Burley Dora Pickett Agnes Hoggan Grant Martha W. Brown Cassandra D. Bailey Highland Allie R. Barnes Zora C. Paulson Lyman Katherine Blackner Sarah J. Slagowski Nampa LaVera Aston Clara Mason Nevada Nellie C. Brunson Erma Erickson Reno Ethelyn D. States Bertha Jane Purdy Roosevelt Kate Killian Elsie M. Taylor San Bernardino South Sevier Josie B. Bay Jetta Marquardson Twin Falls Afton W. Hunt Washington Louise C. Bennion Missions Tahitian Edna L. Cannon Texas Luella R. Christiansen Western States Ada P. Seegmiller Evelyn Wilde Heath Jennie Brown M. Lennie Ward Elizabeth G. Hales Venus R. Rossiter Martha T. Warner Luceal R. Curtis CENTENNIAL PLANS Desiring to be helpful, we should like to review briefly some of the proposed plans and projects to be carried out in connection with our coming centennial, most of which have already been presented to you. Recommendations for Local Observance of Centennial We call to your attention again the following two definite recommendations to be followed by local Relief Societies throughout the Church: 1. That celebrations be held in all stakes (either in stake or ward capacity) on March 17, 1942, with the exception of those stakes comprising the Salt Lake Region which, due to their location, will hold their celebration in' connection with the general Church-wide celebration at the time of the April conference; 2. That centennial trees be planted on stake and ward chapel grounds. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 Date August 24, 1941 August 17, 1941 - September 12, 1941 May 4, 1941 March g, 1941 September 14, 1941 September 21, 1941 May 11, 1941 June 1, 1941 - September 21, 1941 September 28, 1941 June 22, 1941 September 21, 1941 June 21, 1941 May 15, 1941 August 1, 1941 July 15, 1941 Other Features—Participation Optional 1.. Centennial Poem Contest, which closed October 1, 1941 (see Relief Society Magazine, June, 1941, page 397). 2. Centennial Short Story Contest, which closed October 1, 1941 (see Relief Society Magazine, June, 1941, page 398). 3. Centennial Seals The official centennial insignia, reproduced in blue and gold as a gummed seal, 11/8 inches in diameter, is now available to all Relief Societies desiring to purchase quantities for attaching to programs, booklets, stationery, place cards, or for. Similar uses during this important year. These seals are available only in lots of 100 at the rate of 10c per hundred, postpaid. 4. Centennial Songs Two centennial songs, punched to fit the Relief Society Song Book (the first additions to the loose-leaf Song Book since its publication early in 1940) will be off the press during November— Emigration North Idaho Falls Mary R. Hatch Emeline Y. Nebeker Jennie H. Brockbank Ethel Miles RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE A Song of Triumph, words and music by the late Beatrice F. Stevens, 2 pages, 5c per copy, postpaid; In His Form, words by Dr. Carlton Culmsee, music by Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, member of the General Board, 7 pages, 10c per copy, postpaid. Inasmuch as the combined price of the two songs is 15c, the Song Book, which formerly sold at 85c per copy, postpaid, will hereafter be priced at $1 per copy, postpaid, with the two new songs included. 5. Centennial Concert Stakes and missions are invited to take part in the Singing Mothers' Centennial Concert to be held in the Salt Lake Tabernacle at the time of the general celebration, by selecting for participation in the great chorus of 1,500 voices a delegation of not more than nine good singers—a balanced group of first sopranos, second sopranos, and altos. Although it will be possible for comparatively few singers from each stake and mission to take part in the Tabernacle concert, it is recommended that Singing Mothers throughout the Church be featured extensively in local celebrations in the wards, stakes, and missions. Personal Centennial Souvenirs— Purchase Optional Thinking that every Relief Society woman would probably want at least one souvenir of the centennial, the General Board has arranged for production of a number of commemotative articles from which selection may be made. The purchase of these articles is entirely optional. They are all obtainable from the office of the General Board, and the prices quoted include mailing charges. These centennial souvenirs are: 1. The official Relief Society pin, samples of which have been sent to all stake and mission Relief Society presidents and which are being displayed at your stake Relief Society conferences. 'These are priced $1.80 for 753 the 10-carat solid gold front (that is, gold filled) with 24-carat goldplated back, and $1.10 for the 24- carat gold-plated pin, including federal excise tax and mailing charges. (See Relief Society Magazine, September, 1941, page 612; October, 1941, page 689.). A special centennial commemorative book of 96 pages, size g x 12 inches, to be titled A Centenary of Relief Society, to be bound in durable cover-paper. This book will contain a history of the organization portrayed in both pictures and words—price 50c, postpaid. It is recommended that the regular stake and ward Relief Society Magazine representatives solicit advance orders for this book. This book will include an account of the general centennial celebration in April, and will be off the press about May 1, 1942. 3. A book, Our Legacy—Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse, by Latter-day Saint women, price $1.50, postpaid, which will be available about December 15, 1941. 4. A centennial plate, 101/2 inches in diameter, upon which will be found a reproduction of an old etching of the organization meeting of the Society, showing Joseph Smith, John Taylor, e and Willard Richards, and the 18 charter members. This plate, handcolored in soft, harmonious colors, will be ready for sale about December 15, 1941. The cost will be $1.50, postpaid. N Relief Society Centennial Memorial One of the most important features of our celebration will be the placing and dedication of a memorial which is to be presented to the Church by the Relief Society and placed upon Temple Square. This memorial will consist of a beautiful tower within which will be placed the famous Nauvoo bell. 'This bell once hung in the Nauvoo Temple and was brought across the plains in 754 the fall of 1847. (For further information see "Our Permanent Centennial Memorial," by Mary Grant Judd, page 769) If any of you would like to see this famous bell you may do so by going into the Bureau of Information where it is now on display in the main corridor. The erection of this tower will cost a considerable sum, and all members of the organization will be given an opportunity to make contributions. From ioc to 25c has been suggested as a schedule for contributions, which is within the reach of many of us. Some may desire to give less, and others more. Let it be understood that making donations to this project, however, is an entirely voluntary and personal matter A special sheet for the names of donors and amounts donated will be provided in the new ward record book kept by the secretary, who will handle the fund; these sheets will OTHER Membership Campaign The General Board is greatly pleased over the progress being made in the membership campaign. The efforts you have put forth during the last three and one-half years have borne good fruit. After our goal of 100,000 has been reached, we shall have a new campaign before us—that of holding and interesting the new members we have enrolled. Officers and class leaders will feel it their duty to be hospitable and to inspire and interest these new members as well as the old faithful ones, and to insure their regular continued attendance. We shall be challenged both individually and collectively in this matter. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 be retained in the ward as a permanent record. Cooperation of M. I. A. In recognition and support of the Relief Society centennial, the General Boards of the Mutual Improvement Association have released to the Relief Society Tuesday evening, March 17, 1942, for local centennial programs. Those who desire to hold celebrations in the evening rather - than the afternoon may therefore feel free to make arrangements with their respective bishops and local M. I. A. Officers for the use of this evening. These Boards have also released the time of the Sunday evening M. I. A. Meeting throughout the Church on November 2, 1941, for a conjoint service of Relief Society and M. I. A. In the interest of Relief Society membership. 'The General Board is very grateful to the Mutual Improvement Associations for these generous concessions.; MATTERS Change in Collection Time of Annual Membership Dues After careful consideration, the General Board has changed the time of collection of annual membership dues from the month of January to the month of October, effective during 1941. Hereafter, the annual dues will not cover the calendar year, but a membership year extending from October 1 to September 30 of the following year. This change was announced to all officers by means of official bulletin No. 17, July 22, 1941, and also in the Relief Society Magazine, October, 1941, page 688. In making the change this year from a calendar to a membership year, members who paid dues in RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE January, 1941, will be expected to pay dues on the new basis in October, 1941. However, no collection will be made next January, and the dues paid in October this year will cover the period up to September 30, 1942. Because regular weekly meetings of Relief Society are not held during the four-month period, June through September, any new members enrolled between April 1 and October 1, 1941, who paid initial membership dues during this period, are to be considered as having paid dues for the new 1941-42 membership year, and are to be issued a 1941-42 membership card without further payment of dues this year. All new members enrolling after October 1, 1941, will be expected to pay annual membership dues upon enrollment for the ensuing membership year ending September 30, 1942. New membership cards have been issued by the General Board covering the membership year October 1, 1941, to September 30, 1942. Inasmuch as this period includes the looth anniversary of Relief Society, the new membership card is printed in the Relief Society colors, blue and gold, and bears the official centennial insignia. Sewing Survey A survey has recently been made under the direction of the Church clothing committee, on which the General Board is represented, to determine the best method of carrying on a sewing program under the Church welfare plan. All Relief Society stake presidents filled in questionnaires in connection with this survey, and a number of regions 5 were visited and valuable information collected aad tabulated. From this survey recommendations will be forthcoming. We desire to thank our Relief Society presidents for their response to the questionnaires, and the workers in the various localities visited for their courtesy and cooperation. Magazine Subscriptions Magazine subscriptions should be - solicited at or near expiration time. They may begin any month. Some of our stakes have the mistaken idea that the General Board desires all Magazine subscriptions to begin in the month of January. This is not the case. In fact, it would be impossible for us to handle the situation in our mailing department if all subscriptions began in the same month. The only change which was made with respect to Magazine regulations at the April conference this year was that the intensive one-month Magazine promotion campaign might be conducted in whatever month is chosen by the stake, and that hereafter the annual subscription report would cover the calendar year. The annual subscription report is of all subscriptions taken during the year, irrespective of the month with which the subscriptions begin or end. The General Board has continually emphasized that' the Magazine subscription work be distributed throughout the year insofar as possible. In order to assist the representatives in so distributing their work, the General Board began a _new service in June of this year, and sends monthly to all stakes and missions notification slips relating to the expiring subscriptions each month. Mormon Handicraft Shop Your efforts have helped greatly in the twofold purpose of the Mormon Handicraft Shop—to afford our people a market for their handwork, and to foster and perpetuate the crafts which are the heritage of our people. Buyers are interested in things that are made by our Mormon people, especially those articles which are clever and have local or historical significance. No article should be offered under the label of Mormon Handicraft which is not well done and on good material with a harmonious use of color. We wish you would stress these points to your workers who are sending or are planning to send articles to the Shop. We would like as many lovely articles as possible to be available for sale in the Shop during our centennial year. We deeply appreciate your fine loyalty and cooperation in taking membership in the Shop. Last year several stakes had 100 percent of their wards with memberships. We urge you to encourage and teach the different crafts to the young women of the Church. One stake, for example, has a project of teaching its women, especially the young women, the arts of netting and rug weaving. Temple and Burial'Clothing We would like to make a few helpful suggestions for ordering clothing from our Temple and Burial Clothing Department, managed by the Relief Society General Board: 1. Give purpose—whether for temple or burial use. 2. For burial, send order promptly in order to insure delivery by the time desired. 3. State clearly whether for man, woman, or child. 4. Give age, exact measurements, and approximate price for complete order. 5. Postage and express charges are pre- ' paid by the Board. Upon receipt of a telephoned or telegraphed order, we can readily send burial clothing to any place in the United States where there is airmail or air express service, the latter being much less expensive and equally available. Blue Bulletins We trust that you are carefully preserving your blue bulletins and other information which we are sending out from time to time. Stake presidents are advised to see that their counselors and all other members of stake boards read these bulletins as well as other instructions. 'They should also see that whatever applies to wards is sent to them promptly. Reports are made to us that stake board members often do not have the opportunity of reading these instructions. If you do not have time to read them through in meeting, pass them around, (See Relief Society Magazine, May, 1941, page 296, under Blue Bulletins.) Articles of Faith (Card Copies) We regret the delay in the delivery of the card copies of the Articles of Faith, which are to be left in each Latter-day Saint home this year by the visiting teachers. We had expected that they would be ready for distribution on the October visit of the teachers, but through delays in delivery of paper the printers were unable to fill our order on time. We 756 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE hope now that the cards will be ready and in your hands by the first ot December. You will be kept posted regarding this matter. The cards will be 7x11 inches in size and where desirable may be hung up in the homes, either framed or unframed. 'They will be furnished free of charge by the General Board. What a fine thing it would be if in every home these precious Articles of Faith could be memorized by every member of the family! Welfare Memorandum Sheets We are pleased to announce that beginning with the month of January, 1942, ward presidents will be provided with family record or memorandum sheets (buff in color) upon which to keep a record of families under care. These sheets will be a helpful tool for ward presidents, providing a place to record information which is important for them to have in order to make intelligent recommendations to the bishops regarding the needs of these families. Accompanying the record sheets will be a weekly food distribution guide (blue in color) prepared in connection with the Church Welfare Committee. With these there will be full instructions regarding their use. These sheets are perforated and are to be placed in a loose-leaf binder, held by the ward president or her social service aid. The sheets will be provided by the General Board, but the wards will be expected to pay for the binder, which can be had at the Relief Society office for 6oc, including a helpful set of five divider sheets with index tabs, or 40¢ for the binder without the index. A discussion of this matter is being taken up in your stake conferences 757 this fall in the meeting with bishops and ward presidents. You will therefore have full opportunity to learn of all details connected with it before the records are put into use January 1, 1942. Social Science Department There has been no provision for a social science lesson in December, due to the holiday season. The General Board does not require that a meeting be held on the fourth 'Tuesday, December 23. Any ward desiring to meet on that date will furnish its Own program. Literature Department It is suggested that the literature lesson which would regularly come on the third Tuesday, March 17, 1942, our 100th anniversary, be given on March 31, the fifth Tuesday of the month. Work-and-Business Meeting The use of the topic provided for work-and-business meeting is optional. It has been suggested that the time for formal presentation of the topic not exceed fifteen minutes, during which time sewing be suspended, and that presentation be followed by formal discussion, and demonstration where desirable, simultaneously with the sewing or other handwork. (Wards desiring to hold an all-day work-and-business meeting, with one session devoted to sewing or other handwork, and one session for consideration of the home topic would, of course, give more time to formal presentation of the topic.) Union Meetings We call attention again to the fact that union meeting is a lead- ership meeting, the most' important features of which should be study, preparation, business and discussion of problems. Long preliminary programs and other merely entertaining features are not desirable and should not encroach upon the time for departmental work. Relief Society union meetings are not required (but may be held if desired) during May, June, July, and August, but should be held in September and on through the educational year. Special officers and visiting teachers' class leaders need not be required to attend union meeting monthly, but they should be called to union meeting as often as seems necessary in order to assist them in effectively carrying forward their respective assignments. Ward Conferences The. General Board recommends for your consideration that a preliminary meeting be held in connection with ward conferences, to be attended by the stake board representative assigned to the conference, the ward executive officers, and the ward bishop or his representative; that the length of such meeting be decided locally, and that the holding of such meeting be optional rather than required. It is pointed out that such a meeting would provide an opportunity for a representative of the stake board to discuss ward problems with the ward officers as a group—an opportunity which is not provided in the union meeting. In some stakes where these meetings are now held, the official visitor from the stake carries with her a questionnaire which she fills out during the preliminary meeting and carries back to the board. This procedure makes it possible for the stake board to better understand conditions in the ward. It is recommended that ward conferences this year feature membership. Helps in this respect have been sent out in official blue bulletin No. 17. Visits To Wards Stake board members in visiting wards on regular meeting days do so primarily with the view of learning how the work is being carried on and how the stake board can be the most helpful. The question has been raised as to whether stake board members are always expected to speak when visiting a ward in their official capacity. The recommendation of the General Board is that representatives of the stake board at ward Relief Society meetings should deliver any special message assigned to them by the stake board as clearly and briefly as possible, so as not to prolong the meeting unduly or usurp the. Time allotted for the lesson, but that stake boards are to assign topics for presentation in ward meetings only as occasion requires, not as a matter of routine. The question has also been raised as to what questions are to be answered by stake board members when visiting ward Relief Society meetings, aud what questions should be reterred back to the stake board for decision. The General Board suggests that stake board members may properly answer those questions arising during an official visit to a ward concerning which policies are well established and substantiated by rulings or recommendations in writing in the Relief Society Handbook, in official instructions issued at gen- 758 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE eral Relief Society conferences, in official bulletins from the General Board to the stake, or in stake adaptations of General Board policies and recommendations or stake rulings on local Relief Society projects which appear in the minutes of the stake board meeting; but that questions not covered by written instructions or recommendations, or any exceptions or modifications of such regulations, be referred back to the stake board for clarification and decision, so that uniform policies may be developed with respect to similar problems in all wards, and so that, if necessary, the points in question may be referred to the General Board for consideration. Answers to Letters and Telegrams It is requested that letters and telegrams sent out from the Relief Society headquarters to stake presidents asking for immediate reply be answered promptly. For example, in planning our stake conferences and the dates upon which they may be held, it is very necessary that questions sent out regarding these matters be answered at once. Sometimes a second letter has been necessary and even a telegram in order to get the desired information. Stake presidents will please take note of this. Magazine Binders We have recently received at headquarters the binders for the Relief Society Magazine which were ordered many weeks ago, a sample of which was shown at April conference. Each binder will hold a total of twelve issues of the Magazine, single copies of which may be inserted or removed as desired. This binder is a great convenience to 759 officers, class leaders, and Magazine representatives who desire to keep the current issues of the Magazine together for ready reference. The price of the binder is 75¢ postpaid. Church Seminaries We would like to call to your attention the important and effective work being done by our Church seminaries, and ask for your interest and support. They have been established by the Church and are conducted at great expense for the benefit of our children—to teach them the, Gospel and to develop within them faith and spirituality. What could be more important to our children than such training! Relief Society mothers can aid the seminary movement best by urging their children to attend, and after they are enrolled, by taking an interest in what they are studying. Seminary teachers are grateful for the cooperation of parents. Church Medical Care and Hospitalization The Presiding Bishopric desires it to be understood that members of the Church who are recommended to Latter-day Saint hospitals by bishops for free medical care are assigned to the doctor who is on the particular service which they require. Doctors in the hospitals rotate on the various services which cover certain periods of time. If a patient desires to be cared for by his personal physician, his case becomes a private one, which precludes Church hospitalization. (See "Progress of the Church," February, 1941, p. 59.) Liquor and Tobacco Relief Society is supporting vigor- 760 ously the campaign for the non-use of liquor and tobacco. Total abstinence is our motto. Beautification Campaign We appreciate very much the activity of our members in the campaign to beautify our homes and communities. The lovely flower gardens, well-kept lawns, improved public grounds and parks, together with the renovated homes and public buildings, are silent witnesses of the efforts put forth by both men and women in Latter-day Saint communities. Our Relief Society centennial trees, to be planted on Church grounds everywhere, will be a contribution to the Church beautification program. Sacrament Meeting We call the attention of Relief Society women to the fact that the most sacred service of religious worship is that of the sacrament. The members of the Church are expected to present themselves before the sacrament board and renew their covenants with their Maker. In the "Progress of the Church" for April the importance of Sacrament meeting is stressed. It is stated that this is the one meeting set forth in revelation for ward members to attend. It has been specified as the official meeting of the members of the ward. Tithing It is recommended by the General Authorities that children of eight years should be taught to pay tithing on their earnings. This habit RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 should be established early in order that children may enjoy all the blessings connected with it. Mothers can do much to see that these. Instructions are carried out. Fast Day Fast day observance is particularly called to the attention of the mothers, who, because of their direction of home affairs, have it largely within their power to see that this day is properly observed. It is still requested that two meals be omitted on Fast Day and that the amount equal to the cost of these be sent to the bishop to be used for the care of the needy. Literature for Soldiers The General Authorities of the Church have recommended that those who have sons in army training camps see to it thatthese boys are supplied with Church works. Arrangements have been made by the Church whereby the books can be purchased reasonably. Ward bishops have full information regarding this matter and should be consulted by those who are interested. We suggest that the mothers support this splendid movement. We suggest also that mothers help to keep their sons informed regarding the location of mission headquarters and Church branches nearest the training fields where our boys are located, and that they write to their sons frequently or see to it that other members of the family do so. Our boys need all the help and protection we can possibly give them. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 761 The Heme Stretch In rilerabieahip Belle S. Spaftord Relief Society General Board Member ODAY we face the home stretch inthe four-year intensive campaign of the Relief Society for 100,000 members by 1942, that is, by the end of 1941. But three months are ours—ours in which to win or lose; ours in which to assure the thrill of achievement or the sting of disappointment. The intensive. Effort of the past must be sustained, ingenuity and resourcefulness additionally taxed, and loyalty further tried if we are to succeed. In our last-minute determination to succeed many new devices will no doubt be used to win the "hard to win." Under the "home stretch" pressure extreme care will be necessary lest in our eagerness to achieve our goals we lower our standards or resort to practices or procedures that are not of the highest type. Contests launched—poetry, music, slogans, etc.—should reflect such high standards of excellence that they will challenge the interest of the most gifted as well as those who are less talented. Material selected for awards or special recognition should reflect credit upon the Society as well upon the individual submitting it. Showmanship, publicity, — etc., should be of a type that will appeal to mature women. Let us remember that while novel devices have value in catching initial interest and spreading news of the campaign, the actual enlistment of women is in reality the result of personal invitation, intelligent explanation of our program and objectives, and high standards of work within our Society. It is suggested that once again we read the instructions given by President Lyman at the Presidents' Breakfast last April and published in the Relief Society Magazine, May, 1941, page 300, headed "Attendance Not a Pre-Requisite. For Enrollment." Let us be careful not to misinterpret or misapply this ruling. Particularly note the sentence, "It is not recommended that new members be enrolled until it is known that they are really interested and expect to give their allegiance to the Society." Two dominant factors enter into the application of this ruling: (1) the attitude of the women solicited for membership, and (2) the judgment of the one soliciting her. We all know that membership in Relief Society implies more than the purchase of a membership card. Questions are frequently asked as to whether the 60 percent membership quota may be applied to the known number of eligible women, rather than to the number of Latterday Saint families. As stated at the April conference (Relief Society Magazine, May, 1941, page 315), itr is recognized that there are no women in a small proportion of the total families. Had the exact number of Latter-day Saint women been known to us, the quota would have been based on this number, rather than on the number of families. However, the percentage based on this smaller number would necessarily have been more than 60 percent 762 of the number of Latter-day Saint families—not 60 percent of a lesser number. Adjustments in the basic number may be justified in a few exceptional instances where conditions are extremely unusual. 'These adjustments should be cleared with the General Secretary. We repeat that the final status of each stake at the end of 1941 will be computed on the number of Latter-day Saint families in the stake at that time. Priesthood cooperation is an important factor in the success of all that we do as a Relief Society organization. We recommend that the wholehearted, active participation of the Priesthood be enlisted. 'This has been successfully accomplished in the Northern States Mission, where mission, regional and branch presidents are serving as co-chairman with their respective Relief Society presidents in the interest of increased membership in the Society. Cooperating with the Relief Society mission president, Ethie Muir, in initiating this campaign throughout the mission, President Leo J. Muir wrote: "We have felt it proper to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 enlist the cooperation of branch presidencies in this campaign, since we regard this as a matter of great importance to the branches of this mission." Do not lose track of young women who because of the defense program are moving to new localities. Find out where they are going and notify Relief Society officers presiding over those districts of their presence in the community. Further suggestions which should be helpful to us in the successful culmination of our campaign, will — be made available to stakes and missions in bulletin form in the very near future. Even though a few of us may feel that our individual goal is beyond reach, we must not be discouraged and relax our efforts. Neither must we be complacent and satisfied if we have gone "over the top." The achievement of the general goal of our four-year intensive membershipbuilding program rests upon the sustained individual effort of every one of us during the next three months. Highlights And Sidelights In Membership Zora C. Paulson Highland Stake Relief Society President LAST April when we attended Relief Society general conference, we thought our stake needed about 45 more members in order to reach its membership quota. Imagine our disillusionment and astonishment when we looked at the pictograph and found we had 629 new members to gain. Naturally we were worried, but we resolved to put forth our very best efforts to make a decided change in our membership status during the remaining months of the campaign. With this determination in mind, we went to our April union meeting with some definite plans. We graphically told our wards where we stood, and explained our summer's work. Wards were anxious to do their part. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE A special membership meeting in May, as was requested. By the General Board, was held with splendid results. Presidencies and coordinators were invited and were asked to be prepared to give tentative plans for their summers membership work. Stake officers also prepared a detailed list of specific suggestions for increasing membership, and a talk was given on "Why Increase Relief Society Membership?" Plans made and suggestions given were not just left on paper, but were immediately put into effect. This meeting gave us so much help and inspiration that the same workers decided to meet at ten o'clock the third Tuesday of each month during the summer, report progress, exchange new ideas and _ methods of procedure. These meetings have been very profitable. The intensive summers work shows some gratifying highlights; for example, in one of our wards forty new members have been enrolled. The visiting teachers of another of our wards met one Tuesday to start their special work in connection with the campaign. A short rally was held, and teachers were instructed to visit every home in the ward. When they returned to report that afternoon, they had enlisted 26 new members; 36 other women had promised to join the Society this fall. In another ward, g homes were visited one morning with a gain of 6 new members. Tuesday, October 2, most of our wards had entertainments in the interest of membership, such as a women's convention, a luncheon, an "at home" social, a reception, et cetera. Written invitations were sent to 763 every woman in the wards. The response was beyond expectation; some wards had 50 or more unenrolled women attend. At the close of - one of these luncheons 125 women paid their dues; 40 of these women enrolled as new members. Through all our membershipbuilding program we have emphasized as our main objective sharing the intellectual and spiritual wealth of Relief Society with mote sisters. Our visiting teachers have been urged to carry the Magazine when visiting and to leave copies with interested unenrolled members, to be called for at a later date. During the summer, executive officers and coordinators have gone visiting with the visiting teachers, the group first meeting in the morning prior to making their visits. They have had a song and prayer and received helpful membership instructions for the day. Then all have gone out at the same time to make their visits. When visits were finished, the women returned to the Church, reported their accomplishments, and were served a refreshing drink and cookies. There have been significant sidelights. One ward has had a series of luncheons carrying out the following procedure: For the first luncheon, ten guests were invited—eight members and two prospective members. The eight members, in groups of two were asked to entertain from four to six more prospective members. This continued until all of those not belonging to the Society had been entertained. Small groups made it possible for the women to become really acquainted. The benefits of Relief Society were stressed at each luncheon. Early in May another ward had its 764 coordinator visit the Priesthood meeting, with the approval of the bishop, and give an interesting talk on Relief Society during the opening exercises. She presented each. Man and boy with an invitation to give to some unenrolled woman— the mother in his own home or a neighbor. Many of our coordinators have since visited the Priesthood meetings for the purpose of enlisting the help of the brethren in our membership campaign. All of the fruits of our efforts will not be gathered in our own stake. Such stories as the following let us know they are being garnered elsewhere in the Church: A lady living in an apartment RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 house was enlisted, attended twice and moved from the stake. She wrote the Relief Society president: "Tam glad you introduced me to Relief Society. I attend regularly now and thoroughly enjoy it." We have had various ways of advertising the campaign; for example, slogans in the Church foyer (changed often), badges, and campaign pins. Through the intensive efforts of the past few months, we have entolled about twice as many as were enrolled in the three previous years. With the enthusiasm that is felt throughout the stake, we feel reasonably sure we will go "over the top." ce. Eneral Session Thursday Afternoon Message From President Heber J. Grant IF my health would permit, it would be a great pleasure for me to express in person my appreciation and approval of the work which the sisters of the Relief Society are doing ligion and teaching her children to do likewise is a great strength to the Church, and will receive the blessings of the Lord. It is important that the Gospel be taught in the home, both by precept and by example. 'The influence of the mother in doing this is very effective. It will be one hundred years next March since the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the first Relief Society in Nauvoo. Your efforts to enroll in your organization 100,000 A faithful mother living her remembers when it is one hundred years old appeals to me. I have confidence in the ability of the sisters to do this. May you be constantly sustained and inspired in your efforts to bring to every Latter-day Saint home the blessings and privileges of this great organization. From my earliest childhood, before I could even understand what was being discussed, my mother (being a widow and I her only child) took me with her to the meetings of the Relief Society. At one of these meetings while I was playing on the floor in the home of William C. Staines, who lived on the corner of South Temple and Fifth East Streets, Eliza R. Snow, by the gift of tongues, blessed me and promised RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE that I would become an apostle. The interpretation was given by Zina D. Young. My mother always told me, from my childhood on, as I became old enough to understand, that if I would behave myself and live a good clean life, I would yet become an apostle. Whenever she mentioned it, I always laughed and told her, "Every mother thinks her boy is going to be something wonderful; get it out of your head, because I have no desire to become a leading Church man, I want some day to become a businessman." Throughout my youth and young manhood she continued to refer to the fact that unless I lived a good clean life, I never would become an apostle. After I became an apostle, having been called to that office by revelation, she asked me if I remembered the meeting which was attended by Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. Young, and I told her I did, that though I was only a small child at the time, I remembered it. "Do you remember what was said?" "I did not hear anything Sister Snow said, because I could not understand her." Mother said, "Of course you could not; she spoke by the gift of tongues. But do you remember what Sister Zina Young said?" I replied, "Yes. She said I would grow to be a great big man, and since I have grown up, I have often thought of it." "She didn't say anything of the kind! She said you would become 765 a big man in the Church, an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ." I said, "I did not understand it that way." Mother then said, "Now that you are an apostle, do you remember a great dinner, with many people present, given in the home of Heber C. Kimball, on Main Street?" "Yes." "Do you remember a dinner for the children after the big dinner, and he picked you up and stood you on the table, and stood there and prophesied that you would become one of the leaders in the Church, a greater man than your father, who had been one of the Presidency of the Church?" "I do not remember anything he said; all I recall of the incident was that he had the blackest eyes I ever saw, and I was scared while he was talking to me." I thought it would be well for the Relief Society sisters to know that by the gift of tongues in a Relief Society meeting, and by the prophecy of one of the Presidency of the Church, it was declared while I was yet a child that I should some day be one of the leading men in the Church. I may have told this before in my talks to the Relief Society, but | it is worthy of being repeated again at this time. May our Heavenly Father bless the mothers in Israel, and all who are engaged in building up the Church and Kingdom of God on the earth. May the peace and blessings of heaven abide in your homes and fill your hearts with a love for mankind and for the Gospel of Jesus Christ, Opening Address General President Amy Brown Lyman HIS afternoon in this general session we extend to you dear sisters greetings and a hearty welcome. We want you to know that we appreciate you and the splendid work you are doing in the local units. We appreciate your interest and devotion to our cause, and the efforts you are putting forth in the interest of the great Church welfare plan. It is your devotion and your work which make the development and success of the Relief Society possible, and which are a great - factor in the success of the welfare plan. Since our last conference, world tragedies have increased in connection with the social revolution which is raging in Europe; and because many of our fellow members, near 10,000, are living and suffering in these war-torn countries, our hearts are especially touched. We would have them know that they are remembered today in this conference, that they have our love and sympathy and our earnest prayers that they may be able to meet with faith and courage the trials with which they are faced. In letters from Europe, we learn that the Relief Society members are carrying on nobly. In some places they are the chief factor in holding the branches together. They are even conducting branch meetings, where men, both old and young, have been called into service. Only about once a month, however, when members of the Priesthood on leave can attend, do they have the blessing of the sacrament. In our own country we wonder what lies ahead. As we try to look into the future we cannot be other than apprehensive. Already we feel the effects of the preparations which are being made for national defense. In times like these, we try to formulate and adopt some philosophy which will help us to face our problems with composure and help us to be more effective in our lives. An excellent piece of advice which we have repeatedly had from our Church leaders, and which always applies, is that each individual should put his house in order. This advice seems especiaNy appropriate today. Professor Levi Edgar Young, in an article in this September Relief. Society Magazine, quotes from the recent inaugural address of the Governor of Vermont. The Governor said, among other things, "Tf America is to be saved, each individual must first put his own house in order." He urged a spiritual reconstruction of the people as a prerequisite to the economic and moral salvation of the nation. Dr. Edward T. Devine, eminent social worker, contends that "The first thing to do to improve conditions in the world today locally, nationally, and internationally, is to set our own houses in order. If in the family, neighborhood, and community we meet our problems, it will be easier for us to meet world problems. The home front should be recognized as just as important as the front line. It has been demonstrated time and again that the endurance and morale of people in all walks of life and in all times and seasons, is built on the security of 766 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE the home and family." This philosophy indicates that home and family standards, ideals, and influence in the community and the nation are finally among the determining factors in many great movements. In contemplating the idea of putting one's house in order we naturally think first, as we should, in terms of the spiritual, for spirituality and religion should be fundamental to all else; we believe that spirituality and religion are the greatest dynamics known to man. It is religion, spirituality, and faith which help people to understand the sacredness of human personality and the doctrine of the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, and which help them to face the vicissitudes of life. Our sacred books are replete with ideal patterns of living and standards of conduct for us to follow—the decalogue, the Sermon on the Mount, other teachings of the Savior, and modern revelation. THERE is another bit of good advice which we have had from our leaders both in times of prosperity and in times of adversity, in dark days and bright, and which relates especially to practical living. It is that we should avoid debt — live within our income and save for the future. This advice seems especially appropriate today. With work more plentiful than it has been for some time and with wages good, it would be a wise thing for us to get out of debt and to lay by something for the future. In times of prosperity preparations should be made for the non-prosperous period. There are those who say that it does not pay to save, that money is so often lost. Nevertheless, thrift 167 is considered by wise philosophers as a great asset, and as one of life's greatest character builders. At this time, when so much is at stake, when thrift instead of extravagance is going to mean so much in the end, not only to us, but to generations to come, it should be one of the most important subjects for discussion. Nothing is more valuable than a fixed habit of thrift. While some thrifty people have lost their savings or have been taken advantage of, they will tell you that the cultivation of this virtue has helped them to overcome many obstacles on the way back. It is surely not the part of wisdom to launch out into risky enterprises at this time, or to purchase on installment things which are unnecessary. Let us understand that this spurt of prosperity is in reality abnormal and probably short-lived. Great expenditures of money for defense or for war may diminish unemployment temporarily, but it will not dissolve it. Someone has wisely said, only recently, "War spending is not prosperity: it is the impoverishing of the future by the dissipation of the wealth of the past, and the mortgaging of the present." I wonder if some of us are taking on burdens and obligations which we will not be able to meet. Are we buying things we do not really need? Are we paying too much for homes or for rent? Economists tell us that if we are paying more than double or more than 2'4 times our yearly income for a home we are paying too much, and unless we receive help from somebody else, we will eventually come to grief. For example, if a man who must depend entirely upon himself earns a yearly salary 768 of $2,000, he cannot afford to buy a home which costs more than $4,000, or $4,500 at the most. If he goes beyond this, he will surely be in financial difficulty. We are also advised that we should pay only 18 percent to 20 percent of our yearly or monthly income for rent. For instance, a man whose income is $150 per month, should not pay more than $27 to $30 per month for rent. If his income is $100 per month, he should not pay more than $18 to $20. If he pays at a higher rate than this, some other essential will suffer, such as food, clothing, or health needs. New women are the homemakers. The homemaker is looked upon these days not only as someone who creates a comfortable place to come -home to, but as the great consumer of the world. Eighty-five percent of the buying is done by women, including practically all the things to be used in the home. This means a tremendous enlargement of our responsibilities. Walter Pitkin, the writer, says: "Consumers must be _ educated. Hardly one American in ten thousand knows what and how to buy. Every year women spend and misspend twenty billion dollars or more. Fully a quarter of this vast sum is wasted. Those women know. The price of everything and the value of nothing.' Few consistently get their money's worth. What can we do? Educate consumers by: (1) showRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 ing them how to identify quality in everything from a hamburger steak to a fur coat; (2) demonstrating by case and number that high price doesn't mean high quality; (3) showing that pretty packages often contain shoddy goods; (4) teaching families to make incomes go further with intelligent budgeting. The list is endless." Anticipating the need for careful buying and managing in these days, Relief Society has recently inaugu- 'rated a course in "Better Buymanship." I trust we shall get some practical help from this course. Our whole Church welfare program is a practical demonstration of the slogan, "Put your own house in order." The plan has a long-time program with a general objective or aim, and with permanent goals in view. It also has today an immediate aim—that of preparing for a probable post-war depression which past experience predicts will come. In helping to achieve these aims and objectives the Relief Society will not be found wanting. In conclusion I would like to urge that we, Relief Society workers, » in these strenuous months ahead do not lose sight of the important fact that the physical, moral, and spiritual standards of our homes and our communities must not be let down or lost sight of, but must be held up and even strengthened. For the days ahead let us adopt our conference theme: "Let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap if we faint not." RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 769 Our Permanent Centennial Memorial Mary G. Judd Relief Society General Board Member WE are certain that all who attend the Church-wide centennial celebration to be held in connection with the Relief Society general conference, April, 1942, will return to their homes feeling that they have participated in what is truly an epochal period in Relief Society history.. And yet, unless we do something about it, the time will come when this wonderful occasion will be a thing of the past and will live only in our memories. And so it has come to the General Board with ever-increasing clearness that some permanent memorial should be left—something of lasting value. Casting about for a suitable project, the idea came to mind of hanging the historic Nauvoo Temple bell in a permanent and beautiful setting. It was not until the subject was broached to the Presiding Bishopric that it was learned that such a project had been under consideration for some time, but that no definite decision on the matter had been reached by the First Presidency. So we feel that perhaps the plans had been slowed up in order that the Relief Society could have the privilege of placing this bell on Temple Square to commemorate the unselfish service and wonderful devotion of thousands of Latter-day Saint women over a period of one hundred years. We feel that it is peculiarly fitting that the Relief Society should sponsor this project because one of the reasons for the organization of our Society in Nauvoo was to enable the Latter-day Saint women to more efficiently do their part in feeding and clothing the men who were working on the Temple where the bell originally hung. There is still another tie connecting us with the bell. In the same pioneer company which transported this valuable relic to the West, came Fliza R. Snow, our first secretary; and, safe in her keeping, in the covered wagon that lumbered over the plains, were the precious minutes of our first meetings in Nauvoo. It was in the second great exodus from Winter Quarters—the exodus which in my mind is second to none in history—that the Nauvoo Temple bell played a prominent part. I like to visualize those early morning scenes on the plains. Let me read one of many quotations that might be given from the day-by-day record of the trek. The entry for June 22, 1847, reads: "The morning was fine and calm at the encampment of the emigrating Saints. At 8 o'clock a.m. The signal for starting was given by the ringing of the Temple bell. The companies formed with five lines abreast, with the Temple bell in the lead. In this order the companies traveled that day twelve miles and reached Diamond Island, where they camped for the night, about sundown. 'They watered their cattle in the Platte River by moonlight and then took them out to feed a while." Just where did the bell come from originally? We have information which tells. Us. In the year 1845, Wilford Woodruff was presiding over the British Mission. On May 8 of that year, he received a communication from the Council of the Twelve, which read: "We thought it would be very agreeable to the feelings of the English Saints to furnish a bell for the Temple. If this is their pleasure, you can forward it by the first conveyance, and we will have it hung as the building is going up." Brother Woodruff reports having collected $1,500 from the English Saints, which would easily cover the cost. It was but a short time that the bell hung in the place for which it was intended, for "Nauvoo the Beautiful," because of the designs of wicked men, became a place of desolation. After the first group of Saints had fled from their loved city over the icy Mississippi, Colonel Thomas L. Kane tells how he heard the mob who had taken possession of the Temple, whooping and 'shrieking in drunken frenzy as they beat a drum and rang the bell. From Winter Quarters, under date of September 26, 1846, President Brigham Young sent a letter back to Nauvoo in which he said: "As you will have no further use for the Temple bell, we wish you to forward it to us by the first possible chance, for we have much need of it at this place." President Young's letter came just in time, for already lawless persons had planned to steal the bell. Grateful appreciation is due David Burlock Lamoreaux, who saved the bell. The marauders had hoisted it and were making ready to steal it when Brother Lamoreaux drove his wagon underneath, loaded the bell upon it, and delivered it to the Church—its rightful owner. It is the plan to give this historic bell, which has been in our midst longer than the memory of any living man, the kind of setting which it so richly deserves. An able architect, Brother Lorenzo Young, who is also a grandson of Brigham Young and a grandnephew of Eliza R. Snow, has designed a graceful tower to house the bell. The base will be of granite, the top of grilled bronze, to harmonize with the bronze bell. The First Presidency has given us not only their permission but their enthusiastic encouragement in this project, for which we thank them. What could be more fitting than that the tones of this melodious bell should ring out joyfully at the culmination of the Relief Society centenary, even as they did at the beginning of the century when Relief Society was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith? The Need Of Organization Counselor Marcia K. Howells AS our Relief Society century draws to its close, we marvel at what has been accomplished. There is power and strength in organization. We were organized by a prophet of God. A later prophet, President Joseph F. Smith, said of Relief Society: "I expect to see the day when 770 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE this organization will be one of the most perfect, most efficient and effective organizations for good in the Church. It stands for the people of God, for nghteousness, for justice, for good and more good all the time." Our women, guided by the Priesthood, have tried to meet needs of all kinds. With an earnest desire and an adequate organization the work of the Society has progressed. Relief Society women have gathered and stored grain, made clothing for the Indians, made, laundered and mended clothing for temple workers, grown mulberry trees and helped with silk culture, and promoted home industry. It was about 65 years ago that President Brigham Young made a special call on the Relief Society to help establish home industries. Sister Eliza R. Snow eagerly supported the making of straw hats at home. These were to cost from 50c for men's hats suitable to wear in the field, to $1.75 for hats suitable for fine wear. A letter from a Relief Society in Cache Valley stated, "We are doing all in our power to sustain home manufacture. We have sent two ladies to Brigham City to learn braiding, millinery, et cetera, and we hope with our own exertions and the means we have on hand, to build a house for the Society and to establish a school for young ladies to learn to make hats, bonnets and many of the articles we are now importing." Reports and letters received from near and far show the value of organized effort along all lines. An interesting letter from Ephraim in 1875, speaking of donations, stated: "Three hundred dollars, having been donated in Sunday eggs, will be sent ™m to Denmark to assist the poor in emigrating from the old country.... The donations of the sisters are seldom in money, that being a very scarce commodity here, but in eggs, butter, pork and cheese, also remnants and scraps, either of cotton or woolen, which the sisters make up into quilts; some are sold, some loaned to the poor. Four were made for the brethren who went to St. George to work on the temple." Some of us will remember the prompt help given by the Relief Society women at the time of the San Francisco earthquake and fire. It was 35 years ago that the news came by wire to Salt Lake City from San Francisco one morning in April. President Bathsheba W. Smith, then 84 years of age, came down to the Relief Society office with all haste. A car was secured from the railroad company, and a carload of flour was soon ready—the first carload of flour to reach the sufferers. Just as these women met needs, so we are preparing to meet present needs and possible future emergencies. This has been shown by our response to the great welfare program of the Church. Reports fail to do justice to the devotion and unselfish efforts which our women have given to this splendid work. May we ever be ready and willing to assist the Priesthood. Relief Society keeps us on the pathway that leads us back to our Heavenly Father. A vast throng of women are now affiliated with the Society. We are still reaching out for other good women. There are many in the Church not yet with us. Satisfaction and happiness come from active membership. We have never needed the blessings of the Lord and his sustaining influence more than we do at the present time. Nothing else can sustain us as much as faith in God—the faith which can be measured by activity. If you have been benefited and blessed because you are a member of Relief Society, will you not help to extend these same benefits and blessings to others by enlisting them as members? Our program was designed for all: Latter-day Saint women. Organized as we are, nearly any accomplishment is possible. I eagerly await the centennial year—the proper. Observance of a century of service given by women of the Church. I trust it will be a rededication to the future of the love and loyalty of 100,000 Latterday Saint women. Ee Meeting Relief Society's Challenge Counselor Donna D. Sorensen. THE Prophet Joseph Smith said, "We are all responsible to God for the manner we improve the light and wisdom given by our Lord to enable us to save ourselves." 'T'his large audience today bespeaks the interest with which the women of this Society enter upon its one hundredth year of activity, and we know that you desire in this organization to "improve the light and wisdom given by our Lord." Next Tuesday, October 14, the official classroom instruction will commence for the thousands of members of this Society. Some 11,000 class leaders will go forward with an educational program designed to advance women toward exaltation. As you were informed last conference, "the growth in membership in the Relief Society during the past three years is unparalleled by any similar period," and this year will see other thousands added to our numbers. If you were giving a feast, you would ask those whom you loved to eat with you. Often I have heard many of you say, as I have said, "Here in this woman's organization I have found that which was meat to my body and food to my soul." You believe this as sincerely as I do, but we should remember that the reason for our feeling thus is because we have felt the nearness of those who think as we do from a religious standpoint; we have found friendship; we have tasted the sweetness of service and gained a love for this organization which comes from working in it. Those thousands coming into our organization as new members have not tasted the joy which comes from affiliation with this particular society. We have invited them to a feast which we know full well they will enjoy and appreciate if the setting can be as nearly perfect as possible. First impressions can be such lasting ones. As this conference features the educational work, probably my thoughts have been with the responsibility of the class leaders and the challenge they face in making their contribution to this feast. A great deal of the responsibility of keeping these new members inter- 772 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ested and active in the organization will rest upon the ability of class leaders to interest them in the educational program. 'The increased number of women in ward classes will demand from the class leader greater dependability, more careful preparation of material, more alertness to methodology, and experimentation with new forms of adult teaching. Yesterday's conference program was planned to give help along these lines. The class leaders, however, share the responsibility with the ward officers of the organization. Ward officers must plan well; they must carry on the mechanics of the organization with dispatch; they must possess vision and cultivate diligence. We are challenged to be resourceful and diligent when we are called to labor in the Church in any capacity. It is a privilege to serve in this organization at any time, but it is a special delight to occupy positions of trust during such a memorable and significant year. As the culminating effort in a century of progress and light, this year's effort should be the best of all previous years. But the responsibility for the success of the work of this organization rests not alone upon ward officers and class leaders, or upon stake boards or the General Board. It extends beyond these and embraces each member of this worthy organization. 'The General Board is confident that through the effort of each member of this Society we shall reach our goal of 100,000 by the centennial 773. The General Board desires not only the help of each present member of the Society in enlisting new members, but we would like your assistance in making permanent and strong the ties which bind these new members to this organization in the future. The Relief Society is more than a woman's organization, it is a Church auxiliary, and because this is so, a feeling of warmth and understanding should prevail in our contacts. No one should come to one of our Relief Society meetings and leave again without having been made welcome.. For we have the Gospel of Jesus Christ abiding in our hearts, and those who come to our Society are not only our friends, but they are our sisters in the Gospel. We, you and I, must take the time to extend the handclasp, to speak the kind word, to share the little experience, to inquire about a loved one. Jesus called it loving our neighbor as ourself. Yes, we are challenged by our growth in this one-hundredth year, but in the words of the theme of this conference we take hope: "Let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap..." for "God... Will render to every man according to his deeds: To them who, by patient continuance in well doing, seek for glory and honour and immortality, eternal life:" (Romans 2:6-11) May we search and find and love those things this year which will give us eternal life. } HAPPEN NGS Annie Wells Cannon Peace and gratitude—symbols of November! Never in all history have these two words been more significant. AMY BROWN LYMAN, President of the National Woman's Relief Society and internationally known social worker, states that her organization of approximately 100,- ooo women will make their chief activity the upbuilding and maintenance of well-regulated homes for all people. 'To do this, every effort will be put forth to provide and conserve every necessity—shelter, food, and clothing—for those in need during present and future emergencies. ELIZABETH BERGNER, Viennese star of the stage, is in America making her first picture, "Paris Calling." She is amused and confused over American slang and shocked to find her delicious wienerwursts called "hot dogs." INGRID BERGMAN, Swedish star, slipped unobtrusively into New York recently. Thinking she would like to witness her own portrayal of Anna Christy in "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde," she stood in line with other patrons, bought her own ticket, and saw the play through without recognition. This is not quite the way of stars. JESSIE SCHOFIELD, director of recreation for Salt Lake City, has been made treasurer of the National Recreation Association for 1941-42. KATHERINE SIMMONS, of Munsing, Michigan, has been superintendent of municipal waterworks Page 774 for eleven years. She is believed to be the only woman in the nation to hold such a position. GERTRUDE BATTLES LANE, editor-in-chief of The Woman's Home Companion, died in late September. Miss Lane was one of the great women magazine editors. She edited The Woman's Home Companion for 29 years, beginning when she was eighteen years old at a salary of $18 a week. She never asked for a raise, but at the time of her death she was earning $52,000 a year. MARGARET LEECH in her brilliant new novel of Civil War times, Reveille in Washington, introduces many famous and wellknown figures. Other books of interest for fall reading written by women are: One Red Rose Forever, by Mildred Jordan; The Talk of the Town, by Ann Pinchot; I'll Sing One Song, by Willie Snow Ethridge; Christopher Strange, by Ruth Eleanor McKee—a story of early Califor. Nia; and a Death Valley story, The Shadow of the Arrow, by Margaret Long. EMILY TRAUB MERRILL, EIlen Watson Silver, Elizabeth Stanford Goddard, Elizabeth Guthtie Heywood, Mina Cannon Ellis, Rose Robison, and Mrs. Francis Kirkham, all outstanding Utah women beloved for their cultural and kindly qualities, died during the late fall. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth Amy Brown Lyman - Marcia K. Howells - - Donna D. Sorensen - Vera W. Pohlman Anna S. Barlow ' Belle S. Spafford Vivien R McConkie Achsa E. Paxman eda T. Jensen Rae B. Barker Mary G. Judd Nellie O. Parker Luella N. Adams THE GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE - - President - First Counselor - Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Marianne C. Sharp Edith S. Elliott Anna B. Hart Pauline T. Pingree Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton Gertrude R. Garff Priscilla L. Evans Leona F. Wintch Florence J. Madsen Editor - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Vol. 28 NOVEMBER, 1941 No. 11 OD EDITORIAL — Birthday Greetings to President Heber J. Grant THE Relief Society General Board and approximately 100,000 Relief Society members extend to President Heber J. Grant their love and best wishes on his eighty-fifth birthday, to be observed November 22, 1941. President Grant's life is exemplary, his counsel wise, and the strength of his testimony is a source of inspiration to his people. His interest in the Relief Society is greatly appreciated by the women of the Church. From a Relief Society mother he learned the importance and value of this organization. Throughout the years the Society has benefited from the wisdom of his counsel, and his generous support of its many and varied activities has been a source of great encouragement. At our recent general conference the women of the Church were honored in receiving a personal message from President Grant, the full text of which appears on page 764 of this issue of the Magazine. His words, "Your efforts to enroll in your organization 100,000 members appeals to me," will no doubt be an important factor in helping us to realize our membership goal. We are grateful to President Grant for his many kindnesses to us and pray that his eighty-fifth birthday will find him the recipient of many good gifts and blessings. May his people honor him by heeding his word and obeying his counsel. Ee General Conference Message [XN a world topsy-turvey with bickerings, animosities, hatreds and raging wars, with thousands of people the world over wondering which course to pursue to promote their own best interests and the well-being of their fellow men, Latter-day Saints should indeed be grateful to be privileged to assemble in general conference and have their faith tenewed, their spirits lifted, and the path of right clearly defined. At the recent conference, our venerable President, Heber J. Grant, rich in experience, chosen of God to lead this Church, admonished us 35 Page 776 with his characteristic vigor to seek the Lord, to obey His laws and to keep His commandments. While expressing a tenderness toward those who are weak and erring, he called upon all to repent and to walk in the ways of righteousness. Individual righteousness was the plea of our revered President. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., focused our attention upon our responsibilities to our families. Decrying the lack of direction that many of our children are experiencing, he called upon parents to set their homes in order. Parents, he explained, are mature, experienced individuals; they know the ways of the world and the consequences of evil better than do their children. Children, he said, need and want ditection; they want to be told what RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 they may do and what they may not do. Parents should unhesitatingly assume this responsibility. President David O. McKay saw in the present turmoil a need to eradicate hate in the world and to curb tempers. He called upon the Saints to meet this obligation to their fellow men. The message of the conference might be summarized as follows: Serve God and keep his commandments, look well to your own households, and seek the peace and wellbeing of your fellow men. This is not a new message. It is a message that Latter-day Saints have heard time and time again. It is a message given by Christ nearly 2,000 years ago, but that it is still sorely needed in today's troubled world none can dispute. Oscar A. Kirkham Named to Council of Seventy ELDER OSCAR A. KIRKHAM, executive director of the Y. M. M. I. A., was sustained as a member of the First Council of Seventy at the closing session of the recent general conference of the Church, October 5, 1941. His appointment fills the vacancy made by the death of Elder Rulon S. Wells, senior president of the council. Brother Kirkham is a man of wide experience and unusual ability. His appoinment to the Council of Seventy brings to that organization a man of dynamic personality and great leadership strength. Brother Kirkham has particularly endeared himself to Relief Society women through his interest in the membership program and the coming centennial observance. His stirring address, "Together We Build," given at the Relief Society general conference, April, 1941, inspired Relief Society women with confidence and a determination to succeed in their membership campaign. His interest in the Society was further demonstrated when he asked for the privilege of being one of the first to donate to the proposed centennial monument to be erected on Temple Square. Brother Kirkham has served the Church efficiently and faithfully. His advancement to a position as one of the General Authorities of the Church is a merited honor. A biographical sketch will appear in a later issue of the Magazine. The Merry-Go-Round Alice Morrey Bailey CHAPTER EIGHT the stock in the huge hat bins and in the alterations room— Judith with a pencil and tablet; Alyn counting. "We'll have to order more of these 'Casuals,'" said Judith. "They go like hot cakes to the college trade. I want to get all this done." "That has been your battle cry for weeks," observed Alyn. "Truly, Judith, when are you going to slack u a? PWell, I'm about through; everything is in shipshape order. Lottie is so helpless about stock, and there are so many ways to lose money— overstocking, understocking, wrong buying. I'd like to do the next buying for her. 'That would tide her over until I get back. I'm afraid, however, that I can't. I've saved enough for this last month of rest, and I owe it to both myself and the baby. Besides, Ivy, in spite of Lottie's fears, is bursting for her chance to do the buying." "When is rest going to begin for you? John is worried about you. He says he has never heard of a woman working—drudging, he calls it—at a time like this. He'd like to call out the American Medical Association, or someone." "I know it isn't wise; Theo wouldn't have had it so. We had some savings, but oxygen, special nurses, and all the other expenses during Theo's illness.... Oh, I would gladly have spent ten 'times the amount," she added quickly, lest Alyn think A LYN and Judith were checking her begrudging of the care Theo had had. "T'll get by nicely; I'm going to finish the week out, no more. I have some last-minute shopping and a little sewing to do. Tell that nice John of yours not to worry. Goodness, many women work at housework tight up to the last day." It was not going to seem the same place without Judith. 'There would be no more of the chummy lunches, ducking out the back way and into Boone's dairy lunch where they had found a cozy booth. There would be no more talking excitedly over the newest book: "I think it ought- 'n't to end that way." "But it must, Judith. Psychologically that is the only way for it to end." "Oh, I suppose so, but I still like the good, oldfashioned happy endings, no matter how romantic and far-fetched they are." Poor Judith. It was, of course, because life had dealt with her as it had that she liked happy endings. Alyn was more relieved than she knew that Judith's rest was to begin soon. The girl had an ethereal look; the corners of her mouth and eyes moved in a way that betrayed a physical weakness that Judith would not have admitted, and the blue veins pulsed under the white skin of her neck. John asked daily about her. He would be relieved, too. S° absorbed in Judith's problems was Alyn that she thought less and less of ~ own. John and she seemed to get along better. He didn't irritate her so much, perhaps because their Page 777 common interest in Judith gave them a subject of conversation upon which they agreed. But sometimes Alyn woke in the night and lay thinking until her clenched hands broke out in perspiration, until an odd sensation came over her, as if she were rising, suspended in the air. At those times a feeling of futility swept over her to such a degree that it was almost unbearable. Time seemed to sweep in upon her, to rush by her. She felt that she and John were getting nowhere. Often she slipped out of bed, careful not to waken John, and paced back and forth noiselessly on the thick carpet, or went to the living room and sank herself in a deep chair, trying to read in the little pool of light that the lamp made. She tried, through sheer force of will, to stop thinking. "John," she said one night, "wake up. I can't bear it." "What is it, sweet?" John said, instantly awake. But when she went to tell him, the whole thing was gone; there were no words to express her feelings. Her problem was so intangible! John saw her difficulty and tried to draw her out. "Was it a nightmare, darling?" he asked in concern. "No. Not that." "Has Lottie..." "No. John, what is life for?" It was awful to be unsure about something that she ought to have settled for herself at least twenty years ago. "Birth, life, marriage, death—what do they all mean? Generation after generation this has gone on. It seems so endless, so futile." "There!" said John. "You have asked a question, honey, that wise men have asked since the beginning of time. Some find one answer, some another." At least there was comfort in the fact that John didn't think the question silly. "The Bible should give the answer," John's voice rumbled on, a little fuzzy from sleep. John had a nice voice, thought Alyn, remembering back. John's voice was the first introduction she had had to him. The Country Club dance, it had been, and crowded to the rafters. She had heard Bea McIntyre—Bea Benson then—was there with a new man, but Alyn hadn't seen him. "My dear, mining!" the small explanatory word had gone around. Then some of the younger generation had decided suddenly to leave the dance and go elsewhere, to a quaint farm someone had discovered, for chicken. It had seemed such a delicious, mad thing to do, with all the dowagers gossiping on the sidelines: "In my day girls didn't go unchaperoned." Of course, there weren't enough cars. Bea and her escort were already in their car, and Alyn was looking about for a place to sit when John had pulled her into the car beside him. In the badinage that followed, John had answered only her remarks. Bea had been furious, but it had done her no good. From that time on John had devoted himself entirely to Alyn. Throughout the years he had not changed. "But I have," thought Alyn. (To be continued) 778 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 Theology and Testimony Articles of Faith, By James E. Talmage Lesson 5 CHAPTER 5, FarrH AND REPENTANCE Article 4—"'We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are: first, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; second, Repentance;..." (Tuesday, February 3, 1942) I. Lesson Aim To understand that faith and repentance are universal principles of constructive daily living and not mere religious abstractions. II. Divisions of the Subject Matter. A. Faith. 1. A workable definition of faith. (Articles of Faith, pp. 96-100, 479) 2. The foundation of faith. (Articles of Faith, pp. 100-102) . Faith as a principle of power. (Articles of Faith,
pp. 102-106) 4. The place of faith in the plan of salvation. (Articles of Faith, 106-107) 5. The relationship between faith and works. (Articles of Faith, pp.
107-108, 480-481) B. Repentance 1. The nature of repentance. (Articles of Faith,
pp. 109-112). The confession of sins. B A willingness to forgive others. C. Confidence in Christ’s atoning sacrifice. 2. The plan of repentance in the plan of salvation. (Articles of Faith, pp. 113-116). III. Teaching Method The subject matter of this lessons lends itself to the use of “panel discussion memthod.” A. Preparation The class leader should selectg four women to assist her in the presentation of this lesson. She should meet with them and make assignments of the lesson material to each as follows: 1. Topics 1 and 2, in lesson outline under Division II, Faith 2. Topics 3, 4 and 5, under Division II, Faith 3. Topic 1, under Division II, Repentance 4. Topic 2, under Division II, Repentance After these divisions have 780 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 been assigned, the class leader should impress upon each one the following factors: first, each must stay within the limits of the topic assigned, in order to avoid trespassing on the report of another; second, the textual material deals largely with religious abstractions, so each of the participants in the panel should, drawing upon personal experience, stress the application of the principles they discuss to the situations of daily life; third, no more than five minutes is to be used by each of the panel speakers. B. Presentation When the class period opens, the class leader should be seated in the front of the class, facing the class, with two speakers on each side of her. She should then introduce the members who are assisting her, the subject of the lesson, and the topics of the speakers. This should not occupy more than _ three minutes. Each speaker should then report the assigned topic, after which the class leader should make a summarizing statement of the reports. It is at this stage of the procedure that the class leader has the opportunity of stressing the objective of the lesson by a skillful application of the 'principles of faith and repentance to daily life situations. She should emphasize the point that whatever we achieve in life, whatever success is ours, whatever hope or joy in the Gospel we secure, results from our faith in life, in our fellow men and in God. In similar fashion, it is by the application of the principle of repentance that we make advancement in life. We improve and progress by correcting our errors and avoiding a tepetition of them. It is the application of these principles in the field of religion that brings joy to the hearts of human beings and leads them to salvation in the celestial kingdom. This need not occupy more than five minutes, but it must be well planned in advance. Following the presentation, the class leader should open the session for a discussion of the lesson, asking for questions from the class members. These questions should be referred. To the speakers of the panel, and the class leader should only answer them or make supplementary comments when the speakers themselves cannot give satisfactory answers. If there are not sufficient | questions from the class to occupy the remainder of the time before the testimony period begins, the class leader should present questions to the class members, making use of questions similar to LESSON DEPARTMENT those suggested at the end of this lesson. In conclusion, the class leader should express 'an appreciation for the part that these principles play in helping us to live progressively better in our quest for the abundant life. Such a positive summary should stimulate the class to a full participation in the testimony meeting that follows. Suggestive Questions 1. It has been said that there are four "R's" to repentance—recognition, remorse, resolution and restitution. What do you think of this suggestion? Show how each is a stage in a sincere forsaking of wrongdoing. 2. What is the meaning of the term "justification by faith alone'? Compare with the Latter-day Saint belief in "faith 781 and works." (Articles of Faith, pp. 479, So \ 4 What error of belief do you see in the doctrine of '"death-bed repentance"? 4. Relate instances that indicate how faith has been a power in your daily life. 5. Indicate some practical use of the principle of repentance that you have made in your home life. 6. What relationship can you see between faith and the bearing of a testimony? 7. Indicate the relationship that exists between the principle of repentance and the public bearing of a testimony. References Talmage, Articles of Faith, Chapter 5, pp. 96-119, 479-482. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 317-321, 395-396, 732-733- Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 116-118, 121-130. L. L. Bennion, The Religion of the Latter-day Saints, pp. 113-1109. Hebrews 11. $e Visiting Seachers Messages To The Home Lesson 5 Attendance At Sacrament Meetings As An Expression Of Faith (Tuesday, February 3, 1942) THE ordinance of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is an extremely important one, since it ties up with the central fact in revealed religion—the resurrection of Jesus Christ. The Lord gave this ordinance ""'by which Christ's life and mission, his death and _ resurrection, the great sacrifice he had offered for the redemption of man, should be kept in everlasting remembrance." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 255) Shortly before the Savior's death, he met with his disciples to observe the Feast of the Passover. Breaking bread, he blessed it and gave it to them, saying, "This is my body, which is given for you: this do in remembrance of me." Afterward He blessed some wine and gave it to them, with the words, "This cup is the new testament in my blood, which is shed for you." (Luke 22: 19, 20) After his resurrection, Jesus visited the American continent and in- 782 stituted the same ordinance among the Nephites. (III Nephi: 18) In our time, Joseph Smith received more specific instructions regarding the sacrament. Included in these instructions are the prayers to be offered, the authority to administer the ordinance, and the obligation assumed by those who partake of the emblems. All those who partake of the sacrament bear witness to the Lord (1) that they are willing to take upon themselves the name of Jesus Christ; (2) that they will always remember Him; (3) that they will keep His commandments. They do this that His spirit may always be with them. To partake of the sacrament worthily, one must rid his mind and soul of all hatred and ill will toward others. One should examine. Himself to see if he is living according to the teachings of the Gospel. It is beneficial to anyone to do this. In partaking of the sacrament, one renews his covenant to do the will of God. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 The members of the Church attend Sacrament meeting primarily to partake of the sacrament and to worship; also "to speak one with another concerning the welfare of their souls." One does not go there to be entertained. It should not matter if the speaker be eloquent or not. The purpose of the meeting can be accomplished if one goes there with the right understanding and spirit. If one expresses his faith in the Lord by attending Sacrament meeting, striving to place himself in the proper condition of mind and heart, then among the blessings he may expect are a renewal of his faith, a sense of peace, fresh courage to meet life's problems, and a forgiving spirit—all of which will help him to live a happier and a better life. Discussion 1. What is the main purpose of the Sacrament meeting? 2. Why is it important that Latter-day Saints attend Sacrament meeting? 3. What would it mean to a person to always have the spirit of Jesus Christ with him? Oe Work-and-Business Better Buymanship Lesson 5 Ready-To-Wear Dresses And Coats (Tuesday, February 10, 1942) A SHIFT has taken place in the purchasing habits of American women as is shown by the fact that forty years ago the ready-made dress trade was negligible, and in 1931 there were placed on the market 167 million dresses. Today several thousand garments of one particular style are produced in various sizes and colors. Both sociological and economical factors are responsible for this shift in buying habits. Fashion LESSON DEPARTMENT has become a swaying influence. Also, the demands of activities in fields outside the home bring with them not only a lack of time for making one's own clothing, but also a lack of sewing skill. The dresses on the market represent a large range of values, styles, designs, and prices. This makes it necessary to keep in mind the following points when buying a dress: (1) Is the style and color in fashion? Does the garment suit the individual's need and figure? (2) Does it fit correctly or can alterations be made? (3) Is the workmanship durable and neat? (4) Is the quality of the fabric suited to the purpose of the dress? (5) Is the price equal to the value of the garment and will it fit into the budget? The length of service expected from a garment and the kind of wear it will receive should determine the style to be purchased and the quality of material and workmanship. We can afford to pay more for a dress that we expect to wear for work for two years than for an evening dress that will only be worn half a dozen times. Good quality dresses last longer, look better, and are more comfortable to wear. When the family budget provides for a large wardrobe, fashion may be the important consideration in the selection. When the budget limits expenditures for clothing, as it does in most cases, durability becomes more important. Yet no matter how beautiful the material and workmanship, if a garment is not cut along lines suited to the person wearing it, she is not becomingly dressed. Though the fabric and color are excellent, if a dress is out of date the wearer is not stylishly 783 dressed. If dresses must be worn a long time, it pays to lean toward conservatism in the choice of design, color, and materials. There are five size ranges in women's dresses: misses sizes—from 12 to 20; junior sizes—from 11 to 19; women sizes—from 36 to 44; half sizes—from 16 1/2 to 2614; and stout sizes—from 38 1/2 to 521 1/4. Misses sizes are adapted to the normal, mature figure of a young woman. Junior sizes are for the shorter, girlish figure with small bust and relatively larger hips. Women's sizes are adapted to the tall, mature woman with full hips, bust, and arms. Half sizes, or little women's sizes as they are sometimes called, fit the shorter woman and are relatively fuller in the hips. They are also shorter from shoulder to waist and fuller in the arms. Actually, this size range fits more women properly than does any other size range. Stout sizes fit the very tall, big woman with large bust and hips. In spite of the various size ranges just mentioned, one needs only to try on dresses to see that manufacturers place their own interpretations upon these sizes, and so when shopping a person will find garments of various sizes marked the same size. In the manufacture of garments, skimping is sometimes practiced in order to cut costs. Because of the variation in the size of garments marked the same size, it is necessary to try them on to be sure of fit. The purchaser should make sure that there is room enough for sitting, reaching, and bending. She should learn when alterations can be successfully made and when this cannot be done. She should demand that the dress carry informative labeling,. And should buy from stores that will replace defective merchandise and make good guaranteed items. It is only by complaints and consumer demands that retailers and manufacturers can be made to realize the type of merchandise. Consumers want and the type they will not tolerate. Consumers must assume a large responsibility for the kind of goods that is placed on the market. THE selection of coats involves the same problems as the selection of dresses, plus some others. 'The fabric of the coat, lining, and interlining must be considered. Napped fabrics may wear off. Tweeds, homespuns, and some weaves shed dust and wrinkles and maintain a tailored appearance. 'lhe "Virgin Wool" label is important to the coat buyer interested in quality and wear. Examine the wrong side of the material. Sleazy, loosely-woven materials will not wear well. Cotton mixed with wool will require more care and pressing. Lining materials receive harder wear than dress materials. Whether silk or rayon, they may be either good or poor quality. Weighted silk linings are a waste of money. Rayon linings that are guaranteed to wear the life of the garment are a good buy. The manufacturer would not be willing to make such a claim on inferior fabrics. For maximum warmth, interlinings should be of wool. However, cotton flannels also increase warmth. Weight in coats is not an index of warmth. The interlining should be cut with sufficient fullness to prevent binding, yet not cause bulging. It should be firmly joined to the outer part of the coat. Though good materials are found in a coat, if the cut is not right and the workmanship good, the coat will not hold its shape. In higher priced coats much of the construction is done by hand. With these factors as guideposts in the selection of ready-to-wear articles, it must be remembered that personal reactions need to be considered. It may be more important to the high school girl to have a larger number of less expensive dresses than one or two more expensive ones. This must be decided by the individual.. The thing that is important is that you get the best you can for the price you pay. Suggested Activities 1. Have women show samples of wellfitted and poorly-fitted dresses. 2. If possible, bring women's dresses which illustrate the various size ranges. 3. Analyze dresses, picking out points of quality. Discuss what should be expected from dresses purchased at the various price levels. 4. Discuss labels found on dresses and their value. 5. Bring coats or examine those already on hand to show what can be expected in coats purchased at various price levels. Compare fit, workmanship, material, and style. NVA 784 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 Literature Humor In Life And Literature Lesson 5 Some Humorous Characters (Tuesday, February 17, 1942) "Mark Twain for the last ten years of his life sat on a golden throne as a crowned King of Humor."—Stephen Leacock Lesson Topics Review of last lesson Humor of character Outstanding humorous characters in literature Review of Last Lesson In lesson four, the nature and purpose of satire were discussed. It was pointed out that the purpose of many of the greatest masterpieces of satire is to reform. In this connection, the work of the great Greek comedian Aristophanes was considered, emphasis being placed on his wish to call the attention of his fellow countrymen to the weaknesses and the vices which were destroying the glory of Greece. Others who wrote with the same purpose—that of reform—were mentioned: Shakespeare, Moliere, Chaucer, Swift, as well as some of the more recent essayists and playwrights. Humor arising from incongruous situations was discussed and illustrations were given from actual life and from literature. Humor of Character Just as humor growing out of situation is of a more advanced or intellectual type than that resting upon strange uses of words or unusual combinations of ideas and facts, so humor of character is higher than that of situation, A humorous character is one who has traits or characteristics—physical or mental— which do not logically go together. Again we come to the fundamental element in all humor, that of the incongruous. We expect a huge man to have a deep voice. If we hear an effeminate protest from a giant, we laugh. If a delicate woman exhibits strong masculine characteristics, again we are struck with the paradox. Aristophanes makes Dionysus (or Bacchus) a humorous character in The Frogs by representing him as small, "pot-bellied," and dressed in cheap grandeur. In addition to the ridiculousness of the physical appearance, he makes him cowardly compared to his slave, and at times with less sense and wit. These characteristics are out of keeping with the usual conception of a god. The modern drama, Amphitryon, popular recently on the New York stage, has the same type of humorous characters. We are amused to seek the Greek gods and godesses in the guise of everyday mortals, exhibiting ordinary human emotions and resorting to common-place trickeries to achieve their desires. Sometimes the humor of a character lies in his unusual manner of speech, his pet phrases repeated Page 785 786 over and over, or in some habit or attitude which the author emphasizes. In the play You Can't Take It With You, each character has some eccentricity which makes him humorous and adds to the humor of the situations in the play and to the humor of the satire the drama embodies; for example, there is the mother with her desire to be a writer simply because a typewriter had been left by mistake at the home, and the daughter with her passion for dancing whenever she moves. Josh Billings, Mr. Dooley,. The Autocrat, from The Autocrat of the. Breakfast Table, Uncle Remus, The Spectator, Sir Roger de Coverley are all humorous characters as well known to many readers as are real people. Mr. Dooley is the creation of Finley Peter Dunne, an Irish-American journalist of Chicago. Mr. Dooley was a great favorite of a generation back, a philosopher with an Irish brogue, who gave delight because. Of his humorous way of talking and the quaintness of his views. A few lines from "Mr. Dooley on the Philippines" will give an idea of his character. "I know what I'd do if I was Mack (McKinley)," said Mr. Hennessy. "I'd histe a flag over the Phillipeens an' I'd take in the whole lot iv thim." "An' yet," said Mr. Dooley, "It is not more thin two months since ye learned whether they were islands or canned goods.... Suppose ye was standin' at the corner iv State Street an' Archey R-road, wud ye ask to know what car to take to get to th' Philippeens? If yer son Packy was to ask ye where the Ph'lippeens is, cud ye give him any good idea whether they was in Rooshia or jus' west iv the thracks?... Wan iv the worst things about this here war is the way its makin' puzzles fr our poor tired heads." Josh Billings is the pseudonym him to establish himself RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 for Henry W. Shaw who lived from 1818 to 1885. His education was cut short in his sophomore year when he was expelled from Hamilton College for removing the clapper from the chapel bell. He wandered about the country for a number of years doing odd jobs, then he began to write "pieces" for newspapers. 'Through this activity he met Artemus Ward who helped "qn the world of funny men." He began giving humorous lectures, patterning both his publicity and his performances upon Ward's own technique. One of his favorite lectures was on "Skim Milk." He gave it hundreds of times. Among the group of humorous characters of the Mr. Dooley and Josh Billings type, so popular in America during the period of the Civil War, one was supreme. That was Artemus Ward, whose real name was Charles Farrar Browne (1834-1867). Mr. Browne did not create a fictitious character as Dunne and Shaw did, but retained his own identity. Critics say it is impossible to separate his work from his personality, for the two go together. Someone has said that "around his memory a loving world twined a garland of affection as for a lost child." That he was a favorite of Abraham Lincoln has already been mentioned, and reference has been made to one of his chapters which Lincoln read to his cabinet on the morning of September 22, 1862, before presenting to them the important Emancipation Proclamation. This incident illustrates the place of humorous literature in the lives of great men and the place of Ward as a humorous character. The LESSON DEPARTMENT chapter from the new book which Ward had sent the President was entitled "High-handed Outrage at Utica," from which a few lines have already been quoted in Lesson 2. Artemus Ward, with a method all his own, was tremendously successful as a platform entertainer. He not only traveled through the United States with his show, but went to Europe where he was given a triumphant reception. Great Humorous Characters of Literature The characters mentioned above in connection with the humor arising out of character are not all truly characters of literature. Most of them are the authors themselves more or less fictionized. But in the literature of the world, there are a number of great humorous characters with whom every person of education and culture should be acquainted, just as they should know the great romantic and tragic characters in literature. To know Ulysses, Achilles, Iphigenia, Media, Oedipus, Helen of Troy, Faust, Marguerite, Hamlet, Othello, Ophelia, Polonius, Desdemona, Lear, Kent, Cordelia, Portia, Shylock, Orlando, Jaques, Tartuffe, Adam Bede, Sidney Carton, Becky Sharp, and other characters that literature stands ready to present to you is like knowing a host of interesting people who enrich your lives, amuse you, and add happiness to your days. A few of the humorous characters, important to know, have already been mentioned—Gargantua, created by Rabelais; Falstaff, presented by Shakespeare; and some others. But they have companions who are equally worth knowing. Madame Malaprop 787 in Sheridan's delightful comedy, The Rivals, will always make you chuckle; just as Becky Sharp in Vanity Fair is the epitome of all scheming women, so Mrs. Malaprop is the embodiment of all those halfeducated, self-satisfied individuals who, in attempting to show off their superiority, make themselves ridiculous through their misuse of their mother tongue. She is famous for (quoting her own words) her "'oracular tongue and nice derangement of epitaphs." One of the characters in the play calls her "the old weather-beaten she-dragon whose ridiculous vanity makes her dress up her coarse features and deck her dull chat with hard words which she doesn't understand." To this indictment she cries: "There sir! An attack on my language... An aspersion upon my parts of speech.... If I reprehend anything in this world it is the use of my oracular tongue." She says her niece is as headstrong as "an allegory on the banks of the Nile." In commending a suitor to Lydia, she says, "He's so well bred... So full of alacrity and adulation... His phisogonmy so grammatical!" Excited that her plans are not working out, she exclaims, "Here's fine suicide, paracide, and salivation going on in the fields, and Sir Anthony not to be found to prevent the antistrophe." She tells Lydia that someone else can inform her of the "perindiculars." Another speech is, "Come, gitls, this gentlemen will exhort us; come, sir, you're our envoy—lead the way. We'll precede." One of her most humorous speeches is that in which she gives her views on the ideal education for a young girl. "I would by no means wish a daughter of mine to be a progeny of learning; I don't think so much learning becomes a young woman. For instance, I would never let her meddle with Greek or Hebrew, or algebra, or simony, or fluxions, or patadoxes, or such inflammatory branches of learning—neither would it be necessary for her to handle any of your mathematical, astronomical, diabolical instruments. But, Sir Anthony, I would send her, at nine years old, to a boarding school in order to learn a little ingenuity and artifice. Then, sir, she should have a supercilious knowledge in accounts;... And as she grew up, I would have her instructed in geometry, that she might know something of the contagious countries;... But above all, Sir Anthony, she should be mistress of orthodoxy, that she might not misspell and mispronounce words so shamefully as girls usually do; and likewise that she might reprehend the true meaning of what she is saying.... This, Sir Anthony, is what I would have a woman know...°." To be fully appreciated, any of the great characters in literature must be seen through the entire novel or play which presents them. We can only know Ruggles by reading Harry Leon Wilson's Ruggles of Red Gap (or seeing the movie based on it). We can only know how funny Mr. Jeeves is by following him entirely through the situations E. P. Wodehouse has invented for him. The same is true of Falstaff, Mr. Pickwick, Don Quixote, Monsieur Jourdain, Tartarin; in fact, any of the humorous characters it would delight us to know. Only a few points can be given here in the hope that a fuller acquaintance will be made with them later. Mr. Pickwick has been mentioned before; space will allow little more to be said of him. One critic points out that by comsummate art, Dickens sends Pickwick walking through life conveying with him the contrast between life as it might be and life as it is. Through his humor as well as his pathos, Dickens did much to remove the injustices and cruelties of his day by bringing about more humane legislation. He wrote with intense social purpose in all of his novels. The humor in the character of Pickwick lies largely in the incongruities of his character. He thinks he is a great scientist in his discoveries and in his manner of writing up his observations. But there is only emptiness back of his pomp of scholarship. Then, too, his solemn manner in all that. He does is out of keeping with his appearance. He maintains this manner always, even when he puts his hat over his nightcap and bows himself ceremoniously out of Miss Witherfield's room, which he had entered by mistake and where he had gone to bed. Likewise, when he is giving Mr. Magnus detailed procedure on how to propose, his solemnity and dignity help to make what he does laughable. Pickwick's character grows through the various adventures he encounters. Mr. Leacock says that at first he is almost a burlesque figure. "Then as his amiability leads him to misadventure after misadventure he becomes stronger and more real, until he finally shows great strength, but is none the less humorous when he goes to jail rather than marry Mrs. Bardall. Through all the unfolding of his character there is a warm glow of human kindness. It is the ability to incorporate this quality into his humor which makes Dickens one of the greatest comic writers of the world." "Dickens did with laughter and 788 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT smiles what other social reformers attempt to do with denunciation." Tartarin in Daudet's Tartarin of Tarascon is another high ranking humorous character. He is very much like the people of Dickens, though different from any one but himself. He is a giant in physique and physical strength. In fact, he is such a glorious specimen of perfect physical manhood that this goes to his head. The basis of the humor in his case is the contrast between his strong appearance and his veritable weakness—his delusion of greatness on one hand, and his innate cowardice on the other. Daudet seems to be satirizing in this story the tendency of the people of southern France in the nineteenth century to lie and exaggerate and bluff; to live in a world of makebelieve instead of a world of reality. Stephen Leacock says that the Tartarin people live on delusions of' grandeur. They live among grapes and flowers in a sort of permanent armistice night. Don Quixote, another of our amusing galaxy, is a reflector of an attitude in Spain following the days of chivalry. Cervantes is protesting in his novel against the persistence of literature to glorify a social system which has served its purpose, degenerated, and passed. This novel provides another example of the power of humor as a social force. It has been said that this book helped "to return to sanity the mind of a continent still a little delirious." The hero, Don Quixote, has read so much about knightly conduct toward maidens in distress, and about the stirring adventures of knights who sought to free the world from sin, that his head becomes a little 789 turned. He decides to set off on a pilgrimage to right wrong. He is a grotesque figure, long, lean and sallow, on a rake of a horse, dressed in queer garb, and accompanied by Sancho Panza, his "comic relief," rotund and practical. He chooses for his lady an inn keeper, as grotesque as he himself. Cervantes makes this romance ridiculous by showing how poor a figure chivalry cuts when dragged into the light. The two main characters act as a foil to each other. Don Quixote is all idealism and dreams; Sancho is all earthly reality. Idealism should never falter, but it needs reality to keep its feet on the ground. The humor lies both in the incongruities of the characters and in the ridiculous adventures they encounter. Don fights with windmills, thinking they are giants; he mistakes two herds of sheep for armies ready for battle. He frees criminals about to be punished only to have them turn savagely upon him. The second part of the book leaves the burlesque of the first and shows development in the characters, who are, however, fundamentally the same. Don still tries to carry out his great purpose and still fails, as we see in his encounter with the lion and in his episode with the puppet show. When he spoils a perfectly good puppet show, he awakens to a sense of disillusionment. Though the novel is a comedy of character and situation, it is a tragedy of disillusionment—like the tragedies in the lives of people who fight for lost causes and awaken to a realization of their futility. The great value of the book, transcending its fine humor, is the nobility 790 shown in the way Don Quixote lives and dies. In both he is the pattern of the perfect gentleman, as he sees it. He meets his disillusionment with the same courage that he meets the imagined giants. He is true to his ideals. Also he is helped by his association with the practical Sancho, just as Sancho, though he can never understand Don, is ennobled by his idealism. Among the world's known and accepted characters of humor, Huckleberry Finn has been designated as the smallest, humblest, and yet the greatest. Mark Twain is one of the best known, throughout the world, of all American men of letters. Opie Read says, "Other humorists may be a chuckle, but he is a ha ha. He is a burst of mirth, a compeller of merriment, an explosive of dignity." The general opinion is that Huckleberry Finn is far superior to any other of Mark Twain's books. It seems, admirers of the author say, to have written itself. He threw the manuscript aside for a long time, but later salvaged it and gave us "the highwater reach in humor." Stephen Leacock claims that this book elevates humor beyond the comic and the accidental "to that high reach in which our human lot itself invites at once our tears and our smiles." Huckleberry Finn was published in 1884 and ever since has been regarded as one of the world's books. Mark Twain had long dreamed of writing the story of an outcast boy whom he would send floating down the Mississippi on a raft with a negro companion. Part of his purpose was to write something that would give him a chance to paint the glory of the river. But he wanted also to write a story in which the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 world could be seen through humble characters. And he succeeded in both purposes. There is a vastness to his background. There is the incongtuity of life in the contrast between the unsullied soul of little Huck, and his rage and chewing tobacco. He and his companions give us types of humor from the lowest to the highest "when tears are mingled with laughter, when the ridiculous merges into the sublime." Problems and Projects 1. Illustrate the difference between humor of situation and humor of character, and point out how humor is enhanced when the two are combined. 2, Discuss the nature of the humor in the "Sir Roger de Coverley Papers." Read excerpts to illustrate. 3. Compare some of the humorous essays of Addison, Steele, or other early writers with modern humorous essays. Which do you enjoy most? Why? 4. Read books presenting at least two of the humorous characters of literature discussed in the lesson to get a fuller acquaintance with them, then determine which type gives you the greatest pleasure and the reasons why. Present your report to the class. 5- Do you know people like any of the humorous characters discussed? What of practical value to yourself can you learn from such real or created characters? Supplementary Readings Shakespeare, Henry IV and The Merry Wives of Windsor. Sheridan, The Rivals. L Dickens, Pickwick Papers: Moliere, Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme. Cervantes, Don Quixote. Mark Twain, Huckleberry Finn. Guide To Pronunciation Moliere (Mal yér') Iphigenia (if? Ij u ni' t) Patruchio (patru' kio) Tartuffe (Tar toof', tar' tiffe') Jaques (ja' kwéz - kwiz) LESSON DEPARTMENT Gargantua (gar gan' tii u) Cervantes (sur van' tus) Don Quixote (d6n' kwik' sut, | dén' ké ho ta) 791 Rabelais (rab' u 14, ra bu 14') Achilles (A kil' léz) Medea (mé dé' u) Oedipus (éd' i pus, éd' i pis) The Deseret Book Company has reported that its special edition of The Greatest Pages of American Humor, by Leacock, is exhausted and will not be reprinted. +h Social Science Foundations Of Successful Marriage Lesson 4 The Start And The Art Of Marriage (Tuesday, February 24, 1942) Lesson Aim: To emphasize the importance of a good start in marriage, and to show that the art of successful marriage hinges to a large degree upon the attitudes of its participants. THE start of any race has a lot to do with its outcome, and life's race is no exception. The intricacies and difficulties of modern living are many, and he who gets off on the wrong foot or makes a poor start will find himself severely handicapped all the way through. Who, When, and How to Marry Marriage commences with a definite ceremony, performed at a given time, and in conjunction with a chosen companion. The start of marriage for anyone involves these three things: another person, a time selected, and a ceremony performed; and if any one of these is not wisely decided upon, the marriage itself will likely get off to a bad start. We will not say more about the choice of a companion than has already been said in previous lessons, except to reemphasize the importance of rational judgment and serious consideration of such factors as chastity, dependability, health, disposition, industriousness, similar backgrounds and interests, et cetera. If one has used his head during courtship, and has chosen his mate intelligently as well as emotionally, that is the one he should marry But the time of marriage should receive careful consideration as well. The time of year is of little or no importance, to be sure, but the time of marriage in relation to the ages and the preparation of the bride and groom is very important. Personalities and situations vary so greatly, however, that even here it is difficult to lay down any rules. It is known, for example, that marriages are usually more successful if husband and wife are about the same age, or if the husband is a few years older. Matches in which the wife is older than the husband, or in which the husband is considerably older than the wife are not usually good marriage risks. But even so, there are cases in which this rule is broken, and happiness found in spite of it. It is also known that to delay marriage much beyond the time of biological 792 maturity and psychological preparedness is to put rather serious: strain upon the persons involved, and to decrease the chances of marriage in the first place, and successful adjustment in marriage where it is consummated. Marriage at a reasonably young age is desirable from a number of points of view. But here there are many exceptions, for young marriage may also mean hasty marriage based upon immature judgment. Furthermore, it may mean' lack of economic preparation; the young man of today should not hope to win his fortune before getting married, but certainly he should have something lined up in the way of a job or specific training for a job. The average ages for first marriages in this country for 1930 were 25.6 for males and 22.4 for females. We cannot say, of course, that these are the ideal ages for marriages, for many people have been successful in marriage who have deviated considerably from this average. What we can say is that the ideal age for marriage will depend to a very large extent upon the particular couple involved and the peculiar circumstances governing them. It is impossible to describe the ideal age in terms of years. The best time for marriage is when the persons involved are prepared—biologically, psychologically, economically, and socially. And where all of these conditions cannot be completely satisfied, the best time is when the most satisfactory balance can be found among them. The nature of the marriage ceremony is also of extreme importance. In this connection, we are safe in saying that church marriage, and especially temple marriage as LatterRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 day Saints know it, is much more likely to succeed than is the marriage which lacks the sobering and spiritualizing influence of religion. Burgess and Cottrell in their study of 526 couples, as already indicated in an earlier lesson, found that religion in the home, church attendance, and church marriage, were all associated with successful marriage and family life." In other words, religion is able to make the marriage contract sacred, and in this way cement and vitalize its relationships. The sanctification of marriage through the church makes it mean more to those who enter, makes them more firmly resolve that -it shall not fail. And there is no sanctification so deep and profound as temple marriage. Parents can do much to spiritualize the marriage preparation of their children. Home atmosphere is quite normally transplanted into the hearts of the children, and if this atmosphere is one of reverence and prayer over matters of courtship and marriage the children will naturally have a better chance than if it is not. Mothers especially can impress their children with the sacredness of the marriage covenant and the importance of entering into it with the right attitude and with a partner well chosen. Children should be guided during courtship, both as to conduct and as to their choice of associates. They should be helped to realize that courtship is a stepping stone to a greater adventure, and that if one's affections are given to someone who is unworthy, eternal marriage will Ernest W. Burgess and Leonard S. Cottrell, Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, pp, 357-359. LESSON DEPARTMENT not be possible and the deeper lasting joys of life will be blotted out. The eyes of the children should be turned toward the temple; to accomplish this, the attention and the inspiration of parents seems necessary. If one has chosen a good companion, married at an appropriate time in life, and married under the sanctifying influence of the Church, he has made a good start. The "who," and the "when," and the "how" of marriage are important. Early Adjustment in Marriage Life is a series of adjustments, and the event of marriage is simply one episode in this series. But it is an extremely important episode, for upon its success depends the happiness of not only the married partners themselves, but of children and grandchildren to come. If one has adjusted satisfactorily to the problems of childhood and youth before marriage, he is well on his way to successful adjustment in marriage, although he has no guarantee of such success. Marriage is a continuous process of adjustment; the start ls important to be sure, but the power and the will to carry through are even more important. Successful marriage is a process, not an achievement. Even so, the early months and years of married life are usually loaded rather heavily with problems which need adjustment. To those who have come into marriage somewhat unprepared and heavily freighted with romantic ideas unsupported by stern reality, the period is one of painful disillusionment. Their mistake has been the so-called "romantic fallacy" discussed in the pre- 793 vious lesson. 'To some, adjustment is relatively easy because of the foundations they have laid beforehand; to others, it is hard for the same reason; but to all, regardless of preparation or attitude, the start of marriage presents its difficulties. This is so because marriage requires such a great change in the lives of those who enter it; in one sense marriage is a major life crisis. The more or less highly emotionalized associations of courtship must make room for more practical considerations; couples must "come down to earth," so to speak, and learn to face things a little more realistically. Furthermore, the young married couple must learn to cooperate and get along with each other on a much more continuous and intimate basis than formerly, and this for anyone means adjustment. Much of the success or failure of marriage depends upon the success or failure of this early period; the stresses and strains of these first adjustments between husband and wife may either be the birth pains of a deepening love or the death pains of an immature infatuation. It is important to realize also that conflicts between husband and wife are very likely much more common today than ever before, and that marital adjustments are therefore much more difficult. Social changes have disturbed the traditional roles which men and women have played in the marriage relationship, and new roles have not yet been thoroughly established. It used to be that husband and wife upon entering marriage knew fairly well what society expected of them, and therefore what their role was to be in respect to each other. But this is 794 not so today; the emancipation of woman has disturbed all of this, and as a result, the early part of marriage is usually a period in which husband and wife maneuver and struggle for positions of advantage and control. This maneuvering, although a necessary part of the adjustment, is bound to lead into conflicts of one sort or another. Realizing this, parents and friends will do well to show a normal interest in the lives of the couple, but at the same time to avoid all interference. Needless to say, whenever possible the young married couple should live by themselves rather than with their parents. "What about the honeymoon?" many people ask. The purpose of the honeymoon is to permit the first adjustments of marriage to take place in a restful atmosphere and in isolation from all interference. When this purpose is realized, the honeymoon is a good thing; but too often it is not realized. 'Too often the honeymoon trip is expensive and fatiguing, and is therefore a hinderance to successful adjustment rather than a help. A long, hurried, or expensive trip isn't necessary. Very often the conditions favorable to successful adjustment can better be obtained right at home. Many young people today are wisely delaying their honeymoon until after they have been married, for a year or so. The advent of a child into the family is an experience that requires adjustment on the part of husband and wife. They must now make way for a new personality in their hearts and in their lives, and they must plan together for its welfare. The first child is an entirely new experience, and it therefore usually requires RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 more in the way of parental adjustment than do later children. The birth of each new child into a family, however, demands adjustment on the part of all former members. We want to emphasize and reemphasize that although early adjustments are likely the most important, the need for adjustment is continuous. The Art of Mutual Enrichment Success in marriage depends so much upon the attitude of those who understake the adventure that we make no apology in referring to the point frequently throughout this series of lessons. Attitude is the key to maturing and enduring love. He who enters the marriage gates unselfishly and with a determination, to succeed is the one who will succeed. Successful marriage is an art; and an artist is one who feels, one whose soul is set in tune with the infinite. The art of successful marriage is the art of mutual enrichment, growing out of genuine love and devotion. The selfish and the selfcentered are seldom able to make others happy, and as a result are seldom truly happy themselves. Happiness is something that must be shared in order to be realized, and happiness sharing is the art that makes marriage successful. We have already defined love as something more than either physical attraction or emotional involvement. True and enduring love involves the physical and the emotional, to be sure, but it is something more—it is the spiritual and intellectual companionship that grows out of years of sacrificing and working together. True love is that which LESSON DEPARTMENT makes a person put the welfare of someone else above his own; it makes him happy and anxious to share his happiness; it is mutually enriching. But the sad thing is that very often sentimentality is mistaken for genuine love—even in _ marriage. Sentiment has become so commercialized and the modes of expressing it have become so_ standardized around various holidays and special occasions that it is really difficult at times to distinguish true love from its shell. Anniversaries are likely a good thing, but the wife or husband who becomes personally insulted when forgotten and who makes it a matter of marital conflict, is not the wife or husband who is really in love. True love runs deep, and it feeds on mutual understanding and respect rather than sentimental superficialities.; Another factor in the mutual enrichment of married partners is the division of labor and responsibilities. Too often, in this modern day, young women show a dislike for housework and an unwillingness to accept the responsibilities of mothethood. They are career minded, but they apparently fail to realize that homemaking is the greatest career that woman can have. The growing equality between men and women has made too many women feel that to be equal with men they must be like men. Too often we train our young people before marriage to compete with each other, and then after marriage we expect them to cooperate. But equality doesn't mean identity; women can be equal with men and still be unlike them. The biological roles of men and women are necessarily 795 different, and so why shouldn't the social roles be also. Women who are the most womanly and men who are the most manly are the men and women who are best able to successfully play their roles in marriage to the satisfaction and mutual enrichment of all. Chart for Happiness Professor Hornell Hart of Duke University has recently published a study dealing with the measurement of human happiness, and since the theme of our lessons all along has been the attainment of happiness in marriage, it may be well to conclude the present one by giving reference to his book. Mr. Hart's purpose in making this study was to discover the general areas of human happiness and the various factors associated with it, so that individuals can be helped to better understand themselves and thereby improve the happiness of their own lives. By use of a scale, called a Euphorimeter, he was able to get an approximate measure of the relative happiness ratings of various groups of people under various conditions. He found that the major fields, or areas, in which happiness or unhappiness are experienced are: play life, work life, love life, and home life. He found also that the following general factors are conducive to happiness in any field: (1) health and vitality; (2) attitudes of courage and enthusiam toward the difficulties one encounters; (3) attitudes of friendliness and comtadeship toward other human beings as shown through religion and the spirit of unselfishness. It is inter- *Hornell Hart, Chart for Happiness, Macmillan, N. Y., 1940. 796 esting to note the great stress placed upon attitude. In regard to happiness as it relates more specifically to marriage, he found the following scores for groups with differing marital statuses (a score of plus 100 is considered average):" Married people who have not comtemplated divorce or separation 213 Young persons engaged to be married 173 Unmarried persons 17. To 35 years old, never yet engaged 75 Young persons with broken and unreplaced engagements 62 Married persons who are on the verge It is evident from the above that happiness is very definitely associated with marriage. But it is also evident that it is associated with only that kind of marriage that is successful. Marriage may result in either the highest happiness or the deepest misery that is possible for men and women to experience, and both the start and the art of this great adventure have a lot to do with its outcome.. Problems arid Projects 1. Why is the start of marriage so important to its success? Show the relationship of the following to successful marriage, and indicate the conditions of each that you think are best for a good start: a) Choice of a marriage partner b) Age, and age differences between mates at marriage c) Financial preparation for marriage d) Kind of marriage ceremony (i. e., temple or otherwise) e) The honeymoon f) The place of residence after marriage. What do you understand by the art of successful marriage? In what way is attitude tied up with it? What is true *Ibid. P. 33. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 love? How does it lead to mutual enrichment? Do you agree that true love is often smothered by too much emphasis on commercialized expressions of sentiment on holidays, anniversaries and the like? Why, or why not? 3. What effect does the growing equality between men and women have upon the difficulties of early adjustment in marriage? "What effect does it have upon the problem of mutual enrichment between husband and wife? Do you agree that men and women can be different and still be equal? How? Do you agree that woman's greatest career is homemaking? Why? 4. What did Professor Hornell Hart find to be associated with happiness in life? What do you think can be done then by unhappy people to improve their happiness level? Why do you think married people who have not contemplated divorce are more happy than single people? Why do you think martied people who have contemplated divorce are less happy than single people? What does this mean in terms of successful marriage? References Anonymous, "Waring to Wives," Reader's Digest, November, 1936, pp. 13-16. Baber, Ray E., Marriage and the Family, McGraw-Hill, New York, 1939, pp. 201- 276, 355-437. Bigelow, William Frederick, Good Housekeeping Marriage Book, PrenticeHall Inc., New York, 1938, pp. 43-65, 97-110, 126-140; passim, Burkhart, Roy A., From Friendship to Marriage, Harper and Brothers, New York, SEE 12 Sigg a Burkhart, Roy A., Thinking About Marriage, Association Press, New York, 1934, pp. 68-74, 115-135. Comstock, S. And Howe, H. S., "Can't I Save My Marriage?" Good Housekeeping, January, 1935, pp. 26-27. Crowder, Farnsworth, "How to Stay Married," Reader's Digest, April, 1936, pp. 8-10. Folsom, J. K., Plan For Marriage, Harpers, New York, 1938, pp. 29-46, 196- 216. Groves, Ernest R., Marriage, New York, of divorce -160 LESSON DEPARTMENT Henry Holt, 1933, pp. 118-132, 172-190, 254-288, 312-333. Hart, Hornell, Personality and the Family, D. C. Heath and Co., Boston, New York, 1935, pp. 108-109, 143-145, 159- 170, 203-228. Jepson, Helen, "Love Came My Way," Good Housekeeping, December 1936, pp. 36-37. Jung, Moses, Modern Marriage, F. S. Crofts and Co., New York, 1940, pp. 52-98. Kirkpatrick, C., "Factors in Marital Adjustment," American Journal of Sociology, September, 1937, pp. 270-283. McDermott, N. T., "Adjustments in Marriage," Hygeia, December, 1939, pp. 1078-1081. Muret, Charlotte, "Marriage as a Ca- 797 reer," Reader's Digest, September, 1936, PP 59: Palmer, G., "Why Marriages Go Wrong," Good Housekeeping, November 1939, PP- 34°5- Rubenstein, H. S., "Mates or Mismates? '—A Message to Those Married," Hygeia, December, 1937, pp. 1082-1083. Shultz, G. D., "What's Wrong With Marriage?" Ladies Home Journal, October 1939, Pp. 18-19. Waller, Willard, The Family: A Dynamic Interpretation, 'The Cordon Co., New York, 1938, Part 3, pp. 305-453. Whiteman, Mrs. Paul, "(How to Be a Swell Wife," Good Housekeeping, July, 1937, PP- 24°25. Widtsoe, John A. "Woman's Greatest Career," The Improvement Era, October, 1940, pp. 586-587; 634-639. INlisston Lessons Latter-day Saint Hymns (For optional use of missions in lieu of Literature) Lesson 5 (Tuesday, February 17, 1942) WE THANK THEE, O GOD, FOR A PROPHET We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet To guide us in these latter days; We thank Thee for sending the Gospel To lighten our minds with its rays; We thank Thee for every blessing. Bestowed by Thy bounteous hand; We feel it a pleasure to serve Thee, And love to obey Thy command. When dark clouds of trouble hang o'er us And threaten our peace to destroy, There is hope smiling brightly before us, And we know that deliv'rance is nigh; We doubt not the Lord, nor His goodness, We've proved Him in days that are past; The wicked who fight against Zion Will surely be smitten at last. 798 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 We'll sing of His goodness and mercy, We'll praise Him by day and by night, Rejoice in His glorious Gospel, And bask in its life-giving light; Then on to eternal perfection The honest and faithful will go, While they who reject this glad message Shall never such happiness know. —William Fowler. WHENEVER we receive an ordinance in religion, for instance, baptism, the laying on of hands in sickness, the conferring of the Holy Ghost, or the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, we do so in connection with an organization. That organization is known as the Church. But in order to perform a religious ordinance, one must have the authority to do so. This authority in the Church of Christ is called Priesthood. In our Church this Priesthood came to Joseph Smith through an ordination by the ancient apostles, Peter, James, and John, who had been resurrected from the dead. All revelations for the Church as a whole are received by its President, who is known as "a prophet, seer, and revelator." Of course, any individual member of the Church may receive revelations for his own guidance, but not for the Church. It was this prophet and seer that William Fowler had in mind when he wrote this hymn. Whether it was Joseph Smith, the first prophet, we do not know; at any rate, when we sing it we think not only of Joseph Smith, but of whoever may be the head of the Church at the time. THE poem, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," was written by William Fowler, who was born May 9g, 1830, in Australia, where his family had gone to live temporarily. (His father, John Fowler, was in the army, and he had gone to Australia from Ireland and to Ireland from Sheffield, England.) William's mother, until she joined the Methodists with her husband, was a Roman Catholic. But William seems to have looked upon Methodism as "all hope and trust, no reality." At eighteen, William joined the Mormon Church. A young friend of his, whose father was a priest in the Church, took him to meeting. This was in the winter of 1848. William was impressed and was soon baptized. Later he was ordained a priest, whereupon he began to preach his new-found faith. By this time, however, the family had returned to Sheffield, England. _ Says George D. Pyper, in his Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns: "The daily diary of William Fowler, containing a record of four years of missionary service up to 1854, has been perused by the writer and is of intense interest. It shows the deep and abiding faith of the man in the Restored Gospel: how he traveled on foot and endured revilings and all sorts of persecutions for the Gospel's sake. It is full of such entries as 'walked 21 miles rode 7 today.' One of March 27, 1853, reads: Mob assembled and broke up the afternoon meeting. In the evening we met at Brother Craig's house and LESSON DEPARTMENT had a good meeting. The mob assembled outside expecting to pelt us with goose eggs, but as we did not open the door they did not know where to look for us, so they pelted each other.' " It is significant that William Fowler studied and taught music. He also learned the Pitman system of shorthand. According to his diary, he was given his first book in shorthand by the author of the system, Sir Isaac Pitman. "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet" was not the only poem written by Brother Fowler. Others were printed in the Millennial Star. We never hear of them now, however. He came to America in 1863, and settled in Manti, where he taught school and where he died two years later, at the age of thirtyfive. A monument, erected by the Church, marks his grave in the Manti cemetery. 'Three children survived him, one son and two daughters. His name will always be remembered with gratitude by hundreds of thousands of Latter-day Saints in all parts of the world. HIS poem was composed, most probably, between 1860 and 1862. There is no evidence to show the exact date. According to the late President Joseph F. Smith, it was first sung at a religious meeting, to which it had been brought by Broth- -er Fowler. "It was published in the 12th edition (1863) of the Latterday Saint Hymn Book." That quotation is from Superintendent Pyper's book. So is this one: "It cannot be called the greatest hymn ever written by any of our authors. In fact, it does not compare in literary merit or poetic beauty with many of the other gems contained in our 799 hymn books, but it has something different from our other hymns." This "something different" lies in its praise to God for a man through whom we obtain divine guidance, rather than direct adoration to one of the Divine Trinity, or Godhead, as do most Christian hymns. HE first stanza has four separate phases of gratitude: first, thanks are given for a specific thing—that God has sent us a man "'to guide us in these latter days"; second, gratitude is expressed for the restoration of the Gospel; third, gratitude is expressed for "every blessing bestowed by" the bounteous hand of the Lord; fourth, "We feel it a pleasure to serve Thee, and love to obey Thy command." No: doubt, if the meter would permit, the word "joy" would have been used by the poet instead of "pleasure," since it is a much stronger word. But it expresses an idea that ought to be dwelt upon here. Many people go through the forms of religion without much thought. 'They worship—if the word "worship" may be used in this connection—in the most formal, unreflecting way. They sing languidly; they listen to the words, but not the thought of the prayer; they hear only words in the sermon. That would not satisfy the poet who wrote this hymn. He would demand that we listen with the heart, not merely with the ear. He would require that we take "pleasure" in worshipping, in observing the commandments of God. What goes on should mean something to us. In the second stanza we strike a hopeful note. No matter what "dark clouds of trouble" may hang over us, we see through them a gleam of "hope smiling brightly before us." Trouble is apt to drive us to despair, unless we are buoyed up by religion, by faith, by the Spirit. Under such conditions, we do not "doubt the Lord, nor His goodness." 'This is true because "we have proved [tested] Him in days that are past." Was the poet thinking of his own trials, when mobs were at the door of the house where the Saints had met to worship God? Perhaps so. In any event, his experience is the experience of thousands of other Latterday Saints, and so the hymn is full of meaning to them, too. The poét gives a thought to the "wicked" also; they shall be "smitten at last." Perhaps there is no feeling of revenge here, but only the statement of a fact. The last stanza goes back to the first. It is an expression of praise and thanksgiving. We'll "sing" and "praise" and "rejoice" and "bask in light." 'Thus we get the maximum of "pleasure" in serving God. The result of all this is that "the honest and faithful" will go on "to eternal perfection," by which the poet means "eternal. Progression." Such are the blessings derived from obedience to the Gospel, but no one can properly, expect to reap this reward who "rejects this glad message" —which is only natural. They "shall never such happiness know." Questions 1. Who wrote this hymn? Where and when was he born? Under what circumstances did he join the Church? Tell about his four-year mission and the opposition he met with. Why should a man like William Fowler be persecuted by anyone? 2. What kind of man was William Fowler, judging by this hymn? Can you detect any reference in it to the events in his own life? If so, what? What was his attitude. Toward religion, judging by this poem? Pick out some words or phrases that show this attitude. 3. About when was this hymn written? Where was Brother Fowler living at this time? When did he emigrate? Where to? What did he do there? 4. Which prophet was meant in the hymn? What do we get as as result, of the work of our prophets? What should be our attitude toward them in consequence? What is meant by going on to "perfection"? How does a person become perfect? ROOTED IN FAITH Jasmine R. Edmunds Singly, like a cypress standing high, High and lone beneath a lowering sky, Firmly rooted in the rock am I. Twisted, scarred, the giant tree is old; Over him for ages storms have rolled With angry thunder, vivid lightning scrolled. Mighty yet, his valiant head is high; The elements he dares defy. So, rooted deep in faith stand I! 800 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1941 WHOM CAN YOU TRUST: OCTORS do not sell medicine; they do not profit by the sale of what they prescribe. Their advice is impartial; you can trust it. Hearing aid dealers sell hearing aids; they profit by the sale. They are naturally anxious fo have you buy. You can trust their advice only as far as you can trust them. Erest compels us therefore to select ~ Confidence makes friends, and frien acs Otarion will be in business a long time; it canno e friends for the sake of quick profits. That is why the Otarion organization has been so carefully picked. You can trust your Otarion dealer. In a personal letter to a prospect Denison B. Hull, President of Otarion, Inc., says: "OF course | am anxious to have Mr. Brown sell you a hearing aid, butlama great deal more anxious to have you satisfied that Mr. Brown is offering you the best hearing aid you could have. You have bought hearing aids long enough so that words don't mean much, and a smoke screen of high pressure sales talk is nothing but a nuisance. I've bought them long enough myself to feel the same way. I have done my best to see that nobody in our organization will be of the high pressure type.” You can’t beat a good product sold by honest able men. AMERICAN Medical AASSM council on physical therapy. You can't beat a good product sold by honest able men. Service to the the hard of hearing Otarion Write for the Interesting Stoy of Otarion Otarion of Salt Lake Donald G. Lyman Dial 5-4036 Salt Lake City, Utah 511 McIntyre Bldg. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY HOME OFFICE—BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING Salt LAKE City UTAH HEBER J GRANT President The Relief Society Magazine THE COVER "Peace on Earth, Good Will Toward Men" NEARLY 2,000 years ago, according to Sacred Writ, there were "shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shown round about them... And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold I bring you good tidings of great joy.... For unto you is born this day, in the city of David, a Savior, which is Christ the Lord.... And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host, praising God and saying, 'Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men.' " Peace on earth, good will toward men was the message of Christ as he "went about throughout the cities and the villages, preaching and shewing glad tidings of the Kingdom of God." Peace on earth, good will toward men, is the message accepted by men and women all over the globe who acclaim their faith in Christ. Peace on earth, good will toward men is the Christmas message—the message of hope and cheer. Peace on earth, good will toward men is the most needed and most universally desired blessing this 1941 Christmas season. May it soon find place in the hearts of men everywhere, not for just a day, but for every day. Then will lives be mellowed, conduct tempered, and humanity become exalted. Then will war cease and harmony exist in human relations. Then will mutual concord and amity prevail. Then will men live in happiness and security, and the God of love and peace will be with them. The cover for this issue of the Magazine was designed and drawn by Evan Jensen. The Relief Society Magazine Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. 28 DECEMBER, 1941 No. 12 Contents Special Features To All Church Members—The First Presidency.............—Back of Flyleaf  Let Peace Prevail…Elizabeth Hill 801 Frontispiece—Christmas Table, Charles R. Savage Home...........802 Christmas Memories............Luacine Savage Clark 803 The Carols of Christmastide...........George D. Pyper 807 Oscar A. Kirkham—Leader of Youth, Inspirer of Man................ Marba C. Josephson 811 Two Significant Days........Anna Boss Hart 814 A Gift For Him -Lella Marler Hoggan 824 Fashions of Yesterday --..........829 Home Life—A Social Science...........Dr. Harold T. Christensen 840 The Church Welfare Program for 1942 -.....Marion G. Romney 842 The Spirit Giveth Life ee eset eee cecePriscilla L. Evans 845 "Highway for Americans"'.............Bernard C. Shoenfeld 847 Fiction A Half Hour of Christmas -....Mabel Harmer 817 As Little Children -.....Olive W. Burt 826 The Merry-Go-Round—Chapter Nine.......Alice Morrey Bailey 852 General Features Happenings ......Annie Wells Cannon 832 Editorial: 'The Spirit of Christmas ...833 Notes to the Field: - Award Winners—Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest............ 835 Award Winners—Relief Society Centennial Short Story Contest................ 836 Special Feature for Magazine—19 42....... 837 Relief Society Receives Valuable Books from Mrs. Clara Tate Reed................ 837 Ora W. Chipman, Hazel Brockbank Elected to Office... 220. 838 Dates for Presentation of March Lessons............... 838 Women Advised Regarding Sewing Machine Repairmen New Cantata by Gladys Rich, Minnie D. Warmer.......... 839 Home Accident Prevention—No. III BGT Lessons Theology and Testimony—Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage, Chapter 6............ 858 Visiting Teachers'—Service as an Expression of Faith... Eee 860 Work-and-Business—Hsiery.....861 Literature—Humor in its Highest Form.............Social Science—Rights Versus Responsibilities in the Home..............867 Mission—School Thy Feelings, O My Brother...........871 Poetry Met irece Prevail 8...Elizabeth Hill 801 The First Snow Fall.-James Russell Lowell 806 (5 lo) Dott Sartori 810 A Morning Prayer.............-Rachel Barney Taft. 823 A Shawl For Baby.........Caroline Eyring Miner 828 The Master Hand Ida R. Alldredge 839 My Winter…. Emily Platts Smith 841 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 248. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once. Giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. Jo All Chueh Th cmabens Employment in defense work, service in the army, and attendance at institutions of learning are now taking very many of our young people away from their homes. The spiritual welfare and physical safety and health of all young people are always greatly promoted by their making themselves acquainted. With the Bishopric or Branch Presidency of the place in which they are living and by their keeping in close touch with these officers. In too many cases the parents and the Ward Bishoprics appear to fail to advise these young people to associate themselves promptly and actively with the Ward or Branch in the place to which they go or to which they are sent. Too frequently where this has not been done, the young people have had experiences and have fallen into habits which they regret during the remainder of their lives. Young people of the Church should for their own ' protection, welfare, and happiness, as also for the happiness, relief from great anxiety, and satisfaction of their parents, identify themselves with the local Church organization in the place where they are resident and take part in Church activities. We therefore earnestly advise all parents to urge their sons and daughters who are so away from home, to get in touch with the Ward officers in the places where they live and to identify themselves with the Church and engage in its activities. We should like the Bishops of the Wards from which these young people go to add their counsel and advice to those of the parents of these young people that when they reach their new homes they get in touch with the local Church officers and engage in Church activities. In order to help the local Church officers, in the places to which they go, to get in touch with these young people and to bring them into Church activity, it would be most helpful if the parents would write to the Bishops of Wards or the Presidents of Branches to which the young people have removed, giving the names and addresses of their children who are there. Where parents do not know the names of the Bishops or Presidents of Branches to which their children have gone, they can secure them from the Bishop, who will be able to obtain them from the Church Directory. It would be well also for Bishops of Wards from which the young people come to make it a point to write to the new Bishop or President of Branch concerned regarding the same young people, giving such information concerning them as would be helpful to the new Bishop of the Ward or President of the Branch. Where it is not possible to know the exact Ward or Branch to which the young people have gone, but the Stake is known, then the name and address should be sent to the President of the Stake, who will forward it to the Bishop or Branch President concerned. If the Stake is not known (as it may not be in some of the larger cities), then the name and address of these young people should be sent to the Presiding Bishop's Office in Salt Lake City, which will in turn forward the information to the appropriate officers. We urge the Bishops of Wards and Presidents of Branches in the Wards and Branches to which young people go to use their utmost endeavors to interest the young people in Church work and to bring them into the activities. Of the Church. If the young people are going to places in which there are no Wards, Branches, or Stakes, then the course suggested above should be followed by informing the President of the Mission within which the young people are to reside. We cannot too strongly urge upon the attention both of parents and Ward and Branch officers the importance of the foregoing instructions. Heber J. Grant, J. Reuben Clark, Jr., David O. McKay, The First Presidency. oh et Peace Prevail O God, this Christmas Eve let peace prevail, Let love abound for all beneath Thy sky, Let hearts lift up hosannas to Thy name And weary souls have strength to live, not die. Oh, give us hope and faith to seek Thee out. Teach us how to find Thee. Bring us near. Let us know the wonder of Thy love, And may our hearts know naught of hate and fear. O God, this night we pause to seek afresh The path Thy Son trod. Guide us then aright, And may our faith, like lanterns in the dark, Lead us on to everlasting light. —Elizabeth Hill. DINING TABLE SET FOR CHRISTMAS DINNER IN CHARLES R. SAVAGE HOME The Relief Society Magazine Vol. 28 DECEMBER, 1941 No. 12 Christmas Memories Luacine Savage Clark CHRISTMAS! What a flood of C memories this word recalls. It carries me back to childhood pioneer days, to a land of happiness —a land where care and sorrow were unknown and where our every dream came true. I can never forget the excitement we felt when the long-looked-for holiday season began: lessons and school were forgotten; our days were spent stringing popcorn and bright red cranberries to hang. On the tree, and in helping to seed raisins for the plum puddings and cakes. How often we children would go to the big kitchen with its polished Charter Oak stove just to smell the delicious odors that filled the air whenever the oven door was opened. How joyful we all were when the stately Christmas tree with its graceful, fragrant boughs was finally set up in the parlor, all ready to be adorned with our homemade articles, the glittering ornaments we bought, and, as a final touch, the candy dogs, cats, and gumdrop slippers that we hung so temptingly from the tips of the branches. How we dreaded to be sent to bed, to lose sight of all of this splendor. We all declared that we could never sleep, but by the time we had hung our stockings on the string stretched across the wall back of the cheerful Lady Franklin stove, and had said our good nights, we were resigned to climb the stairs to give old Santa a chance to do his yearly job. I can still feel the icy coldness of those bedrooms; no time was lost in undressing to nestle between the woolen sheets. No one had to be called on Christmas morning. Long before daylight my brothers had peeped over the banister, hoping the fires would be made, and wondering if the guns they had asked for were standing near their stockings. 'There was an unwritten law in our family that no stocking could be opened until all were dressed, combed, and had washed in our old copper bowl that stood in the warm kitchen; and this morning I am sure there was no need for the usual "make haste" from our patient mother. When the entire family, including the boy who milked the cow, and the dear German woman who helped with the sewing and housework, had eaten their breakfasts, we were all ushered at last into the parlor, where a cheerful fire greeted us. Page 803 the flames of which were reflected in the shiny balls hanging on the gorgeous tree. The chairs were always arranged in a row around the big room, each one piled high with interesting looking packages, which, if times were good, would overflow onto the floor. The little ones always stood in breathless awe at this bounteous array. Naturally we were very impatient to begin opening our gifts, but again order had to be maintained. One of us would be sent to the cellar for the clothes basket, to hold all the strings and papers. At last, the fun began! Grandpa, being the oldest, opened his gifts first. It took some time before our turn came, but by ten o'clock each bumpy stocking was empty, each gift opened and duly praised. Of course, our dolls received the most attention because of broken heads or other calamities that had befallen our last year's "family." By ten o'clock we were ready for the next part of the program. We would all join hands in a circle around the tree and sing to the tune of the "Mulberry Bush": Here we go round the Christmas tree, Here we go round the Christmas tree, Here we go round the Christmas tree, At ten o'clock in the morning. This was always followed by: Merry, merry Christmas everywhere, Cheerfully it ringeth through the air. Christmas bells, Christmas trees, Christmas odors on the breeze. Merry, merry Christmas everywhere, Cheerfully it ringeth through the air. Why should we so gratefully sing with joyous mirth— See the Son of Righteousness Beams upon the earth. At this point three shouts of "hurrah" would go up, to end the ceremony. Now came the only sorrow to our childish hearts: Father and Mother would come in carrying baskets filled with fruit, cake, and other gifts which we girls were expected to take to the homes of the old people in the ward. It seemed terrible to have to leave our treasured toys and beautiful wax dolls in their gorgeous, ruffled gowns, to carry baskets through the snow. Even though we knew smiles of gratitude would light up those wrinkled, aged faces, this did not in any way compensate for the great sacrifice we thought we were making on Christmas Day. In our anxiety to return home, we scarcely noticed the happy children coasting down the hills on their bright new sleds, nearly all homemade, nor did we hear the merry jingling of the sleighbells as the horses trotted over the snow pulling sleighs full of happy people on their way to spend the day with relatives or friends. Added to the jingling of the bells, the air was filled with the unusual music of the bagpipes as Brother Dunbar — went from house to house to serenade his friends each Christmas morning. I am sure his music carried his Scotch friends back to Bonnie Scotland, and tears filled their eyes as they listened; but to our ears, the tooting of the horns found in our stockings was much more pleasing. PERHAPS the most exciting event of the day came at two o'clock when we were all seated around the long dining table, and saw the huge 804 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 CHRISTMAS MEMORIES WINTER SURROUNDS THE CHARLES R. SAVAGE HOME turkey carried in to be carved by my father. Nothing was forgotten, from the dressing to the round, fat plum pudding with the delicious sauce. On this day we were allowed to eat to our heart's content. Even the turkey, who had been stuffing himself in the barnyard for this great event, must have felt satisfied also, for every part of his anatomy was duly appreciated. At the end of the feast we all helped to clear the tables, so we could play games or read the coveted books, usually sore of Louisa May Alcott's, found among our gifts. 'The older members of the family usually entertained friends who called; part of our family tradition was that none of us should leave home, only to deliver the baskets, on Christmas Day. This was faithfully kept, for none of us cared to wander from our comfortable, old adobe home. I suppose to every child Christmas Day is never long enough. No matter how tired we were we were always saddened when bed time came and Grandpa led the procession "up the wooden hill" as he called the stairs. But before this was done, all made the circle again around the tree and sang once more. This, with our family _ prayers, crowned the happiest day of the year, and I feel sure that each of us offered a silent prayer that no link in our family chain would be broken before another Christmas. Thus the years rolled on all too quickly, but even to a child shadows must come. One Christmas night at the close of our song, Grandpa, who so cheerfully had shared in all of our childish joys and sorrows, said, "My dears, this is the last time I shall join in your Christmas song." 806 Grandpa's words proved all too true. Since that time our circle has narrowed, until today but few are left to cherish the hallowed memories of those happy bygone days. A new generation has dawned. Inside the same house the stately Christmas tree with its fragrant boughs stands in the same spot as of yore, but the strings of popcorn and the red berries which brought so much joy to us are gone. Gone, too, are the many colored wax candles which used to light up our smiling faces. Gone is the old Franklin stove that gave us warmth and cheer for so many years. As I sit and gaze at the leaping flames in our grate fire, I am carried back to my childhood Christmases long ago. My heart and hands are reaching out to join hands once more in that circle and to sing again those almost forgotten songs arranged by my dear father. As I watch the tiny sparks fly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 upward, I realize my childish love and eager desire for gifts have vanished with the sparks. But there remains with me the memory of the walks when I grudgingly took my basket and trudged through the deep snow to those humble cottages where lived those forgotten souls who were the last links in their family circles. I hear again their "God bless you, my dear, for the happiness you have brought to us this day." I feel to say, "God bless those who implanted in my heart this true spirit of Christmas." May our children and our children's children sing _again those songs of praise and thanksgiving, taught by the pioneers, for all the blessings we so bounteously receive. May we have the true spint of the pioneer Christmas which links us to that one of long ago, to the birthday of Him who gave us our Christmas Day. Do THE FIRST. SNOW FALL The snow had begun in the gloaming And busily all the night Had been heaping the field and highway With a silence deep and white. Every pine and fir and hemlock Worte an ermine too dear for an earl, And the poorest twig on the elm tree Was ridged inch deep with pearl. —James Russell Lowell ar eS —— George D. Pyper General Superintendent, Latter-day Saint Sunday Schools AROL singing was known long C before the Reformation, and many definitions and _ stories have been written concerning its practice in ancient days in connection with the Norse yuletide sports. Lewis R. Benson, in The English Hymn, Its Development and Use, says it was not until the thirteenth century that it became popular in England, one wing cleaving close to the Nativity and the other to secular songs and yuletide sports. However, in our day carol singing is understood to have reference to a joyous song or ballad sung in celebration of the birth of Jesus. Many Christmas carols have been written. I have selected nine, which are often sung by the Latter-day Saints, for presentation here. The are treated alphabetically and not in the order of their dates of origin, their popularity, or their literary or musical rank. "Away in a Manger" One of the sweetest songs of the Nativity is "Away in a Manger," which was written by Martin Luther about the year 1530 for his little boy Hans, to be sung at a Christmas celebration. If Luther wrote the tune to be sung to his words, it has been forgotten. The one printed in the Deseret Sunday School Songs, composed by Charles H. Gabriel, a writer of gospel songs, is the one sung around the firesides and in the chapels. Martin Luther, the father of the Reformation, delved into poetry and music. He knew that the people desired to praise God, not in Latin chants, but in their own tongue. He wrote hymns for the congregation that were easily understood. Luther was born at Ejisleben, Saxony, November 10, 1483; he died February 18, 1546. "Far, Far Away on Judea's Plains" The words and music of this popular song were written and composed by John Menzies MacFarlane. He was born October 11, 1833, at Sterling, near the city of Glasgow, Scotland. His father was a duke's coachman, and he drove the coach of the Queen of England whenever she visited Scotland. The family came to America as Latter-day Saint converts in 1851, settling in Cedar City, Utah, where Brother MacFarlane organized a choir. It was so successful that, at the request of President Erastus Snow, he moved to St. George, Utah, and directed the Church choir there. When the late Bishop Scanlon of the Catholic Church visited SilPage 807 ver City, a nearby flourishing mining camp in those days, he expressed a desire to hold mass in St. George. Latter-day Saint authorities consented, and Brother MacFarlane trained his Mormon choir for six weeks to sing the Latin Mass. This was given in the St. George Tabernacle, and it was at that time that Brother MacFarlane, seeing the need of Christmas carols, wrote "Far, Far Away on Judea's Plains." Its simplicity and beauty caught the favor of musicians, and the song is now recognized and sung in many Christian churches besides our own. "Hark, the Herald Angels Sing" This is said by some writers to be one of the four greatest Chnstian hymns. Anglican Hymnology even gives it first place. It was written by Charles Wesley, the author of 6,500 hymns, acclaimed by some as the greatest hymnist of all ages. He and his brother John came to America early in 1830, and upon their return to England they laid the foundation for Methodism. Charles Wesley composed many hymns while riding along on his little pony. One day the horse fell, and Wesley sprained his ankle. The inspiration, he said, was lost for that day. Charles Wesley died March 29, 1878. The tune of this carol was composed by Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy in 1840. "It Came Upon a Midnight Clear" This beautiful hymn-poem was written by Reverend Edmund Hamilton Sears, who was born at Sandisfield, Massachusetts, April 6, 1810. He was a Harvard graduate and a Unitarian. Except for the first two stanzas, his song has been materially changed. He died January 4, 1876. The tune to this carol was composed by Richard Storrs Willis, son of the founder of Youth's Companion. Richard Storrs Willis was for many years the editor of the New York Musical World. "Joy to the World" This hymn, by Isaac Watts, was written in 1719. 'The tune is an adaptation from Handel's Messiah. It was called "Antioch" in our old Latter-day Saint hymn books. It was one of the ninety hymns compiled by Emma Smith in 1835, pursuant to a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1830. "Oh, Come All Ye Faithful' (Adeste Fideles) It is uncertain who wrote this hymn. It is accredited to the nineteenth century period and is of decided Catholic origin. By some it is said to have been written by Bonaventura, a Franciscan friar who after-. Wards became a cardinal. Ern tune is the one known as "The Portugese Hymn," by J. Reading. "O Little Town of Bethlehem" This lovely little carol was written by Phillips Brooks, an Episcopal bishop of Massachusetts. He was born in Boston, December 13, 1835, and died January 23, 1893. He was an eloquent pulpit orator and a man of deep religious life. 'The story of this carol is very sweet. While visiting the Holy Land, Mr. Brooks walked to the town of Bethlehem. He passed through the fields where the shepherds are said to have seen the star. He says that shepherds were still there, watching over their flocks just as their predecessors had done on that night when the angels came to tell them of Jesus' birth. On the The mod-. 808 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 THE CAROLS OF CHRISTMASTIDE 809 From Painting by J. Leo Fairbanks. O little town of Bethlehem, How still we see thee lie; Above the deep and dreamless sleep The silent stars go by. Way, too, he looked down on the little town of Bethlehem. Three years later when a Christmas song was needed for his Sunday School, he remembered that night and wrote "O, Little Town of Bethlehem." When it was finished, he asked Louis H. Redner, who was the organist, the superintendent, and also a teacher in his Sunday School, to compose a tune. Mr. Redner says that on Christmas eve he went to bed and was awakened by an "angel strain" ringing in his ears. He arose quickly, wrote the melody, and next morning finished the harmony. He claimed it was "a gift from heaven." It was sung in his Sunday School that Christmas morning. "Silent Night, Holy Night" The story of how this, the most loved of all the Christmas carols, came into being high up in the Australian Alps in a little town of Oberndorf is enchanting. It tells of how a young priest, Joseph Mohr, and the village schoolmaster, Franz Gruber, were talking over the need for a good Christmas song. In the church that evening Joseph Mohr was looking at the picture of the shepherds, and in a flash inspiration came; that night the words of the carol were framed that were to be heard around the world. Mohr went immediately to Franz Gruber and presented the song. Gruber was thrilled and composed the tune as we now have it. The two sang it together as a duet. It was first called "The Tyrolean Song," and was not printed until 1846. Thirty-six years later it was sung in Berlin before Emperor Frederick William IV. From then on it was given first place in Chnstmas programs. Little is known of the two writers, except that Mohr lived 1793-1848; Gruber, 1787-1863. "When Christ Was Born in Bethlehem" The tune of this stately Christmas carol was a prize winner in the Christmas Deseret News competition in 1900. It was written by our own Latter-day Saint composer, Ebenezer Beesley. It was printed in Deseret Sunday School Songs, No. 221, and is frequently sung at Christ-. Mas time. The poem was written by Henry W. Longfellow, America's great poet. On account of the universal love felt for Longfellow, his bust was placed in Westminster Abbey, where we hope it may -remain unmolested during these turbulent days. The HIDDEN ROOTS Dott Sartori The winter is a time for pondering, For waiting, for digesting summer fare; A time for study and for solitude.... I know the unclothed maple standing there Is thinking, and deep down in hidden roots Her thoughts are forming fanciful designs Of greater beauty she shall yet create, Remembering, surpassing last year's lines. 810 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 Oscar A. Kirkham Leader Of Youth, Inspirer Of Man Marba C. Josephson Associate Editor, Improvement Era PRESIDENT OSCAR A. KIRKHAM OF THE FIRST COUNCIL OF SEVENTY LONG a great hall, five selected delegates of the American Boy Scout delegation marched toward a great flight of stairs. When they reached the top of the first flight, the blare of trumpets sounded. They then marched up another flight, and again the trumpets sounded. Up another flight they went, and this time the blare of trumpets was a signal for the Queen of Holland to acknowledge their presence. In this group of Scout executives was Oscar A. Kirkham of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Yet, never has he boasted of that signal honor. Rather he has lived according to the famous lines of Kipling: If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue, Or walk with kings—nor lose the common touch; If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you; If all men count with you, but none too much; If you can fill the unforgiving minute With sixty seconds' worth of distance run— Yours is the Earth and everything that's in it,... And these things are what Oscar A. Kirkham, whose appointment to the First Council of Seventy was announced October 6, 1941, has done during the twenty-eight years of Scout work which has carried him to almost every state in the Union and nearly every nation of Europe. In world jamborees, five of which he has attended in an official capacity as chief morale officer of the American contingents, he has made friendships with rulers and _ great men and women of the nations. World-famous doctors have been pleased to call this man friend and to give him tokens of their respect and affection. Many of these tokens have come asa direct result of the living of Latter-day Saint principles by Oscar A. Kirkham. Page 811 Lord Baden-Powell, founder and chief executive of Scouting in all the world, was a personal friend of President Kirkham, respecting him for his leadership of boys, a result of example as well as precept. President Kirkham has great power as a story teller. Concrete illustrations, effectively told, serve to drive home his teachings more permanently than would truisms or abstract statements. Often, boys tempted to neglect a duty are caught up by remembering the story President Kirkham tells of the young man who could "sleep in the storm" when the great winds blew, because he had _prepared, locking windows and doors that the cattle and horses, the hay and the grain would be safe. The dynamic presence of Oscar A. Kirkham in any meeting assures that meeting of being out of the ordinary. In fact, that is one of the secrets of the interest that he arouses among those who meet him. The greatest experiences come to those who do the unexpected. Bydoing different things, by venturing into unknown fields, President Kirkham feels that he has gained greatly. One occasion which shows this characteristic, as well as a genuine fellowship with mankind, presented itself at the world Jamboree when he took a lad into a nearby city for an emergency appendectomy.. The boy's official Scout guardian had not wished to make the trip, but Oscar said, "Here; let me take him." At the hospital he met one of the leading surgeons of Europe. Not only did the surgeon perform the operation, he performed it free of charge. And his heart warmed to Oscar A. Kirkham who would yolunteer to take the strange boy in his care to see that the operation should be performed. When the Scouts moved on, James E. West, Chief Scout Executive of the Boy Scouts of America, appointed a Mormon missionary to check on the boy's condition and report by wire daily. Moreover, Mr.. West often appointed Latter-day Saint missionaries to assist in the headquarters at the Jamborees. Nothing could be better evidence of President Kirkham's example as a Latterday Saint. Countless examples of this kind could be given to show how he has recognized the value in the unusual, in going off the beaten path for new experience. HE background of such a man is far too great to try to capture in dull print. He was born January 22, 1880, the fourth child in a family of eight children, to James and Martha Mercer Kirkham of Lehi, Utah. On January 1, 1888, he was baptized. After he completed his elementary and high school work, he graduated from Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, and went to Germany during the years 1900 to 1903 to study music. While he was studying, he also labored with the missionaries and was of such great help to them that, following | his return, he was given an honorable release by President Hugh J. Cannon, who was then presiding over the German Mission. Following his study, he was employed in the Church school system, first in Ricks College of Rexburg, Idaho, and after two years additional study in New York, in the Latterday Saint University at Salt Lake 812 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 OSCAR A. KIRKHAM City, where for five years he was head of the music department. That music has formed an important part of the leadership of President Kirkham is evidenced through the truly remarkable resonance of his voice which resulted from his music study as well as in the number of songs that he has written and which are sung and loved, particularly throughout the Mutual Improvement Associations of the Church. With Tennyson, he cares not who writes the laws of a people so long as he can write their songs. Perhaps the most popular of his songs is titled "The Clarion Call," music for which was written by Alexander Schreiner, Tabernacle organist. Oscar A. Kirkham has filled' admirably many positions in the Church, beginning with his call to the General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association in 1913, with the introduction into the Church of the Boy Scout program. He was made field secretary of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. In 1920, he was set apart as executive secretary of the same organization, having held this position continuously from that time. Shortly after his entrance into Boy Scout activity he was honored by the Boy Scouts of America by being appointed Scout Executive of the Salt Lake Council. From that time to the present, he has been advanced in this movement until today his official title is Deputy Regional Executive, and his responsibilities include direction of all the western states and Hawaii. But the force of 813 his dynamic personality has reached much farther than this western region, for at five consecutive world Jamborees he has been in attendance as chief morale officer. At the last Jamboree, held in Haarlem, Holland, in 1937, President Kirkham was again the American contingent's director of activities, and under his direction the American Scouts presented "The Cavalcade of Scouting" before an estimated one hundred thousand spectators. Great as are the achievements of Oscar A. Kirkham, none is greater than that he is the father of eight children, all of whom have measured to the high ideals set by their father and by their mother, Ida Murdock Kirkham. The eight children are making their way in new fields—the two eldest daughters, Mrs. Carol Jarvis and Mrs. Grace Burbidge, as homemakers, after graduation from college; Rock, as first assistant Scout executive of the Washington, D. C., Council; Norman in the graduate school at Harvard University; Mark in his studies in architecture in Washington, D. C.; Ned as a private in the U. S. Army at Presidio; and the two youngest daughters, Kathryn and Jane, as students, the former in the Utah State Agricultural College at Logan, Utah, and the latter at East High School of Salt Lake City. As the opportunities for service extend further, Oscar A. Kirkham will measure and surpass his former achievements. He will add even greater honor to the Church which has so honored him by naming him one of the First Seven Presidents of the Council of Seventy. Two Significant Days Anna Boss Hart Relief Society General Board Member ONIGHT there are candles on T our table and a wreath of holly at each window. 'The oldfashioned tree is trimmed and lighted. The last gift has been carefully wrapped and placed under the tree. My thoughts turn to the two characters that we, as Latter-day Saints, are honoring this Christmas season. The fire in the fireplace radiates motion and warmth. The burning wood suggests life of the summer now past coming to light again. Thoughts should go to scenes in Palmyra, New York, at the time of the Eastern States Mission conference and spectacle pageant; to the spot where Joseph Smith radiated such influence and received so much inspiration. I am thinking of the divine strains of organ music which were heard as we followed the old fence to the gate entering the Sacred Grove. A profusion of trees and shrubs made the spot secluded and _ hallowed. Each tree that grew appeared to be conscious of the miracle of a morning more than a hundred years ago. Several hundred people gathered quietly and waited in reverent expectancy for the meeting. Presently we heard trumpeters in a distant part of the Grove playing "Oh, How Lovely Was the Morning." Then we all stood, and with more feeling than is usually experienced in song, we joined them. How we worshipped on that day! Our souls appeared to be cleansed. We were in Page 814 It isn't strange that my' harmony with nature and with God. I am sure that all thoughts were directed toward a divine visitation and our Prophet. At that moment we forgot the great city and the pressing work, headlines and international talk. The vision of divine things of deep peace filled our souls. Again I think of the experiences of this summer. Tonight, during the peace of this evening, I think of a breath-taking moment on Hill Cumorah. Just before the pageant commenced we were directed to the top of Hill Cumorah and allowed to look at a veritable sea of parked cars, the stages from the actor's side; we felt the peacefulness that comes from excellent preparation and the expectancy of heavenly experiences. Words are inadequate to express the feelings in our souls. Our time was limited—we had just a glimpse of the valley and the sky; just time enough for a prayer of deep appreciation for a sight so impressive, and a wish that the picture would always remain vividly in our memories. The peace of an inspirational experience merges, and so as I think of these nights of silence, when God was making greatness, I am impressed. Tonight, I listen to Christmas carols and stories over the radio. My soul is touched, and I, too, want to join in song. Christmas is a time when singing is genuine and when it finds receptive hearts everywhere. It is a time when all participants radiate good will and when peace is TWO SIGNIFICANT DAYS brought to our souls. A similar spirit was radiated by the group of missionaries who gathered on the stage after the mammoth spectacle pageant had been presented. The thousands of cars had gone. Some groups in the audience had left without exchanging comments; others had made a few enthusiastic expressions and then had walked slowly away. Many stood alone in contemplation of a great religious experience. A few remained to see what demonstration might be given by the young people who were slowly gathering on one of the stages. These young people, thrilled with the performance of the evening, gathered under the stars, and how they did sing! Angels singing could not have thrilled me more. N this Christmas Eve many similar experiences come to me. Now I watch the lights play on the Christmas tree. It isn't strange that I think of Jesus, the "Light of the World," and of the "light" that came to our Prophet in the Grove more than a hundred years ago—a light that gave radiance to a people in darkness. Tonight thoughts of two significant days bring me calm and peace. The first Christmas brought Him ~ who taught men those things which would lead them into an enlightened fellowship. Another birthday a little over a century ago brought another who taught fellowship among the people of a newlyorganized Church; a fellowship that carried people through persecutions, the journeys across the plains, and the hardships incidental to a settlement in the West. How thankful I am for the lives 815 of these two who have changed for good the lives of humankind. I appreciate more keenly than ever before the personalities that came to us on two significant days. What a span of time between the two; yet, how similar they were in their lives and missions! Palestine of old was the background of the wonder story of the birth of Christ. Palmyra was the background of the story of the birth of the Prophet of these latter days. Both persons were born in humble circumstances—one in a stable; the other in a humble cottage. One had the home atmosphere of a carpenter; the other that of a humble farmer. A world of confusion and contending creeds met each one. Both learned lessons of labor and self-denial early. The preparation of both for their missions was thorough. Both gave to individuals a faith in immortality. Their characters were "godly and their names unstained." Both taught the secret of lasting peace. Both had a faith that penetrated their souls, and prayer marked their progress in life. Both had a knowledge of truth in their souls. Both towered in their labors. We think of the Prophet Joseph Smith in the deep-breathing stillness of the woods. We think of Jesus by the still waters and in the undisturbed garden. While both the coming of Jesus to live on earth and the coming of the Prophet Joseph took place under very humble circumstances, the time of their coming appeared to be might for the establishment of heavenly truth. Tonight as I think of the Sacred Grove, it is stimulating to imagine the pillar of celestial light which appeared above Joseph Smith, and to 816 think of the feeling of sublimity that filled his soul. It is impressive to recall that he emerged from the uncertainty that was in his mind hayving received positive knowledge on the matter so near to him. The Savior and the Prophet both had eyes which appeared to read the hearts of men and women. Both recognized the faith that exists in men and women and their power and ability to serve the world. Both felt the peace that comes from communion with nature. Both felt the presence of God during peaceful hours. Then, later, both were accused of blasphemy. Jesus declared himself to be the Son of God. Joseph Smith claimed to be a prophet of God. By their own deaths, both "summed up and drove home to the hearts of men the message they had proclaimed in words." The death of the Prophet Joseph Smith was a significant martyrdom, following that of Jesus upon Calvary for the redemption of all mankind. O it is no wonder that we, as Latter-day Saints, are at peace in our souls this Christmas season. The great foundation stones of life and salvation are with us—those principles for which our Church stands and which make it unique. A glance at the gifts under the tree brings to me a throb of expectancy. I think of the priceless gifts that are mine—not the gifts under the tree, but the spiritual gifts that are mine forever. These lasting gifts are mine because of what RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE--DECEMBER, 1941 happened in a Sacred Grove more than a hundred years ago. These gifts are mine because of God's greatest gift—His Son—to the world. As I am aware of the significant objects that stand for that birthday so long ago—the Star of Bethlehem, the announcing bells, and the blazing fire keeping alive the sacred home and family traditions—I also am reminded again of the birthday of our Prophet. Just now I feel a deep pride in my heritage. I feel the stream of accomplishments since the passing of two significant days. I know that the world has changed since the Star shone over Bethlehem and the angels sang "Hosannah." The world has changed since the trees gave to our latter-day Prophet a feeling of security and the birds made music that almost bridged heaven and earth as he sought wisdom from the Father. I know that we are aware of the trampling underfoot of the principles that enlightened men cherish and know to be true and fundamental. Yet, in the remembrance of two days, peace and security and deeper faith come to my heart. And now as I look at the candles on the table and the wreath of holly at each window, the fireplace and beautifully decorated Christmas tree, significant of the birthday of our Savior, I again recall the eventful experience of Hill Cumorah. My heart is full, and I feel that life is good this Christmas season. A Half Hour of Christmas Mabel Harmer N the brief intervals when Jimmy opened the elevator door for the loading and unloading of passengers, he could glance out of the front entrance and see great, white flakes of snow falling. The people coming in brought a smell of crisp, cold air with them, and sometimes they had a bit of holly on their coats. The ones he knew said, "Merry Christmas," and four of them had given him small gifts of money. Altogether, it was a swell time of the year, and Jimmy was quite happy when he wasn't thinking of how badly they needed coal or wondering where he could get a pair of shoes for Nina. That was the worst of winter. You couldn't turn the kids loose unless they had a whole flock of mufflers and socks and shoes on them, and it was awfully hard to get any that fit or that weren't already full of holes. Of course, if you could walk into a store and buy just what you wanted, that would be different. But when you had to depend upon what people could give you—that was something else again. | On the whole, though, they had managed pretty well since he got this job at the apartment house. Eighteen dollars a week paid the rent and bought what food and fuel they absolutely had to have. They were a lot better off than they had been at any time since Mom died and Jeff had walked out on them. Queer fellow, Jeff. He was the kids' father, too, but he just hadn't been able to take it. Jimmy squared his shoulders. Well, he could, even if he was just their half-brother. He opened the door again on the main floor, and this time his only passenger was Mr. Hampton. "Merry Christmas, Jimmy," he said in such a big voice that Jimmy was sure he really meant it. "Merry Christmas to you, sir," Jimmy replied heartily. He liked Mr. Hampton about the best of any man who rode on the elevator. He was so tall and so handsome and_ so cheery-like all the time. He was not like those folks who get on the elevator and grunt out the floor they want and then act like they'd spoken to the ceiling instead of a human being. Even when Mr. Hampton rode with Miss Everett he acted like he knew Jimmy was in the elevator; and he nearly always took time to say goodby, although anybody with a lick of sense could tell that he was headover-heels in love with her and could hardly be expected to have eyes for anyone else when she was around. "That's a wow of a snowstorm we're having," Mr. Hampton said, as they stopped at the fifth floor. "I guess Santa Claus can come in his sleigh this year." "T guess he can, all right," Jimmy answered with a chuckle. He was still smiling when old Mrs. Snyder came in, and since she never smiled at anyone and hardly anyone ever smiled at her, she stared back at Jimmy in amazement. However, she looked as if she were half inclined to let some sort of a frosty little smile escape from her thin lips. Half an hour later, the signal flashed from the fifth floor. Jimmy went up; but when he opened the door, Page 817 818 Mr. Hampton, instead of getting on, said, "Miss Everett wants to see you fora minute. Ill tend this thing if nobody asks to see my driver's license.": Jimmy hurried down the hall, his heart thumping in a very strange manner. It was sure exciting to have Mr. Hampton change places with him just like they were equals, and to have Miss Everett talk to him. He supposed that everyone in the world who had ever seen her or heard her sing must be in love with her—in some sort of respectful, far-off way, of course. He bet that even Mr. Hampton was too scared to tell her he was in love with her. He swallowed twice before he dared to knock at her door; and then, as she called to him to come in, he stepped inside very apologetically. It was the first time he had ever been inside the apartment, and its beauty dazzled him just as much as Marcia Everett herself did. The walls and furniture were ivory, while the draperies and carpet were a deep, rich blue. Its elegance would have been almost frightening if it hadn't been for the Christmas tree that stood in one corner and the greenery that was over the mantel and around the light fixtures. Somehow, they made it look as if real people lived there instead of a fairy princess or something of the sort. Miss Everett was standing by the mantel putting on her gloves. She was dressed in a long, gold-colored gown and a soft, brown fur wrap. Her hair looked more shining and her eyes more blue than Jimmy had ever seen them before. Surprising that he could only stare at her and mumble, "Did you want me for something?" It was not RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 "Yes, Jimmy," she answered. "I'd like you to come in here and light the wood in the fireplace so that it will be burning brightly when we return about eleven. Here is the key. Will that be too much trouble?" Too much trouble! If she had asked him to go out and chop down the trees in order to make the fire, it still would not have been too much trouble. Aloud he said simply, "Tl be glad to do it, Miss Everett." He took the key and hurried back to the elevator. A few minutes later, she and Mr. Hampton went out to join the gay Christmas throngs. Jee was off duty at eight o'clock. He changed quickly from his smart uniform to his own shabby clothes and hurried out onto the street. Soon all the stores would be closed, and he still had all his Christmas shopping to do.. Three dollars and seventy-five cents! It was hard to know just what to buy when the children needed so many things. One toy for each one with some candy and nuts would have to do, so that he could use the rest for food. If only there was enough to buy shoes for Nina, too, but there wasn't. Well, maybe they would turn up some way. Once in a while things did. He spent a whole dollar on the toys and ended up with a threebladed pocketknife for Ted, a gay red truck for Paul, and a small doll for Nina. He then turned to the less exciting task of buying groceries, and finished with an almost unheardof bit of extravagance by paying ten cents for a red bell to hang in the window. On reaching home he found the children huddled around the kitchen A HALF HOUR OF CHRISTMAS stove, waiting either for Jimmy or Santa Claus, they weren't just sure which. "Gee whiz!" cried Ted, when he saw the unusually large number of packages Jimmy was carrying. "Ts all that for us?" "You bet your life," Jimmy assured him proudly, depositing his bundles on the table, "but you're not going to see any of it tonight because some of it is a surprise. Have you had something to eat?" "We sure have," Ted answered. "Mrs. Wilson brought us in some stew with carrots and onions and everything in it. There's some left for you, too." "That was pretty swell of her, wasn't it," said Jimmy, scooping up a plateful of the savory stew. "Folks are sure good at Christmas time. She's got all she can do getting food for her own family, too." Six-year-old Paul, who had said almost nothing since Jimmy's return, but who had been eying the packages intently, now suddenly asked, "Which one is the Christmas tree?" "There isn't a tree, Buddy," said Jimmy in a cheerful tone of voice, designed to make Paul think that there was nothing to regret in not having a Christmas tree, "but I got a pretty red bell to hang in the window. 'That's almost as good as a tree, you know. And I saw Santa Claus down town, and he said that he was going to bring you a dandy present and some candy and nuts." Paul was not to be sidetracked from his original idea, however. "You said that there would be a tree," he insisted, looking at Jimmy with big, blue, accusing eyes. "I said that maybe we could get 819 a tree. But trees cost an awful lot of money, and there was just enough to buy something to eat and get the stove fixed." If it hadn't been for the stove, thought Jimmy, perhaps they could have had just a little tree. Things like broken stoves were always popping up to take the last dime a fellow could scare up. "T want a Christmas tree,' Nina began to wail, feeling quite stricken about it now that Paul had suggested the idea. "But I just can't get you one," Jimmy insisted. Kids were so darned unreasonable. 'They seemed to think that money was found in gutters. "Anyway, it's time for you to go to bed now, and when you wake up in the morning everything will be swell." "There's a big tree down in Casey's window," Ted suggested. "Maybe we could go down there and look at that one for awhile." "It's too cold," said Jimmy briefly, "and too late. Come on now and go to bed. I've got to go back to the apartment house and do a little job." The apartment house! A vision of the gorgeous tree in Miss Everett's living room flashed through Jimmy's mind. If the kids could just see that tree for a few minutes. The one in Casey's window couldn't hold a candle to it. Gee! If they could just see that tree! "I don't want to go to bed," said Paul stubbornly. "I want to see a Christmas tree. You promised." "T didn't promise," snapped Jimmy, goaded out of his usual cheerfulness by Paul's unreasonable insistence. Great tears gathered in Paul's eyes and rolled down his cheeks. Nina promptly followed suit, and even Ted's face looked frightfully woebegone. Jimmy's glance traveled around the squalid room and back to Paul's tearful face. Poor kids, they had so little! What if he took them back there just long enough to see that tree? They wouldn't have to touch a thing. They could just sit on the floor while he lit the fire, and they could pretend that it all belonged to them. Miss Everett had said that she wouldn't be back until eleven. 'There would just be time enough to go if they started right now. "All right," he said aloud. "Get on your things, and I'll take you out to see a tree. But you've got to act better than you ever did in all your lives before, because it's the most special tree in the whole world." The two little boys hardly waited to catch all the seriousness of Jimmy's talk before they began to pull on their ragged jackets and caps. Jimmy wrapped up Nina with considerable misgivings. Her clothes were thin; she had a cold, and she was plenty sleepy enough for bed. But it wouldn't do to leave her alone, and, anyway, she was just as worked up about a tree as the boys were. T was after nine when they left their flat and started for the Colonial Apartments. The children were so excited with the bright lights and gay Christmas decorations that they were quite unmindful of the discomforts of the long, cold walk. They greeted the warmth and elegance of the lobby with wide-opened eyes. It was the first time that Jimmy had ever permitted any of them to come within the sacred precincts of the Colonial. He allowed them no time, however, to gaze around, but hustled them up the stairway with its rich, velvet carpeting. The elevator was not for their use tonight. "Why do they have the Christmas tree so high up?" Paul asked between puffs, when they reached the third floor. "My legs are getting wobbly." "Because the higher up they get, the better they are," Jimmy whispered back. "Don't say anything else now until I tell you that you can. Come on, Nina, I'll carry you the rest of the way." On the fifth floor, he led them cautiously to the door of Miss Everett's apartment. The halls were empty and silent, but Jimmy's heart was doing a flying trapeze act while he fitted the key in the door. The lock turned easily, and he drew them quickly into the living room. They stood just inside the door trying to absorb the magnificence around them. The tree had been left lighted, and it shone and sparkled in such a glory as none of them had ever imagined possible. "Is... Is it Heaven?" Paul ventured to ask, at length. "No," said Jimmy, with a short laugh. "It's just... Well, it's just a special kind of Christmas tree, and you. Can stay here and look at it for half an hour if you'll be real quiet and not touch anything. Look! I'm going to light the fire, too. I'll bet you haven't ever seen anything like that before, have you?" He touched a match to the paper beneath the pine logs, and _ they gazed in fascination as the flames 820 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 A HALF HOUR OF CHRISTMAS crept. Up and threw out their cheerful, ruddy glow. "Now [ll tell you what you can do," he continued. "You can come over here and sit on the floor just a little way back from the fire, and then you can get warm and watch the fire and the tree at the same time. No, not on that!" he cried as Ted ran a speculative finger over the satiny cover of the couch. "You must just sit on the floor." "Who made the tree like that?" Paul asked, after he had studied its shining balls and rows of glistening tinsel from top to bottom. "A beautiful lady," Jimmy answered. "I guess she's the most beautiful lady in the whole world." "I want to see her," Nina announced happily. "Oh, no. You couldn't do that. She isn't coming back for a long time, and pretty soon you have to go home and go to bed."" He wished that she were there already. Her feet were soaking wet, and her cough had a bad sound to it. "Let's not go back," suggested Ted. "Tl bet that Santa Claus will leave a lot better things here than he will at our place. He always does for the rich folks." "But we have to go back," said Jimmy firmly. "We can only stay here just a little while." "Why?" Ted persisted. "Well, because...." He did hope that the kids weren't going to be hard to deal with. The hands on the tiny ivory clock on the mantel were racing steadily on toward ten thirty, the time that Jimmy had decided upon as the last possible moment for them to remain, even though Miss Everett had said 821 she was not returning before eleven. It was going to be a wrench to leave all this warmth and comfort and beauty, to go out in the snow again, but it had to be done. Anyway, he had made good. 'They had seen the tree, even if it had been for only half an hour. "Come on, kids,' he said, at length. "Put on your things and let's get going." He stood up and put another log on the fire. It-must be burning brightly when Miss Everett returned. Ted stood up, too, although with visible reluctance, but the other two sat still, staring at the gorgeous tree. Jimmy could see that it was going to take real effort to get them started. He lifted Nina to her feet and was just starting to put on her shabby coat when a silvery laugh was heard outside, the door knob turned, and Miss Everett stood in the doorway with Mr. Hampton just behind. JIMMY stood still with Nina's coat in his hand, frozen into complete silence. The two little boys were still also, sensing that something had gone wrong somewhere; but Nina, after staring at Miss Everett for a minute, said, "Is that the beautiful lady, Jimmy?" Jimmy was too stricken to answer, but he clung to Nina's hand as if for some means of support. The two people walked into the room and closed the door behind them. Suddenly a new dread took possession of Jimmy's mind. Terrible as it was that Miss Everett should find them trespassing in her room, it was still more dreadful that she should be angry and destroy the happiness of the beautiful half hour with the Christmas tree. 822 "Tm sorry," he finally managed to say, with intense pleading in his voice and eyes. '"The kids wanted to see a tree, and we didn't have one at home, and yours was so beautiful that I thought maybe it wouldn't hurt if they just came and looked at it. They haven't touched anything." Miss Everett's eyes traveled from one to another of the shabby little group. 'Then an amazing thing happened. The look of astonishment on her face gave way to one of tenderness, and she said in a tone of voice quite different from any Jimmy had heard her use before, "It's quite all right, but you had better hurry on home now. It's very late for little folk to be out." Jimmy stood by helplessly, too much dazed to be of any use. Miss Everett took Nina's coat from his hands and slipped it on the little girl. As she did so, the child coughed in that deep way that had been getting worse all evening. Miss Everett put a hand to the child's cheek. "This child is ill," she said to Jimmy. "She ought to be in bed. "And those shoes are wringing-wet. Where are her overshoes?" "She hasn't any," Jimmy blurted. "And I know that I shouldn't have brought them out, but they coaxed so hard that I couldn't refuse. We'll hurry back now, and Ill get them right to bed." "She can't go back through the snow in that condition," said Miss 'Everett, shortly. "I'll have to put her to bed here." "Here!" gasped Jimmy. Mean... Here?" "Certainly I mean here. We can't let her go out and finish taking her "You RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 death of cold, can we?" She dropped the long, fur coat from her shoulders and handed it to Mr. Hampton. "Here, Wayne," she said, "lay this coat down somewhere and go turn the tub full of water. I'll give her a hot bath." Mr. Hampton took the coat and put it on a chair and went about obeying orders almost without a word, but Jimmy could see that he was just as much floored as he was himself. Miss Everett went out into her kitchen for a minute and came back saying, "I haven't a bit of mustard. Jimmy, you run down to the drugstore and get a can of mustard and some VapoRub and a bottle of cough syrup. I believe I have aspirin." He took the five-dollar bill she held toward him in stunned silence. This couldn't possibly be the beautiful Marcia Everett, the famous singer, talking about mustard plasters and cough syrup for a kid that she had never seen before! When he returned, Miss Everett had Nina in her own bed wrapped up in some kind of a pink silk thing, and she was tucking soft, down covers about the thin little body. She had changed from the gold-colored evening gown to a soft, rose, homey kind of dress. She looked less like an opera singer now and mote like a person you could sort of talk to without being quite so scared. Mr. Hampton was out in the kitchen heating something on the range. He didn't look dazed any longer; he looked very happy, as if he had just discovered something very wonderful. Jimmy took the things he had bought out into the kitchen and A HALF HOUR OF CHRISTMAS then went back into the living room and stood undecided whether or not he should go home without being definitely dismissed. Paul and Ted, being entirely ignored in the last hectic few minutes, had gone back to enjoying the Christmas tree and the fireplace. Presently Miss Everett went out into the kitchen. "Will you bring me the hot water for this plaster, Wayne?" she asked. He hesitated. "You know," he said, "we could get a nurse in to do all this stuff." "But why?" she asked. "Don't I seem to be doing all right?" "You're doing marvelously well. In fact, I don't understand it at all. I didn't suppose you knew that kids existed—especially kids with croup." 823 Marcia Everett laughed—a queer sort of laugh. "Well, let me tell you a few other things you may not know, Wayne Hampton. I was brought up on the wrong side of the - tracks, and my name, before I became an opera singer, was Mary Eklund. I was the oldest of eight children, and I helped them through everything from measles to the itch. Now do you think I can take care of a case of croup?" "T think.... Come here, and [ll tell you what I think." There was a long pause, and finally Miss Everett's voice came back sort of muffled-like. Jimmy motioned to the two little boys, and they crept out of the door. He guessed that they wouldn't be missed if they went home now. A. MORNING PRAYER Rachel Barney Tatt With gratitude my heart is filled lor all the bounties Thou hast willed, For beauties of the earth and sky And all the joy that in them lie. Help me to smile in sun or rain, My soul to sing a sweet refrain | From when I see the morning light Until my eyes are closed at night. Renew my faith in truth each day, Inspire my work and guide my play, My thoughts, my hopes, and all my talk, My mind to seek all good—to walk In paths of peace, of Thee a part. Oh, give me most of all a heart To know forgiveness known by Him Who dying asked "grace for their sin." A Gift For Him Lella Marler Hoggan ONG ago the Magi followed a starlit path across the world to the manger cradle of the Christ child. They came that they might kneel in reverence before Him and acknowledge Him their king. They brought for Him rare gifts. Since that day long ago the beautiful custom of giving gifts on His birthday has continued. This one day of all the year is set apart in our hearts as a day on which to give and forgive, that we may be at peace with Him. Life is a pilgrimage, a long search for happiness. As we follow dim trails down the years we gather treasures along the way, gifts that we hope will bring us eternal joy. But do we always choose wisely and well? Here are bright coins to add to our material gain, and here are symbols to increase our worldly power. Here is a charm that will give us social prestige, and here a secret that will magnify our efficiency. As we look. Over our acquired possessions we feel very self-confident. Out of the years we feel that we have gathered a goodly store. But at the season of gift giving we are conscious of the nearness of an unseen presence that sets our hearts singing. We stand in awed silence in contemplation of the life of Him whose birth we celebrate. Were He a Christmas guest in our home, would we be prepared to receive Him? Would we have a token of affection for Him whose natal Page 824 day we commemorate? Would we have an appropriate gift for the Giver of all good gifts? Or would we spread our treasures before us that we might see them more plainly, and failing to find in our prized collection anything that would be suitable, would our store of treasures seem suddenly to lose its value? A gift for the King of Kings, the Prince of Peace! Where in all the world could one find a gift worthy of Him? What could come out of humble lives that would be great enough to offer Him? Let us remember that the greatest gifts are not something that can be held in our two hands, something that can be obtained suddenly. Great gifts grow with the years out of the fulness of the heart: love of fellow man, devotion to a great cause, high service, unselfish sacrifice for truth, gracious loving ways, kindly deeds. Then, too, let us remember the divine way of gift giving. Let us remember that the Master's gift of life eternal is held in trust for all of the children of men. We accept it little by little, day by day, as we learn to walk in the path that He has marked out, as we come to follow the light that He holds high for our guidance. We can do this more readily if we read His words often and cherish the promises He has given us. Every service we perform in preparing to receive His gift brings its immediate reward in increased joy and spiritual growth. As we prepare by wholesome living to receive God's gift of eternal A GIFT FOR HIM life, our very preparation is providing our gift for Him. For surely our gift to the Master is our life, with all of its joy and gladness, its success and achievement, its virtue and wholesome sweetness. As our lives are made richer and more abundant through obedience to His laws, our gift to the Master becomes more precious, for our salvation is His glory. His blessings are awaiting us every day of every year if we will open our hearts to receive them. But if we remember Him only on occasions, how can we hope to grow toward the ideal He has set for us; how can we hope to become more like Him day by day? Is it not advisable for us to so live that we may walk in His —— 825 holy unseen presence, not only on Christmas Day, but on every day? Is it not wise to so live that we may invite Him to become an ever-present guest under our humble roof? Let us try to make our high moments of devotion more permanent -and enduring. Dera MarlerWilliaas As Little Children Olive W. Burt SALLY forgot breakfast, forgot Hugh sitting across from her, forgot everything but the snow, falling in soft, thick flakes. It was perfect Christmas weather. Glistened on her lashes. Hugh saw the tears and patted her hand comfortingly. Then he rescued the smouldering toast, buttered it thoughtfully, and began carefully: "T've been thinking, Sally. Can't we..." he stumbled: over the words, then went on desperately, "why can't we borrow a kid for Christmas? Or two? It's a shame to waste all our work—all our plans." Sally's tears dropped slowly. "They are already wasted, Hugh," she said bitterly. Hugh nodded. "I know how you feel, sweetheart," he said, "but think it over. It's the only way that I can figure out for us to get past Christmas with even a little happiness. And there must be kids, plenty of them, at the orphans' home, or someplace." He got up from the table, kissed Sally good-by, grabbed his hat and dashed for the bus. Sally didn't bother to go to the door with him. She was too unhappy. She was thinking of the June day when they had moved into this adorable little house, filled with plans and hopes. They had decorated the nursery in. Anticipation of an expected occupant. They had planted two tall evergreens by the door on purpose to trim this Christmas so that baby eyes would glow with Page 826 'Tears: Why wonder. They had even—Sally thought her heart would break — purchased toys from time to time— dolls and cuddly bears with her extra money; funny mechanical toys, boxing gloves so tiny that they made you laugh, and even an elaborate train were Hugh's contributions. Yes, their time and work had been wasted, for there had come a day when Sally had gone to the hospital, and when she returned there was no downy bundle in her arms— only an aching void in her heart. She laid her head on her arms and cried softly for a few minutes. Then she raised her bright head defiantly. Hugh was right. There was only one way to get past this holiday, and that was to face it, gaily and confidently, with little children around them. She walked slowly to the telephone in the hall, looked up a number, dialed, and waited. When a voice answered, Sally began eagerly, almost breathlessly, explaining what she wanted. But a few moments later she hung up the receiver, a slightly baffled look on her face. There were no children in the city orphanage—not one—left for. Christmas. Hastily she found another number and repeated her request, to receive the same answer. She tried again and again. At last she sat back completely at a loss as to what to do. No children anywhere that she could help! She was suddenly afraid. How AS LITTLE CHILDREN could she tell Hugh this? How could she disappoint him again? Then she remembered Grandma Allen, her stand-by ever since she had moved into the new little house. Grandma Allen knew everything and everybody. She had been midwife and nurse. She called upon the poor everywhere. She would know of some child, perhaps some children. Throwing a coat over her shoulders, she ran through the soft snow, cross-lots, to Grandma Allen's. When she came back home an hour later, the sun was shining on the snow, but the new flakes did not glisten a whit more brightly than Sally's eyes. This time she dialed with assurance, repeated her request while her lips quivered between pathos and merriment, and hung up the receiver assured that she would have her Christmas guests. "But could you take more than two, Mrs. Barnard?" the voice had pleaded over the phone. "We have several here who will be so lonesome Christmas day. It would be a really generous act to take as many as you can." So Sally had ended by promising to provide Christmas cheer for seven. She didn't know what Hugh would think of that. After all.. And Hugh was amazed. "Darling!" he expostulated aghast. "Seven! They'll wreck the place! And we haven't toys enough...." "I got a list of the things they want most.... We can get these and add them to what we already have. Oh, Hugh! It mcans shopping and excitement and trimming the tree. And we must have popcorn to pop over the fire.. 827 Hugh was so glad to sce Sally interested and happy again that he shrugged his misgivings aside. — If Sally wanted seven youngsters for Christmas, he thought grimly, he'd stand by. [ was fun shopping. Sally and Hugh pushed through the Christmas crowds with their crumpled list. Poor kids, Hugh thought, they didn't ask for expensive things — tiddlywinks, a spool knitting set, a good pocketknife, a box of bright silk pieces, games, Chinese checkers, candy. Hugh, on his own, added grotesque mechanical clowns, bright beads, odds and ends that he thought the children would love. The plans called for a full day. The guests would be delivered at the Barnard's door at 9 a. M. On Christmas day. There would be the tree first of all, then breakfast, games and a sleigh ride; dinner, corn popping and more games would follow, -and the party would end at seven or eight o'clock that evening. Both Sally and Hugh worked desperately all the day before Christmas. They trimmed the tree in the living room and set the toys around it. Each gift was labeled with a name—Mary, Jim, Bob, Annie—simple enough little designations to distinguish these poor Christmas waifs. Hugh marveled at Sally's gaiety. His simple little plan was succeeding better than he had dared to hope. She seemed sparkling with inner merriment and laughter. Even on Christmas moring, when Hugh's anticipation was tinged with a slight dread at the thought of seven untamed youngsters, Sally kept running to the window, eager, watching. Then the cars were out in front, and Hugh and Sally ran out to help them unload. Hugh stood absolutely still, his mouth dropping open as he saw his guests. 'Tiny, frail old women, wrinkled old men.... Sally shouted, "Come on, Hugh, let's help them in!" There was no time to ask questions. The old people were hurried into the house. They took off their wraps in a flurry of excitement, dim eyes darting here and there, looking, Hugh suspected, for the tree. Sally flung back the living room door, and Jim and Mary, Bob and Annie and the rest were on their knees, scrambling for their gifts, exclaiming with delight. Hugh, watching them, said, "I don't get it, Sally." Sally smiled up at him. "There weren't any lonely children, honey," she whispered, "'but Grandma Alien said there were always lots of lonely old folks. She reminded me that the Savior had said, 'Except ye become as little children'—and these are nearly ready for the kingdom of heaven, Hugh, so...." "IT do get it, sweetheart," Hugh whispered, his lips against her hair. Then he let her go suddenly. "Hey, Bob, let me help you with that train!" Sally smiled as Hugh got down on his knees with Bob and Jim and Tom, oblivious of all the rest, a quartet of boys with an electric train. A SHAWL FOR BABY Caroline Eyring Miner A handmade shawl of fluffy wool—no more You think—pale pink and white; the design Of stitches, little shells piled by the score Overlapping each other in even line. Around its edge a long and filmy fringe, Illusive as the uncertain clouds of dawn; A shimmering mist of silver with tinge Of pink—here now, another moment gone. Hour after hour of precious time I spent Making the shawl—voices of friends I hear; Faces and memories that came and went While I worked, appear and disappear. This covering of shells and mist and cloud And memories and dreams will warm my child. 828 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 Fashions Of Yesterday FASHIONS in dress have challenged the interest of women of all eras. Just as women of today are intrigued by the pages of Vogue and Mademoiselle, so the women of Grandmother's day were held by the beautiful tinted plates in Godey's Lady's Book. What is worn today, what may be worn tomorrow, what was worn yesterday, have ever been important to women. Dame Fashion is a ruler to whom women have paid court for generations, and whose dictates have been followed whether they have enhanced charm or actually destroyed natural beauty and been a burden. At her command her votaries have melted under fur boas in the hot days of summer, and frozen with bare necks, thin dresses, and gossamer hose in January. Then, such has been her caprice that no sooner has a fashion become general, than, irrespective of its merits or beauties, it has been changed for one which perhaps had nothing to recommend it but its novelty. The fashion of an era, however, is in a measure an index to the spirit and character of that era, just as the particular dress worn reveals, more or less, the personality of the wearer. That the fashions of the past one hundred years will figure prominently in Relief Society centennial programs there is no doubt. The full skirts worn in 1842 over petticoats of crinoline with bodices made with rounded points and elaborately trimmed with sautache braid, will vie for favor with panniers and bustles of 1876-86, with balloon sleeves and bell skirts of 1896-1906, and with the ultra-smart modern-day dress. Dainty curls and dignified braids will, in all probability, compete for popularity with the carefully-waved hair of the lady of today. While the long and dusty trek across the plains, and the burning sun and isolation of the desert decreed for a time that our pioneer women should wear sunbonnets and calico dresses, we must not forget that the wardrobe of our early-day women included many a fashionable silk dress which, brought across the plains, was carefully cared for and on special occasions brought out to adorn milady. While Mormon women have always sensed the importance of being attractively and appropriately dressed, yet they have always stood for modesty and economy in dress; in bygone days when fashions became extreme and extravagant, they stood firmly for retrenchment. To see the costumes of the past in review at our centennial programs will be a high point of interest. In order to acquaint Relief Society women with some of the styles worn in the past, the Magazine is publishing the illustrations on the following pages. Early-day fashion notes will also appear in next month's issue of the Magazine. Page 829 Stew, ataees 9 Shere. EVAN JENSEN WOMEN'S FASHIONS—1830 TO 1860 EVAN JENSEN WOMEN'S FASHIONS—1850 TO 1880 HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon Beyond price is love and kindness; the cost is nothing and the law of the Lord is fulfilled. AGAIN we approach the end of the year and look forward to the cheer and gladness of the usual festivities. Though shadowed by the catastrophe of a war-torn world, we in America have the greatest opportunity ever given a nation to bestow happiness. In reality, Christmas time belongs to children. Let's all be children, forget the tragedies just for a day and believe in Santa Claus. MADAM LIN YUTANG, noted author and now a prominent member of the international set in New York, is lecturing in America on, "Women in the New China." Besides being the wife of a wniter, Madam Lin is also the mother of three authors, Adet, Anor, and Mei Mei Lin. ELOISE DAVISON, editor of Home Institute for the New York Herald Tribune, has been "lent" to the Government to be assistant director to Mayor La Guardia in the office of Civilian Defense. PRINCESS JULIANA of the Netherlands and her daughters Beatrice and Irene are rather frequent guests of the Roosevelts at Hyde Park, New York. ELEANOR FORDHAM, Utah aviatrix, only non-college girl to receive a flight scholarship in Utah under civilian pilot. Training, has been awarded her pilot's license. She is planning a women's auxiliary flying unit in Utah to replace men pilots for war service. Page 832 HANNAH M. ALDRICH, of Mt. Pleasant, 101 years old, Harriet L. Leavitt, 97, and Ann C. Milne, 93, of Salt Lake, all pioneer mothers, were recently feted on their birthdays. Each one retains wonderful vitality and optimism. Never too old to learn, Mrs. L. E. Coombs is beginning to typewrite at 91. MRWS. ALAN H. Means of Salt Lake City was: elected national president of the Girl Scouts of America at the convention held this fall at Dallas, Texas. This is a signal honor to Utah as well as a deserved and eloquent tribute to the ability and personality of Mrs. Means. There were 979 delegates present, representing a membership of over 600,000 girls. Mrs. Means succeeds Mrs. Herbert Hoover in this high office. MARTHA E. MOSES, 96 years old, a pioneer school teacher, died recently. For the past 80 years she had resided in the same locality and had been known to all her neighbors as "Aunt Martha." Another notable Utah pioneer mother who recently died was Ida F. W. McArthur of St. George. Both of these women were active members of the Relief Society. ELEANOR DARK'S latest book, The Timeless Land, was the book of the month for October. Pray For A Tomorrow is a beautiful story of Andrew, the fisher boy, by Anne Parrish. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth Amy Brown Lyman - Marcia K. Howells - Donna D. Sorensen Vera W. Pohlman Belle S. Spafford Anna S. Barlow Vivian R. McConkie Achsa E. Paxman Leda T. Jensen Mary G. Judd Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Luella N. Adams Editor =  Acting Business Manager - - THE GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE - President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Marianne C. Sharp Edith S. Elliott Anna B. Hart Pauline T. Pingree Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton Gertrude R. Garff Priscilla L. Evans Leona F. Wintch Florence J. Madsen = - Belle S. Spafford Amy Brown Lyman Vol. 28 DECEMBER, 1941 No. 12 O—DEDIT ORI She Spirit Of Christmas ABOUT sixteen hundred years ago, according to legend, there lived in Asia Minor a man named Nicholas, who in the course of time became Bishop of Myra. He was a rich and generous man who loved humanity and delighted in making everyone happy, but he preferred that his beneficences remain a secret. It was his practice to make gifts to the poor by throwing toys and various articles through peoples' windows or by leaving money and food at their doors at night. He was so thoughtful of children that he was referred to as the guardian of children. Their joy as recipients of his favors was his greatest happiness. For a long time his identity remained a secret, but at length he was discovered dressed in his splendid bishop's robes of red trimmedin ermine, carrying a sack of gifts on his back. As the years passed, various legends grew up about him until he was credited with performing. Miracles. His story spread from country to country, and so popular did this character become that at length December 6, the date of his death, was set apart in honor of Saint Nicholas. Gradually, December 6 being so near December 25, the custom of observing St. Nicholas Day was absorbed into the Christmas festival, and the name Saint Nicholas was corrupted to Santa Claus. For hundreds of years this gay and popular character has lived in the hearts of men as the symbol of Christmas. The spirit exemplified by him is the spirit of Christmas. The Christmas spirit is an intangible force that takes hold of men and fills them with love and good will. It is the spirit which makes the Christmas season the gladdest time of all the year. It is not the gifts, 'costly or otherwise, that we receive that make Christmas dear to us. It is not what we spend or give that causes us to relive again and again the Christmases that are past and to look forward in joyous anticipation to the Christmas ahead. Instead, it is this vague something known as the Christmas spirit. The Christmas spirit is available to everyone alike. It is some Page 833 834 thing which no amount of money can buy. It may reign triumphantly in the humblest home, while the home of the wealthy may be desolate because of its absence. Its purchase price is love and good will, struggle and sacrifice, unity of interests and willingness to share. Last Christmas Day my Christmas visits took me to homes where visible expressions of the day were sharply contrasted. I visited homes where luxuriant and costly gifts were everywhere in evidence. I visited homes where gifts were both simple and scarce. The happiest home visited was that of a widowed mother with two little boys about ten and twelve years of age. The children, proud and excited over their gift of a crosscut saw, told how many logs they had gathered prior to Christmas in anticipation of the gift. They told how much wood they could saw and cut during the holidays. They explained how the coming winter would not find the family cold or Mother worried about fuel. The mother radiated happiness, not superficial, momentary enjoyment, but a deep and grateful happiness. A Christmas tree stood in the corner of the room, and a warm fire burned in an open grate—special Christmas extravagances, I'm sure—but the real warmth in that home was the warmth of love and unity of. Interests. This little family had captured the Christmas spirit. As we review our own Christmases of the past, it is not the detail of any gift that remains dear to us; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 it is not whether we had more or less than friend or neighbor that remains important. Rather, it is the feelings that surged within us—the eagerness of planning, the joy of united effort, the gladness of expectancy, the thrill of plans realized, the happiness of association with friends and loved ones. It is not the things that came easy to us that we cherish as of greatest worth, but those things for which we sacrificed and struggled. It is the spirit of Christmas that remains with us as the most real thing connected with the day, and it is this we would enjoy again and again. Parents would do well to keep this in mind as they prepare for this 1941 Christmas. Rather than straining ourselves to the breaking point that every want of our children may be gratified and that they may have as much or more than friend or neighbor, leaving us spent in every way, why not center our efforts upon intensifying the spirit of Christmas in our homes? It is the Christmas spirit which makes Christmas something of more than transitory value. It develops character; it unites families; it promotes good will; it binds people together in bonds of love and friendship. These are things worth striving for. The spirit of Christmas, as symbolized by Saint Nicholas, has for generations been making the world a better place in which to live. It is the Spirit of the Master alive in the hearts of men. Notes TO THE FIELD Award Winners bliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest HE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three award winners in the 1941 Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest. 'This year the contest was announced in the June, 1941, issue of the Magazine and closed October 1, 1941. The first prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 818 Twenty-eighth Street, Ogden, Utah, for her poem, "Brave, Privileged Feet." The second prize of ten dollars is awarded to Vesta Pierce Crawford, 1067 East Fifth South Street, Salt Lake City, for her poem, "Spacious Century." The third prize of five dollars is awarded to Zella A. Johnson, Barnwell, Alberta, Canada, for her poem, "Centennial." The Relief Society General Board has conducted this memorial poem contest annually since 1923. It is held in honor of Eliza Roxey Snow, who was the second general president of the Relief Society and a very gifted poet. No definite subject has been recommended for the poems submitted until this year, when the Relief Society centennial was to be the theme of all poems submitted. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women and is planned to stimulate and encourage them to write poetry and to more deeply appreciate creative writing and the beauty and value of poetic verse. This year 89 poems were submitted on the subject of the Relief Society centennial. The poems revealed a deep appreciation for the Relief Socicty century and for the coming centennial observance, and poetic insight into the importance of such an occasion. It is the custom to announce the poems selected as prize winners in each contest in the January issue of the Magazine following the contest. This year, however, announcement is made in the December issue due to the fact that prize-winning poems are included in the new Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse which will be published before January. The General Board appreciates the interest shown in the contest and thanks all who have contributed to its success—the entrants for their splendid contributions, the three judges for their willing service and for the excellence of their judgment in selecting prize-winning poems, and the General Board committee for its contribution to the success of the contest. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs of the prize-winning contestants, will be published in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Page 835 836. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 Award Winners Relief Society Centennial Short Story Contest HE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of award winners in the short story contest which was announced in the June,.1941, issue of the Magazine and which closed October 1, 1941. The first prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, 256 Iowa Street, Salt Lake City, for her story "Wilderness." The second prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Mabel Harmer, 945 South Seventh East Street, Salt Lake City, for her story "Inheritance." The third prize of ten dollars is awarded to Vera Hinckley Mayhew, 1030 Keeler Avenue, Berkeley, California, for her story "Men Must Work." This short story contest was conducted by the Relief Society General Board as a feature of the centennial observance. The Society has always encouraged creative writing, reserving space each month in The Relief Society Magazine for the publication of fiction. The contest was open only to Latter-day Saint women who had had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by the editor of a publication of recognized merit. | Members of the General Board of Relief Society and those persons connected with the Relief Society office staff were not eligible to enter the contest. The tules of the contest specified that stories should not exceed 3,000 words in length and that the Relief Society centennial be used as the theme. Twenty-three stories were submitted, all of which were of unusual merit. 'They were characterized by accurate information on the history of Relief Society, unusual insight into its problems during the hundred years of its existence, and deep appreciation for its accomplishments. Excellent literary form also characterized the work submitted. Because of the general excellence of the stories, judging was difficult. To be selected as an award winner from a group whose work was so outstanding is distinct recognition. The General Board appreciates — the interest evidenced in the contest, the high standard of work submitted, and the precision with which the rules of the contest were followed. The careful consideration given to the selection of award-winning stories by the five judges is also greatly appreciated. Stories, together with photographs of the award-winning contestants, will be published in coming issues of The Relief Society Magazine, as follows: "Wilderness," by Alice Morrey Bailey, January, 1942. "Inheritance," by Mabel Harmer, February, 1942. "Men Must Work," by Vera Hinckley Mayhew, March, 1942. NOTES TO THE FIELD 837 Special Feature Sor Mlagazine—1942 THE Magazine is pleased to announce as a special feature for the centennial year the publication in twelve monthly installments, beginning with the January, 1942, issue, the life story of President Amy Brown Lyman, entitled "In Retrospect." There are few women in the Church whose experiences have been so rich and so varied. Beginning life in a small Mormon community, her activities have taken her to the largest centers in the world. She has touched the lives ef individuals from all walks of life. She has been intimate with some of the world's prominent personalities, while many of the lowliest call her "friend." An ardent advocate of formal education, she has been a student and teacher in institutions of higher learning, yet she has a deep appreciation and a high regard for education that comes from self-effort and the experiences of life. Understanding, accepting, and living the Gospel, Mrs. Lyman is an example to young and old alike. Service to humanity has characterized her life, and her desire to serve intelligently has led her to acquaint herself with the most advanced methods of social service; in fact, she has been a pioneer in advancing the science of social service in the various communities in which she has lived. Mrs. Lyman has been intimately identified with Relief Society since her young womanhood. She has served as a member and officer of the General Board for a period of thirty-three years, and at the present time presides over approximately 100,000 women as general president of the Society. 'The story of her life is a recital of the dramatic story of Relief Society over a period of many years. Relief Society women are familiar with her charm as a public speaker and her gift as a writer. In publishing "In Retrospect" by President Amy Brown Lyman, the Magazine feels that it is presenting the life of a truly representative Latter-day Saint woman, that a wealth of valuable historical information is preserved, that the story of Relief Society and a number of the great personalities connected with it are revealed in a new and interesting light, and that it is bringing to its readers a dramatic and entertaining story. 'This feature is one of a number of outstanding features planned by the Magazine in recognition of the Relief Society centennial. Dates Sor Presentation Of March alessons IT is recommended by the General Board that the literature lesson scheduled for March, 1942, be presented on March 24, and that the social science lesson be presented on March 31. This will leave free 'Tuesday, March 17, for the observance of the Relief Society centennial. Relief Society Receives Valuable (Books Srom Mrs. Clara Sate Reed THE Relief Society General Board expresses thanks and appreciation to Mrs. Clara Marie Tate Reed (Mrs. George W. Reed) for her generous gift of a bound volume of the Woman's Exponent covering the issues from January, 1876, to December, 1878, and also a copy of Women of Mormondom by Edward W. Tullidge, published in 1877. These rare and valuable books were presented to the Board in honor of Mrs. Reed's mother, Mrs. Ann Tate, who was one of the signers of the Articles of Incorporation of the National Woman's Relief Society, and who during her lifetime was an active Relief Society worker. Mrs. Tate was owner of both of these choice volumes. Ora W Chipman and Hazel Brockbank Elected to Office RECENT announcement of inSocial Work has for many years been terest to Relief Society workers was the election of Ora W. Chipman as first vice-president of the Utah State Conference of Social Work for the coming year. Mrs. Chipman is supervisor of the Relief Society social welfare department in Salt Lake City. Formerly, she was on the staff of the Salt Lake County welfare department. She is a graduate of the School of Social Work, University of Southern California. Through training and experience Mrs. Chipman is well qualified to serve effectively in the position to which she has been named. The Utah State Conference of an effective organization in promoting individual, family and community welfare. The annual sessions of the conference were held this year in Salt Lake City. Recognition has also recently come to Miss Hazel Brockbank, member of the Y. W. M. I. A. General Board, in her election as president of the Utah Education Association. Miss Brockbank is at present supervisor at the Stewart Training School. She was formerly Utah State Director of Primary Education. She is the first woman to be elected to head the Utah educators. Women Advised Regarding Sewing Machine Repairmen THE Singer Sewing Machine Company warns Relief Society women of the activities of certain persons representing themselves as agents of the Sewing Machine Company. On the pretext of doing repair work, these persons take machines away and fail to return them. In all instances, women are advised to make sure that persons representing themselves as agents of any company are reliable authorized representatives of that company. 838 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 New Cantata By Gladys Rich and Minnie D. Warner NCLUDED in the list of suggestions for music appropriate for centennial programs, published in blue bulletin No. 21, issued November 12, 1941, is a cantata, Messengers of Mercy, which will be off the press in December, 1941. The music of this cantata is by Gladys Rich, words by Minnie D. Warner. It is prepared for women's three-part chorus, and its theme is based on the organization of Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith.. The cantata consists of three choruses—""The Call"; "The Message"; and "The Challenge." Each chorus can be used separately as a special number. Presentation time for the entire cantata is 12 minutes. Price—single copy, 50c, postpaid; quantity orders of 12 or more copies are available at the rate of 35c each, postpaid. Do not order from the General Board, but only from Mrs. Minnie D. Warner, Box 41, Ogden, Utah. THE MASTER HAND Ida R. Alldredge O winter, with your icy finger tips, Your chill voice sobbing on the weary hills While day with cold wet breath clings shivering And sheds her tears within thy mournful rills, How often hast thou laid thy hand upon my heart As storm clouds gathered on my horizon And filled my soul with fear and anguished doubt, Then drawn thy evening mantle round about. But lo, night's artistry a miracle hath wrought, For golden hands of sunrise draw apart The rain-fringed curtains, and behold 'tis day! It sends a warmth into my tired heart, For soon the earth is clothed in garments white; A peaceful calm, a hush pervades the scene; The trees are bowed as if in solemn prayer. I pause, for lo, I feel that God is there. For though the stately pine and blue fir each Wear pearls and ermine with such perfect ease, The poorest weed surpasses in resplendent garb With a million diamonds glistening. E'en these Need but thy breath to quicken them once more, To clothe them with simplicity and grace. Just so we need the touch of Master hand To beautify our lives and help us understand. NOTES TO THE FIELD 839 Home Life—A Social Science Dr. Harold T. Christensen, Brigham Young University (Summary of Address Given at Relief Society General Conference, Social Science Department, October 1, 1941) THE relationships between male and female are of such an intimate and personal nature that they lead into some of the greatest joys that are possible for men and women to experience on the one hand and to some of the deepest miseries and sorrows that are possible for mankind to know on the other hand. We realize that the world has gone a long way in its mechanical progress. Today we enjoy conveniences and luxuries that kings and queens could not experience not so long ago, and yet mankind today is suffering perhaps more than at any other time in history. Wars abound in the earth; unemployment, insecurity, poverty, and crime have for some time been on the increase. Why should this condition exist? I think the answer lies in the fact that we have been more industrious in mechanical and industrial fields than in social and religious fields. The challenge of tomorrow is the reconstruction of our social organization. The family is recognized by Students of sociology as the basic and most primary group of all groups in society. The family today is not in a healthful condition. Divorce statistics reveal family breakdown all too common. Since the period of the Civil War, marriages in this country increased 400 percent, and the divorce rate during the same period increased about 2,000 percent. In 1930 there was one divorce for every six marriages. Inerease since Page 840 that time seems to indicate that there is about one divorce to every five or five and one-half marriages. In addition to the great number of divorces there are many thousands of desertions, and separations by mutual consent swell the picture. Then, there are many families living together in a state of unhappiness, where parents and children are incompatible, but held together because of the stigma attached to divorce, or because of its expense, or out of consideration for the children. Marriage failure is all too common in modern society. However, there is much that can be done about it, and attention should be focused on this. FE hear a lot these days about conservation of natural resources, about soil erosion taking place on our farms, but a greater problem than soil erosion is the problem of soul erosion. If we can reconstruct our family life where it is broken down, we will do much, I think, to alleviate this soul erosion. Relief Society women can do much in tackling this problem. Young people today are asking serious questions, such as, "At what age should I marry?" "What thing is the most important to consider in choosing a mate?" "How can I recognize true love when it comes?" "How can I hold the love of my partner in marriage?" "Is divorce ever justified?" They need help on these problems. Should we analyze situations and GENERAL CONFERENCE help our young people to understand the complex phenomena of modern life so that they can gain a philosophy of life that will be of help to them when applied to their home conditions, or should we refuse to understand the problems they are facing? Do we dogmatize to such an extent that we antagonize and fail to help them because we don't reach them?: The objective approach of sociology is to help the young. I realize that there has been and is quite a bit of anti-scientific bias in this field. Some people feel that we have no right to inquire into the problems of courtship and marriage. That is one of our problems. But we cannot destroy real love or home life by adding knowledge. Knowledge may be the means of preserving these. Too often in our modern society. Young people enter marriage not knowing what it is all about, impregnated with what sociologists are calling the "romantic fallacy" — the idea that romance and love is everything, and that if they find the one. And only they will be eternally happy. They fail to face courtship and marriage realistically, which ~ means that after marriage they must 841 face a period of disillusionment. 'They must learn that their mate ls a human being just as they are, with fine qualities and virtues and also limitations; that they must adjust and learn to overlook shortcomings; that love is something not to be found in a moment of romantic enrapture, but to be developed through years of sacrifice, living and learning together. When our young people enter marriage with the romantic fallacy predominating and face the necessity of having it deflated, they face disorganization in the process. That is one reason why so many marriages are fatal. I say again, we must face the problem more realistically than emotionally. Successful home life is a social science; it is more than that. As I have indicated already, we need the inspiration and motivation that come from religion if we are to make it, perhaps the greatest adventure of life, successful. Relief Society women are the mothers of children, wives of men, and the friends of humanity. Through the influence of their successful lives and wise counsel much can be accomplished. MY WINTER Emily Platts Smith When winter comes to me I shall not weep, But be glad For experiences of springtime, Summer's clouds and showers, The recompense of harvest, That give me power To understand the immensity of God. The Church Welfare Program For 1942 Marion G. Romney Assistant Managing Director of Church Welfare Program (Relief Society General Conference, Officers' Meeting, Thursday, October 2, 1941) ELIEF SOCIETY workers and R members of the General Welfare Committee touch common ground in their respective assignments in the Church; that common ground is in being called to assist the bishops in administering telief to the poor and needy of our brethren and sisters in the Church. If we are to properly discharge the duties of our assignment, we must thoroughly understand the nature, purpose, and aim of the relief which the bishops are to render and in the rendering of which we are to be aids. Since being assigned to work with the General Welfare Committee, I have sought diligently to determine what that relief is. What I say this morning is, with some of my own interpretations, taken largely from the revelations and the teachings of our living leaders on that question. By divine injunction there has been placed upon the bishops the responsibility of administering relief to the poor of the Church. In placing this responsibility the Lord has said, ""The office of a bishop is in administering all temporal things... Having a knowledge of them by the Spirit of truth." (Doctrine and Covenants 107:68-71 ) To the bishop is given all the powers and responsibilities which the Lord has specifically prescribed for the caring of the poor. To him go the funds necessary therefor, and to him are given the gifts and functions necessary for carrying on the work. No one else is charged with this duty and responsibility. No one else is endowed with the power and functions. Necessary for this work. It is his duty, and his only, to determine to whom, when, how, and how much shall be given to any member of his ward from Church funds and as ward help. This is his high and solemn obligation imposed by the Lord himself. The bishop cannot escape this duty; he cannot shirk it; he cannot pass it on to someone else and so relieve himself. Whatever help he calls in, he is still responsible in carrying out the obligation. However, the bishop may and usually does call upon the Relief Society and now the Church welfare organization for assistance. The rendering of this assistance is a most important work, one which no one can do quite so well as can you. It is not my purpose to instruct you how to perform the details of this assignment. That instruction you are receiving from your able. Leaders, Sister Lyman and her associates of the General Board of Relief Society. They are by native endowment and training admirably qualified to so instruct you.. I desire to point out, however. That the help given by the bishop, in the giving of which he calls upon 842 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 GENERAL CONFERENCE the Relief Society and the Church welfare organization for assistance, is different from help given by other organizations and agencies. Relief by public agencies is given primarily from political, social, or economic considerations. The welfare of the state supersedes the upbuilding of the individual and is the primary measure by which public relief is gauged and its amount determined. All possible safeguards must be thrown around the help thus given to prevent one person getting more help than others in his class. Private non-church agencies who administer relief do so from philanthropic motives which are altogether good and commendable, but the help given by the bishop is wholly different from either. The Church has been commanded to care for its poor and needy, and the bishop has been charged with the responsiblity and given the power to carry out the commandment. The standard by which the help given is to be measured is indicated by the following laws given by revelation to the Church: Women have claim on their husbands for their maintenance, until their husbands are taken; and if they are not found transgressors they shall have fellowship in the Church. All children have claim upon their parents for their maintenance until they are of age. And after that, they have claim upon the Church, or in other words, upon the Lord's storehouse, if their parents have not wherewith to give them inheritances. And the storehouse shall be kept by the consecrations of the Church; and widows and orphans shall be provided for, as also the poor. (Doctrine and Covenants 83: "2, 4-6) Thus, to the widow the Church is to stand in place of husband; to 843 the orphan in place of parent. Such an obligation is not met by bestowing a few dollars on a flat uniform scale. Different individuals have different needs, require different treatment. The Lord has, by revelation, given direction as to where the funds with which to administer the relief are to be obtained. There are the fast donations and the tithing, and now the great production program under the direction of the Church Welfare Committee. The Lord has warned the rich of the consequences of their failing to contribute to the bishops' storehouse and He has warned those who teceive that their spirits must be contrite and that they must be free from greediness. Those of us who carry on this great work must have broken hearts and contrite spirits. We must keep in mind that those who are helped must be likewise pure in heart, for the Lord has said: Blessed are the poor who are pure in heart, whose hearts are broken, and whose. Spirits are contrite, for they shall see the kingdom of God coming in power and great glory unto their deliverance; for the fatness of the earth shall be theirs. For behold, the Lord shall come and his recompense shall be with him, and he shall reward every man, and the poor shall rejoice; And their generations shall inherit the earth from generation to generation, forever and ever. (Doctrine and Covenants 56:18-20) You see, then, that the prime duty of help to the poor by the Church is not only to bring temporal relief to their needs, but salvation to their souls. As the Prophet Joseph Smith said, "The ladies' Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." — These things cannot be achieved by dollars 844 and cents; therefore, all cannot be brought to the same living standards. More help must be given here and less there to fit the needs of those in want. Every case must be judged upon its own merits, and the test of the kind and amount of relief must be measured by the ultimate spiritual uplift. When the Prophet set up the Relief Society, the revelations regarding bishops and their duties had al- -ready been given. But who other than the sisters of the Relief Society could, as the Prophet said, "pour in oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed, dry up the tears of the orphan, and make the widow's heart to rejoice." The Lord in his wisdom knew that by the very nature of its members and the character of its organization the Relief Society, as an auxiliary to the Priesthood, was peculiarly fitted to advise with the bishops on these matters, and that it should be used by them to administer relief in the homes. He knew that in administering relief the Relief Society women, and they only, could best help in guiding the unskilled, careless, and improvident housewife; advise about budgets; instruct as to the care of the sick; help in time of death; and act as the advocate for the poor to see that want and distress are kept from the doors of the Saints. As the bishop is the "father" of the ward, so the Relief Society may be described as the "mother" of the ward. To assist in this great relief work, as all of you know, some six years ago the Church welfare program was inaugurated under the direction of the First Presidency of the Church. Before it were set two principal RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 objectives: "(1) to provide the bishop of the Church with the materials needed by him in meeting his divinely imposed obligations to the poor; (2) to help the Priesthood quorums in their rehabilitation of the unfortunate." (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.) | You are all more or less familiar with the way in which the program is providing the bishop with the needed materials. Our efforts shall be redoubled during the coming year, to increase production, processing, preservation, and distribution. You have always done your full share in this program, and we know you will continue to do so. While much remains to be done in our assignment "to provide the bishop of the Church with the materials needed," perhaps the second objective, which is "'to help the Priesthood quorums in their rehabilitation of" their quorum members, remains the least developed. We expect that great strides shall be made during the coming year. The Priesthood quorums' responsibilities do not end when each of their members is selfsustaining. 'The spirit of brotherhood requires that each member of the quorums shall be trained, encouraged, and assisted to improve his condition until his temporal and spiritual salvation is assured. The blessings held out as_ the fruits of the Gospel of Jesus Christ cannot be realized other than through cooperative, love-inspired effort, for while it is true that each person will be exalted or otherwise on his own record, this does not mean that we can be exalted alone; that is, without an interest in the rest of our Father's children. A love GENERAL CONFERENCE for and an interest in one's brothers and sisters is an indispensable part of the principles of exaltation. It has always been of the warp. And woof of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. In the days of Moses the Lord commanded, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." (Leviticus 19:18) Jesus to His disciples at the Last Supper said: A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another. (John 13:34-35) The Lord, speaking to His disciples in our day, said: For verily I say unto you, the time has 845 come, and is now at hand; and behold, and lo, it must needs be that there be an organization of my people, in regulating and establishing the affairs of the storehouse for the poor of my people.. That through my providence, notwithstanding the tribulation which shall descend upon you, that the Church may stand independent above all other creatures beneath the celestial world. (Doctrine and Covenants 78:3-14) The welfare program and the Relief Society are two of the agencies of the Church through which we shall move toward this glorious goal. May God help us to catch a sufficiently clear view of our work and the destiny of His people to hold us to our course during these uneasy times and the tribulations which shall follow. % The Spirit Giveth Life Priscilla L. Evans Relief Society General Board Member (Summary of Address Given at Relief Society General Conference, General Session, October 2, 1941) HO can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth. Safely trust in her.... She will do him good, and not evil, all the days of her life. She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands.... She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens. She considereth a field, and buyeth it; with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard... Her husband is known in the gates, when he sitteth among the elders of the land... Strength and honour are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to come. 'She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth -her... Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain; but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates. (Proverbs 31:10-16; 23; 25-28; 30-31.) This is an ideal. It will live always, for spiritual ideals do not change. Solomon's words describe a "virtuous woman" as one whose life exemplifies all the virtues—personal chastity, loyalty to those nearest and dearest to her. "The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her; she will do him good and not evil all the days of her life." 'This worthy woman possesses also the virtues of industry, thrift, integrity, kindness, humility, imagination and faith. She "feareth the Lord." Her reward is the one thing most desired by all worthy women: "Her children arise up and call her blessed, and her husband also and he praiseth her." A plea is made for this woman: "Give her of the fruit of her hands and let her own works praise her in the gates." This plea was not answered in Solomon's time, nor was it fully answered until the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ gave the answer. For to you and to me have been given "the fruits of our hands" and "our own works do praise us in the gates." The women in this audience are Relief Society sisters; their lives exemplify, as nearly as is humanly possible, this ideal woman of Solomon, The women of Nauvoo were perfect examples of this virtuous woman of Solomon. They went to the Prophet Joseph and asked for some unit through which they might work more effectively and carry on with-. Out waste their charitable efforts in caring for the workmen at the temple. They were serving as individuals; all their lives they had done all that they possibly could do as individuals, but they felt a need for some organized unit through which to work. They took to the Prophet a simple set of by-laws that they had drawn up. He told them he had been considering the matter of an organization for them for some time, and added, according to Sister Sarah M. Kimball, who was present at the time, that his plans "were much great greater than any they had in mind." Their vision was for their immediate needs, but his vision was prophetic —that we now realize when we view this great organization. This association, established by the Prophet of the Lord, has something that no other woman's organization has. It was set up by the _Prophet of the Lord, and he breathed into it a spirit, which is its greatest strength. Unlike any other womans' organization, it is directed by the Priesthood of God; no program is initiated without the approval of those who are entitled to divine inspiration from God. That is Our greatest strength. Relief Society was organized at a time in our national life when other large organizations came into being, but unlike any of them it is not a protest organization. The great anti-slavery organization was a protest against trafficking in human beings. All the abolitionist organizations which came into being at the beginning of the Civil War were protests against a nation divided against itself in war. The great Suffrage Association was a protest against the discriminations against women. The Women's Christian 'Temperance Association, which is still in existence, is a protest against the manufactyre and sale of liquor. Our organization, on the other hand, is an affirmation organization. Unlike other organizations, it has no objective which when gained is the end. | Always when one goal is reached, far on is another, for it envisions all good. It is an integral part of the Gospel plan. Now this spirit which we have and must hold to is not a static thing; it is like a plant which grows with nur- 846 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 GENERAL CONFERENCE ture and with stimulation. Our organization plans and programs which are given to you in the bulletins, the Magazine, et cetera, are tools or mechanics offered to you for the purpose of stimulating this spirit. You are given the best possible equipment, because all of these plans and programs—or tools—are made with that same spirit which the Prophet Joseph breathed into the organization. In the beginning. — They are formed under the guidance of the Lord; they are given to you with the blessing of the Priesthood; they are the best and most efficient tools you could have, but they are only a means to an end, the end being the preservation of the spirit of Relief Society How can we tell whether we are preserving this: spirit which gives life to this organization. I think Sister McConkie gave the answer this morning when she said, "The spirit comes to us and gives us un- 847 derstanding because of individual righteousness." That is how we can tell. The women must live worthy lives in order that this spirit may be preserved. The great mission of Relief Society is the spiritual enrichment ot the individual. It is more difficult for us to fulfill this mission now in our affluence and security than it was in our poverty and our trial. So in our great strength, our need is for humility; we must seek the Lord always. May we agree with Paul when he said, "Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think any thing, as of ourselves; but our sufficiency is of God." (II Corinthians 3:5.) 'The Spirit of God does not dwell with self-assurance and vanity. And so I pray that we may all be blessed with continuing strength and humility, that this spirit shall be held inviolate, for in very deed it is only the spirit that giveth life to this organization. "Highway For Americans" Bernard C. Shoenfeld The following excerpt from a radio program called "Highway For Americans," presented over the Columbia Broadcasting System, July, 1941, was read by Ned Williams, at Relief Society General Conference, Literature Department, October 1, 1941. It is printed in the Magazine with the consent of Bernard C. Shoenfeld, Chief of Radio Section, Division of Information, Office of Emergency Management, Washington, D. C. In introducing Mr. Williams, it was pointed out that humor and our beloved humorous characters have served America—colonial America, Civil War America, pioneering America, America recovering from World War I—in the trying periods of her progress, and that humor will again be a sustaining, saving power in the present national emergency. They had less right to laugh than we have today... By rights they should have been as serious as Job. Why, just consider: Life is hard, at times unendurable, in those thirteen colonies: Narrator: Yes, in the old days they laughed in America. They laughed the belly laugh from Manhattan to San Francisco.. And yet they had no right to laugh. 848. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 Grows harder, grows less endurable, At Bunker Hill, at Valley Forge, In the woods near Trenton, the mountains of Ticonderoga, The fields of Virginia, the swamps of Georgia, In Independence Hall. Yet while Franklin plans with others the phrasing of a Declaration... Vorce: When in the course of human events it becomes necessary Narrator: While he dreams of order out of chaos, While he listens to Jefferson: _ Voice: We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with the unalienable right of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Narrator: While he listens in dead earnest, Ben Franklin yet can joke: FRANKLIN: Three may keep a secret —if two of them are dead. Narrator: Or he can say this: FRANKLIN: Men are most likely to be cheated in three things—a horse, a wig, and a wife. Narrator: Or he can pull the leg of foreigners by telling them this: FRANKLIN: It is a rare experience to see a whale swimming up Niagara Falls. The grand leap of the whale up Niagara Falls is one of the finest spectacles in nature! Narrator: We give you Ben Franklin, teller of tall tales! Now the task of bringing success to a new free nation begins. Men set forth on high adventure, Trappers, hunters, pioneers, Opening up America in 1790, 1810, 1820, No fun. Nothing to kick one's heels up about. Now there are Indian wars, and wars with Mexico, Wars between the sheepmer and the cattlemen, Work, hard work, vein-bursting work, To keep a nation going. And yet all over America, jokes and legends—tall tales—and songs are told and sung. Yet there is nothing to sing about or laugh about. Abolitionists are fierce, speak out for freedom, The South talks of seceding, Men in dark places whisper civil war, Nothing to laugh about.... _ Andyet a_ portly, gold-watch-chained gentleman called Barnum—P. T., Laughs, brings laughter to the ticket-buyers: Barker: Mr. Barnum, at tremendous expense, has transported to this country a real and gigantic monster—Jumbo, largest _ elephant in the world! Also—you will see Zindita' who charms snakes with her eyes—Mr. Pitt, seven feet tall! And the smallest man in the world, Tom Thumb! Also—for your delectation.... The bearded lady!... Oh, Pardon me, mister, my mistake.... Sounp: CROWD LAUGHTER. Narrator: Strange they should find the strength to laugh For the whispers are growing, The prophetic eyes of John Brown GENERAL CONFERENCE. Bulge with the pressure of the hangman's noose, - The Union is disunited. No time for laughter. -. And yet, Josh Billings makes the slavers and the abolitionists alike Forget antipathy, and chuckle when they read: Buuincs: "The duck is a kind of short-legged hen. They can sail on the water as natural and easy as a_ grease spot. Ducks have a broad bill which enables them to eat their food without any spoon, There ain't any room on the outside of a duck for any more feathers. The duck don't crow like a rooster, but quacks like a duck." Sounp: GUN VOLLEY. Narrator: That's Fort Sumter. All that the Pilgrims worked for, All that the Cavaliers worked for, All that the Revolution had brought about, All the struggles of the pioneers, the westward-ho-ers, Is done for, finished, down the drain. North against South at Shiloh, at Vicksburg, at Chattanooga, At Gettysburg, at leveled, ruined Atlanta. No time for laughter now. And yet—Abe Lincoln laughs. Telling his stories to the manipulators, To the politicians, to the generals, Hiding his vision of Ford's Theatre, Bringing compassion by playing the vaudevilian, Chuckling as he says: Lincotn: "Slept on watch, did he? 849 Well, I don't believe shooting him will teach him a lesson." Narrator: Or this: Lincotn: "If Almighty God gives a man a pair of cowardly legs, how can he help their running away with him?" Narrator: Or this: Lincotn: "Grant drinks, you say? I wonder if you could get me a few barrels of that same whiskey for my other Generals." Narrator: 'Towns are in ruin in America. - Bodies rot on battlefields in the hot Virginia sun— No time for laughter. And yet Artemus Ward Brings laughter to the marching files of soldiers! Warp: "Mr. Coe unintentionally dislocated his neck a few years since by falling from a scaffold in Illinois, a rope being twined about his neck at the time. There was a large crowd present, including the sheriff of the county." Narrator: Well, the war is over. Once more we are a nation. Once more the rain washes away the blood in fields, in meadows of America. Work to be done; laughter. People needed. Come... Immigrants coming over to America, Bringing with them in the steerage Tidy bundles of grief. There are few frontiers left by 1900. This is an America of factories and cities, industry and banks, no time for And __ people 850 machines in mills and in the fields, Sweat and biceps, workers by the thousands needed. The Morgans and the Huntingtons, the Astors and the Goulds, 'Building the railroads, the fac- ' tories, the banks, the tractors, the economy, Serious with the worry that accumulation brings. The Tony's and the Joe's and the Mike's and the Abe's Working in the sweatshops, the factories, the mills, Serious with the worry that no accumulation brings. And yet laughter is a rainbow curving from Maine to Californla... Mark Twain making laugh at itself, Giving us perspective at our own pomposity. Now we are strong, Heavy with strength, Taking ourselves too seriously, needing the laughter that had pulled us through the struggles, the wars, the crises. America Now we need the sharp point of. Laughter To bring us humility To make us realize the humble rising of our curtain back in 1776. To shrink our headsize. And now the laughter at ourselves grows Making us finer and better people for the self-appraisal. Will Rogers, Hurting no one by his humor, AS RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 Yet tilting his pen at all pretension: Rocers: I see where the Governor of this State is dying. A lady said to me yesterday, "Isn't it wonderful, the Lieutenant Governor is speaking here tonight." That sounds pretty big when you say it, and that's why people go to hear him. I said, "The Lieutenant Governor speaking? What does he do?" "Oh, he don't do anything," she said. ""What do you mean," I said, "don't do anything? Don't he even get up in the morning?" "Oh, yes," she said. "He gets up every morning and inquires whether the Governor is any sicker." Narrator: By rights we should not be the zanies, the guffawers of the world. And yet, thank God, we are! For laughter is the hallmark of democracy!... Don't fear, Davy Crockett, Sleep quietly, Mark Twain, Be hopeful, P. T. Barnum, Have faith, you the common men of yesterday! Thank God that we whose mind and hearts are free can laugh. We shall always do so. We know too well that laughter ~ does not flow easily When throats are strangled by the tyrant's grasp. So long as men will fight for freedom America will be a bright and straight and radiant highway On which to laugh and sing! or other objects with sharp or jagged edges. II. Il. IV. Home Accident Prevention No. III CUTS, LACERATIONS, BRUISES, INFECTIONS The American National Red Cross, in its publication "Home and Farm Accident Prevention," states that a great many unnecessary cuts and bruises are experienced in the home and on the farm through the careless or improper use or neglect of tools Infection of wounds presents serious dangers. The following simple home activities are suggested to prevent cuts, lacerations, bruises and infections: I. Pins, Tacks, and Small Objects Ignorance may excuse an infant when it puts pins or tacks into its mouth, but there is no excuse when grown-ups do it. Keep marbles, beans, lemondrops and similar articles away from small children. They cause many cases of infant strangulation. Broken Glass, et cetera Broken glass and razor blades should be put into a box and not thrown into the waste basket loose. The accumulation should be disposed of carefully. Wire Stretch wire carefully, a slip or break of it may cut an artery or put out an eye. Tools A sharp ax is a dangerous tool, and should be handled accordingly. Use a saw with care so as not to cut a finger. Placing a sharp butcher knife in a drawer with other knives and forks may result in a cut finger. When using a knife, cut away from the body. Sharp-edged toys should not be given to small children. Keep tools stored where chilV. VI. Dren cannot get them. Use care in handling them. Skinned knuckles, cuts and scratches may result in serious infection. Cans often cause cuts. A sharp can opener prevents a jagged edge on the can. Machinery Moving parts of machinery should be protected. Have machines out of gear when oiling, repairing or adjusting them. Discarded tools, machinery, wire fencing, et cetera, should be disposed of to the junkman. Watch out for nails in loose boards. Farm Tools and Other Farm Equipment When pitchforks are not in use, hang them where they belong. Pulleys should be protected so that hands cannot be caught in them. VII. Doors, Windows, Screens Bruised fingers frequently result from being caught by doors, windows and screens; bruises on the head result from insufficient head room in cellars and on stairways. Serious injuries result from car doors being slammed on hands or fingers. Page 851 The Merry-Go-Round Alice Morrey Bailey CHAPTER NINE ONSCIOUS of John's voice, Alyn aroused herself from her meditations. "You were saying, John, that the scriptures give us the answer to what life is all about." "Of course," John elucidated, "theologians put their own interpretation on the scriptures. Some say that men exist for the glorification of God—most of them say that, in fact.", This was interesting. "What do you think, John?" said Alyn. It made things all mght just to have John awake, talking to her. "T like to think that God made people so that they could share the joy of living; so that they could know the satisfaction of growth; possibly, that they could experience the joy that He experienced—the joy of creating.", "John, you're marvelous. I had no idea you had thought things out so thoroughly. But John! We don't have joy. Not many people are really happy?" "Knowing you are not happy is the only impediment to my happiness. I can never be happy, knowing you are miserable," said John. "I love you too much." "Oh," said Alyn, not knowing what further to add. It was hard not to believe in John. How wrong it had been for her to judge him by the standards of money, to have judged his job in terms of pay. He seemed to have so much more of richness, so much more of depth since he had Page 852 gone to work at the nurseries. He seemed not the same man who used to come home so often with nervous headaches, who: balked at dinner parties. 'There was a new serenity about him. It was increasingly satisfying to talk to him. They had been tenderly close to each other the first years of their marriage, John openly proud of her every thought and move, openly sharing her disappointments time after time at not having a baby, substituting everything that was in his power to give her—gifts, clothes, flowers, trips. She could see it all now, the gradual covering of her feelings at being childless, her increased inability to be made happy, her increased selfishness, wanting more and more until her desires far exceeded John's abilities to fulfill them. Yes, things seemed clear to her now, but would they be clear the next morning? Few people were happy—almost none, it seemed. Everyone had some great impediment. Lottie had the drag of a large family upon her. Judith had many of the ingredients for happiness— youth, health, a baby coming—but the whole thing was ashes because Theo was gone. Even John was kept onthe narrow margin because of her. She herself, not knowing all the reasons, was definitely unhappy. She wished she had let John go on and suggest a solution for her. THE following Saturday, Judith's last day at Lottie's, was-a hectic THE MERRY-GO-ROUND one. There was a convention in town, and the store was full of "Jookers." "I've shown a hundred hats and sold only two," complained Ivy. Mrs. Pinkney was busy for more than an hour with one exacting customer who tried every hat in the store, it seemed, and then went out without buying. The storm broke the tubes of the intercommunicating system in the shop. Lottie was cross and blamed everyone for everything that went wrong. Judith looked haggard. She hadn't slept well the night before. "When this is over," she said, "I'll sleep for twenty years, like Rip Van Winkle." Alyn hadn't had much time to talk to her all day, except in snatches when she took her a sales slip. Yes, it had been a tense and nerve-wracking day for everyone, but particularly bad for Judith. At closing time Alyn went to the office. "Get your things, Judith. John is calling for me, and we'll take you home." "Alyn, you're an angel. I've so much junk to take home. I've nearly made this shop my home. I had no idea I had accumulated so much." When they went out to get into the car John looked at Judith in quick concern. When they arrived at her home, he assisted her up the steps, not allowing her to carry so much as her handbag. "You're sure you'll be all right?" he said. "I want you to promise me that if there is anything that Alyn and I can do to help you that you'll let us know." "Both of you are wonderful. I certainly shall, for I know you mean ie" "Come home with us, Judith, and 853 have dinner," Alyn urged. But Judith wouldn't. "My landlady has some hot soup for me, and I can't think of a thing that I want except to get into bed. Some other time, when I get a little rested." They left reluctantly, and John was silent all the way home; nor did Alyn feel like talking. She was still thinking of Judith when she went to sleep. At one o'clock the telephone rang. It was Judith. "Alyn, I have to go to the hospital —now, tonight." "No!" said Alyn. "Yes, I called Dr. Vance, and he says I must go right away. I wanted to tell you." "Judith, I'm going with you. You haven't called a taxi yet, have you?" "You darling! I hoped you would say that." "What is it?" said John, raising on an elbow. "Judith. She has to go to the hospital," Alyn answered from the clothes closet. "I'm going with her." John threw back the covers and jumped out of bed. "Hand me my shirt and tie, will you, darling?" he said. "I'm going too." A GREAT sense of foreboding came over Alyn as she hurried with John to the garage. Never in all her sheltered life had she been anywhere near when a baby had been born. Of course, some of her friends had had babies, but her only contact with them had been when she went to see the mother with a gift and some flowers days after the baby was born. To have offered, as she had with Judith, to take any one 854 of them to the hospital had never entered her mind; but with Judith it was different.. "John," she said, when they were on the way, "do you think she'll be all right? 'The baby was not due for another month, you know." John's face was grave; it brought no assurance. But then it was silly to expect John to know any more about such a matter than she herself knew. Judith stood waiting at the door with her hat on and her suitcase by her side when they arrived at the apartment. Her eyes were unnaturally bright, and her cheeks were scarlet. Her hands showed a fine tremor. When Alyn put an arm about her to help her down the steps, she found that Judith's whole body shook in the same way—an uncontrollable way. Her teeth chattered, too, when she spoke. "Judith, are you afraid?" "No," said Judith, lifting her head. "I'm not afraid of anything that might happen... To me." The great hospital rose tall and dark, except for an occasional light in the staff offices. 'The streets were empty and silent. John drove around to the service entrance at the back. Together they walked up the incline, John on one side of Judith, Alyn on the other. They were soon enveloped in hospital routine. Odors of mingled ether and medications peculiar to all hospitals surrounded them. Judith was entered officially at the office, placed in a wheel chair and taken upon the elevator to a room, John and Alyn hurrying to keep up with the brisk nurse who wheeled her. "Will you step out one moment, please?" a nurse asked, almost before RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 John could set Judith's suitcase down. "Can't Mrs. Fordyce stay?" Judith asked appealingly of the nurse. "Sorry. Against the rules." Alyn followed John into the hall. It was a long time before the nurse came out of the room leaving the door open behind her. Alyn went in. Judith was in bed, clad in a coarse hospital jacket. She reached a hand for Alyn and smiled briefly. "It is good having you here. It's as if you were my own sister. It is something I never thought I should have." Tears stung Alyn's eyelids. She squeezed Judith's hand. "It's as good for me as for you. It is something I never thought would come to me either." Then Judith drew an envelope from underneath the pillow and handed it, face down, to Alyn. "Keep this for me, please. I'll undoubtedly ask for it back again... After the baby comes." "Certainly," said Alyn, and avoided looking at it as she took it. "It will be as safe in these deep pockets as if it were in a vault." It probably contained Judith's rings, she thought, and closed her mind to any curiosity about its contents. Without warning, Judith's' eyes closed; she bit her lips, moaned, and rolled her head back and forth on the pillow. Alyn was terror stricken. As if she had been called, a nurse hurried in, the panels of her stiff uniform clapping together. "Will you step out one moment, please?" she asked. SCYATILL you step out one moment, please?" Alyn repeated THE MERRY-GO-ROUND to John, whom she found waiting on the sunporch. "John, they said it exactly alike, and they were two different nurses. Do you think a parrot taught them?" She heard the request often in the hours that followed, for she entered the room every time the door was left ajar. "If Judith wants me, Ill be there," she told John. "They can wear their old phrase threadbare." John, of course, made no attempt to return to Judith's room, but remained in the dark sunporch, which looked out upon the city. The hospital was situated high upon a hill, and at its foot the city lay sleeping in the moonlight. Neon signs in the business district made brilliant patches on the garment of the night. "John," said Alyn once, coming out to him, "it must be terrible. She looks at me sometimes and doesn't seem to see me. I can't bear it, but I can't bear leaving her, either. John, why must there be so much suffering attached to it?" "I don't know, darling,' John said, putting an arm about her. "I don't know, unless it is that a new life is a precious thing, and precious things seem always to exact a price in pain or sweat or despair. Human nature is so constituted that it holds of little value that which comes too easily. Look, dear, at all those roofs out there." Alyn knew that John was deliberately trying to draw her mind away from the distress of Judith, but she looked at the roofs. They stretched away on every hand discernible in the moonlight, some squat and low, some high and pretentious, some pointing beautifully out of trees, many of them drab and ugly. 855 "I have been thinking of the people under them—tens, hundreds, thousands of them. Each human being, each individual, has his own set of problems. Many set themselves up as judges of the rest, banding together in groups to promote their own selfish interests. Few fully realize that God is over all, that the ultimate destiny of the poorest. Meanest wisp of humanity is as important to Him as you or I or any king. He has given us life and truth and beauty, but He lets us work out our own destinies; we make our own mistakes." "John, I never knew you were such a wonderful person," said Alyn, feeling very humble. Tonight she felt in close touch with the truly big things of life. 'The coming of a new human being into the world focused her thoughts upon life as nothing had ever done before. Meanwhile, Judith was fighting for that newcomer in a half-conscious world of pain that none of them could touch. IT seemed ages before a nurse approached Alyn and John. "Are you Mrs. Fordyce?" she asked Alyn. "Yes. Is anything wrong?" "The patient is asking for you." Alyn looked appealingly at John for reassurance. "Only one of you may go in," informed the nurse, misinterpreting the look. Alyn followed her into a chamber where the nurse put a white surgeon's gown over her blue woe! Dress. Judith lay unrecognizable in swaths of linen, and a nurse in cap and mask was ministering to her, 856 The place seemed unreal, like something from another land. The hours of darkness, the uncertainty of waiting, these masked people working silently and expertly at their appointed tasks lent a note of terror to the strange scene. "Your friend is here,” she heard the nurse say to Judith in a soft, tender voice, a voice that somehow surprised Alyn in the midst of all this oddness. Judith rolled pain-stricken eyes to Alyn. "T'm so glad you've come," she said, and immediately closed her eyes. A strange sensation swept over Alyn. Fumes of ether rose and danced visibly in the air between her and the blinding light. She began to feel unreal and far away. "I will not faint," she told herself grimly, "I will not faint." She fought the sensation of diminished alertness, only dimly realizing the activities about her, dimly hearing Judith's moans. Then the sharp cry of the newborn baby stirred an emotion within her such as she had never had before, an emotion that seemed to begin at the crown of her head and progress slowly downward to her toes. Her nerves seemed electrified by the supreme moment of birth. "A boy," announced the doctor. The whole attention of the room centered upon this little scrap of humanity, kicking and squalling incredibly on the sheet-covered table. A shaft of light from the new day shown slantwise through the east windows. It was as if heaven smiled upon this event, as if it were there with them, close enough to touch. Emotion filled Alyn's being. "I've never been so close to heaven," she RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 thought. "I shall never again think narrowly about anything." "Doctor! Doctor!" The voice of the anesthetist was low, but it had a terrible urgency. The doctor pushed Alyn back and looked at Judith. "Nurse!" he said, and the alarm in that single word brought instant activity. "Hold out your arms," commanded a nurse of Alyn. Alyn obeyed automatically, and she threw a blanket over them. The next instant she had placed Judith's baby into Alyn's arms. "Hold him firmly, but not too tight," she cautioned. The next instand she was gone, leaving Alyn trembling, with the incredibly soft infant in her arms. Alyn looked down into the little velvet face and noted with amazement that the baby's eyes were open. They seemed to look directly into her own, and the experience seemed to turn her bones to water; she felt weakened— exhausted. "Hypo!" shouted the doctor. Suddenly Alyn was aware that something dreadful was happening to Judith. She knew that a dreadful drama was taking place—a drama that every person in the room knew the meaning of except herself. Doctors and nurses were working together, silently, skillfully, giving Judith artificial respiration, taking her pulse with anxious eyes and rapt attention. Alyn could see no movement whatever under the linens. "John," she whispered, but the word came out in a scream. Immediately John was beside her, his arms enveloping her and the baby. "Is she... 2? What has happened?" John demanded. THE MERRY-GO-ROUND "I’m afraid the mother is.... I'm afraid there is nothing further we can do." "Is Mrs. Wyatt dead?" asked John sharply. "Yes. Mrs. Wyatt is dead. Her heart...." said the doctor. "This experience has been too much for her." Judith dead! It was as if the world swept out from under Alyn, crumbling as it went. John pulled a chair near with his toe and lowered her, the baby still in her arms, into it, supporting her lest she collapse. "And this is the baby?" he asked, to get her attention. "Yes," she said numbly. John pulled back the edge of the blanket with a finger and peeped in. "Boy or girl?" he asked. "It's a boy. John, I was the first to hold him," sobbed Alyn. "He looked straight at me. I must have him. He is mine. Judith would want it so." "Yes, darling," agreed John. "We must have him." SOMEHOW, eventually, she and John were out of the hospital and into the car. At long last the car was moving. It seemed years since the telephone had rung to waken them at one o'clock to take Judith to the hospital. "John, it happened so suddenly. Coming up this very street not six hours ago, Judith said: I'm not 857 afraid of anything that might happen... to me.' Do you remember, John?" "Yes, I remember," said John gravely. "She must have had a premonition." "She was so gallant. O John! Never to have seen her precious baby...." "Don't let's think about it. I talked to the doctor about... About Judith.. There was nothing that could have been foreseen, nothing that could have been helped. The doctor said it is best for the baby to stay in the hospital for a while, since it was early in coming. I asked him about adoption, and he says it isn't an 'easy matter. Left as the baby is, he becomes the property of the state. The best we can do is to place our application for him early at the childplacing agency that the court turns him over to. The doctor advised me to get our own attorney, and to get him soon." "John," said Alyn in alarm, "we must have that baby!" A bond that was almost as strong as maternity had been formed between her and that infant by its first look. "Oh, I must have Judith's baby. I couldn't bear to think of it going to strangers, to anyone but us, John." John would be a wonderful father, she knew. John was a good man, a wise man. "Tf there's any way under heaven," John said, "we shall have him." (To be continued) LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony, Articles of Faith, By James E. Talmage Lesson 6 Chapter 6, Baptism Article 4—"We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are:... Third, Baptism by immersion for the remission of sins... "? (Tuesday, March 3, 1942) I. Lesson Aim To understand the nature and purpose of the sacred ordinance of baptism. II. Divisions of the Subject Matter II. A. The error of infant baptism. (Articles of Faith, pp. 125- 128, 483-484) B. The nature and purpose of - baptism. (Articles of Faith, Pp. 120-125, 482-483) C. The place of baptism in the plan of salvation. (Articles of Faith, pp. 128-134) Teaching Suggestions The subject matter of this lesson can be effectively presented if the lesson is conducted as though it were a street meeting, with those present being considered as the audience. A. Preparation The class leader should select three sisters to assist in the presentation of the subject matter. If three sisters who formerly served as missionaries can be found, they could probably add a realistic Page 858 atmosphere to the class period. One of the topics listed under "Divisions of the Subject Matter" should be assigned to each of these sisters. The class leader should meet with them and impress upon them the following points: 1. That they are to thoroughly master the subject matter of the lesson through reading and rereading the text, the supplementary re fe rences and the scriptural references at the end of the chapter. 2. That they should remember the audience to whom they are to speak, and with this in mind make a choice of material that will hold the interest of the listeners because of its clarity, certainty, and reasonableness. 3. That they should organize LESSON DEPARTMENT their material for presentation in conversational style; that ma- - terial is to be delivered, not read. At most, a brief outline may be used. The reading of these speeches will destroy the effectiveness of the meeting. A. Each speech should be organized as follows: (1) An introduction of the subject matter. (2) The — development of the theme and the presentation of the material. (3) The summary of the points developed during the speech. (4) The conclusion —a reiteration of the theme of the address. 4. That each speaker must confine her remarks to the topic assigned, in order to avoid a duplication of that which is to be presented by the other speakers. 5. That each speaker is to occupy ten minutes for the delivery of the message.. Presentation To more clearly carry out the idea of a street meeting, the class leader, before the day of presentation of this Jesson, might confer with 859 the ward president and the ward chorister and suggest that the opening hymn be one which is frequently used in street meetings, such as, "Israel, Israel, God is Calling," "Redeemer of Israel," "O Say What is Truth," "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." On the day of the meeting, the chairs should be so arranged that the class leader and the three sisters who are to speak can be seated in the front. When the time for the lesson arrives, the class leader should act as the presiding officer at a street meeting and present the purpose of the meeting and introduce the speakers, after which the speakers should present their talks in a conversational style. At the conclusion of the last speech, the teacher might allow time for questions or a discussion of items presented during the conversation. The meeting should be terminated with an expression of appreciation for the benefits that are derived from the ordinance of baptism and an invitation to the listeners to express their feelings toward this divine ordinance. If this concluding summary is presented with feeling and sincerity, it should form an excellent background and set the theme for a stimulating testimony meeting. 860 References Talmage, Articles of Faith, Chapter 6, pp. 120-136, 482-484. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 769-771. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 117-124, 265-267.. Smith and Sjodahl, Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, pp. 146, 152-153, 162. A (siting Seachers Messages To The Home Lesson 6 Service as an Expression of Faith (Tuesday, March 3, 1942) True service grows out of love, and love is "'the greatest thing in the world." IN our Church there are many opportunities for service. In the ward, for example, the bishop and his counselors give much of their time and exert great effort in the interest of their people, particularly in the interest of their spiritual development. This is true also of those who devote themselves to the work of the auxiliary organizations. Stake workers, who are almost as numerous as the workers in the ward, also serve without earthly remuneration. All of these Church workers render service to others. The Church, therefore, furnishes openings for love and service on a large scale. "He that believeth on me," said Jesus, "the works that I do shall he do also." (John 14:12) In part, at least, this "work" consists of service to others, for we are told that the Master "went about doing good." Jesus also said that his followers were the "salt of the earth" and the "light of the world." One may be the "salt of the earth" and the "light of the world" by being of service to others; by developing, through good works, a character that will be in accordance with the standards set by Christ. The true spirit of service has been beautifully expressed by the Apostle Paul, in the famous thirteenth chapter of First Corinthians: "And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing." Paul includes in this charity, or love, such things as kindness, mercy, and long-suffering patience. "The gift without the giver is bare." In serving, one should give of himself. This has always been emphasized in our Church. There is no end of opportunities for service to our communities. Service to the community consists of helping to get rid of evil and to preserve good. Women who are good homemakers and good mothers, rearing their children to the best of their abilities, are rendering a service which is inestimable to the community and the world. Every woman will be a better wife and mother who gains inspiration and information through LESSON DEPARTMENT attendance at Church, and who, if possible, gives service in an auxiliary organization. The home is enriched and blessed if the mother is an example of faith and service to her Church, and if she inspires devotion and faith in her family. No one can be genuinely happy who does not render some service to his fellow men. 861 Discussion 1. What did Jesus mean when He said, "He that loseth his life for my sake, shall find it'? 2. What are some of the services women may render in the home; in their neighborhood; in the Church? 3. Who did Jesus say are our neighbors? Te Work-and-Business Better Buymanship Lesson 6 Hosiery (Tuesday, March 10, 1942) A LARGE portion of our clothing budget is used for the purchase of hosiery. In the United States the total outlay for hose amounts to one-half billion dollars each year for about 100 million pairs. Of this vast number, thirty-five percent are full-fashioned hose for women. It is estimated that the average person buys at least one dozen pairs of hosiery a year. Each woman should know how to select hose that will give her the best possible wear. A knowledge of their construction as well as how to best care for them will enable her to obtain the greatest satisfaction from hose purchased; one should not tely merely upon color and appearance in purchasing hose. What the consumer should seek when buying hosiery is a combination of style and wearing quality at a price commensurate with the length of service expected. There is at the present time a lack of adequate standardization with regard to hosiery, and hosiery labels give little information. Since this is the case at the present time, we must depend on brand names, merchant's reliability, and price, to guide us in our selection. However, there are some points we can look for and some basic information we need to know. First, there are two main types of hosiery: knit-tubular and full fashioned. Tubular hosiery are cylindrical in shape. The shaping of the hose is done after the stocking is knit. Silk and rayon circularknit stockings have a seam down the back which stops at the heel; they have mock fashioning marks to simulate the full-fashioned type. Full-fashioned hosiery are knit flat. By decreasing the stitches, the fabric is narrowed to fit the ankles. Full-fashioned hose can be identified by the gap inside of the garter welt. A seam runs from the toe to the heel and up the back with fashion marks on either side of the seam at the calf, just below the welt, at the base of the heel, and at the sole of the foot under the arch. Full-fashioned hosiery are better fitting than circular-knit hose, and retain their shape better after laundering. For men and children, the circular-knit is generally used, since the retention of perfect shape during. Wear is not an important factor. Circular-knit hosiery are less expensive. Hosiery may be made from cotton, wool, silk, rayon, or nylon, or from various combinations of these. Cotton hose give the greatest service for the money invested. They are less attractive, because cotton yarn is fuzzy and does not dye as well as other fibers, but they withstand severe laundry treatment with fair results. Wool hose are warmer, but require careful treatment to prevent excessive shrinkage. The wool fiber is often combined with either cotton, silk, or rayon to prevent shrinkage and irritation to the skin. Hose that are made from spun silk or rayon become fuzzy with wear. Silk hosiery should be purchased to suit the needs of the wearer. The heavier the thread, the more service can be expected from hose. Very sheer hose cannot be expected to be very durable. Hosiery comes in the following weights: chiffon, 2-4 thread count; service chiffon, sthread count; semi-service, 6-7 thread count; medium service, 7-thread count; service, 7-10 thread count; and heavy service. Hose with a thread count of three are most popular. In purchasing hose, consumers should know the correct size and leg length desirable for the individual who is to wear the hose; they should insist upon that size. The garter welt should be from 3 to 4 inches in width and should stretch from 11 1/2 to 12 inches. In good hose the stretch from the tip of the heel to the top of the instep is from 7 to 7 1/2 inches. For durability, choose the hose with the best reinforcements at the toe, heel, and sole. Cotton yarns used with silk in the reinforcements of the foot of the stocking add to the wearing quality. The introduction of nylon as a fiber for hose has caused much trouble in the silk market, with the result that much is being done to increase the durability of silk hosiery. A new crepe de Chine silk hose and a lastexfinished hose, said to be snag resistant and as durable as nylon, have been reported. At present we find nylon very tough with a high tensile strength and a high resistance to abrasion; for this reason they seldom wear out in the feet. However, with the increased demand for nylon for other uses, it will be some time before there will be sufficient to meet the demands for it as a hosiery fiber. Care of hosiery is probably more important than the care of any other article. Remove all rings and be sure fingernails and skin are smooth when putting stockings on or when laundering them. Put them on by rolling the stocking leg down to the toe. Slip the foot in and pull the stocking up over the leg. In laundering, use mild soaps dissolved to form a suds. Squeeze the hose, but do not rub. Rinse at least twice and hang up carefully to dry on a smooth surface not close to artificial heat. At all times be careful to prevent unnecessary snagging. Too much cate cannot be exercised 862 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT in the choice and care of hosiery. Suggested Activities 1. Bring to meeting hosiery representing circular-knit and full-fashioned types, those showing various thread count 863 weights, and some representing different price levels. Compare. 2. Give a demonstration showing the correct method of laundering hosiery. 3. Bring hosiery which have not worn well and see if you can determine the cause and what could have been done about it. % a iterature Humor In Life And Literature Lesson 6 Humor In Its Highest Form (Tuesday, March 24, 1942) Humor represents... An ascending series at the bottom of which are guffaws and malice and primitive simplicity, and at the top are smiles and tears and eternity. Lesson Topics Review of last lesson Wit and humor Humor and the incongrtuities of life Humor at its height Review of Last Lesson The fifth lesson discussed humor that grows out of opposing traits or eccentricities of character. It also presented humorous characters, half real, half fictionized, such as Josh Billings and Mr. Dooley. The second part of the lesson was devoted to great humorous characters in world literature, including Falstaff, Mrs. Malaprop, Mr. Pickwick, Huckleberry Finn, and others, with discussions of their characteristics and excerpts to illustrate the nature of their humor. Wit and Humor Much has been written and said about the distinctions between hu- —-Stephen Leacock mor and wit. Most of those who have discussed this subject, however, have discovered that it is difficult to draw a hard and fast line between the two. One observation is that "humor today is rarely used in a caustic or biting sense—that is reserved for wit." William Hazlitt discussed the subject at great length, and, among other statements, he says: Humor is the describing of the ludicrous as it is in itself; wit is the exposing it or contrasting it with something else. Humor is, as it were, the growth of nature and accident; wit is the product of art and fancy. Humor, as it is shown in books, is an imitation of the natural or acquired absurdities of mankind, or of the ludicrous in accident, situations, and character; wit is the illustrating and heightening of the sense of that absurdity by some sudden - unexpected: likeness or opposition of one thing to another, which sets off the equality we laugh at.... Wit... Is the imagination or fancy inverted and so applied to given objects as to make the less look little and the mean more light and worthless;.. Wit hovers around the borders of the 864 light and trifling, whether in matters of pleasure or pain. Such is wit, designed to make us laugh. But there is also a wit of sense observation which consists in the acute illustration of good sense and practical wisdom by means of some... Quaint imagery—the matter of sense, but the form of wit. Pope is a master of this type of | wit in such couplets as: "Tis with our judgments as with our watches, None go just alike, yet each believes his own. A little learning is a dangerous thing. Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring. Music resembles poetry; in each Are nameless graces which no methods teach, And which a master-hand alone can reach. To err is human, to forgive divine. Other distinctions, briefer than those made by Hazlitt, have been made between wit and humor: "Wit is rapid; humor is slow. Wit is ' sharp; humor is gentle." Carolyn Wells thinks that the chief difference between wit and humor is that "wit is subjective, and humor objective. Wit is the invention of the mind of its creator; humor lies in the object that he observes. Wit originates in one's self; humor originates outside one's self. Wit is art; humor is nature." Professor Freud in his Wit and Its Relation to the Unconscious discusses two kinds of wit. The first he calls "harmless wit"—that which is enjoyed for its own sake, which manipulates words and thoughts for the mere pleasure of the manipulation, and serves no purpose beyond itself. An ambitious poet once sent Eugene Field a poem to read, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 entitled, "Why Do I Live?" Field immediately sent a letter back to him, saying, "Because you sent your poem by mail." Another example of the same type of wit is found in Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes' reply to a friend who asked what one might do to insure long life. "Get an incurable disease," the doctor, known for his wit, replied, explaining later that people with incurable diseases take excellent care of themselves and so live a long time. The second, or "tendency wit," according to Freud, uses the same technique and produces similar pleasure, but it is hostile in purpose and is aimed at some person or persons. Some of the satires previously mentioned, particularly those of Pope and Swift, would be classed as "tendency wit," not humor. In the "Dunciad," Pope writes scathingly of people who pretend to be his friends, but who are friendly only for the advantages they themselves may gain from the friendship. He says: There are those who to my person pay their court: I cough like Horace, and though lean am short; Ammon's great son one should had too high, Such Ovid's nose, and, "Sir! You have an eye 2? Go on, obliging creatures! Make me see All, that disgraced, my betters met in me. Say for my comfort languishing in bed, "Just so immortal Maro held his head." And when I die, be sure you let me know Great Homer died three thousand years. Ago. (Horace and Ovid, referred to in this verse, are great Roman poets; Ammon's son is Alexander the Great; Maro is Virgil, the great Roman poet and author of the "Aeneid." ) People who knew Pope LESSON DEPARTMENT was writing the "Dunciad" dreaded its publication and tried to stop it. He wrote: Yes, I am proud; I must be proud to see Men, not afraid of God, afraid of me. After all, just where the distinctive line between types of literature lies is relatively unimportant. The important points are that we have the literature to enjoy and that we enjoy it. Lengthy and scholarly discussions have been held upon theories of laughter and the relation of laughter to humor. But such discussions are beside the purpose of these lessons. The purpose of these lessons is to help us to become acquainted with that part of literature which amuses us, and to give us a sense of the value of humorous writings and of the laughter they produce in our everyday lives. Humor and the Incongruities of Life Previous lessons have pointed out the relationship between incongruities—the incongruities in words, in facts and ideas, in situations and in character—and humor. Will Rogers, who generously contributed in his own unique manner to the laughter of the world, understood what is meant by humor which rests upon life in its broadest dimensions. In a radio talk in celebration of the Silver Jubilee of the King and Queen of England, but a few months prior to the tragic death of the humorist, which came as a shock to "the millions to whom his name seemed that of a merry companion," Will Rogers said: We (Americans and Englishmen) both have manners and customs that drive each other pretty near crazy: an American with 865 a mouthful of chewing gum can get on your (Englishmen's) nerves almost as much as an Englishman with only one eye full of a monocle can get on ours. But after all, neither commodity has contributed to the success the nations have made. We will never have trouble with each other, England, you or us. We both have humor. If we started to fight, we would have to stop in the middle and start laughing at each other. I don't know... You are naturally funny to us, and we are like a Mickey Mouse cartoon to you! The natural "funniness" to which Will Rogers refers is the incongruous in humanity at large which excites both humor and pathos in the minds and the hearts of the artists with vision broad and keen and sympathetic enough to see and feel it. They discover what the contrasts are between what we are and what we might be, and just as the humor aroused by a swollen nose or a crushed hat lies in the comparison of the swollen nose with the nose when it was normal and the crushed hat with the hat before it was mutilated, so there is a humorous response to the discrepancy between man undeveloped, imperfect, and man the ideal. If mothers could fully appreciate this phase of humor, they might often see humor instead of tragedy in shortcomings of their children, and laugh instead of weep over things which really do not matter in the run of things, but which seem so terribly important at the moment. Stephen Leacock says the incongruity of life lies in the comparison between "the petty cares of today and the nothingness into which they fade tomorrow—the fever and fret of life and the final calm of death." In this light, he says that "humor in its highest reach touches the sublime; humor in its highest reach mingles 866 with pathos: it voices sorrow for our human lot and the reconciliation with it." He calls this the humor of sublimity. To illustrate it, he recalls a cartoon in an old American paper. It is a picture of two ragged little boys in a garret, "thin little boys, so thin the pencil outline will scarcely draw them. To the one lying in the makeshift bed the other is reading a newspaper account of the luxury-dogs of the New York dog show just happening. He reads: 'Fido, after he has his evening lamb chop, is always wrapped in a warm ermine coat with a blue and silver belt around it.' 'Some dogs,' says the other little boy, 'is luckier than others.' " Leacock comments: "No diatribe against poverty; just the little sickly faces, and the changed end of the child's sentence as he instinctively uttered it." There is certainly more of tears than laughter in the illustration, but Leacock goes on to point out that such is the broad and beautiful humor in life recorded in such books as Goodbye, Mr. Chips and Mrs. Miniver, and in the stories of Dickens, Twain, and O. Henry. He calls the artistic power to produce such humor "divine retrospect." Dickens shows it when he presents frauds and swindlers and almost makes them lovable, and when he presents villains, such as Squeers, and extracts humor from them. O. Henry exhibited this type of humor in such stories as "The Pendulum"—the story of a young couple who live a drab life in a little apartment. Every evening at 8:15, John reaches for his hat, and his Were asks questioningly, "Now, where are you going, I'd like to know, John PerRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 kins?" To which John invariably replies, "I thought I'd drop up to McCloskey's and play a game of pool with the fellows." But one night Katy is not there. She has left his supper ready and a note explaining that she has been called to her sick mother. Suddenly John is stricken with contrition. Never before in their -married life has she been away. He is overwhelmed with loneliness, and wonders how he could have left her alone each night. He resolves to make amends when she returns; his great effort will be to make her happy. At that moment, Katy, who has been called away on a false alarm, returns. John looks at the clock. It is 8:15. He reaches for his hat and walks to the door, as she, in her customary querulous voice, begins, "Now, where are you going, I'd like to know, John Perkins?" And he, giving the old answer, joo the room. "The Gift of the Magi" is another of O. Henry's stories of this type. Mark Twain reaches this highest type of humor, as has already been mentioned, in Huckleberry Finn. Nigger Jim, who "embodies the docility and the forgiveness of the negro race, and little Huck are wonderful characters, and this book is a searching indictment of our civilization. But it is robbed of anger." It is the humor of mingled tears and laughter; it is humor and sublimity. Thackeray says: "The humorous writer professes to awaken and direct your love, your pity, your kindness, your scorn for untruth, pretension, imposture, your tenderness for the weak, the poor, the oppressed, the unhappy." LESSON DEPARTMENT Problems and Projects 1. Bring short excerpts from literature to illustrate the difference between wit and humor. 2. Describe the difference between a "witty person" and a "humorous person." Which is best loved by friends and companions? Why? 3. Comment on Goodbye Mr. Chips by Hilton, stressing the points which reveal its humor to be that of the highest type, discussed in this lesson. 4. Relate incidents, experienced or observed, which embody "humor and sublim- 867 ity" (pioneer experiences give a rich source). 5. Discuss how this lesson should help to broaden our views of life and deepen our human sympathies. Supplementary Reading List The Caliph of Bagdad (Biography of O. Henry). Stories of O. Henry Masson, Our American Humorists. Masson, Humorous Masterpieces. Hilton, Goodbye Mr. Chips. Opie Read, Mark Twain and I. Social Science Foundations Of Successful Marriage Lesson 5 Rights Versus Responsibilities In The Home (Tuesday, March 31, 1942) Lesson Aim: To develop the thought that with every right goes a responsibility, and that it is only through the acceptance of responsibilities in the home that marriage is made successful and eternal progression is made possible. A SUCCESSFUL marriage is not only an art, but it is a job as well. Those who would find supreme and lasting happiness in their marital relationships must not only prepare well before inarriage, plan for and experience a good beginning, and lear the art of mutual enrichment, but they must also work—daily, and in the spirit of fair play. Marriage, like any other great enterprise, requires the sincere and responsible effort of those who would make it successful. Happiness is the reward of achievement, and achievement comes only through struggle. No Rights Without Responsibilities All that has been said in previous discussions about the importance of a proper attitude toward marriage applies to this lesson as well, for unless the married feel an attitude of individual responsibility in the adventure before them, they will exert little or no effort to make it successful, and the whole thing will likely collapse. There are too many people who enter marriage unprepared for the adjustments, sacrifices, and genuine work that it involves. There are many married people who act emotionally as children or adolescents, and who fail to assume the adult responsibilities demanded of them. They look at marriage in terms of rights rather than responsibilities, and therein lies the secret of their failure. Being emotionally imma- ture, they are quick to blame and to complain, but slow to cooperate or admit faults within themselves; they expect the other person to go three-fourths or all of the way. There are too many of these selfish individuals who are more willing to receive than to give Emotional immaturity has reference to a type of childishness frequently manifest in adult behavior. Sometimes it is referred to as "infantilism," for it makes people act much like babies. Chronological and biological maturity do not necessarily result in emotional maturity; sometimes people grow up physically without growing up psychologically; sometimes people have a lot of birthdays without ever learning to act like adults. Emotional immaturity shows itself in patterns of selfishness, jealousy, et cetera. Crying is often used as a weapon with which to injure the other person or to get one's own way. Sulking, pretending to be hurt, doing and saying little things to hurt the other person, are ways of showing oneself to be emotionally immature. They are also ways of destroying love and breaking up a happy home. Marriage, like life, is a game of cooperation, a process of give and take. He who tries to do all of the taking and none of the giving may get by for a while, but sooner or later he will find his marriage a failure. The love that is kindled in courtship may be either smothered in marriage or fanned into something that is eternal and glorious. Exploitation in courtship often carries over into marriage. The boy who will use and abuse his sweetheart for personal thrills will, as a husband, usually do the same thing, with little regard for the rights and personality needs of his wife; and the girl who is a thoughtless "gold digger" before marriage will usually be an expensive and irresponsible wife after the ceremony. But whether the pattern of exploitation showed itself in the period of courtship or not, its existence in marriage is a sign of marital decay. Students of the family recognize this problem when they speak of the "parasitic wife," whom they describe as a selfish and pampered woman who applies the "gold digging" philosophy to marriage, and who seeks all of the advantages without making any real or worth-while contribution to it.' She is called a parasite because she is selfish and fails to carry her share of the responsibility. Sometimes this selfishness shows itself in an unwillingness to have children, sometimes in excessive demands upon the husband's pocketbook, and sometimes in other ways; but always a wife of this kind is a parasite. And there are parasitic husbands as well. Whenever any person is unwilling to play the game or to do his part in life, he is a social parasite. How can persons 'such as these hope to make a success of marriage? If people could only be made to realize that there are no rights without responsibilities; if husbands and wives could be more willing to shoulder their full share of the responsibility, and if children were trained in this atmosphere; if love were based more on work and sacrifice and less on sex demands and lMabel A. Elliott and Frances E. Merrill, Social Disorganization, Harpers, New York, 1941 (rev. Ed.), page 624. 868 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT infatuation; if people would look at marriage more as a challenging job and less as a selfish right—if all these things could be, the chances for successful marriage would be increased one thousand fold. And they can be done. The solution lies in the attitude and the courage of parents. Integrity and the Happy Home But the whole thing boils down to the fundamental qualities of character. The happy home is the home in which each member can be trusted and respected by each other member. The responsible person is the person who is true to the core, who will play the game fairly, who will not lie, nor cheat, nor run away. The responsible person is the person who has integrity. Good oldfashioned honesty is at the very heart of successful marriage. Too often people try to patch up marital difficulties through lies and compromises rather than getting at the roots that lie deep in the patterns of character. If persons in trouble are sincere in their desire to get out of trouble, they should be willing to indulge in a little self-analysis and self-criticism; they should be willing to "face the music" rather than to try to shift the blame; they should be honest and courageous. The Dignity of Work Closely tied up with the idea that assuming responsibility with courage and integrity is basic to successful marriage, is the idea that work is also essential. We have already pointed to this when we said that successful marriage is a job that needs to be tackled with earnestness. We need now to further emphasize 869 the fact that assuming responsibility involves effort as well as attitude. Too many men and women pray for easy lives; they not only pray, but they anxiously seek to avoid work and to escape all in life that is really challenging. There is too much "escapism" in the philosophy of the day; too much trying to get by with as little effort as possible. What is needed is a little more courage in facing the realities of life, a little more willingness to shoulder one's share, a little more perspiration in the labors of the day. The importance of this is clearly shown in the following quotation: The law of nature is, that a certain quantity of work is necessary to produce a certain quantity of good of any kind whatever. If you want knowledge, you must toil for it; if food you must toil for it; and if pleasure you must toil for it. —Ruskin We might add to what Ruskin has said, that if you want the supreme joy that successful family life can bring, you must toil for it. 'Habits of either laziness or industry, whichever characterizes one's life in general, are sure to carry over into the relationships of family life. Women should realize more fully that there is no job so important or so challenging as successful wifehood and motherhood. Without this job well done civilization could not survive, and women are the only ones who can do it. Homemaking is woman's greatest career. But let no one think that her job in the home is an easy one; here she is the producer, the buyer, and the teacher, all at the same time; here she is able to make men possible and to make men good; to create and to inspire. The challenge of good home man- agement is great, and the dignity of successful homework is unexcelled. There is a dignity to work which makes people grow. Home tasks are every bit as important as those on the outside, and he who would make his home a happy one must be willing to perform these tasks honorably. Eternal Progression Through Successful Marriage Latter-day Saints are well aware of fundamental relationships between successful marriage and eternal progression. 'They see man climbing step by step throughout eternity, and they see celestial marriage as one of these steps. But Latter-day Saints also realize that both successful marriage and eternal progression require more than the performance of a ceremony and the making of pledges, important as these are. They require work as well; they require the sincere and honest efforts of men and women. If successful marriage depends upon responsibility and integrity and effort, as we have tried to show above, eternal progression does also. Marriage is so much a part of life in general that it is impossible to separate one from the other. He who is willing to face squarely the responsibilities and the jobs of married life will not only make his marriage successful, but by so doing will be climbing the ladder of eternal progression. Struggle makes men grow, and growth makes men happy. The law of eternal progression is the law of struggle and achievement. Man progresses through activity; he retrogresses through inactivity. Sometimes the struggles of life seem almost too much to bear, but the one who has the courage to face them with his head up is the one who is able to someday experience the real joy of achievement. The thrill of victory, the satisfaction that comes from accomplishment, the pleasure of seeing a job well done, the joy of achievement—these are the things that count in life. The deeper joys of man spring out of the struggles he has been able to endure and master in his upward progress. We have been saying continually that successful marriage is happy marriage; and as we have moved through this series of lessons, we have attempted to make a number of suggestions for making happiness in marriage possible.. Now we are saying that genuine happiness or joy comes through achievement or progression. 'The foundations for successful marriage laid during childhood, courtship, and early marriage are extremely important, but unless married mates are willing and able to "carry on" to the end, their union may still fail in spite of these earlier foundations. If married partners could live a little more honestly, responsibly, and industriously, they could live much more happily. Problems and Projects 1. What does it mean to say that successful marriage is a job as well as an art? Give examples of exploitation in marriage. Show why selfish husbands and wives can rightly be called social parasites. Why should a responsibility go with every right? 2. How is integrity tied up with responsibility? Can a dishonest person be respected? Can he be loved? How does the spirit of self-criticism help to make marriage successful? Give illustrations. 3. Do you feel that people today are any less willing to accept difficult tasks than formerly? Why or why not? Do you agree that one job is as dignified as another as long as they are both honorable? 870 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT How does the tendency to escape from work carry over into marriage and endanger its chances for success? Illustrate if you can. 4. In what way or ways is successful marriage a part of eternal progression? What parts do attitude and effort play in them both? Do you agree that the joy of progression or achievement is the highest type of joy?: References — Baber, Ray E., Marriage and the Family, McGraw-Hill, New York, 1939, pp. 286- 88. Burkhart, Roy A., From Friendship to Marriage, Harper and Brothers, New York, 1937, PP- 113-137. Elliott, Mabel A., and Merrill, Francis 871 _E., Social Disorganization, Harpers, New York, 1934, 1941 (revised edition), passim. Groves, Ernest R., Marriage, Henry Holt 'and Co., New York, 1933, pp. 270-288 and passim. Hart, Hornell, Personality and the Family, D. C. Heath and Co., New York, 1935, pp. 210-228 and passim. Jung, Moses, Modern Marriage, F. S. Crofts and Co., New York, 1940, pp. 308- 321. Marston, W. M., "Problems In Living," Forum, March, 1938, pp. 150-152; November, 1938, pp. 228-229. Young, Kimball, Personality and Problems of Adjustment, F. S. Crofts and Co., New York, 1940, pp. 350-368 and passim. ¥— Mission Lessons Latter-day Saint Hymns (For optional use of missions in lieu of Literature) Lesson 6 SCHOOL THY FEELINGS, O MY BROTHER (Tuesday, March 24, 1942) School thy feelings, O my brother, Train thy warm, impulsive soul; Do not its emotions smother, But let wisdom's voice control. School thy feelings, there is power In the cool, collected mind; Passion shatters reason's tower, Makes the clearest vision blind. School thy feelings; condemnation Never pass on friend or foe, Though the tide of accusation Like a flood of truth may flow. Hear defense before deciding And a ray of light may gleam, Showing thee what filth is hiding Underneath the shallow stream. Should affliction's acrid vial Burst o'er thy unsheltered head, School thy feelings to the trial, Half its bitterness hath fled. Art thou falsely, basely slandered? Does the world begin to frown? Gauge thy wrath by wisdom's standard, Keep thy rising anger down. Rest thyself on this assurance: Time's a friend of innocence. And the patient, calm endurance Wins respect and aids defense. Quiv'ring strings a breath can move, And the Gospel's sweet revealings, Tune them with the key of love. Hearts so sensitively moulded, Strongly fortified should be, Trained to firmness and enfolded In a calm tranquility. Wound not wilfully another; Conquer haste with reason's might; School thy feelings, sister, brother, Train them in the HARLES W. PENROSE, the author of this poem, was born in London, England, February 4, 1832. He had little schooling, but his naturally alert mind and retentive memory enabled him to pick up a good education from reading and observation. Fond of the Bible from his earliest years, he was thus prepared to receive the Restored Gospel by the time he was eighteen. It appealed to him as scriptural, reasonable, and substantial. This was the way he expressed it in later years. Almost as soon as he was baptized, he received the Priesthood and was sent ona mission. In Essex Cou he "raised up" several branches of the Church. His relatives and friends tried to persuade him not to have anything to do with the new Church, but he was guided by what he, not they, thought in the situation. He was the only one of his father's house to embrace Mormonpath of right. —Charles W. Penrose. Ism. When he left home to fulfill this mission, he did not have a penny in his pocket. In the year 1861, after more than ten years of gratuitous and successful missionary service, he was released from his labors and emigrated to America. Meantime, he married. He wrote tracts and articles for the Millennial Star, as well as poems which were later set to music. In Utah, he made his first home in Farmington and did physical work, for which he was unfitted both by inclination and experience. Here he acquired a small home, teaching school during the winter. In 1864 he moved to Cache Valley, where he engaged in business. The following year, however, he was called on a mission to Great Britain, crossing the plains with a mule team for the second time. On his return home from this mission, he lived in Logan, Utah, becoming secretary to the cooperative institution there. 872 Noblest minds have finest feelings, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941: LESSON DEPARTMENT It was not until 1870, when he was thirty-eight years old, that he found his proper vocation. In that year he was asked to become editor of The Junction, in Ogden. For this he was not only adapted, but experienced. He did not remain in this position long, however, for President Brigham Young soon called him to the editorship of the Deseret News, in Salt Lake City. As editor of this daily newspaper, he became widely known for his defense of his people. Meantime he served in various capacities in the Church and the Territory—his name was on the missionary list; he served in the High Council, and in the legislature. In July, 1904, at the age of seventy-two, Charles W. Penrose was called to the apostleship. Seven. Years later, when he was in his eightieth year, he became second counselor to President Joseph F. Smith in the First Presidency of the Church. In March, 1921, he was advanced to first counselor. WHILE President Penrose is best remembered for his Church activities—writing in defense of his people and preaching vigorously—he will perhaps be remembered longest for his songs. For he was the author not only of the song we are now considering, but also of, "O Ye Mountains High," "Up, Awake, Ye Defenders of Zion," and six other selections included in our present hymn _ book. Strictly speaking, "School Thy Feelings" is not a hymn, but a poem set to music. President Penrose says himself: "This hymn was not intended for singing; it was written for myself, about 1860, when I was in 873 Birmingham, England, before I emigrated. "I had been insidiously accused, not openly, but certain things had been said about me and my presidency of the Birmingham conference, and particularly in relation to my family affairs and possessions.... Weltering under these feelings, I sat down and wrote that little poem right from my soul, and intended it for myself. "After I had got it written, my folks thought it ought to appear in the Millennial Star. So I sent it up to the Star, and it was published. It was not set to any tune; I did not think about it being sung; in fact, I did not intend it for anybody but myself. However, I found it was quite applicable to others who had passed through similar experiences, and I thought it would be comforting to them. I was very pleased to know that it was a great comfort to President Brigham Young when he was under arrest. He later told me that he had it read to him several times when he had a deputy marshal guarding him in his house." Was Charles W. Penrose, when he composed this poem, actuated by that passage in a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, given under somewhat similar circumstances of slander and persecution? Joseph was in prison, in Liberty, Missouri, whither he had been taken by his persecutors, and there the Lord said to him: "If thou art called to pass through tribulation; if thou art in perils among false brethren; if thou art accused with all manner of false accusations; if thine enemies fall upon thee;... If thou shouldst be cast into the pit, or into the hands of murderers, and the sentence of death 874 passed upon thee;... If the heavens gather blackness, and all the elements combine to hedge up the way; and above all, if the very jaws of hell gape open the mouth wide after thee—know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good." (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 122, verses 5 to 9) The poem, "School Thy Feelings, O My Brother," aims to teach the idea of personal control. It is human nature to resent slander. But is that the best way out of the situation? President Penrose thought not. The best answer to the ill words of others is self-control — "school thy feelings." The progress of the theme of the poem is logical and natural. First, there is the simple admonition to exercise wisdom when a surge of feelings arise in such a situation as that experienced by the poet. Second, we are shown that "there is power in the cool, collected mind," power that "shatters" passion. "Never pass condemnation" on another, for one may not understand, and, anyway, it does no good. That is what, the third stanza says. The fourth stanza says: "Hear defense before deciding." Few persons take the time to consider that there are always two sides to every question —their side and the other person's side. If time be taken, says the fifth stanza, the temper will cool down, and only half the bitterness will be felt. "Time heals all wounds," says an old adage, and this applies to situations that arouse wrath. The sixth stanza is a virtual repetition of the first. But the repetition is needed, though it is expressed in different words: "Keep thy rising RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER, 1941 anger down." In the seventh stanza we get a new aspect. There is assurance in the fact that "patient, calm endurance" in one who is slandered "wins respect and aids defense"—if defense be needed at all. This is very true, as many can testify. Who are those who are best able to control their emotions? Strangely enough, as the eighth stanza virtually states, it is those who have the most sensitive feelings, but who are "noblest." Those who are "sensitively moulded," however, must be "strongly fortified" and "trained to firmness." That is the substance of stanza nine. In the tenth stanza the thought is carried on into another phase—possible slander of others by him who is trying to control his feelings under pressure: "Wound not wilfully another." To keep from doing this is as difficult as to control one's feelings when "wounded" by someone else. The poem ends where it begins—"school thy feelings." Questions 1. What were the circumstances under which this poem was written? Have you ever had anything like that happen to you? What did you do about it? Was that the best thing to do in the situation as you look back upon it? 2. In your fife now, whatever it may be, are there any situations in which you should exercise self-control, such as is suggested in the poem? Do you have difficulty in controlling your feelings, or is it an easy matter with you? 3. Who was Charles W. Penrose? State the various things that he did and the positions which he held. What one thing could he do best?. For what will he most likely be remembered by most members of our Church? 4. Which one of the stanzas of, "School Thy Feelings, O My Brother," do you like best? Suppose you memorize it, with such others as may appeal to you. "L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS!" There are LIFETIME VALUES in a Business Education The WINTER TERM begins January 4. Make your reservations EARLY. Pa ese BUSINESS COLLEGE Salt Lake City, Utah Information gladly furnished on request REDDY KILOWATT Pownr Serving 90% of the nation, is speeding up national defense. Reddy Kilowatt Power — the world's finest electric service—is produced by American business men—and serves 90% of the nation. In this territory, especially, much Reddy Kilowatt power is being used by military projects and national defense industries. These demands for additional electricity have been met—without inconvenience to any of our customers. UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Index to Advonrtisors Deseret Book Company Fisher Baking Company L. D. S. Business College Larkin Mortuaries Utah Power & Light Company Outside Back Cover Inside Back Cover Inside Back Cover Outside Back Cover Inside Back Cover Hh A PLEASING VARIETY Se ee Fishon! Delicious DUTCH BREAD A PRODUCT OF THE FISHER MASTER BAKERS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine CHET HEADQUARTERS MAhE THIS STORE YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING CENTER In addition to having the largest and most complete stock of books in the Intermountain West, we have a marvelous selection of gift articles of every description, including games, greeting cards, fountain pens, stationery, electric clocks, radios, typewriters, book ends, pottery, and chrome, glass, leather, copper and brass ware. Also Bell & Howell Moving Picture cameras, screens, and supplies—and a "thousand and one" other gift items. Come bere first—you may not need to go elsewhere! DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah "Glory to God in the highest, and: on earth peace, good will toward' men." Luke 2:14. 9 LARKIN MORTUARIES Ogden, Utah Los Angeles, California 466 24th St. 6003 Compton Avenue Dial 7523 Jefferson 1244 Salt Lake City, Utah 260 East South Temple Dial 4-9126 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
